THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES BOARD OVERVIEW Adapting to our changing operating The Directors have established a strong governance framework environment ensures we can with clearly defined responsibilities and accountabilities to support the long-term sustainable success of the Group.
continue to create sustainable They have a key role in setting our strategy and ensuring it is shareholder returns.
implemented responsibly within the governance framework, our values and with high ethical standards.
The Directors are MARK WILLIAMSON mindful of their legal duties to act in the way they consider, Chairman in good faith, will be most likely to promote the success of the Company for its shareholders, whilst having regard to the interests of other stakeholders.
MEMBERS As part of the governance framework the Board has adopted a Mark Williamson Steven Stanbrook schedule of matters on which it must make the final decision.
Chairman Oliver Tant These include approving the Groups strategy, business plans, Alison Cooper Karen Witts dividends and major financial announcements.
The Board is also Therese Esperdy responsible for approving the acquisition or disposal of assets Malcolm Wyman David Haines to 3 July 2018 exceeding defined thresholds.
John Downing Simon Langelier Company Secretary The Board discharges its responsibilities through an annual Matthew Phillips programme of meetings.
The areas of focus for each meeting are outlined in the table below.
It also delegates responsibility for FOCUS IN 2018 developing and implementing strategy and for day-to-day Investment choices to enhance the quality of earnings in our management to our Chief Executive, Alison Cooper, who is tobacco business: supported by her fellow Executive Directors and by the Operating Executive OPEX, which she chairs.
The Board also delegates Strategic development of NGP, including the Nerudia matters to Board Committees.
Clearly defined terms of reference acquisition: and written limits support these delegations.
Capital re-allocation opportunities: and The OPEX consists of senior executives from across the Investment in Oxford Cannabinoid Technologies Ltd. business.
It oversees operational execution and delivers our LOOKING AHEAD TO 2019 strategic and financial plans.
The OPEX and Audit Committee In the context of a changing operating environment, focus on our also ensure that, within the risk appetite framework set by the strategy and the drivers behind it, including: Board, appropriate internal controls, which function effectively, are in place, and effective risk identification and management Investing to accelerate NGP growth: processes, including those discussed on pages 45 and 46, Continuing to focus on our priority tobacco markets and operate throughout the Group.
asset brands: Capital allocation, including our divestment programme: and Building capabilities in new skill areas to support our strategy.
BOARD PROGRAMME IN 2018 Six Board meetings were held during the year.
Business performance, safety, corporate development updates and general corporate housekeeping are standing items at each Board meeting.
In addition to these, the following agenda items were covered in the financial year: 2017 2018 November Bristol February Bristol March Amsterdam May Bristol June London September Bristol Business plan Strategic review Strategy in Strategy in Strategic Strategic review: finalisation including: NGP, action: NGP action: ITG planning: corporate competitor performance and Brands, USA NGP, tobacco development Strategy update update and US update and capital projects Half-Year Report Report and innovation allocation Business plan Accounts Dividend Financing Sell-down of review sign-off approval 9.99% of Logista Investor audit Board evaluation Dividend Risk appetite Risk appetite approval Investment in Oxford Nerudia Cannabinoid acquisition Technologies Ltd AGM 38 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 38 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS The image part with relationship ID rId2 was not found in the file.
SUCCESSION AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE OVERVIEW Building the capabilities of our ROLE people and having clear succession The Committee reviews and evaluates the composition of the Board and its Committees to maintain the appropriate balance of skills, plans are important for the delivery knowledge, experience and independence to enable them to of our strategy.
Succession plans for the Non-Executive Directors NEDs, Executive Directors and the Groups senior management, in particular the OPEX, are kept under review.
MARK WILLIAMSON The Committee also nominates candidates for appointment to Chairman the Board.
The Committee also retains oversight of the development MEMBERS plans for OPEX members together with the Companys wider organisational structure and talent management processes.
Mark Williamson Steven Stanbrook 1 This allows the Committee to focus on ensuring the Company Chairman Karen Witts is developing the right capabilities and has appropriate Therese Esperdy Malcolm Wyman succession plans in place to deliver our strategy and to create David Haines to 3 July 2018 John Downing something better for the worlds smokers.
Simon Langelier Company Secretary The Committees terms of reference are available on our website.
Unless dealing with the succession of the Chairman.
BOARDROOM DIVERSITY Executive Directors are invited to attend when appropriate.
As a global business, with our products sold in over 160 countries, diversity is an integral part of how we do business.
As set out on FOCUS IN 2018 page 34, the business embraces diversity in its broadest sense, Executive and Non-Executive Director succession planning: which is something the Board also fully supports.
Review of skillset and composition of the Boards Committees: and The Committee is mindful of the Parker and Hampton-Alexander review on ethnic and gender diversity.
As set out on page 34, the Senior management succession and talent development.
Board recognises the value of gender diversity to Imperial and is committed to increasing the representation of females within LOOKING AHEAD TO 2019 senior management roles to 30 per cent by 2023.
At the Board Ongoing Executive succession planning: level, women, including our Chief Executive, make up over 30 per Non-Executive Director succession: cent of our Board.
Notwithstanding this, however, any search for Talent development: and Board candidates and any subsequent appointments are made purely on merit regardless of ethnicity, gender, religion, age or Further building organisational capability.
We look to ensure we have the appropriate balance of skills, diversity of knowledge and thinking, professional and geographic backgrounds and experience on our Board and recruit accordingly.
We are committed to appointing the best people and ensuring that all employees have an equal chance of developing their careers within the Group, and as such we do not think it is appropriate to set specific targets for Board appointments.
com 39 THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES continued SUCCESSION AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REFRESHING THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES SUCCESSION AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE David Haines, Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the IN 2018 Remuneration Committee, stepped down from the Board ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS following his appointment as Chief Executive of Upfield Group All Directors are appointed by the Board following a and I would like to thank him for his significant contribution rigorous selection process and subsequent recommendation over the past six years.
David has been succeeded as Chairman by the Committee.
of the Remuneration Committee by Malcolm Wyman, who The performance of each Director is considered as part of the remains our Senior Independent Director.
Following the 2018 evaluation, a review of the independence of each NED particularly in respect of those who have served six years or more and consideration of attendance, the Board recommends the re-election of all Directors at our 2019 AGM.
ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS OF THE BOARD, BOARD COMMITTEES AND AGM Succession and Annual Nominations Audit Remuneration General Board Committee Committee Committee Meeting Total number of meetings in financial year 6 4 4 3 1 Number of meetings attended in financial year Executive Directors Alison Cooper 6 6 1 1 Oliver Tant 6 6 1 1 Matthew Phillips 6 6 1 1 Non-Executive Directors Mark Williamson 6 6 4 4 1 1 Therese Esperdy 6 6 4 4 4 4 1 1 1 David Haines 3 5 2 3 2 3 1 2 1 1 Simon Langelier 6 6 4 4 4 4 1 1 Steven Stanbrook 6 6 4 4 3 3 1 1 Karen Witts 6 6 4 4 4 4 3 3 1 1 Malcolm Wyman 6 6 4 4 3 3 1 1 1.
David Haines stepped down from the Board on 3 July 2018 and missed two Board meetings and associated Committee meetings due to prior commitments.
The maximum number of meetings for each individual Director is the number which they were eligible to attend.
TENURE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS BOARD GENDER BALANCE 8 years and over 1 Male 66.7% 5 to 7 years 1 Female 33.3% 3 to 5 years 1 1 to 2 years 3 40 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 40 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS AUDIT COMMITTEE PROTECTING OUR STAKEHOLDERS We focus on protecting the interests of our stakeholders by ensuring that key risks are understood and appropriately managed.
KAREN WITTS Chairman 1 MEMBERS We continue to review financial reporting and monitor the treatment and presentation of adjusted performance measures 2 Karen Witts Simon Langelier to ensure these clearly convey the underlying performance of Chairman John Downing the business.
Therese Esperdy Company Secretary A fuller list of key matters discussed by the Committee is set out David Haines to 3 July 2018 on pages 43 and 44.
Consideration of risks facing the Company is a key responsibility OTHER REGULAR ATTENDEES of both the Audit Committee and the Board.
In 2018, as in previous 3 years, we have reviewed key risks that the Company faces through Board Chairman Director of Assurance and Risk Chief Financial Officer Deputy Company Secretary internal and external audit reports and from presentations by Deputy Chief Financial Officer Representatives from PwC, management.
We are satisfied that the Company recognises and 3 our external auditors Group Financial Controller understands these risks and their potential impact on the Company and has mitigation and action plans in place to 1.
All members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
address the major risks, where possible.
Karen Witts meets the Codes requirement of having recent and relevant financial to the Companys approach on governance, risk management experience.
The Committee and Board are satisfied that she, and the Committee as a whole, has the appropriate competence relevant to the sector in which the and internal controls is set out on page 45.
In addition, both the external and internal auditors provide 3.
At each meeting, both the Director of Assurance and Risk and PwC have the opportunity to meet with the Committee without management present.
feedback on key financial controls and risks and provide Other Directors are invited to attend each meeting.
objective and appropriate challenge to management in addressing these areas.
Both sets of auditors also have the opportunity for private meetings with both myself and the whole Committee.
These opportunities, to test and corroborate DEAR SHAREHOLDER managements view of risk and controls, enable us to draw The following pages provide an insight into the Committees the conclusion set out on page 45 relating to the ongoing process activities and its deliberations during the 2018 financial year.
for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups principal As a Committee we have an agenda that looks at both annual risks.
governance requirements and key areas of risk for the business.
A specific focus this year has been the adoption of new accounting standards in 2019 and we are satisfied that the business is ready to adopt them in 2019 and to reflect their impact on the 2018 results in the Annual Report and Accounts.
We have also focused on key areas of control and compliance such as segregation of duties and KAREN WITTS EU General Data Protection Regulation: and key areas of accounting Chairman of the Audit Committee judgement, such as goodwill impairment: and are satisfied that the business is addressing these issues appropriately.
com 41 THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES continued AUDIT COMMITTEE MAIN OBJECTIVE assessing the medium-term viability of the Group: The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its corporate assisting the Board in confirming that, taken as a whole, governance responsibilities.
This includes oversight of the our Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable, and Groups internal control systems, risk management process and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess framework, the Internal Audit department and the external audit.
the Companys performance, business model and strategy It also involves ensuring the integrity of the Groups financial see page 35 : statements and related announcements.
During the year the scrutinising the independence, approach, objectivity, Committee achieved this by: effectiveness, compliance and remuneration of the external maintaining appropriate oversight over the work and effectiveness auditors PwC: and of the Internal Audit department, including reviewing its audit considering the key matters detailed below, including taking findings and monitoring managements responses: account of PwCs views.
monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of our risk The Committees terms of reference are available on our website.
management and internal control systems, including obtaining assurance that they are designed and implemented effectively: AUDIT COMMITTEE PROGRAMME IN RESPECT OF THE 2018 FINANCIAL YEAR Four Committee meetings were held in respect of the 2018 financial year at key points in our reporting and audit calendar and included the following matters on the agenda: 2018 February May September October External audit planning Half-Year Report Internal audit and risk Annual Report and Accounts management review Internal audit and risk Goodwill and impairment Goodwill and impairment management review review External auditors report and review independence External auditors Going concern and FX risk management effectiveness review solvency risk review Governance and internal Viability and going concern control Internal audit External auditors report statements effectiveness review SAP Segregation of Duties risks External auditors fees and External auditors report Governance and internal independence Impact of new accounting Internal audit and risk control standards Internal audit and risk management review Restructuring costs updates Goodwill and impairment External auditors fees, and benefits review Governance and internal independence and Tax strategy and policy control Tax risk management reappointment Cyber security update Impact of new accounting Segmental reporting Governance and internal standards control General Data Protection Internal audit planning Regulation SAP Segregation of Duties risks Restructuring costs and Risk update Group Legal benefits SAP Segregation of Tax update Duties risks Risk update ITG Brands Risk update Product Science USA Credit risk management & Stewardship Risk update Strategy and Insights 42 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 42 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS The image part with relationship ID rId2 was not found in the file.
KEY MATTERS CONSIDERED The Committee considered the appropriateness of the following areas of significant judgement, complexity or estimation in connection with the financial statements, as set out below: Focus area Why this area is significant How we as a Committee addressed this area 1 Goodwill and Goodwill and intangible assets We regularly received and considered detailed reports from management intangible asset form a major part of the Groups and challenged the methodology applied, the achievability of underlying impairment reviews balance sheet and their current business forecasts, and macro-economic assumptions used.
For the valuations must be supported by grouping of cash-generating units with the lowest headroom the Drive See note 11 future prospects.
Growth Division, we examined different scenarios and sensitivities to to the financial statements for further assess whether managements conclusions were fair and balanced.
During the period, the Committee noted that there had been a significant improvement in both the actual and future cash performance of the Drive Growth Division.
We have also noted that additional headroom will be available as the NGP business in these countries becomes more established.
The Committee also considered detailed reporting from, and held discussions with, PwC.
Resulting from the above, we concluded that managements assertion that goodwill and intangible assets were not impaired was reasonable and appropriate disclosure of sensitivities has been given and, therefore, approved the disclosures in our financial statements.
2 Taxation The Group is subject to taxation We received and discussed reports from management in respect of the in a number of jurisdictions, and taxation affairs of the Group, including the tax audit in France see note 8 See notes 8 and 21 significant judgement is required on page 99 and the potential impact on the Group of various UK and for further information.
in relation to taxation provisions foreign taxation legislative interpretations and reform proposals.
which could materially affect the The Committee reviewed managements position with respect to the Groups reported results.
disclosure for the emerging Russian tax excise claim and is satisfied that this is appropriate given circumstances at the time of publishing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Following consideration and discussion of managements reports we are satisfied that all other taxation provisions and their disclosure are appropriate.
3 Use of adjusted Non-GAAP or adjusted measures The Committee considered whether adjusted performance measures had measures provide an appropriate and been prepared in accordance with our policy on the use of adjusted useful assessment of business measures set out in note 1 to the Group financial statements, and See note 1 for further information.
performance and reflect the discussed this with PwC.
The Committee concluded that adjusted way in which the business is performance measures had been prepared in accordance with our policy.
They are also used The Committee also considered whether the Groups policy was in determining annual and compatible with the ESMA guidelines on alternative performance long-term incentives for measures, and can confirm compatibility.
The items excluded from remuneration, and are widely adjusted operating profit have been applied consistently for a number of used by our investors.
years and are clearly disclosed.
The Committee concluded that this presentation is helpful in allowing users of the Group financial statements to understand the underlying business performance.
The Committee discussed and agreed that the Palmer & Harvey bad debt charge would be an item excluded from adjusted operating profit.
4 Treatment of Restructuring costs is one of The Committee reviewed papers from management on actual and forecast restructuring costs the main items affecting our levels of restructuring costs at every meeting.
The restructuring costs adjusted measures.
There is a disclosure for inclusion within the Groups financial statements and See note 5 for further information.
risk that restructuring costs Half-Year results was also reviewed and discussed with management and are treated or presented PwC.
Following these detailed reviews and discussions, we concluded that inappropriately within the determination of restructuring costs was consistently applied and costs Groups financial statements.
5 Going concern and The Directors are required We examined the Groups committed funding, its ability to generate cash viability statement to consider whether it is and its ability to raise further funding.
We challenged managements cash appropriate to prepare the projections and sensitivity analysis including mitigating actions.
In addition, in See page 29 for financial statements on a going assessing the Groups longer-term viability we considered outputs of the annual further information.
concern basis and explain corporate planning processes including the strategic review, a three-year how they have assessed the business plan and a rolling re-forecast of current year business performance prospects of the Company and prospects.
We also considered the resilience of the Group to the potential over a longer period.
impact of the Groups principal risks and mitigating actions.
We reviewed the period covered by the statement and concluded that three years remains the most appropriate period, being that used by the Group for its business plan.
We concluded that it was appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis and that the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of at least 12 months from the date of this Report.
com 43 THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES continued AUDIT COMMITTEE Focus area Why this area is significant How we as a Committee addressed this area 6 Revenue There is a risk that revenue could Discussions were held with management and PwC and the Committee recognition be overstated through the was satisfied that the Groups criteria for revenue recognition were inclusion of sales which are not appropriate.
No breaches of the Groups Revenue Recognition Policy See note 1 for further information.
in compliance with the Groups were brought to the Committees attention.
The Committee also reviewed the impact of adopting a new accounting standard for Revenue Recognition, IFRS 15, and is satisfied that the Company has undertaken a detailed assessment and has considered necessary changes in revenue recognition and classification, such that it is able to adopt this new standard.
7 Tobacco-related The Group is exposed to litigation We considered reports from the Groups external lawyers which confirmed litigation arising from claimants alleging that the Group continues to have meritorious defences to the actual and smoking-related health effects.
threatened legal proceedings and concluded that risks in respect of See page 53 for further information.
tobacco-related litigation are appropriately disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts.
8 SAP Segregation There is a risk that an inadequate We have received a number of reports from management over the past of Duties Segregation of Duties year outlining conflicts that may exist in a number of SAP systems.
environment could allow fraud or We reviewed a detailed plan from management that demonstrated how errors in the creation of our conflicts are being reduced through system and role changes, and how financial statements.
manual control programmes are in place to address conflicts that still remain.
We confirmed that management were able to demonstrate that there are no gross conflicts that could lead to material fraud or reporting misstatements and that management are addressing the ongoing governance of this area.
9 Segmental reporting The Board has considered and The Committee reviewed the proposed new segmental reporting for FY19 implemented an internal and confirmed that the timing of internal management changes is in line reorganisation of senior with the move to new reportable segments from 1 October 2018 and that management accountabilities the new segments agree with the requirements laid out in IFRS 8. along geographic lines.
IFRS 8 The Committee also considered the impact that changes to segmental Segmental Reporting requires a reporting could have on the Cash Generating Units for assessing the reassessment of reportable carrying value of goodwill.
The Committee is comfortable that segments when such a management are well aware of this impact and are working through its reorganisation impacts how implications for FY19 financial reporting.
Group performance is assessed and resources are allocated.
44 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 44 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS The image part with relationship ID rId2 was not found in the file.
RISK APPETITE GOVERNANCE, RISK MANAGEMENT The amount of risk the Group is willing to take is articulated in AND INTERNAL CONTROL our risk appetite statement, which is approved and reviewed Assessing and managing risk is fundamental to achieving our by the Board on an annual basis or more frequently where our strategic objectives, safeguarding our shareholders interests and risk environment requires us to do so to ensure it remains protecting the Group from reputational or legal challenges.
This is consistent with the Groups strategy and the environment we reflected in our risk management framework, which ensures operate in.
significant risks are identified, managed and monitored.
Our risk appetite considers a number of different dimensions, In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board balancing commercial performance with managing our business has overall responsibility for setting the Groups risk appetite, in a sustainable and compliant manner.
This year, our risk with accountability for maintaining effective risk management appetite has been updated to reflect our increasing focus on NGP.
and internal control systems then being delegated to the Audit Committee.
During the year this risk appetite has been further embedded within our wider risk management framework through the The system of risk management and internal control we have refinement of Key Performance Indicators and Key Risk established is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, Indicators KPIs and KRIs which measure our exposure to significant risks the Group may face.
Consequently, our internal risk and support the ongoing alignment of our risk management controls can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, and internal control systems to ensure compliance with the assurance over our principal risks.
The Companys approach to governance and its risk management framework operate in accordance with four RISK ASSESSMENT simple foundations which continue to form the core of our The Groups operational management, led by our Operating approach.
These are: Executive OPEX, actively performs ongoing risk identification and evaluation processes of significant risks to the achievement Clear Roles: Defines the roles that various areas of the business of business objectives at both a Group and local level.
play in risk management, based on the three lines of defence LOD : At regular intervals across the year, our management teams 1st LOD: Local management own the management assess those risks relevant to them, including an assessment of risks and it is their responsibility to identify and of how local mitigating actions reduce the risk exposure.
mitigate these risks: This is described in more detail in the Principal Risks and 2nd LOD: Central functions and committees, Uncertainties section on pages 24 to 29. employing technical experts, develop and provide appropriate policy, process, control structures and support to local management: and RISK MANAGEMENT APPROACH 3rd LOD: Our Internal Audit team independently Each identified risk is assigned to a second line of defence reviews the effectiveness of our risk management centre of expertise CoE to ensure appropriate risk management and internal control system.
approaches are defined, and to provide oversight and support to Clear Rules: Our policies, procedures and internal controls provide the operational management in effectively implementing such parameters within which the global business operates: approaches across our global footprint.
Clear Authority: Defines the formal escalation of business decisions to Our second line of defence plays an active role in the risk the appropriate level of responsibility and management process in a player coach relationship with the accountability: and first line of defence.
Depending on the nature and size of the Clear Values: Our Code of Conduct sets the expectations for employees risk in question, this relationship may take either a directive and business partners to act with respect and integrity.
form, for example where regulatory compliance risks are involved, or a more consultative form to provide guidance and Below we show the key activities within our risk management subject matter expertise.
framework, and the related roles and responsibilities, which Our Finance function is a good example of a second line ensure an effective and continuous risk management process: function which performs both roles.
Finance has responsibility for the financial policies, standards and best practice to be followed by operational finance management across the 1.
SET RISK Group, as documented in our Finance Manual.
Additionally, APPETITE Finance performs a subject matter expert role in the ongoing BOARD 6.
2. design of process and role design to best assist our global MONITOR RISK IDENTIFY & finance communities.
MANAGEMENT ASSESS RISKS AUDIT 1ST LOD Compliance with Group and local reporting requirements is COMMITTEE confirmed by finance management across the Group, providing a RISK robust basis for the central Finance team to appropriately MANAGEMENT manage the Group financial reporting processes and enabling FRAMEWORK 3. the Board to discharge its reporting responsibilities.
DEFINE RISK OVERSEE & MANAGEMENT It is the responsibility of the second line of defence to define the SUPPORT APPROACH 2ND LOD necessary standards and internal controls in accordance with 2ND LOD the four foundations, core to our risk management framework, 4. and the agreed risk appetite.
com 45 THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES continued AUDIT COMMITTEE The above processes and related reporting, as well as those described in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 24 to 29, enable the Audit Committee to review and monitor the effectiveness CASE STUDY: GDPR of our risk management and internal control systems.
The Audit A recent example of the evolution of our risk Committee has considered and confirmed to the Board that this management framework is the implementation of the is in accordance with the recommendations of the Financial requirements in relation to the EU General Data Reporting Councils FRCs UK Corporate Governance Code.
Protection Regulation GDPR, requiring the Company to align its policies, to establish reporting and escalation processes and to design a number of additional internal INTERNAL AUDIT control requirements to ensure GDPR compliance.
Internal Audit IA has continued to evolve and develop its practices to further improve its independent challenge to the Groups This initiative involved building first line of defence activities, as required by the Audit Committee and management.
capability and ways of working to comply with the new regulation.
Tools, guidance and support were An independent IA effectiveness review was performed by Grant provided by a central project team, whilst at the Thornton UK LLP.
The results of this review were positive and same time establishing the requisite second line of supportive regarding the existing processes and quality of work defence CoE after the GDPR came into force.
being delivered, as well as the continuous improvement journey of the IA function.
Internal Audit periodically reviewed the management of key risks relevant to the project.
During the year IA performed a risk-based audit programme Regular updates of compliance implementation aligned to the Groups strategic priorities, resulting in relevant progress were provided to the Audit Committee.
individual and theme-based recommendations and insights to further strengthen the Groups control framework.
We are confident that the Company is compliant with these new regulations.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the annual IA plan, including its scope and extent, and reviews reports from IA at each Audit Committee meeting to monitor the functions achievements against plan.
The Audit Committee considered the results of the MANAGING RISKS audits undertaken by IA and monitored management responses Operational management is held accountable for the to the audit matters raised.
management of those risks applicable to it and for ensuring compliance with our Group policies and standards.
Our Group EXTERNAL AUDIT Control Matrix GCM brings together all the expected minimum At the Committees February 2018 meeting PwC set out its audit controls from these policies and standards, to provide a single strategy, including the key items and risks to be reviewed, the source of internal controls expected to be performed in order to overall scope and materiality thresholds for the half-year report mitigate the identified risk in line with the Boards risk appetite.
and for the audit of the consolidated financial statements for the The operating effectiveness of these GCM controls is assessed year ended 30 September 2018. on a regular basis by management, as well as through Internal The Committee noted that PwCs audit plan identified areas of Audit activities.
Operational management, at Group and local significant audit risk consistent with the previous year but with level, is required to certify its compliance with the Code of an increased focus on new systems and processes.
In their Conduct and the Groups policies and standards at both the controls reporting, PwC highlighted the progress made on half-year and full-year.
managing the risk of segregation of duties conflicts in the Groups ERP systems.
RISK OVERSIGHT Results of risk assessments and internal control operating The Audit Engagement Letter detailing the revised agreement for effectiveness assessments are shared with relevant second line the provision of statutory audit and half-year review services of defence CoEs for expert insights and to help enhance was considered and approved.
applicable internal control, as well as the guidance they provide to the business.
Additionally, the information is provided to INDEPENDENCE OF OUR EXTERNAL AUDITORS Internal Audit for reference during its audit testing.
In order to ensure the independence and objectivity of PwC, the Committee maintains and regularly reviews our Auditor MONITORING RISK MANAGEMENT Independence Policy.
This policy provides clear definitions of The Board and Audit Committee received regular updates during the services that our external auditors may and may not provide year on the continued development of our risk management and and can be found on our website.
Following the FRCs publication internal control systems as well as on the results of risk assessments of the Revised Ethical Standard in June 2016, the policy was and internal control effectiveness assessments.
updated to embed audit tendering and rotation requirements, Throughout the course of the financial year, the Audit Committee further extend the list of prohibited services and prohibit gifts has invited several first and second line of defence functions to and hospitality by or to the auditors.
The updated policy has been present on their respective risk management approaches to the applied from 1 October 2016. risks overseen.
This direct dialogue with the Audit Committee PwC, and its predecessor firms, have been the Companys auditors provides further assurance to the Committee regarding the since 1996.
In line with our Auditor Independence Policy, the Group effective management of significant risks to the Group.
Audit Partner is required to rotate after a maximum of five years seven years for subsidiary companies.
John Maitland, our Audit Partner, had been in post since 2013 and was succeeded by Richard French for the financial year 2018.
46 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 46 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS The image part with relationship ID rId2 was not found in the file.
The policy states that PwC may only provide non-audit services APPROACH TO AUDIT TENDER where those services do not conflict with its independence.
The Committee annually considers if the audit should be put out It also establishes a formal authorisation process, including the to tender.
The decision from the review during this year was not tendering for individual non-audit services expected to generate to put the audit out to tender.
The audit has not been put to tender fees in excess of 250,000, and pre-approval by the Committee since PwC were appointed as the Companys auditors in 1996. for allowable non-audit work that PwC may perform.
Guidelines The audit tender will be completed at the latest by the year for the recruitment of employees or former employees of PwC, ending 30 September 2021 so that the incoming external audit and for the recruitment of our employees by PwC, are contained firm can take up the role for the year ending 30 September 2023. in the policy.
The Committee will determine a timeframe for the audit tender During the year PwC undertook limited non-audit work.
that is in the best interests of the Company and its members.
This non-audit work was awarded to PwC due to its knowledge We believe it is in the interest of both the Group and its stakeholders of the Group and it being deemed best placed to provide to ensure that the pool of major accountancy firms with the capacity effectively the services required.
This non-audit work included to be appointed as external auditor is maximised.
As part of our verification of our corporate social responsibility reporting tender planning we have, therefore, established a number of and underlying processes.
processes including the pre-approval of any future services by In the current year non-audit fees were 3 per cent 2017: 3 per cent appropriate accountancy firms to maintain an adequate level of of total audit fees see note 4 on page 97.
Following the auditor independence to allow them to tender.
During the auditor independence reviews during the year, the Committee independence reviews detailed above, we also considered the concluded that the level of non-audit fees is appropriate in the remuneration for audit services, audit-related services and light of the above activities and the Committee does not believe non-audit work undertaken by such accountancy firms.
that the objectivity of the external audit has been impaired as a There are no contractual or similar obligations restricting the result of this non-audit work.
Groups choice of external auditors.
To ensure compliance with this policy, during the year the The Company confirms that it has complied with the provisions Committee carried out two auditor independence reviews, of the Competition and Market Authoritys Order for the financial including consideration of the remuneration received by PwC year under review.
for audit services, audit-related services and non-audit work.
The Committee also considered reports by both management and PwC, which did not raise any concerns in respect of PwCs STATEMENT OF AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES independence, and confirmed that PwC maintains appropriate PwC is responsible for forming an independent opinion on internal safeguards to ensure its independence and objectivity.
the financial statements of the Group as a whole and on the The outcome of these reviews was that performance of the financial statements of Imperial Brands PLC as presented by relevant non-audit work by PwC was in compliance with the the Directors.
In addition, it also reports on other elements of policy and was the most cost-effective way of conducting our the Annual Report as required by legislation or regulation and business.
No conflicts of interest were found to exist between reports its opinion to members.
such audit and non-audit work.
The Committee therefore confirmed that the Company and Group continue to receive Turn to page 77 an independent audit service.
for further details on PwCs opinions AUDIT QUALITY AUDITORS AND DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION We place great importance on ensuring that we receive a highTO AUDITORS standard and effective external audit.
To assist the Committee Each of the Directors in office at the date of approval of this in assessing the performance of our external auditors, during Annual Report confirms that: the year audit effectiveness questionnaires, covering the audit scope and planning, quality and delivery, challenge and so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information communication, and independence, were completed by that is, information needed by PwC in connection with members of both the Committee and Logistas Audit Committee preparing its report of which PwC is unaware: and as well as by senior managers and finance executives from each has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken across the Group.
Responses indicated that, as with previous as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any reviews, there was a perception of consistently high auditor relevant audit information and to establish PwC is aware effectiveness, with no pervasive Group-wide concerns identified.
Based on its consideration of the responses, together with its The Board accepted, at its October 2018 meeting, the Committees own ongoing assessment, for example through the quality of recommendation to put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM PwCs reports to the Committee and its interaction with the a resolution to reappoint PwC as auditors to the Company.
Group Audit Partner, the Committee remains satisfied with the efficiency and effectiveness of the audit.
For the Board KAREN WITTS Chairman of the Audit Committee www.
