OUR BUSINESS MODEL HOW WE CREATE VALUE OUR BUSINESS MODEL We have also evolved our business model to more clearly explain how Tobacco Maximisation and Next Generation Products NGP create value.
We have two distinct growth models, ourMarket Repeatable Model for tobacco and the 4Bs for NGP.
Consistently applying these models to the right markets and the right brands is key for delivering quality growth.
Ourhigh operating margins drive the strong cash flows that are a hallmark of our business and although NGP may initially dilute these margins we expect to see profitability improve over time.
We use the cash we generate to reinvest to support growth, pay down debt or return to shareholders through dividends.
NEXT GENERATION PRODUCTS 1 2 BELIEVE BUY 4Bs STRONG CASH FLOW 3 4 BUY See page 5 BELONG AGAIN for more information HIGH REINVEST MARGINS RIGHT RIGHT QUALITY MARKETS BRANDS GROWTH TOBACCO SHAREHOLDER MAXIMISATION RETURNS 6 1 MARKET 5 REPEATABLE 2 MODEL CREATING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS 4 3 See page 5 The value we create delivers for more information benefits for our wider stakeholders, including employees, suppliers, retailers and governments.
4 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Believe is the first element of our 4Bs blu Smokers who believe are inspired to buy.
This is about triggering Wetake an ominichannel approach, with sales connections and raising awareness of the brand across traditional retail outlets, specialist vape amongst adult smokers through a variety of stores and online.
Online sales are age verified 1 2 methods, including responsible marketing.
and we insist that our retail outlet and vape BELIEVE Theaim is to encourage smokers to understand BUY store partners only ever sell to adults.
that blu truly does offer something better than cigarettes.
Buy again is about generating repeat purchase.
We want smokers to stay with blu and not revert A smoker who has had a positive initial to smoking, so we welcome blu users to belong experience with blu will have the confidence to a thriving community blu.
It is here that 3 to buy again.
It is the start of building brand we deepen our connection with consumers and 4 loyalty and relies on a frictionless omnichannel increase the level of interaction.
This includes BUY BELONG experience, ensuring our products are always offering exclusive access to products and AGAIN available when and where smokers want to promotions and the chance to participate in our buy them.
1 SIMPLE MARKET FOCUSED PORTFOLIO 2 SUSTAINABLE BRAND INVESTMENTS Our Market Repeatable Model starts with a simple market focused Our simple portfolios drive a sharper focus on investments, as the portfolio that is built around an optimal number of brands and stock lack of complexity makes it easier to prioritise investment behind our keeping units that are aligned with consumer needs.
Our strongest Growth and Specialist Brands.
We build brand equity through a regular assets are our Growth and Specialist Brands and we focus on driving drumbeat of targeted initiatives, including above-the-line and point of their performance to generate quality market share growth.
sale advertising and consumer activations to create brand awareness.
6 HONEST ACCURATE LEARNING 3 ALWAYS ON PRICE STRATEGY The final step of the model is about continuous improvement through The third element of this dynamic growth model is about the pricing honest and accurate learning.
Markets measure their performance of our brands.
We make sure that all markets across our geographic against agreed metrics and learnings are shared with the wider footprint develop and implement a consistent pricing strategy for their business.
This includes being honest, both when things go well and portfolios and continually monitor our operating environment to ensure when things do not turn out as planned, ensuring we build capabilities, that the pricing of our brands remains competitive.
improve together and continually optimise the model.
5 TAILOR CUSTOMER SOLUTIONS 4 CORE RANGE EVERYWHERE ALL THE TIME In a continually evolving regulatory environment, retailers are Ensuring the core range of our brands is always available is crucial an increasingly important part of the shopper brand purchasing for building consumer loyalty.
We make sure that the right brands are experience.
We focus on developing strong retail partnerships, creating available in the right outlets at all times.
This targeting is enabled by tailored customer solutions that provide retailers with real commercial the simplicity of our portfolios, which are welcomed by retailers as they benefits and encourage them to become advocates for our brands.
have less complexity to deal with and enjoy lower working capital.
