DIRECTORS REPORT Our NEDs play a key role in corporate accountability and APPLICATION OF THE UK governance through their membership of the Boards Committees.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The membership and remit of each Committee are considered The latest revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code on pages 37 to 41 and 58.
The open atmosphere at our Committee the Code was published by the FRC in July 2018 and will meetings enables our NEDs to use their experience and apply to the Company from its accounting period starting independence to review critically and, where appropriate, 1 October 2019.
The Companys first Annual Report under the challenge constructively strategies and judgements proposed by New Code will be published in December 2020.
This ensures the further development of our reviewing the implications and the actions required to meet business, effective use of our resources and maintenance of our the amended provisions.
We confirm that the Company has complied in full with the April 2016 Code throughout this financial year.
MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD In order to retain control of key decisions the Board has adopted We detail below how in practice the Company has applied the a schedule of matters on which it must make the final decision.
2016 Codes principles and complied with its detailed provisions.
During the year such decisions included approval of the Groups financial statements, the Groups business strategy, its THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES three-year corporate plan, major capital expenditure, material Each of our Board Committees has specific written terms investments or disposals and changes to the Groups principal of reference issued by the Board, adopted by the relevant policies including treasury and tax.
Committee and published on our website.
All Committee chairmen report on the proceedings of their Committee DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES OF OUR CHAIRMAN AND at the next meeting of the Board and, where appropriate, CHIEF EXECUTIVE make recommendations to the Board.
In addition, minutes Working together with the Board, our Chairman and Chief of Committee meetings are ordinarily circulated to all Executive are responsible to our shareholders for the successful Board members.
They maintain a close working relationship, whilst having clearly defined and separate To ensure Directors are kept up to date on developing issues and to responsibilities divided between running the Board and the enhance the overall effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, business.
They speak regularly between Board meetings to our Chairman and Committee chairmen communicate regularly ensure a full understanding of evolving issues and to facilitate with the Chief Executive and other Executive Directors.
Board composition and roles Chairman Mark Williamson Leads the Board and creates an environment that ensures there are strong links between the Board and our shareholders and management.
Mark met the independence criteria of the Code on appointment and there have been no significant changes to his external commitments subsequent to his appointment.
Chief Executive Alison Cooper Supported by the Executive Directors and the OPEX, Alison has day-to-day management responsibility for the Group, for recommending the Groups strategy to the Board and, once agreed, its implementation.
Alison and the Executive Directors actively promote the Groups values, culture and high standards of conduct and behaviour, which underpin our reputation and support the delivery of our sustainable sales growth.
Executive Directors Oliver Tant Support the Chief Executive in devising and implementing our strategy and overseeing the Matthew Phillips operations and development of the entire Group, in addition to specific responsibility for managing their own areas of the business.
Senior Independent Malcolm Wyman Responsible for assisting the Chairman with effective shareholder communication and is Director available to shareholders should they have any concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels or if these channels are not appropriate.
Malcolm is available to our NEDs should they have any concerns which are not appropriate to raise with the Chairman or which have not been satisfactorily resolved by the Chairman.
He also acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and carries out the Chairmans performance evaluation.
Non-Executive Therese Esperdy Evaluate information provided and challenge constructively managements viewpoints, Directors Simon Langelier assumptions and performance.
They bring to the Board a diverse range of business Steven Stanbrook and financial expertise which complements and supplements the experience of the Karen Witts Executive Directors.
48 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 48 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND INDEPENDENCE Members of our Audit and Remuneration Committees also Directors are required to avoid situations where they have, or could received briefings from their respective advisers.
have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may By way of example, we held our March 2018 Board meeting in conflict, with the Companys interests.
In accordance with the Amsterdam, visiting Fontem for sessions focusing on how our Companies Act 2006 the Act, our Articles of Association allow the NGP strategy is being executed.
In addition, the June 2018 Board Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise meeting was dedicated to Group strategy and planning, and to impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
including delivering accelerated growth in NGP, continuing to Directors are required to give notice of any potential situational maximise returns in tobacco, enabling success with an agile and and or transactional conflicts, which are considered at the lean organisation and optimising capital allocation.
following Board meeting and, if appropriate, situational conflicts To enable them to discharge their responsibilities, the Board and are authorised.
We do not allow any Director to participate in its Committees are supplied with full and timely information, such considerations or to vote regarding their own conflicts.
The Board has considered and authorised a number of situations, The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, all of which relate to the holding of external directorships and through the Chairman, on matters of corporate governance.
In have been entered in our Conflicts Register.
No actual conflicts addition, all Directors have access to the advice of the Company have been identified.
The Board considers that these procedures Secretary and, where appropriate, the services of other operate effectively.
employees for all governance and regulatory matters.
As part of our annual review process, during the Board meeting Independent professional advice is available to Directors, in in September 2018 we reviewed and reconsidered all situations appropriate circumstances, at the Companys expense.
entered in the Conflicts Register and the Board is satisfied that the independence of those Directors who have external board PERFORMANCE EVALUATION appointments has not been compromised.
At this meeting, and To enhance the effectiveness of the Board, during the year it taking into account the annual Board performance evaluation undertook an in-house review of its performance.
discussed below, the Board concluded that all our NEDs continue This review considered Board composition, skills and expertise, to contribute effectively and constructively to Board debate, the overall functioning of the Board, decision-making, risk, demonstrate commitment to their role, challenge objectively and strategy, succession planning and talent.
As part of the question management robustly and at all times have the best evaluation, the Chairman held meetings with the NEDs to interests of our shareholders in mind.
We confirm, therefore, that, consider, amongst other things, the performance of the with the exception of our Chairman, who met the independence Executive Directors.
In addition, the Chairman held one-on-one criteria of the Code on appointment, our NEDs remained meetings with each of the Board members to discuss their independent throughout the year as defined in the Code.
The Senior Independent Director also EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS held separate meetings with individual Board members and the NEDs, including the Chairman, may serve on a number of other Board as a whole, without the Chairman present, to consider the boards provided they continue to demonstrate the requisite performance of the Chairman.
commitment to discharge their duties effectively.
The Succession The feedback obtained was collated into a report which was and Nominations Committee reviews the extent of the NEDs other presented to the Succession and Nominations Committee and interests throughout the year.
The Board is satisfied that each of the Board at their September 2018 meetings.
the NEDs commits sufficient time to their duties in relation to the Company.
The Chairman and each of the NEDs has confirmed The evaluation showed that the Board continues to function and they have sufficient time to fulfil their obligations to the Company.
No significant areas for concern or any requirement to provide extra training for our Directors were The Board is supportive of Executive Directors and members of the identified.
The evaluation confirmed that all our Directors have OPEX accepting non-executive directorships of other companies sufficient time, knowledge and commitment to contribute in order to widen their experience and knowledge for the benefit of effectively to our Board and its Committees and that they remain the Company.
Accordingly, subject to the agreement of the Board, appropriately constituted.
Executive Directors and members of the OPEX are permitted to accept one external non-executive board appointment and to retain Areas identified for further consideration included continuing to any fees received from such appointment.
build on the engagement and trust of the Board as a whole, ongoing regular reviews of the strategy to ensure it is being INFORMATION AND TRAINING implemented, evolving and relevant: and ongoing focus on Following their appointment to the Board, Directors are briefed succession and talent.
on the legal and other duties they owe to the Company.
We addressed the areas raised for consideration in the 2017 Tailored induction programmes are arranged which include, evaluation as follows: where needed, industry-specific training, visits to the Groups businesses and meetings with senior management.
They are Area for consideration How we addressed this area also briefed on internal controls at both head office and business Maximising the use We have increased the involvement of unit level and provided with information on relevant Company of NED skill-sets NEDs outside the Board calendar to leverage policies and governance-related matters.
their experience in areas that can benefit the business.
Through its NEDucation programme the Company is also Optimising the use We have focused Board attention on key committed to the continuing development of its NEDs in order that of the Boards time strategic issues, and managed the preparation they may build on their expertise and develop their understanding and running of Board meetings to maximise of our business.
Through this programme ongoing training and the value-add.
updates are available and provided to NEDs.
We also provide regular Continued focus We built on the momentum created in 2017. briefings to all Directors on matters such as legislation and on succession regulation changes, and corporate governance developments.
com 49 DIRECTORS REPORT continued INSURANCE AND INDEMNITIES During the year the Company purchased and maintained appropriate insurance cover in respect of directors and officers liabilities.
Qualifying third-party indemnity arrangements for the benefit of Directors, in a form and scope which comply with the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 the Act, were in force throughout the year and up to the date of this Annual Report.
DIALOGUE WITH OUR INVESTORS GEOGRAPHICAL ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDERS SHAREHOLDER COMPOSITION as at 30 September 2018 as at 30 September 2018 UK 54% Institutional 88% USA 28% Non-institutional 5% Rest of Europe 13% Retail 3% Rest of World 5% Employees 1% Holding below threshold 3% We aim to provide balanced, clear and transparent communications We also undertake an annual investor perception audit, which is which allow all our shareholders to understand how we see our shared with the Board to keep Directors up to date with investor prospects and the market environments in which we operate.
feedback and perceptions of the business.
We maintain an active engagement with our key financial In addition, the Chairman held meetings with various audiences, including institutional shareholders, debt shareholders over the course of the year.
Our NEDs, including the stakeholders and sell-side analysts, as well as potential Senior Independent Director, were also available throughout the shareholders.
Over the course of the year our Investor Relations year to meet with major shareholders, if requested, and were and management teams held a total of 620 meetings with these kept up to date with investor views.
During the year we made regular presentations to, Our next AGM will be held on 6 February 2019, full details of and had meetings with, institutional investors from the UK, which are contained in the Notice of Meeting available on our Europe, USA and Asia to communicate progress towards website and, where applicable, posted with this Report.
We achieving our tobacco maximisation and NGP growth strategy ensure our Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of AGM are and answer questions.
made available at least 20 working days prior to the meeting to We held a webinar on our tobacco maximisation strategy in allow shareholders time to consider them fully before submitting July 2018 for investors and analysts.
The webinar provided their proxy votes.
details on the industry environment, how we prioritise markets, At the AGM our Chairman and Chief Executive give presentations how we use our MRM model to execute in market and how we on our performance and current business activities.
Directors use a lean operating model to effectively allocate capital.
make themselves available to meet shareholders after the The webinar focused on three of our priority markets: the USA, conclusion of the formal business of the meeting.
To ensure compliance with the Code, at all general meetings, In February 2018 we hosted an evening event for investors and separate resolutions are proposed on each subject and all analysts so they could experience our new blu products: resolutions are put to a poll.
The number of proxy votes for, attendees were introduced to my blu, our new pod system, blu against and abstentions for each resolution received are ACE, our advanced tank system, and were shown a number of provided at the meeting.
Votes received at the meeting are added new innovations including 3D flavours and our innovations in to the proxy votes and the final results published through a future pod designs.
Regulatory Information Service, on our website and via OTCQX.
In September 2018 we held a capital markets event which At our 2018 AGM we received votes representing approximately focused on how we are building blu and updated the market on 79 per cent of our issued share capital excluding shares held in our progress in the NGP space.
The event showed investors how treasury at the date of the meeting.
we are delivering something better for the worlds smokers.
It also highlighted the additive opportunity for Imperial, OTHER INFORMATION INTRODUCTION including how we have built a compelling proposition, how we One of the Boards primary responsibilities is to ensure are executing in markets and how we see NGP delivering returns the Company is run in the best long-term interests of its for shareholders.
We believe this can Throughout the year our senior management team presented at only be achieved if the activities of the Group are supported by industry conferences organised by investor bodies and investment appropriate environmental, sustainability and governance banks for their institutional investor bases.
Our Investor Relations processes applied across the Group.
and management teams managed the interaction with these These processes are illustrated below and in the individual audiences and provided additional regular presentations during the year.
50 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 50 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS In accordance with the Act the following items have been subject to AGM approval, the final dividend will be paid on included in other sections of this Annual Report: 29 March 2019 to our shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business on 22 February 2019.
The associated a fair review of the business, as required by the Act, is included ex-dividend date will be 21 February 2019. in the Strategic Report.
The information in our Governance Report is included in this Directors Report by reference: The Directors have declared and proposed dividends as follows: future developments in the business are included in the million 2018 2017 Chief Executives Statement: Ordinary shares information relating to our people is included in the Responsible Interim paid June 2018, 28.435p per share 271 247 Operations and People section on pages 33 and 34: Interim paid September 2018, our principal risks are detailed on pages 24 to 29: 28.435p per share 271 247 information relating to our Sustainability approach that Proposed interim December 2018, support our growth agenda are included on pages 30 to 34: 65.46p per share 624 569 governance is covered on page 35: and Proposed final March 2019, 65.46p per share 624 569 the Directors of the Company are listed on pages 36 and 37.
Total ordinary dividends, 187.79p per share 2017: 170.72p 1,790 1,632 SHARE CAPITAL Details of our share capital are shown in note 24 to the financial RELATIONS WITH OTHER STAKEHOLDERS statements.
All shares other than those held in treasury are freely RESPONSIBLITIES TO A BROAD STAKEHOLDER GROUP transferable and rank pari passu for voting and dividend rights.
As highlighted in the Sustainability Review, our values and At our AGM on 7 February 2018 shareholder authority for the culture emphasise our focus on doing things in the right way.
buyback of up to 95,370,000 shares was obtained.
This includes considering the Groups responsibilities to a broad group of stakeholders.
As a responsible and sustainable As at 30 September 2018 we held 77,289,137 shares in treasury, company this has been part of our continued and embedded which represented 7.49 per cent of issued share capital and had approach for a number of years.
an aggregate nominal value of 7,728,914.
Further details are provided on our website within our We have not cancelled these shares but hold them in a treasury Sustainability section and captured in a downloadable pdf shares reserve within our profit and loss account reserve and entitled Responding to our Stakeholders.
they represent a deduction from equity shareholders funds.
com sustainability approach At 30 September 2018 we had been notified of the following interests .
html in 3 per cent or more of our shares and there have been no changes to this information up to the date of this Annual Report.
CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS Number of Percentage As part of our responsible approach, we continued to support ordinary shares of issued millions share capital a number of communities in which we operate by allocating 1 a well-considered central budget.
In addition to our central BlackRock Inc. 53 5.59 1 budget a number of our subsidiaries donate to charitable and Capital Group Companies Inc. 48 5.00 community endeavours from local budgets.
community activities through in-kind activities including management time, volunteering and gifts in-kind.
Globally we We have not received notification that any other person holds continued our Group-wide volunteering initiative supporting 3 per cent or more of our shares.
The share interests of the Directors, their families and any All charitable donations and partnership investments are subject connected persons are shown on page 72.
Other than as to the requirements of our Code of Conduct.
disclosed on page 72, there are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for No political donations were made to EU political parties, compensation for loss of office or employment due to a takeover.
This approach is aligned with our Group Policy and Code of Conduct.
Information concerning employees and their remuneration is given in note 6 to the financial statements and in the Directors PENSION FUND Remuneration Report.
The Group has three main pension arrangements, the largest being the FINANCIAL RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund, which is not controlled by the Board but by a trustee company, the board of which consists of five directors We include a review of our operational and financial performance, nominated by the Company, one director nominated by employee current position and future developments in our Strategic Report.
members and two directors nominated by current and The profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for the deferred pensioners.
This trustee company is responsible for the financial year was 1,368 million, as shown in our Consolidated assets of the pension fund, which are held separately from those Income Statement.
Note 3 to the financial statements gives an of the Group and are managed by independent fund managers.
analysis of revenue and operating profit.
The pension fund assets can only be used in accordance with the funds rules and for no other purpose.
An analysis of net assets is provided in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and the related notes to the financial statements.
Turn to page 64 We pay quarterly dividends.
The first and second dividends for Further details are contained in our Remuneration Report.
financial year 2018 were paid on 29 June 2018 and 28 September 2018 respectively.
The third dividend will be paid on 31 December 2018 and, www.
com 51 DIRECTORS REPORT continued ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The final terms of this series of notes contain change of control The Companys Articles of Association do not contain any provisions under which the holder of each note will, subject to entrenchment provisions and, therefore, may be altered or added any earlier exercise by the Issuer, have the option to require the to, or completely new articles may be adopted, by special Issuer to redeem or, at the Issuers option, purchase that note resolution, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. at its nominal value if: a any person, or persons acting in concert or on behalf of any such person s, becomes interested SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS THAT TAKE EFFECT, ALTER OR in: i more than 50 per cent of the issued or allotted ordinary TERMINATE ON CHANGE OF CONTROL share capital of the Company: or ii such number of shares in The agreements summarised below are those which we consider the capital of the Company carrying more than 50 per cent of the to be significant to the Group as a whole and which contain voting rights normally exercisable at a general meeting of the provisions giving the other party or parties a specific right to Company: and b as a result of the change of control, there is terminate them if we are subject to a change of control following either: i a reduction to a non-investment grade rating or a takeover bid.
withdrawal of the investment grade rating of the notes which is not raised again, reinstated to or replaced by an investment The Group has five credit facility agreements that provide that, grade rating during the change of control period specified in the unless the lenders as defined within each agreement otherwise final terms: or ii to the extent that the notes are not rated at the agree, if any person or group of associated persons and or any time of the change of control, the Issuer fails to obtain an connected persons acquires the right to exercise more than investment grade credit rating of the notes within the change 50 per cent of the votes exercisable at a general meeting of the of control period as a result of the change of control.
Company, the respective borrowers as defined within each agreement must repay any outstanding utilisation owed by The bonds issued in such manner are as follows: them under the respective facility agreement and the total 15 September 2008 600 million 8.125 per cent guaranteed commitments under that facility agreement will be cancelled.
notes due 2024: The five credit agreements are: 17 February 2009 1,000 million 9 per cent guaranteed notes due 2022: a credit facilities agreement dated July 2014 under which certain banks and or financial institutions make available to Imperial 24 June 2009 500 million 7.75 per cent guaranteed notes Brands Finance PLC and Imperial Brands Enterprise Finance due 2019: Limited: a committed acquisition credit facilities originally 26 September 2011 500 million 5.5 per cent guaranteed notes across three tranches of $4,100 million, $1,500 million and due 2026: $1,500 million, for a maximum period of up to three years, 1 December 2011 750 million 5 per cent guaranteed notes four years and six years respectively: b committed credit due 2019: facilities originally of 1,000 million for a period of up to 28 February 2014 1,000 million 2.25 per cent guaranteed notes three years: and c committed credit facilities in two tranches due 2021: of 2,835 million and 500 million for a period of up to five years.
The Group has subsequently either repaid, cancelled or 28 February 2014 650 million 3.375 per cent guaranteed notes extended certain of these facilities, such that as at due 2026: 30 September 2018 the following remained outstanding: 28 February 2014 500 million 4.875 per cent guaranteed notes committed credit facilities of 2,835 million until July 2021 due 2032: and 500 million until July 2021: and 27 January 2017 500 million 0.5 per cent guaranteed notes four credit facility agreements dated April and May 2018 due 2021: and under which certain banks and or financial institutions make 27 January 2017 500 million 1.375 per cent guaranteed notes available to Imperial Brands Finance PLC and Imperial Brands due 2025.
Enterprise Finance Limited committed credit facilities of 300 million, 285 million, 300 million and 287.5 million Imperial Brands Finance PLC has also issued bonds in the for a period of up to two years.
United States of America under the provisions of Section 144a and Regulation S respectively of the US Securities Act 1933.
In addition, seven deeds of counter-indemnity each dated The Company acts as guarantor.
July 2017 made on substantially the same terms under which certain insurance companies the Sureties have made available The final terms of this series of notes contain change of control to the Company, Imperial Brands Finance PLC and Imperial provisions under which the holder of each note will, subject to Tobacco Limited a surety bond, in each case issued on a any earlier exercise by the Issuer, have the option to require the standalone basis but in aggregate forming an amount of Issuer to redeem or, at the Issuers option, purchase that note at 600 million, until January 2023.
101 per cent of its nominal value if: a i any person as such term is used in the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the If any person or group of associated persons as defined within Exchange Act becomes the beneficial owner of more than each agreement acquire the right to exercise more than 50 per cent of the Companys voting stock: or ii there is a 50 per cent of the votes exercisable at a general meeting of transfer other than by merger, consolidation, amalgamation or the Company, the Sureties may demand that Imperial Tobacco other combination of all or substantially all of the Companys Limited, amongst other things, pay a sum to a cash collateral assets and those of its subsidiaries to any person as such term is account equal to but not exceeding the aggregate amount used in the Exchange Act : or iii a majority of the members of outstanding under each Guarantee.
the Companys Board of Directors is not continuing in such Imperial Brands Finance PLC the Issuer has issued bonds under capacity: and b as a result of the change of control, there is a a Euro Medium Term Notes EMTN Debt Issuance Programme reduction to a non-investment grade rating or withdrawal of the as noted below.
The Company acts as guarantor.
investment grade rating of the notes which is not raised again, reinstated to or replaced by an investment grade rating during the change of control period specified in the final terms.
52 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 52 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS The bonds issued in such manner are as follows: MOROCCO In June 2015, a claim was filed in the Casablanca Court by the 11 February 2013 $1,000 million 3.5 per cent guaranteed notes heirs of a deceased individual against our Moroccan subsidiary, due 2023: Socit Marocaine des Tabacs SMT.
The total amount of 21 July 2015 $1,250 million 2.95 per cent guaranteed notes compensation sought was not specified.
In February 2016, due 2020: the Casablanca Court found in favour of SMT and dismissed the 21 July 2015 $1,250 million 3.75 per cent guaranteed notes claim.
due 2022: and THE NETHERLANDS 21 July 2015 $1,500 million 4.25 per cent guaranteed notes Since September 2016, various complaints have been lodged with the due 2025.
Public Prosecution Service in the Netherlands directed at the local entities of four major tobacco manufacturers, including Imperial UPDATE ON TOBACCO-RELATED LITIGATION Tobacco Benelux.
On 22 February 2018, the Public Prosecution ITALY Service announced that it had decided not to prosecute the matter.
We are currently facing two claims in Italy.
The first is against Subsequently, a complaints procedure was lodged with the court of Logista, which is the subject of a challenge on grounds of appeals in The Hague, requesting the court of appeals to order the jurisdiction and the admission of evidence.
This challenge Public Prosecution Service to prosecute the case.
The court of appeals was heard in 2006, but judgment is still awaited.
has noted that it expects to decide on the matter in December 2018.
The second claim has been brought in the Court of Messina FRANCE against Imperial Tobacco Italia and Reemtsma by two On 16 January 2018, the French National Committee against individuals claiming 800,000 in total.
Tobacco the CNCT, filed a criminal complaint with the Paris The parties have filed their pleadings.
The next step in the Public Prosecutor against the four main tobacco manufacturers, proceedings is a hearing at which the Judge will hear the including a French subsidiary of Imperial Brands named Imperial parties arguments regarding their requests for oral and Brand Finance France the Subsidiary, on grounds of reckless expert evidence.
Neither the Subsidiary nor any of its employees or managers have been charged or placed under POLAND formal investigation in any on-going proceedings, as a result of In October 2017, Imperial Tobacco Polska SA Imperial Polska such a complaint.
Imperial Brands strongly denies the allegations received notice that a claim has been filed against it in the made by the CNCT and is monitoring the developments.
Regional Court in Pozna by an individual claiming PLN 1,000,000 by way of compensation for alleged smoking related USA health effects.
Imperial Polska denied the claim in full.
At a A number of smoking and health-related claims have been hearing on 18 May 2018, the Court dismissed the claim in full.
brought against ITG Brands in the state courts of Massachusetts.
On 18 July 2018, the claimant filed an appeal.
Imperial Polska ITG Brands has the benefit of an indemnity from another filed a reply on 10 August 2018.
Imperial Polska is currently awaiting manufacturer in respect of each of these claims.
As a result, the scheduling of the hearing by the Appellate Court in Pozna.
ITG Brands either has been dismissed, or is expected to be dismissed, without prejudice from each of the claims.
ARGENTINA Our subsidiary, Socit Nationale dExploitation Industrielle des To date, no action has been successful or settled in favour of Tabacs et Allumettes SAS SEITA, has been notified of a claim any claimant in any tobacco-related litigation against Imperial filed in the Court of Buenos Aires against Nobleza Piccardo by Brands or any of its subsidiaries.
Nobleza Piccardo has denied liability.
Nobleza Piccardo manufactures and distributes two brands of cigarettes owned by SEITA in Argentina under the terms of a Licence Agreement.
Nobleza Piccardo has sought to invoke an indemnity contained in the Licence Agreement, pursuant to which SEITA is responsible for any product liability to third parties.
The claim is currently in the evidence production period, during which all expert and witness evidence will be produced.
RUSSIA In August 2016, a claim was filed in the Russian Court against 18 tobacco companies including JSC Imperial Tobacco Yaroslavl by an individual claiming RUB 523,480,297 and other amounts related to the profits of the defendants.
Imperial was notified of the claim by the Russian Court in February 2017.
The claim was dismissed in full at a hearing in April 2017.
The claimant appealed the decision.
The appeal was heard in July 2017 by Moscow Courts Judicial Panel for Civil Cases.
The appeal was dismissed in full.
No appeal has been filed and the deadline to do so has now expired.
com 53 DIRECTORS REPORT continued UPDATE ON USA STATE SETTLEMENT AGREEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION LISTING RULES Claims have been made against ITG Brands ITGB in connection For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4R, the information required to be with its acquisition of certain US cigarette brands in June 2015 and disclosed by LR 9.8.
4R can be found on the pages set out below: in respect of three of the four US states that are not parties to the Section Information Page Master Settlement Agreement, Florida, Minnesota and Texas.
1 Interest capitalised Not applicable An action was filed against ITGB claiming payments under the 2 Publication of unaudited Not applicable Florida settlement agreement, but in December 2017 the Florida financial information court ruled that RJR Tobacco Reynolds and not ITGB were liable for 4 Details of long-term 56, 57, 63, 65, 68, the payments concerned.
A complaint has also been filed by incentive schemes 69, and 71 Minnesota, but no substantive findings are expected before 5 Waiver of emoluments by a director Not applicable June 2019.
Texas has made a claim for settlement payments, but no 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a director 62, 65, 66, and 71 litigation has yet been filed.
In addition, the Delaware court has 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable issued various rulings in connection with the asset purchase 8 Non pre-emptive issue by major Not applicable agreement APA, through which ITGB acquired the US brands, subsidiary undertakings which are consistent with the Groups position that ITGB has 9 Listed subsidiary Not applicable satisfied its obligations under the APA.
There are currently no 10 Contracts of significance 52 and 53 ongoing proceedings in Delaware.
The Groups legal advice is that it 11 Provision of services by a controlling Not applicable has a strong position on all pending claims and the Group therefore shareholder considers that no provision is required for these matters.
12 Shareholder waivers of dividends See below UPDATE ON E-VAPOUR-RELATED LITIGATION 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends See below We are defending a case in the USA filed in California state court 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable against Fontem U. S. The complaint names seventeen defendants in addition to Fontem U. S. This case seeks the recovery of In respect of LR 9.8.
4R 12 and 13 the trustee of the Imperial unquantified monetary damages, including punitive damages, Tobacco Group PLC Employee and Executive Benefit Trust and against all defendants based on the claim that the principal the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 Employee Benefit Trust plaintiff was injured as a result of the use of e-cigarettes and agrees to waive dividends payable on the Groups shares it holds vaping devices, including e-cigarettes manufactured by Fontem for satisfying awards under various Imperial Brands PLC share U. S. Fontem U. S. has not yet filed an answer to the complaint, but plans.
In accordance with Section 726 of the Act no dividends has filed motions to dismiss three of the purported causes of can be paid to the Company in respect of the shares it holds action asserted in it.
Motions to dismiss filed by other defendants in treasury.
in the case have been heard and sustained by the Court, with leave given to the plaintiffs to replead.
Plaintiffs counsel has indicated that an Amended Complaint would be filed.
We intend to vigorously defend this case.
We have concluded our defence of one e-vapour-related claim in the USA.
This was a consolidation of two purported class actions seeking to recover unquantified damages, including punitive damages.
The claim has been resolved through the filing on 17 September 2018 of a dismissal with prejudice of the entire action.
Imperial Brands has been advised by its lawyers that it has meritorious defences to the ongoing legal proceedings set out above.
We will continue vigorously to contest all such litigation against us.
54 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 54 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES DIRECTORS' CONFIRMATIONS IN RESPECT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law the Group and Parent Companys position and performance, and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors on pages 36 and 37 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as the Parent Company financial statements, which have been adopted by the European Union and Parent Company financial prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, Framework, and applicable law, give a true and fair view of and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must not the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that of the Company: they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in and Parent Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give Parent Company for that period.
In preparing the financial a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position statements, the Directors are required to: and profit of the Group: and select suitable accounting policies and then apply the Strategic Report and the Directors' Report include a fair them consistently: review of the development and performance of the business state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European and the position of the Group and Parent Company, together Union have been followed for the Group financial statements with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising it faces.
FRS 101, have been followed for the Company Financial statements, subject to any material departures disclosed and The Directors responsibilities in relation to the disclosure of information to auditors is disclosed in the Audit Committee explained in the financial statements: report on page 47. make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and The Strategic Report and the Directors Report were approved and signed by order of the Board.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Parent Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
JOHN DOWNING Company Secretary The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and 6 November 2018 Parent Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Imperial Brands PLC Parent Company and enable them to ensure that the financial Incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales No: 3236483 statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Parent Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
