OUR VALUE CHAIN We have a unique and sustainable business model, providing full-spectrum Distribution capability for our OEM partners, operating throughout the value chain.
Acting as custodians of some of the worlds most recognisable brands, we provide automotive manufacturers with a highly effective route-to-market and a vital link between the brand and the customer.
PRODUCT PLANNING BRAND POSITIONING IMPORT & LOGISTICS Our brand partners call upon our local With specialist understanding of the Overseeing global transport and market insights to inform the planning markets in which we operate, we are operating comprehensive port or and design of new models, tailoring ideally placed to develop brand border to showroom connections designs, specifications and sales propositions that will resonate with means that we are able to remove all volumes to the exacting needs local consumers, maximising brand logistical burdens from our partners.
penetration and market share positions on behalf of our partners.
AFTERSALES & SERVICING NEW & USED VEHICLE SALES FINANCE & INSURANCE With long-term investments in state-ofWe want to provide the worlds best We partner with financial institutions the-art facilities, expert technicians automotive purchasing experience for around the world to help our and first-class customer care, our New and Used cars throughout the customers purchase and care for objective is to create life-long managed network and our own retail their vehicles with a wide range Inchcape customers for all their operations.
Whether online or in of transparent financing product Aftersales needs, from routine person our aim is to make each stage options available to support their servicing to accident repair.
of the vehicle ownership journey easy, ownership lifestyle.
effective and enjoyable, and to build lifetime relationships with our customers.
8 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 A05EB5 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NATIONAL MARKETING PARTS DISTRIBUTION NETWORK MANAGEMENT We develop and refine marketing With strong brand relationships, As an OEM Distribution partner, we plans on behalf of our partners from specialist Distribution capabilities and select and appoint the independent pricing and promotion to customer Retail networks, Inchcape is a trusted dealer network, training and communications, based on extensive supplier of original equipment managing them, and optimising the research of consumers and manufacturer parts and accessories retail footprint across each geography.
competitors as well as our specialist throughout any given market.
insight of local market dynamics and macro-economic trends.
DISTRIBUTION 93% VEHICLE SALES 62% RETAIL 7% AFTERSALES 38% Trading Profit Gross Profit DISTINCT ROUTES DIVERSIFIED REVENUE TO MARKET STREAMS The Inchcape value chain spans We have a balanced approach both Distribution and Retail to revenue generation, competencies, with a weighting maximising opportunities at all towards higher margin points in the value chain.
Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 9 A05EB5 Our partnership with Toyota Motor Corporation is the longest standing in our portfolio, with 51 years as a Distributor in geographies that now reach from South East Asia to East Africa, from Europe to the Americas.
LOCATIONS DISTRIBUTION Hong Kong, Macau, Guam, Saipan, Singapore, Brunei, Greece, Belgium, Luxembourg, Albania, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Romania, Ethiopia, Chile & Colombia Hino only RETAIL UK, China, Russia 10 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018
