RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Macro-economic impacts in the UK economy lead to BREXIT reduced consumer confidence and a reduction in the The UK is currently scheduled to leave the European overall size of the addressable market: Union on 29 March 2019.
There is uncertainty, however, as to whether this will indeed be the departure date and The introduction of tariffs on UK automotive exports to as to the terms of the UK EU relationship after that date.
European markets, and certain third countries, results in increased costs that are not able to be recovered In agreed deal scenarios, there will be a sufficient from customers: planning period of at least 21 months available to plan A fall in the value of sterling increases the sterling value and prepare for the implications of Brexit.
In the event of the Groups foreign currency earnings.
of a no-deal Brexit, however, there will be no such transition period.
The Board has considered these potential impacts carefully together with the mitigation plans in place.
Our immediate focus, therefore, has been on We are working closely with our OEM partners to ensure preparing for a no-deal scenario.
We have taken steps that any impacts are minimised.
to understand the potential impacts of such a scenario upon our business and have identified, and taken, The Board and Group Executive Committee are actively those mitigating actions that are available to us.
monitoring the position and will continue to take the actions that are available to them to respond to events The nature, and location, of our business means that as they unfold.
there are three principal potential impacts.
These are or a major interruption to OEM operations or product VIABILITY STATEMENT supply, negatively impacts vehicle sales.
The long-term viability of the Group is intrinsically linked to the delivery of the Ignite strategy and the cash-generative Sensitivity analysis is undertaken to stress-test the nature of this business model.
Our continued viability is resilience of the Group and its business model.
For the dependent upon the continuation of our relationships purposes of viability testing we modelled the first and with our OEM partners.
In addition, three years is also third of these risks.
The risk of a liquidity credit shock, the key timeline for New vehicle purchase in mature has been modelled as a sensitivity on top of both of markets with good personal finance penetration.
In these risks to understand their combined financial seeking to be the OEM partner of choice, we continue to impact.
For 2019, the Board has also considered the build on the long-term strategic relationships we have impact of a no deal no transition Brexit.
developed to grow our businesses together over a far The Group is considered to be viable if the interest cover longer timeframe.
covenant is maintained within the prescribed limit and The plans and projections prepared as part of the there is available debt headroom to fund operations.
Groups annual strategic planning process consider The Groups committed facilities, provided by the US the Groups cash flows, committed and uncommitted Private Placement market and through our syndicate funding positions, forecast future funding requirements of relationship banks, coupled with the existing and lending covenants.
As part of the strategic planning cash-generative nature of our business model, process, the Board adopts a rigorous approach to the combine to generate sufficient cash flow headroom identification of the principal risks and to monitoring the under the extreme scenarios tested and the interest actions taken to mitigate these risks.
cover covenant is not breached.
The Board has prioritised three of the principal risks for On the basis of an assessment of the principal risks, and the purposes of assessing the longer-term viability on the assumption that the principal risks are managed of the Group: and mitigated as described, and based on the Boards review of the strategic plan and the results of the Loss of global distribution contract with major sensitivity analysis undertaken, the Board has a brand partner: reasonable expectation that the Company will be Significant retrenchment of credit available to able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities customers, dealer network or the Group negatively as they fall due over the period to December 2021. impacts vehicle sales and or operational capability: Material damage to OEM brand or product reputation, DIRECTORS APPROVAL OF THE STRATEGIC REPORT Our 2018 Strategic Report, from pages 1 to 46, has been reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors on 27 February 2019.
Stefan Bomhard Chief Executive 46 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Inchcape has a Retail-only partnership with VW Group and represents the core VW and Audi brands as well as the performance marque Porsche.
Our VW Group relationship goes back 30 years in four international markets.
LOCATIONS RETAIL UK, Russia, China, Australia Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47
