STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW OF OUR INDUSTRY AUTOMOTIVE EVOLVES The automotive industry is undergoing significant Connectivity change.
Advances in technology and its effect on Technology in new vehicles is becoming consumer society are redefining the automotive value increasingly sophisticated, optimising the internal functions of the vehicle.
Advances in network chain, enabling innovation to challenge the status quo coverage and the cost of data transfer are of our industry: new profit pools are now being found presenting opportunities to share this data outside in automotive and creating competition for incumbents.
the vehicle ecosystem to optimise both functionality However, continuing our long tradition of embracing and the in-car experience of passengers.
In the coming years we change as an opportunity, we are actively monitoring expect almost all new cars to have a high degree of these exciting developments, to participate where connectivity, either embedded or through tethered technology, we are confident Inchcape has, or can build, for example via smartphone apps.
We have identified four From Inchcapes point of view, the opportunity is likely to be trends with the potential to impact our business model: twofold: first in capturing the data potential of our developed Digitalisation, Electrification, Connectivity and omni-channel platform: and second in our role as the OEMs SharedMobility.
distribution partner with exclusive control over and access to a given market such as our partnerships with Toyota in Hong Kong or Subaru in Australia.
Digitalisation Advances in mobile connectivity, technology Shared mobility and the ability to leverage data have reset how consumers expect to access and use Customers mobility requirements have evolved goods and services.
As a Distributor with control beyond the current purchase-ownership model of the value chain and expertise in customer resulting in new services centred on customer experience, this is where we are aiming to build convenience and flexibility, such as ride hailing, a competitive advantage.
New technology-focused companies have led the way in developing this Our customers experience in other, more digitally advanced emerging mobility model with OEMs making strategic consumer industries, has exposed a relative lack of development investments to ensure a stake in the development of these in the automotive route to market, presenting opportunities for new channels.
incumbents as well as new entrants.
We are seeing trends that have disrupted other markets emerging which may challenge As a Distributor with the required infrastructure to import, the traditional dealers position in the value chain: new specialist finance, prepare and maintain vehicles, Inchcape can play market entrants who focus on specific pain-points within the a significant role in the shared mobility value chain.
Our core existing experience: OEMs re-examining their route to market and competencies should provide a competitive advantage the role of the dealer network: and aggregators that come in providing asset management for fleet mobility operators between the dealer-customer relationship.
Given our role as both and we are already active in this area, with a contract in place Distributor and Retailer in many markets, we are ideally placed to provide fleet servicing and insurance as Total-care Service to innovate to stay competitive.
For these and other markets, for the ride-hailing company Grab in Singapore.
Additionally, both existing and new, we are developing and piloting an we are involved in the trial of an autonomous shuttle service at omni-channel  platform, to transform how the National University of Singapore as we look to learn as much we fulfillour customers needs throughout their vehicle as we can from this emergent new technology.
INCHCAPES FUTURE, NOW Electrification It is crucial to the long-term sustainability of our business Increasingly challenging emission regulations for that we continue to monitor the changes in our industry, vehicle manufacturers combined with increasing 1 to maximise the potential opportunities and mitigate risk.
restriction on the use of the most polluting Our Ignite strategy is proving the value which can vehicles, particularly in cities, are driving the automotive industry to develop cleaner, more efficient be generated today through focusing on customer powertrains with electrification emerging as the leading experience, nurturing strong and long-lasting OEM alternative technology.
relationships, continually improving our operations, leveraging our global scale and making strategic Within Distribution markets our main profit drivers are the sale investments to accelerate growth.
of new vehicles and parts: as our OEM partners develop new hybrid and electric models, we are upskilling our workforce and These strategic imperatives become even more restructuring our service capability to ensure that we are able important as we navigate a changing industry and to capitalise on this change.
We are collaborating with our OEM success across them will combine to differentiate us partners to ensure an appropriate model pipeline for the markets fromcompetitors both within and outside of our industry, where we represent their brands, and maintaining excellent supporting our vision of becoming the worlds most procurement and supply links for parts.
Given our core focus in smalland medium-sized markets, we expect to see incremental trusted automotive Distributor and Retailer.
growth in the penetration of alternative drivetrain vehicles, and 1.
See Key Risks 6 and 7 on pages 39 and 41 we are working to ensure that we have the business model and infrastructure in place to maximise future opportunities.
Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 11 A05EB5
