Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Viability Statement Informas prospects and viability As part of the Groups strategy of continued and consistent Structured strategic and financial planning process growth and performance, Informas Directors, at all times, The Groups prospects are assessed primarily through the maintain a sharp focus on assessing the Groups long-term annual strategic planning process, which involves the creation prospects and the Companys viability as a business on a of business plans by divisional management that are then three-year basis.
reviewed in detail by the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and the Director of Strategy and Business Planning.
The Directors have specifically assessed Informas viability over the next three years, which they believe is an appropriate To create these plans, each Division assesses external factors, time frame, since it is consistent with our three-year business such as peers and their activity, broad and specific risks and planning horizon and its associated three-year financial forecast, market trends, and internal factors, including people, planning the nature of Informas business and the previous time horizons and product-focused matters that influence the businesss we have reported on.
Assessing Informas prospects Objectives are set with consideration for what is known Informa operates in the market for knowledge and information about customer trends and demands, and emerging risks and has developed strong positions in many customer end and opportunities over that period, plus an analysis of what markets that offer the potential for long-term growth.
It has many each Division needs to do to achieve those objectives, whether of the elements necessary for greater future business success that is launching new activities, securing additional capabilities valuable brands, strong customer relationships and market or continuing existing programmes.
knowledge, talent and a culture of ideas with commercial focus.
What results is a set of objectives and initiatives from which The Group seeks to build on these strong foundations with each Division will derive a three-year financial plan including continued investment in its products and customer platforms, detailed financial forecasts and a clear explanation of key alongside further expansion.
Plans are updated at key dates and for significant events.
After GAP and through the combination with UBM, Informa is seeking to benefit from having increased reach and the specialist At its annual Board Strategy meeting, the Board reviews capabilities to capture the long-term growth potential of the and challenges these strategic and financial plans.
expanding market for business-to-business information services.
The latest set of three-year business plans was reviewed and Informa runs a rigorous annual business planning and strategy agreed by the Board in September 2018.
The first year of these process, involving divisional and Group management with Board plans is used to inform the 2019 budget, itself approved by the input and oversight.
This produces Group and divisional strategic Board in December 2018. plans, which in turn generate three-year financial plans that drive the setting of in-year budgets.
These detailed financial forecasts are also used as a basis for the annual impairment review, to inform treasury funding This process, and the plans that result from it are a significant requirements and as an assessment of the liquidity available contributor to the assessment of the Groups prospects.
for reinvestment and to return to Shareholders through Informas current position, Group-level strategy, business dividends.
Divisional financial plans combine to produce the model and the risks related to the business model are also Groups overall financial forecast, where it is assumed that used in the assessment, as shown in the table on page 74. dividends grow by at least 6% in line with Informas most recently stated commitment.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 73 Strategic Report Viability Statement continued Factors in assessing long-term prospects Groups current position Strategy and business model Principal risks Recurring revenue streams with Clear growth strategy Consideration of the principal risks strong cash dynamics, including Under the AIP, focus on maintaining directly related to the Groups positive working capital driving performance and integrating the UBM business model high cash conversion business at pace while creating an Colleague and talent-focused Diversified business model by enlarged Informa Group with the risks around retention and geography of operations and customers positions and opportunities for change management Diversified business model by continued growth and scale.
Market risk related to brand products and by the markets in Support the AIP through a six part promotion and protection and which Informa operates programme which includes: economic instability Strong market positions, brands 1.
D evelopment of the Group The risk of technology failure, that customers value, and a focus operating model data loss and cyber breach on long-term customer relationships 2.
Strengthening talent and leadership Customers and relationships Flexible cost structure, enabling the 3.
R ebalance and focus through impacted by privacy regulation risk business to respond effectively to Progressive Portfolio Management and reliance on key counterparties changes in demand or in markets 4.
Delivering synergy benefits Acquisition and integration-related risk 5.
R eturn Fashion business to growth 6.
S implify and strengthen See the Finance Review on page 76 See pages 66 to 72 for a description brand value for more detail of each principal risk Business model that draws on talent, brands and intellectual capital, technology, relationships and partnerships, financing and access to dynamic and growing customer markets See business model on page 20 and Group strategy on page 10 for more detail The Group is viable if gearing and interest cover ratios within its Assessing the Groups viability financial covenants are maintained within prescribed limits, and For each principal risk, a severe but plausible scenario is considered.
if there is available debt headroom and cash to fund operations.
Scenarios include a considerably worse performance than Viability testing is carried out against Informas existing debt anticipated from certain key markets, the impact of a general facilities, assuming the renewal of the Groups Revolving Credit economic downturn and a significant external event impacting Facility, which was subsequently renewed on 15 February 2019. our most profitable events.
In assessing the impact of a general economic downturn we have specifically considered the impact In all cases, including after modelling the largest three scenarios of Brexit and the sensitivity across our business.
together, no mitigating actions are necessary in order for Informa to remain viable.
Where a severe but plausible scenario creates a financial impact of over 5% of EBITDA, the principal risk is modelled against the three-year financial plan to test whether it would adversely impact the Groups viability.
Additionally, the three largest risks in terms of their potential financial impact are modelled together as a single scenario, to understand their combined financial impact.
74 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Impact on Risk above viability Multi-scenario Principal risk Risk assessed 5% EBITDA modelled test Economic instability Market risk Acquisition and integration risk Ineffective change management Reliance on key counterparties Technology failure Data loss and cyber breach Inability to attract and retain talent Health and safety incident Major incident Inadequate regulatory compliance Privacy regulation risk Viability modelling Capabilities, Market trends, RIsk and Current people, products, Ambition peers, customers sustainability portfolio platforms Multi-year divisional MULTI-YEAR GROUP STRATEGY PLAN strategic plans created From which three-year financial THREE-YEAR FINANCIAL PLAN plans are formed by Divisions Tested against economic Tested against Tested against instability market risk major incident Plan tested against the three principal risks where, in a severe but plausible scenario, impact of risk valued at over 5% of EBITDA Tested against economic instability, market risk and major incident simultaneously Group is viable if covenant test passed and facility OUTCOMES ASSESSED AGAINST COVENANT AND FACILITY HEADROOM headroom maintained Viability Statement Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue to operate and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period to December 2021.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 75
