Business model Patient needs inspire us Our people, culture, expertise and insight, coupled with our innovative technology and stakeholder relationships, uniquely position us to help address patients unmet needs around the world.
Indivior Our assets Our Purpose Highly skilled and knowledgeable people is to pioneer Indivior has an able workforce and management teamwith a lifetransforming treatment.
deep understanding of patient needs and a strong commitment toimproving patient lives.
Our Vision Culture that all patients around the world have access to evidence-based Based on a clearly-defined set of Guiding Principles, Indiviors treatment for the chronic conditions culture is a key competitive advantage enabling Indivior to drive and co-occurring disorders strategic business growth and create social value.
Product portfolio Our Mission Indiviors product portfolio is focused on helping meet patient is to be the global leader who is a needs in addiction and schizophrenia.
pioneer in developing innovative prescription treatments for Intellectual property addicted patients.
Indivior has a unique portfolio of licenses and patents which provide a platform for the creation of long-term value.
Financial capital Indivior employs disciplined asset allocation with a focus on retaining a robust capital base to ensure flexibility in addressing legal matters, agility in managing unknown market impacts, and theability to pursue growth opportunities.
$91m Invested in R&D includes exceptional costs of $24m 44 28 See page 13 for our Countries where we have Peer-reviewed Guiding Principles aglobal presence conference abstracts 10 www.
com Strategic report G u i d i n g P r i n c y i c p a l c e How we generate value Indivior advocates to increase global understanding and awareness, destigmatize the disease and expand The global addiction crisis has treatment access.
provided an opportunity for the Group to significantly expand the market for buprenorphine medication-assisted treatments, which is increasingly recognized asan effective and evidence-based treatment for OUD.
By leveraging our capabilities, we are also now serving patients with schizophrenia Stakeholder engagement which is a well-aligned adjacency for Strong and enduring our business.
relationships with key stakeholders Stakeholder engagement For more than 20 years, Indivior has worked together with policymakers, medical societies, patient advocacy Sales and Research and marketing groups, healthcare providers, Patient development Carefully managed payers and other stakeholders.
needs World-class treatment compliance and adherence These relationships provide Indivior innovation to good practice with critical insights to develop and enhance its patient-focused business approach.
Research and development Manufacturing Our aim is to advance treatment Producer of high quality innovation by developing new medicines patient-focused treatments, including enabling the Group to expand the scope of treatment it provides to help address the co-occurring disorders of addiction.
Manufacturing Our aim is to improve the lives of patients through an uninterrupted Meeting patient needs supply of high-quality products.
Leveraging its deep understanding of patient needs, Indivior is committed toaddressing the global addiction crisis by expanding the availability of its Sales and marketing patient-focused treatments, including treatment access, while also leveraging Our aim is to deliver high-quality its scientific expertise to develop novel treatment.
products and accurate information, and maintain strong and credible relationships with customers and key stakeholders.
