Strategic Report Engaging inside and outside Informa Engaging inside and outside Informa To operate, grow and succeed, Informa relies on many different communities and partners inside and outside of the Company.
Inside Informa: We actively manage our relationships and engage Growing with our colleagues with the communities most important to the Informa is proudly a people business.
Each of our business: our colleagues, our customers and their 11,000 colleagues brings something different to communities, the local communities we work with, work: a unique set of abilities, experience, ideas, the many business partners that help deliver our energy and knowledge, the sum total of which products and services, and the Shareholders whose drives Informas success.
support provides funding for our operations.
The Group also is mindful of its relationship with the The Group takes a structured approach to fostering talent environment and the use of natural resources.
focused on three areas: attracting the right mix of talent, supporting colleagues to progress, develop and be the best they can be, and engaging colleagues to create a rich and At all times, Informa aims to participate in and dynamic culture based on participation and the exchange contribute to our key communities in a way that of views and ideas.
creates a positive impact and supports the businesss ongoing growth and success.
This section provides Progress is measured in various ways, including through views examples of how we work with our communities, given in the regular Inside Informa engagement initiative see Group KPIs on page 60, exit surveys and informal feedback.
The with Shareholder engagement detailed on page 126.
Groups Code of Conduct and suite of 14 global policies continue to govern our ways of working, supported by the whistleblowing service Speak Up for reporting and resolving issues confidentially.
Attracting the right mix of talent Attracting colleagues with a diverse range of skills and experience is fundamental to the Groups long-term success, and we aim to remove the potential for any bias at the point of recruitment and beyond.
In 2018, unconscious bias training was extended from recruiters to managers in Academic Publishing and, following a successful pilot in the European Shared Service Centre, Informas UK-based Apprenticeship Scheme was expanded.
There are now approximately 50 apprentices across the Group, 30 of whom began a newly launched management training programme certified by the Chartered Management Institute.
Informas Graduate Fellowship Scheme continues to attract hundreds of applicants from a broad range of UK universities, and a demanding selection process saw six new Fellows join the Group in 2018.
Informa has deliberately made the scheme as flexible as possible so it can be tailored to each graduates skills, experience and interests and since it launched in 2014, 12Fellows have taken permanent roles across the Group.
30 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements strategy in a standardised way.
Learning Councils of subject matter experts met to approve learning needs and offerings for colleagues in sales, marketing and operations roles.
This saw over 1,200 colleagues attending one of 200 classroombased learning sessions.
At a cross Group level, 2018 saw the completion of the first Informa Inspire programme, targeted at those reporting to Senior Management teams to support the development of future leaders.
In 2019, following a successful trial in Global Exhibitions and Global Support, LinkedIn Learning will be expanded to more areas of the business, offering on-demand online access to a wide range of development resources.
Participating and engaging in work life at Informa Creating an environment of openness, exchange and dialogue, where all colleagues can equally contribute, be heard and inspired, is at the heart of Informas culture.
Informa 2018 Graduate Fellows A key area of engagement activity in 2018 was around the combination with UBM.
Throughout the process, colleagues Rewarding and sharing in success were kept informed and engaged via an integrated, visually Informa invests in colleagues through competitive salaries exciting campaign that included branded newsletters, videos, and flexible benefits, and we are accredited by the Living Wage emails, intranet stories and a dedicated microsite.
Foundation for ensuring those based in the UK are paid at least the Living Wage, an independently calculated amount based on Midway through the year, 60% of colleagues gave feedback the cost of living.
on the combination via Inside Informa Pulse.
This is a regular platform for all colleagues to have their say on various As well as providing benefits packages tailored to each region, aspects of work life as well as providing a measure of overall the Group now offers two equity share plans that give colleagues engagement levels that are used to drive change and action an attractive opportunity to share more directly in Informas across the Group.
In 2018 and in recognition of our expanded base in the US, a new employee stock purchase plan ESPP launched Separately, colleagues were also asked for views on workplace for those based in the country that lets colleagues buy Informa culture as part of a wider project to better understand the stock at a 15% discount.
brand, culture and purpose of Informa following the combination with UBM.
Over 1,800 colleagues gave feedback via an online ShareMatch remains a popular way for colleagues in Australia, survey and 250 took part in a series of discussion groups.
Germany, the Netherlands, Singapore, Sweden, the UAE and Responses have helped to inform the Groups new brand the UK to invest in the Group while receiving one free share rollout in 2019. for every share purchased, and colleagues from UBM will be able to participate in both the ESPP and ShareMatch on an Informa uses various internal communication channels to equal basis in 2019. keep colleagues informed on business updates, important news and key activities.
Investing in workplaces These include monthly CEO blogs, Group-wide town hall Informas ongoing investment in work spaces is designed to webcasts, divisional and local newsletters and regular create environments that make work personally enjoyable campaign-based activity.
and professionally stimulating and productive.
In 2018 we opened a new hub office in New York, bringing together over 300 colleagues from Business Intelligence, Global Exhibitions, Knowledge & Networking and Global Support into an upgraded, modern and collaborative single base for the first time.
New York-based colleagues from UBM will move into the building in 2019.
Developing our talent Informas learning and development programme is based on a mix of role-specific accreditation, internal management and leadership development programmes, and classroom-based and online training courses.
In Global Exhibitions, a global training framework was launched in 2018 to align personal development with business Informas new New York office WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 31 Strategic Report Engaging inside and outside Informa continued Women in Publishing Supporting inclusion AllInforma is our approach to promoting a supportive and Supporting and inclusive working environment and engaging all colleagues on diversity and inclusion, and is reinforced by the Groups celebrating women Diversity and Inclusion Policy.
Within Academic Publishing, the Women in Publishing Building on 2017 activities, Informa launched AllInforma community is an internal forum, created voluntarily by Balance on International Womens Day 2018, a platform and for colleagues, that aims to celebrate success and for supporting colleagues on matters relating to gender enhance womens professional development.
and gender balance, which included new online access to personal development resources.
Women in Publishing ran events in the UK and US in 2018 with a global reach, including a Women in Technology The AllInforma Top Women series of interviews with leading panel, a session on imposter syndrome run by an external female colleagues are some of the most viewed features on coach, a presentation from CEO Annie Callanan on Informas intranet.
Colleagues from the UK have also begun leadership, and workshops on assertiveness.
Debate is planning for the launch of AllInforma Rainbow, a programme that encouraged and the community has an online forum to will support and engage colleagues on aspects of LGBTQI issues.
share news and inspiration between events and connect colleagues worldwide.
Supporting values and behaviour Informa has a framework of policies that help guide and support We set out to encourage dialogue about the challenges colleagues to act respectfully, lawfully and with integrity.
At its and opportunities for women in the workplace, but with heart is the Code of Conduct.
Translated into five languages, it a practical approach and focus on making a demonstrable offers clear guidance on areas including human rights, modern difference to the working lives of our colleagues of all slavery, and dignity and respect in the workplace.
Were proud that Women in Publishing activities grew in scope in 2018 and we have exciting plans for 2019, It is mandatory for colleagues joining the Group, including Board said Fiona Counsell, Head of Open Access Operations and members, to complete Code of Conduct and Anti-Bribery and Policy, and a Women in Publishing committee member.
Corruption training, and non-compliance with the Code of Conduct can result in disciplinary action.
Senior Managers and Board members also take part in officeWe continue to aim for a 100% completion rate while allowing based forums around the Group where colleagues can ask new joiners 30 days to complete training.
As an enlarged Group, questions and provide opinions, and colleagues are also our Code of Conduct and key policies are being reviewed and encouraged to organise local forums and groups on topics will be relaunched, along with an exercise to align recording and that interest them.
Informas intranet and digital workplace Portal is an important Following the launch of the EUs General Data Protection channel for finding and sharing views and information.
Upgrades Regulation, all colleagues were invited to take Privacy at Work in 2018 included the launch of a new social conversation tool and Data Protection training to ensure widespread awareness which lets colleagues start and contribute to discussions on all of the importance of proper data privacy practices, including aspects of work life.
how we collect, use, share and store information and data.
The Informa Awards are another major engagement activity, Specialist training, endorsed by the Group Finance Director, on and a popular way to reward and celebrate outstanding how to spot and avoid facilitating tax evasion by third parties colleague achievements throughout the year.
There were was also delivered to around 1,000 colleagues in 2018. over 1,000 submissions for the 2018 awards, more than in any previous year.
The confidential whistleblowing service Speak Up lets anyone report concerns relating to the Group, with no tolerance for retaliation of any form for raising concerns.
Investigation training was conducted with HR and Compliance teams in 2018 to further improve the consistency and professionalism of how any breach investigations are run.
32 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Putting customers first FAN EXPO Year-round fan engagement FAN EXPO Canada is one of the largest events in our pop culture portfolio: an exciting and vibrant event where comic, film and gaming fans meet actors and creators, come together as a community and find the latest products from our exhibitors.
Academic Publishing Away from the show floor, in 2018 we ran a new market Helping editors promote research project to understand how the event and research excellence brand could better serve fans and deliver an enhanced experience next year.
This included several facilitated Our Academic Publishing teams support many elements customer round tables in both the US and Canada, as of the research publishing ecosystem, and one of their well as extensive surveys for each show.
most recent investments has been in upgrading the resources available to journal editors.
Senior Marketing Executive Rija Tariq reported: The direct feedback from fans led to a number of quick wins, such as A newly refreshed Editor Resources website launched fan-led advice sections on social media, in-app shopping in November, promoted through a range of vehicles categories showcasing local artists and more designated including a new video, community events, social media community meetup spaces for cosplayers.
Plus, lots of the and direct editor outreach by teams around the world.
ideas generated from our research have been fed into long-term plans around how to keep FAN EXPO a premier The site was designed around editors and the key parts brand for comic fans in North America and a continued of their role to meet the needs of the community at every celebration of fandom.
stage of their career, with curated information and policies from our teams, best practice guides, and blogs and case studies where editors can share stories with one another.
As Lan Murdock, Communications Manager for Societies and Editors, explained: Our aim is to support our journal editors more effectively and highlight the important role they play in safeguarding the quality of journals and promoting responsible research.
The site has been featured in the European Association of Science Editors blog and online toolkit for journal editors.
Weve had other good feedback on the content and how easy it is to use, and will keep building on it this year.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 33 Strategic Report Engaging inside and outside Informa continued Two examples of different customer communities we work with, and the outcome of our engagement activities, can be found in our pop culture events portfolio and in our global journals business in the panel on the previous page.
Outside Informa: Putting customers at the heart of what we do Informa operates in many different specialist Outside Informa: markets, and a diverse range of customers draws on Partnering for success our data, intelligence and content and engages with The Group relies on a range of business partners to our event, exhibition and lead generation services.
deliver our products and services, and through open What is common throughout our business is that understanding and proactive engagement we aim to establish and staying in step with customers needs and market trends strong and mutually productive relationships that are critical to our business success.
have a positive effect on the wider supply chain.
Colleagues across the Group engage with customers to inform To ensure business partners are aware of the standards we work how we should develop our current products and strengthen to and our expectations of them, engagement around Informas our brands, to pinpoint which new services we should focus Business Partner Code of Conduct continued to be a focus in investment towards because they meet customer needs and 2018.
This included a well-received training session for exhibition provide new commercial opportunity, and to understand where partners in Egypt.
we can deepen our relationships for mutual benefit.
Health, safety and security Partnering for safe and effective events From a venue and its operations staff to contractors, exhibitor teams and local authorities, it takes many parties to deliver a safe, effective and successful event.
To ensure awareness of Informas standards, build on our Business Partner Code of Conduct and play our part in enhancing safety culture, the Group held a free-to-attend Safety Awareness Training Day in Cairo for local contractors and venues.
Informas Health, Safety and Security team and experts from key suppliers spoke on topics from hazard awareness to safe working best practice and structural safety.
The dual language training was recorded so it could be disseminated throughout the business partners teams.
Health, Safety and Security Manager Gary Buckett said: Sessions sparked healthy interaction amongst our business partners to raise the local industrys safety standards to international best practices.
The safety initiative has been a real success and is a template we can introduce into other markets, to improve the local industry safety culture and help continually improve exhibition standards for everyone involved.
34 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The Business Partner Code of Conduct includes our expectations around the handling of information data, zero tolerance of bribery and corruption, and standards in areas such as employment conditions, child labour and modern slavery.
It is available on our website and delivered in five languages, and business partners also have access to the Speak Up whistleblowing line for reporting issues and concerns.
Our support for the principles laid out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights continues.
Within the Group, our major human rights-related risks are focused primarily on colleagues, contractors and our value chain.
A Group-level human rights risk assessment is being conducted to understand our potential human rights impact areas and identify the mitigating actions we take to manage this risk.
Through the hundreds of events Informa produces each year, The assessment, which has included the development of a we support local communities by providing jobs and supporting due diligence process and a new Human Rights Policy, to be suppliers and local businesses.
launched in 2019, has looked at the enlarged Group, including the new countries in which we now operate.
In 2018 Informa piloted a measurement tool to more effectively gauge the positive economic impact our events have on local In the specific area of modern slavery, we extended the training areas, which will be made available to more of our brands in 2019. developed in 2017 on how to spot and report issues to more colleagues last year.
Our full approach can be found in the We also take our responsibilities for helping to improve overall Modern Slavery Statement, approved by the Board, on the event sustainability standards seriously.
In 2018, we were Informa website.
part of a group of 20 sustainability leaders from the industry which convened to discuss the future of sustainable events In 2018 the Group prepared its first report on supplier payment and identify ways to work together on key challenges.
The practices and performance for UK-related contracts under new group identified over 25 shared sustainability issues and UK regulation.
As an enlarged Group, we are aligning systems voted on four core areas to focus and collaborate on.
and practices across the business with the aim of upholding consistent payment practices while providing an effective Many of Informas events support community organisations process for resolving any queries or complaints.
that operate in the same market sectors.
Support is offered both financially and by additional means such as promotional opportunities at shows and in marketing materials.
At a Group level, Informas key annual fundraising initiative Outside Informa: Walk the World raised 171,000 for local organisations in 2018, with a record 4,000 colleagues from 85 offices taking part in Contributing to our local communities more than 60 walks and collectively covering over 26,000 miles, We are proud to be part of the communities in further than the length of the Equator.
which we live and operate, including the local Some teams used Walk the World as an opportunity to form communities around our offices and those linked deeper connections with their chosen charity partners: for to our events.
example, Informas Paris-based Beauty & Aesthetics team developed a new partnership with Raconte-Moi Un Visage, The Group aims to comply with tax laws and regulations an association that helps patients with facial disfigurements.
We believe that a fair and effective The team promoted the partnership and collected donations tax system benefits society and business, and our approach at its FACE show in London.
balances the interests of Shareholders, governments, colleagues and the communities in which we operate.
In 2018, the Groups The Taylor & Francis team in Cape Town partnered with Read to global total tax contribution was over 300m.
Rise, a non-governmental organisation committed to promoting WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 35 Strategic Report Engaging inside and outside Informa continued youth literacy in South Africas under-resourced communities.
As well as raising funds during Walk the World, several colleagues volunteered at a local school along with members of the Read to Rise team.
Informas volunteering programme encourages all colleagues globally to use their full allocation of volunteering days to spend time with a charitable organisation of their choice.
Opportunities where professional skills can be used and developed are particularly encouraged.
Following the combination with UBM, Informa is reviewing its volunteering and charitable donation policies to take the best aspects from both organisations and create consistency across the Group.
Outside Informa: Working responsibly with natural resources Informa takes its environmental responsibilities Live Design International seriously and aims to reduce its environmental impact on natural resources wherever possible.
Building community relationships We take a considered approach to our consumption of natural Many of Informas events and brands develop long-lasting resources, which mostly relates to sourcing paper and minimising relationships with local community organisations, providing energy and waste in our offices and at our events, and where both financial and non-financial support.
possible we seek to raise awareness around sustainability issues with suppliers, customers and venue owners.
In 2018, Live Design International LDI, the event for live entertainment professionals, gave visitors the chance to As an example, last year, a team from the Fashion business donate money to six charities upon registration, matching partnered with the Mandalay Bay Convention Center in Las contributions up to $10,000.
Vegas to replace more than 1,000 light fittings with LED lighting, increasing the overall brightness of the interior hall while But its support for local communities went further: a reducing energy use by 85%.
The upgraded system was partnership with Families for Effective Autism Treatment FEAT used for the first time during our MAGIC show.
saw families affected by autism invited to walk the show floor and visit the Live Experience Lounge, an immersive, In terms of paper sourcing, any organisations supplying timber interactive sensory booth sponsored by exhibitors.
and paper products to Informa are expected to source from FSC or PEFC accredited suppliers as far as possible.
LDI show manager Jessi Cybulski explained: Light can be used as a form of therapy for children with autism, which This is set out in Informas Paper and Timber Sourcing Policy, which means many of the products we design, manufacture, aims to ensure that all paper and timber used in our products and operate in this industry have a therapeutic effect for and services is responsibly sourced from legally harvested, children.
We hope working with the Nevada chapter of FEAT well-managed sources that have due diligence in place to ensure is just the beginning of what we as an industry can do.
there is no slavery in the supply chain, and we are sourcing more than 90% of our paper from responsible sources now.
This policy will become part of an expanded Environmental Policy in 2019, being introduced to bring greater consistency to the range of practices and guidelines that exist across the enlarged Group.
