Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Non-financial information statement In various sections throughout this report, we describe the way Informa works with its most important partners and communities, the purpose of doing so and how these activities are managed.
This table provides a quick guide to such non-financial activities and where to find more information on them.
It also provides compliance with Non Financial Reporting Directive requirements.
Some of our policies are internal ones: policies available on the Informa website are marked with an asterisk.
Key topic areas Major supporting policies Related risks and other information Page Code of Conduct Inside Informa: Growing with our colleagues 30 Colleagues Diversity and Inclusion Policy Risk: Inability to attract and retain key talent 70 and their Board Diversity Policy Risk: Ineffective change management 68 contribution Health and Safety Policy Group KPIs: Colleague support and participation 60 Nomination Committee report 103 Modern Slavery Statement Outside Informa: Partnering for success 34 Respect for Business Partner Code of Conduct Risk: Health and safety incident 71 human rights Diversity and Inclusion Policy Group KPIs: Business sustainability 60 Editorial Code Health and Safety Policy Data privacy Business Partner Code of Conduct Outside Informa: Partnering for success 34 Regard for social Responsible advertising Outside Informa: Contributing to our local communities 35 matters: our Editorial Code Risk: Privacy regulation risk 72 local and Health and Safety Policy Group KPIs: Business sustainability and use of 60 customer International Trade Policy natural resources communities Volunteering and donation guidelines Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy Inside Informa: Growing with our colleagues 30 Anti-bribery Gifts and Entertainment Policy Risk: Inadequate regulatory compliance 72 and corruption compliance Paper and timber sourcing Group KPIs: Business sustainability and use 60 Managing of natural resources environmental impact Risk management and principal risks and uncertainties 62 Principal risks and impact on business activity How Informa operates 20 Business model Understanding the enlarged Group 8 description Group KPIs 60 Non-financial key performance indicators WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 37 Strategic Report A snapshot of our Divisions in 2018 A snapshot of our Divisions In 2018, Informa traded through four Operating Divisions.
The UBM business reported separately for the six months it was part of the Group in 2018.
Read more about each Division, its position and performance highlights on the following pages.
Serves scholarly researchers, universities and research institutions Academic Publishing: Delivers high quality books and Taylor & Francis journals in print and digital formats See pages 40 to 43 for more detail 2.2% 533.2m 23% underlying 2018 revenue of Group revenue revenue growth Serves businesses in a number of specialist markets Global Exhibitions Delivers large-scale branded exhibitions and lead generation platforms See pages 48 to 51 for more detail 6.7% 575.8m 24% underlying 2018 revenue of Group revenue revenue growth Underpinned by: Global Support Serves Informas commercial teams Delivers shared business services and function-specific expertise See pages 56 to 59 for more detail 38 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Serves businesses in specialist markets including Pharma, Finance and Maritime Business Intelligence Delivers digital insight, intelligence and data products, plus consulting and marketing services See pages 44 to 47 for more detail 2.6% 385.6m 16% underlying 2018 revenue of Group revenue revenue growth Serves businesses in specialist markets including Finance, Knowledge & Networking Life Sciences and Technology Delivers content-driven events, training and digital platforms See pages 52 to 55 for more detail 2.3% 261.4m 11% underlying 2018 revenue of Group revenue revenue growth UBM Joined the Group in mid June 2018 See Financial Review on pages 76 to 89 for more detail 2.8% 613.5m 26% pro-forma 12 month revenues of Group revenue revenue growth WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 39 Strategic report Divisional Review Academic Publishing 40 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Divisional Review Academic Publishing High quality scholarly research Our content spans a range of specialist subject categories with particular strengths in Humanities & Social Sciences including areas such as Archaeology, Psychology and Education, and in the Biomedical, Life Sciences, Physical Sciences and Engineering fields.
The Division publishes around 145,000 book titles in print and digital formats, including 7,100 new books in 2018.
Annie Callanan It publishes 2,700 journals from which 150m articles Taylor & Francis CEO were downloaded in 2018.
How we serve customers Financial performance in 2018 High quality, cutting edge and peer reviewed research is what The Division delivered another year of consistent scientific discoveries, commercial research and development financial performance, with underlying growth of 2.2%.
and future scholarship are based on.
In Journals, our subscription business remained solid, maintaining high renewal levels alongside good growth Our Academic Publishing Division Taylor & Francis commissions, in our expanding Open Access OA business.
curates, produces and publishes scholarly research and referenceAfter a strong end to 2017, the Books business maintained led content in specialist subject areas that advances research and good momentum into 2018, in part driven by our new ebooks enables knowledge to be discovered and shared.
We signed a number of new publishing partnerships with We invest in maintaining and enhancing the technology that societies, including with the China Academy of Science and makes current and historical content discoverable and usable the China Academy of Social Sciences.
today, oversee the submission, independent review and Just over 50% of the Divisions revenues are  process, maintain and promote research brands based, with high levels of visibility and predictability.
and work closely with authors, editors and researchers to In 2018, ebook sales accounted for around 30% of total support their work.
Our markets and brands Taylor & Francis operates through highly regarded imprints including Routledge, CRC Press, Taylor & Francis, Cogent OA and Dove.
COM 41 Strategic report Divisional Review Academic Publishing continued Opportunities for growth and development A stable market for Academic Publishing: Some of the main purchasers of content are academic libraries.
According to consultants Outsell, total library spend on content grew by 2% in 2018 and spend by academic libraries by 3.2%.
In its latest study, Simba Information predicted industry growth of 1.5% in Humanities & Social Sciences books in 2018.
Choice and flexibility in publishing models: OA continues to be a feature of the academic publishing market, particularly in Europe, as an alternative publishing and payment model.
Over recent years, we have been steadily building our OA content and capabilities, working with customers to tailor subscription packages, converting journals to OA and adding new journals and teams.
In 2017 we acquired OA specialist Dove Medical Press, adding valuable OA capacity and capabilities that are being deployed across the business more broadly see panel opposite.
Taylor & Francis now publishes over 320 pure OA journals and offers hybrid OA options across the majority of As authors and end-users look for ever more intuitive its subscription journal portfolio.
navigation, faster and better searches, and content to be delivered in a way that can be used and shared, we recently Digitisation and discoverability: As the corpus of research added Code Ocean to the tandfonline platform, which enables grows, discoverability is paramount.
When a keyword can authors to include live code in their research and users to return thousands of results, relevance, refinement and extrapolate and run executable code.
Investments in digital quality of search are crucial for a good reader experience discoverability and search engine optimisation mean that and must be continuously revised.
com is among the worlds top 900 most visited websites.
Taylor & Francis continues to invest in digitisation and discoverability across Journals and Books.
In 2018 we Attracting high quality content from around the world: embarked on a project to upgrade descriptions, bibliographic The market for academic research is a global one and data and chapter-level information, and brought our ebook dominated by English language content.
After years of delivery platform in-house, making it easier to develop the steady growth, a tipping point was reached in 2018 when technology.
Nearly 85% of the Divisions Books backlist has China became the largest source of research in the world.
Taylor & Francis has operated in China for a decade, and building strong relationships with Chinese authors and institutions has been a focus over the last three to five years.
Taking the building blocks of deep, specialist and high quality content, were creating a digital-first business that is dedicated to advancing research and knowledge in the academic community and beyond.
Annie Callanan Taylor & Francis CEO 42 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Spotlight Taylor & Francis in 2019 Taking Open Worldwide demand for robust, validated and authoritative content remains strong, and the Division is targeting another Access to the year of 2% growth by continuing to enhance its content and the experience of its digital platforms, and invest in new next level capabilities and growth opportunities like OA.
Taylor & Francis has long offered the choice to OA research continues to grow.
In a market that is increasingly publish OA, where authors or more typically, driven by choice, we aim to give researchers the publishing their funders pay for the cost of publishing models and exposure, and the formats and price points, that deliver their work with maximum impact.
This includes working their research.
The work is then offered free flexibly with research funders, institutions and authors, providing for anyone to read, enabling knowledge to tailored packages to suit markets that are gradually shifting be widely shared and accessed.
In 2017, our capabilities and reach in OA were extended Geographically, we continue to explore opportunities and expansion with the acquisition of Dove Medical Press.
Dove brought in markets such as China and India, where large populations and more than 90 high quality, fully OA journals into the strong tertiary education sectors offer opportunities for both Division and added to our portfolio in specialist subject sourcing and providing scholarly knowledge.
areas such as diabetes, cancer, geriatrics, nanomedicine, neurology and and psychiatry.
Almost all Dove journals We are also implementing a digital-first initiative to make have been indexed in the industry-recognised Web of each step in the value chain between customers, suppliers Science and in PubMed, and 14 have gained Impact and ourselves an efficient, digital process.
Factors, an industry-wide recognition of quality awarded by Clarivate Analytics.
While Informas other Divisions are moving to new brand identities in 2019, Taylor & Francis is also undergoing a Publishing Director Deborah Kahn said: Dove has an brand review to assess whether an updated approach, unwavering focus on author service, as well as deep either aligned to the Informa brand or to another identity, and productive relationships in China.
In addition to would provide greater value to the business and to their portfolio of journals, working with the team has customers, and complement its existing strong and been a rich source of learning for us.
Taylor & Francis has also brought its expertise and resources to streamline Doves processes.
In 2018 this enabled Dove to handle a 50% surge in submissions and a 25% increase in accepted papers while keeping peer review and production times stable.
All the while, the two businesses worked to achieve a smooth integration, where key team members in Dove remained within the business.
This augurs well for 2019 and for expanding our OA offering further.
We are building a peer reviewer development team in Beijing and a peer reviewer selection team in Delhi.
As China and India increasingly become powerhouses of global research, the Division is well placed to serve authors, libraries and research institutions in vibrant new markets too.
W WW WW W.. INF INFO OR RM MA A.. C CO OM M I IN NF FO OR RM MA P A PL LC C A AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT 2 T 20 01 18 8 43 Strategic report Divisional Review Business Intelligence 44 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Divisional Review Business Intelligence Specialist insight and intelligence Within these markets, our product brands target specific niches, from clinical trial data in Pharma to equity fund flows in Finance, global shipping data in Transportation and payment technology in TMT.
Financial performance in 2018 2018 was the Divisions third consecutive year of growth.
Underlying revenue growth reached 2.6% and the Division Lara Boro represented just over 16% of the Groups revenue.
Informa Intelligence CEO Our largest two markets, Pharma and Finance, performed well, with strong customer demand through the key subscription period supporting a growth in annualised contract values, How we serve customers and continued growth across contingent products and services In every specialist sector, business and commercial decisions such as Consulting and Marketing Services.
are founded on trusted data, expert intelligence, research and After a major focus on customer management and sales knowing the market deeply.
development, the Division also saw improving momentum in new business.
In the market for business intelligence, Informa provides digital As part of our focus on growing, specialist markets, we information products as well as consultancy and marketing added the ICON Advisory business to our Finance vertical services that help companies make better informed decisions, in 2018, enhancing our position in the consumer finance gain competitive advantage and enhance the return on their intelligence market.
investments, with an increasing focus on predictive and actionable intelligence.
Opportunities for growth and development Our markets and brands Growing market for business-to-business information Over 25,000 businesses worldwide subscribe to our 100 services: According to consultants Outsell, the global market products, which range from insight-focused brands providing for business-to-business media and business information market and trend analysis to intelligence products that provide now stands at $42bn and is growing at a rate of just under real-time data as well as bespoke solutions including consultancy 5% a year.
The US remains the single largest market, with and direct access to experts.
a share of 43% of the global total.
In 2018, the Division operated in six specialist customer markets: Agribusiness, Finance, Industry and Infrastructure, Pharma, Transportation, and Technology, Media and Telecoms TMT.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 45 Strategic Report Divisional Review Business Intelligence continued Our customers are looking for specialist, on-demand intelligence, data and analytics, which help them solve the evolving challenges in their own markets.
Lara Boro Informa Intelligence CEO Demand for integrated data: Providers of intelligence are Informa Intelligence in 2019 increasingly being challenged to supply live, high quality data Informa Intelligence enters 2019 with a more focused in ways that customers can actively use, not just access.
We portfolio, simplified brand identity, and under the new are seeing growing demand for data that can pull through leadership of CEO Lara Boro.
application programming interfaces APIs and integrate into workflows directly: for example, customers taking drug pipeline Our TMT business Ovum has been realigned to the newly created and clinical investigator information directly into their customer Informa Tech Division.
Further, as part of the AIPs Progressive relationship management systems to minimise workflow.
Portfolio Management programme, the Division has reviewed the markets in which it has the most opportunity for long-term growth, Although driven by larger corporate customers with the with a view to focusing on a more concentrated set of verticals and technology to integrate data, we see this demand widening delivering an even deeper and richer offering to the specialist and growing as accessible technology drives down costs.
customer communities in those markets.
The Division continues to invest in its API capability, with a target that all data products will be supported by APIs by the In turn, in late 2018, we began exploring alternative opportunities close of 2019.
This trend is also influencing the skills the Division for the Agribusiness portfolio and IGM, our Credit and FX markets requires, and we are increasingly looking for talent in fields such information business.
Depending on the outcome of these as analytics, data science, data engineering and informatics.
discussions, the Division will, over the year, move to a greater focus on the Pharma market, on the Consumer Retail Banking sector Investments in product and capabilities: Under GAP, Business within Finance, and on Maritime where we have strong brands Intelligence saw a significant level of investment in products and and market positions.
platforms, from technologies and products to sales support and marketing automation, and the resulting benefits are flowing in A result of the combination with UBM, Informa Intelligence the form of improved customer engagement.
One example of has added two specialist brands to its portfolio for 2019: continued investment is Citeline in the Pharma vertical see panel Chemist Druggist, which focuses on the specialist Pharmacy opposite, which was relaunched early in the year to enable community, and Barbour ABI, which provides market intelligence customers to access and process large amounts of data on and lead generation in the construction sector, and adds a new clinical trials and diseases across over 160 countries.
capability into our portfolio of asset and infrastructure brands.
Having performed consistently over the last three years and having closed 2018 with a strong run of new business, the goal is now to make the most of our investments in technology, product and customer engagement by maintaining the value and level of subscription renewals, enhancing the new business pipeline, and taking advantage of contingent revenue streams where they enhance the strength and depth of our relationship with customers.
46 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Spotlight Clinical trials with added intelligence For a new drug in clinical trials, the road to regulatory approval is long and uncertain.
The full journey can take 12 to 15 years, but the failure rate along the way is exceptionally high.
But what is certain is that a clinical trial can cost hundreds of thousands of dollars to run every day.
With stakes this high, optimising decision making is not just desirable, but imperative.
Citeline is an industry leader in clinical trials intelligence and informs the trial strategy of many top Pharma organisations.
Nicola Marlin, VP of Product Management and Innovation, said: We have invested in and relaunched Citeline to take its quality The new Citeline is the most comprehensive source of clinical and usefulness to an entirely new level, responding to how our trials, sites and investigator data on the globe.
It is more flexible customers plan and run clinical trials.
It is now the product of than ever before, and supports complex searches and analytics more than 100 sources of monitored information, interpreted to keep customers abreast of ever more complex clinical trials.
and curated by our own scientists and updated every day.
It is also delivering results with a new generation of functions and infographics.
This data feeds a suite of three Citeline tools.
The first is Pharmaprojects, which helps biopharma companies monitor Critically, customers can drive how they receive and use the competition and find new acquisition and partnering that information.
For example, new application programming targets.
It gives sharp visibility of the drugs pipeline: who is interfaces allow them to build dashboards on top of Citelines developing what new medicine: for which diseases: who is data, interrogate our content and import it directly into moving into the clinical phase, with which trials, and where.
The second tool, Trialtrove, helps companies understand where This inflow of high quality data is not only optimising the trial competitors are running trials and which types of trials they process but delivering a measurable return on investment.
It captures data on planned, ongoing and completed Some customers report savings on their trial from more trials: which patients are eligible to take part: the current focus effective data, but it is the ability to get new drugs to market such as early-stage toxicity studies, or later-stage efficacy faster that is the real benefit said Nicola Marlin.
testing : the overall trial design: and the trial results.
Thirdly, there is Sitetrove, which helps companies plan which hospitals and clinics to partner with to run trials, and which physicians to lead them.
It shows which doctors have led which types of trial, in which locations, and with what levels of success.
It updates them on competitor activity with rival products and their progress: other trial designs and valuable learning to be gained: and locations where the people, skills and resources needed key doctors, eligible patients, hospitals, institutes, laboratories might be available.
COM 47 Strategic Report Divisional Review Global Exhibitions 48 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Divisional Review Global Exhibitions Platforms for international trade and commerce How we serve customers Financial performance in 2018 Attracting new customers, meeting and selling to current Global Exhibitions became Informas largest Division by partners, generating leads, showcasing products and revenues in 2017, following the GAP programme to build discovering the latest solutions for business are common and buy a scale position in the attractive exhibitions requirements for hundreds of industries worldwide.
industry and invest in the capabilities for future growth.
2018 was a further year of strong performance and We create large-scale exhibitions where buyers and sellers expansion for the Division, with growth remaining at in a specialist market can meet face to face, see and show our target of above-market average levels.
Revenues products, conduct business and build relationships that persist were 575.8m with underlying revenue growth of 6.7% year-round.
These are typically branded and annual events that and adjusted operating profits of 200.1m.
over time become must-attend forums for their communities This performance was driven by an increase in space and provide a platform for trade and commerce in their market.
sold at some existing events, selective new launches and good trading at our largest 30 exhibitions.
It was Exhibitors pay for stand space and other services, often well also assisted by the successful rollout of value-based in advance of the event, while qualified attendees typically pricing to more exhibitions.
Opportunities for growth and development We work with a range of partners to deliver events, from Strength of the global exhibitions market: According to trade associations to venue owners, suppliers of stand consultants AMR International, the global exhibitions market services and hotels.
grew by 3.5% in 2017 and is forecast to grow at an annualised rate of 5% between 2017 and 2022, with revenues from digital services estimated to grow at 11% over the period.
Our markets and brands Our exhibitions business operates in a number of specialist The US is the worlds largest exhibitions market, accounting markets including Healthcare & Pharma, Health & Nutrition, for over 50% of the markets AMR tracks, with China the second Aviation, Beauty & Aesthetics and Agriculture.
The overall exhibitions market is fragmented, where major brands include Arab Health, Natural Products Expo the largest five organisers comprised under 20% of the global West, China Beauty Expo and World of Concrete.
AMR estimates typical exhibitor renewal rates stand at 65% to 70%.
At Informa, we steadily built our position in the US under GAP and now have a much larger footprint in China from the combination with UBMs Asia portfolio.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 49 Strategic Report Divisional Review Global Exhibitions continued Informa Markets in 2019 Our ambition is to provide Informa Markets enters the year with significant new operating scale, expanded international reach, positions in a broader exceptional visitor and range of customer markets and the potential for additional revenue opportunities from the combination of Informas and exhibitor experiences UBMs exhibitions portfolios.
It is the largest organiser of exhibitions in the world by revenue, organising around 500 and opportunities, at our exhibitions in around 30 countries with a particular presence in the US and Asia.
shows as well as beyond The combination with UBM has increased the number of specialist markets the Division operates in, with new sectors the show floor, and to help such as Advanced Manufacturing, Licensing and Fashion, and added complementary brands to markets in which Informa the specialist markets we already had a presence such as in Natural Products addition of CPhI and Food Ingredients, Aviation Routes and Maritime operate in prosper.
Charlie McCurdy, After significant time planning and combining the businesses Informa Markets CEO during the second half of 2018, the Division entered 2019 as one Informa Markets business with combined teams, single structures and common budgets.
It is now structured into eight major portfolios, each run by a member of the now-expanded divisional Senior Management team.
Ongoing product enhancements: To provide customers with Common platforms, technology and processes will continue to more choice and flexibility, we have been working to create better be rolled out in areas such as marketing to capture efficiencies differentiated exhibitor packages, with greater options around of scale, create a single engine to support customer facing stand location, size and access to other exhibition services.
This activities across the business and build on our GAP investments has also had a positive impact on yield at several exhibitions.
Efforts around consolidating supplier The Divisions MarkitMakr tool, which provides exhibitors with relationships and co-ordinating elements of procurement will a year-round online platform to showcase products and allows continue, to create stronger partner relationships and deliver buyers to research the market, was implemented more widely greater efficiency.
in 2018: see the panel opposite for more data.
Beyond these combination activities, bringing UBM together Building our capabilities: Under GAP, we invested in a range of with Informa creates additional customer, revenue and digital and data initiatives, designed to improve the effectiveness effectiveness opportunities, which are a priority to explore of sales and marketing and to explore additional opportunities for and start to capture over 2019. revenue growth and engagement with customers.
The Division also began the progressive rollout of a common CRM platform They include cross marketing events to a larger international for its sales and operations teams, designed to improve how customer base, leveraging new opportunities for sponsorship we capture and record sales data and ultimately provide better across the portfolio and utilising a larger and richer pool of intelligence for improved customer engagement and sales visibility.
data to develop new digital and marketing initiatives.
In this area, a new leadership role has been created to focus on Talent development: The Division has invested in new learning expanding digital services.
and development opportunities for colleagues to ensure it has the skills and expertise needed for an ever more digital The aim for Informa Markets in 2019 continues to be and technology-enabled business.
During 2018, over 1,200 to outperform the wider exhibitions market and create colleagues attended one of 200 classroom-based learning capabilities for our continued growth and innovation.
sessions and all colleagues were given access to on-demand digital learning.
50 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Spotlight Making markets online The continued growth of the exhibitions market shows the value of face-to-face forums where buyers and sellers meet and products are shown and selected.
But what happens during the rest of the year?
Following GAP investment, in 2017 we introduced MarkitMakr, a web platform that showcases exhibitor products and company profiles, and allows buyers to conduct research and connect with a company before and after the event.
MarkitMakr provides benefits for everyone involved in an exhibition, explained Jason Brown, Chief Digital Officer.
For attendees going to a large-scale exhibition, knowing where to begin can be overwhelming.
Using MarkitMakr means you can research exhibitors and products in detail in advance, indicate your interest, inform exhibitors about the products youd like to discuss and view there, and create and download a walking list of your top 80,000 products and suppliers to make navigating the venue easy.
Products listed on MarkitMakr Exhibitors find out in advance what products people want to see and receive qualified leads to use year-round.
It also 8 minutes provides our exhibition directors with useful information on what the hot products and categories are, so they can Average time buyers spend on the site understand and adjust plans according to where foot traffic is likely to be highest.
MarkitMakr was first deployed under the Omnia brand for our Dubai-based Life Sciences events and is now in place across 31exhibitions.
Around 80,000 products are listed across the platform, with nearly 40,000 product listings on Omnia.
In the first eight weeks of 2019, Omnia generated over 10,000 leads for exhibitors, with buyers spending an average of eight minutes on the platform.
A snapshot of the online The platform continues to be developed by our in-house digital MarkitMakr product team, with enhancements including upgrading the directorys search function to help customers find products faster, improving search engine optimisation, creating matchmaking functionality and meeting scheduling, and enabling integration with third party mobile apps.
Jason continued: Were really excited to be rolling out MarkitMakr to our Natural Products exhibitions in 2019.
Theres nothing quite like it in this market, and its an industry where the fine detail of each product is critical: what ingredients a food product contains, where they were sourced from, and so on.
MarkitMakr makes it easy to share and find that information, as well as enabling suppliers of all sizes to connect with major buyers before, during and after the show.
Its expanding the buyerseller relationship to create a year-round market.
COM I IN NF FO OR RM MA P A PL LC C A AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT 2 T 20 01 18 8 51 Strategic Report Divisional Review Knowledge & Networking 52 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Divisional Review Knowledge & Networking Engaging communities, in person and online Our markets and brands In our connectivity and content Division, we operate more than 800 content-driven events for global communities in Life Sciences, Finance, TMT and a number of other specialist sectors.
In terms of scale, around 35 of our events generate over 1m in revenue.
Our major brands include SuperReturn, FundForum and Inside ETFs in Finance: BIO-Europe, Biotech Showcase, Andrew Mullins Bio-Process and TIDES in Life Sciences: and AI Summit, Internet Informa Connect CEO of Things US and 5G World in TMT.
Financial performance in 2018 How we serve customers The Division exited 2017 with a modest 0.1% return to Fear of missing out is not just a phenomenon driven by social growth.
In 2018, the continued benefits of its focus on media.
Professionals in every specialist market have a need to major event brands and investment in digital infrastructure meet, learn, network and be seen at their communitys most under GAP drove further improvements in performance.
Underlying revenue growth reached 2.3% and the Division represented 11% of Group revenue for the year.
The rise of online information and the opportunity to access and Its portfolio of major events performed strongly, with connect with experts digitally has affected parts of the events particularly strong performances in Finance and Life Sciences.
There is, however, enduring demand for branded events Just over 40% of the Divisions revenue comes from attendees that attract a sectors most senior and respected players and to events, with sponsorship revenues advancing to 28% in 2018. create imaginative environments in which to network with them.
Our Knowledge & Networking Division aims to provide content Opportunities for growth and development that you cannot Google: major annual events that are continually Enhancing the event experience: To maintain and deepen developed and become the must-attend functions for their customer engagement, many events are treated as a relaunch markets.
Delegates achieve a return on their investment in time in terms of applying fresh thinking, finding unique content, and cost, and the experience is complemented by year-round and developing new features and technologies to maintain branded digital engagement platforms.
and enhance the experience for customers.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 53 Strategic Report Divisional Review Knowledge & Networking continued One example is our AfricaCom event, which brings Africas telecoms and technology community together to network and gain knowledge.
At the 2018 event, we launched a 12-month innovation competition to identify an economic, social or environmental challenge that the events community could harness telecoms and technology to solve, sustaining the events momentum and creating a natural pathway towards next years AfricaCom.
Another example is in our Life Sciences portfolio, where we have invested in a more responsive partnering platform that helps delegates and companies better target their time and meetings at our events, improving their experience and supporting strong return rates at our events.
Deepening digital engagement: The Divisions digital content platforms and marketing services create year-round engagement with brands, where prequel and sequel activities based on news, opinion, research, customised video and webinars create digital communities that keep customers informed and create sales opportunities for sponsors.
One recent example is the relaunch of our Banking Technology content brand under a new name FinTech Futures on a new digital platform, with improved user experience especially when browsing on mobile and more focus on making content search engine optimised.
Monthly page views have risen by 400% year-on-year, with the increased audience driving more opportunities for advertising and marketing services sales.
Delegates expect a Informa Connect in 2019 quantifiable return Informa Connects portfolio of brands and events is developing under the AIP and going into 2019. on their investment in As part of the combination with UBM, Informa Connect has time and cost, and its added several of UBMs content-focused brands, including Catersource, which focuses on the specialist catering and event our role to deliver it.
professional market, and the CBI Life Sciences business that complements our existing Life Sciences events.
We apply fresh thinking One of our content-focused events that previously sat within the and new technologies exhibitions business, the sustainable building event Greenbuild, is moving into this Division, to benefit from its focus on driving to enhance both our community engagement in live forums and online.
live event experiences The Divisions TMT portfolio has moved to become part of the Groups new Informa Tech Division.
and our specialist Under GAP, the Divisions portfolio was streamlined to focus on digital communities.
its major brands, with new investments in upgrading marketing technology, improving customer engagement and building out Andrew Mullins the Divisions year-round digital capabilities.
Informa Connects target for 2019 is to further improve underlying revenue growth Informa Connect CEO by building on the customer benefits of this work and strength of its brands.
54 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Spotlight networking opportunity, and we do everything we can Where the worlds to help everyone access the specific content and people theyre looking for.
investors invest A dedicated event app shows who is there, facilitates approaches their time and schedules meetings.
There are VIP breakfasts, and social drinks and dinners: pre-arranged one-to-one introductions: Every specialist professional community has one: an event private meeting rooms for negotiation and deals: closed-door in the year whose place in the diary is a given.
If youre in sessions for full and frank discourse under the Chatham private equity or venture capital, that event is SuperReturn.
House Rule: pre-conference summits on special areas of focus: sponsorship and branding opportunities: and speed dating Now over 20 years old, the flagship SuperReturn investor pitches.
International is the product of a continuous programme of product development, and a case example of listening The attendees can pick and choose from this menu of to, and understanding, your audience.
additional services, selecting whats most valuable to them and tailoring their spend accordingly, said Dorothy Kelso.
It has also grown into something of a world tour.
SuperReturn is now 16 events, running throughout the year across the US, SuperReturn also goes on to deliver value throughout the year.
Germany, China, the UK, the Netherlands, Hong Kong, Dubai, The live events are supported by continuous digital engagement South Africa and Japan.
that keeps the conversation going, with a stream of high quality content, analysis, thought leadership, a quarterly emagazine, Dorothy Kelso, Global Head of SuperReturn, commented: webinars and SuperReturn TV.
Over 2,500 investment professionals converge on Berlin for SuperReturn International, with many travelling from all over Julian Kirby, Managing Director for Informa Connects Global the world to be part of it, in addition to the SuperReturn event Finance business, said: There are many growth opportunities in in their own country.
events if you deliver on the new demands of customers: a large audience of genuine industry rainmakers: original content you This is anything but a passive conference.
As well as hearing cant find online: and outcome-oriented curated networking world-class industry speakers, everything is designed around between market buyers and sellers.
Our SuperReturn range an audience-first approach.
Its about a blended and bespoke ticks all the boxes.
COM I IN NF FO OR RM MA P A PL LC C A AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT 2 T 20 01 18 8 55 Strategic Report Divisional Review Global Support 56 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Divisional Review Global Support The team behind the teams Combination governance: An Integration Management How we serve customers Office IMO was formed to oversee the AIPs implementation, Within each Informa Operating Division, our teams focus on comprising members of the Corporate Development, Finance responding to the needs of customers, developing our brands and Risk teams and senior representatives from several other and products, looking for new opportunities in our markets Global Support functions, supported by external consultants.
The IMO governed the process by which decisions were made, assessing integration plans and measuring progress, tracking Global Support provides shared, efficient business services integration expenditure and the delivery of cost synergies and and function-specific expertise to each Informa Operating providing regular reports to the Executive Management Team Division, enabling our commercial teams to keep their focus and the Board.
on customers, products, markets and performance.
These include maintaining core technology infrastructure, consistent Service improvements: In January 2018, a single payroll system HR processes and policies and shared finance platforms, and a common approach to timekeeping and salary payments for providing a centre of expertise in areas such as Legal and all our businesses in the US were successfully introduced.
This supporting Informas corporate operations.
consolidated and simplified systems inherited from business additions, improving efficiency within HR service support.
In 2018, this Global Support community comprised around 850colleagues working from three regional hubs: London Within Finance, 2018 saw the phased introduction of an upgraded and Colchester in the UK, Sarasota in the US and Singapore.
Group-wide SAP enterprise resource platform to consolidate and standardise our financial operations globally and replace Developments in 2018 out-of-date systems.
During the year, the focus shifted to Supporting the offer for UBM: Teams including Corporate improving the platforms stability, embedding new practices Development, Group Finance, HR, Investor Relations and and ways of working and identifying areas of improvement.
Communications, Legal and Treasury were involved with supporting the UBM offer process and putting in place the Providing compliance leadership: With new requirements plans and structures necessary for delivering the successful on handling personal data coming into effect under the General combination.
Activity included ensuring Shareholders and Data Protection Regulation, the Global Support team created colleagues were appropriately informed and engaged, regulatory online training to create widespread awareness of the importance requirements were followed and the financing structures of data privacy.
This mandatory online training was tailored necessary for completing the transaction were in place.
by job type to ensure those who might directly handle data received specific guidance, such as in HR and Marketing.
Each Divisions customer privacy policy was also reviewed ahead of May 2018, with a focus on providing a clear explanation of how we use data and how we manage any information requests.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 57 Strategic Report Divisional Review Global Support continued Group HR has been expanded to add expertise in areas such Global Support in 2019 as rewards, benefits, and learning and development, and a new Global Supports structure is evolving in 2019 to ensure it role of Group Director of HR created to provide Company-wide continues to have the capabilities and capacity to support the leadership on matters including the support and opportunities enlarged Group, and so that Informa can pursue the benefits available to colleagues, and the quality and effectiveness of of scale in areas such as finance services.
policies, practices and processes in place internationally.
It will now be organised into three areas: Group Functions, Cross Divisional Operations represents a new operating approach Group Operations and Cross Divisional Operations.
Group for Informa and reflects the scale and efficiency benefits possible Operations is being led by Patrick Martell in the newly created within a larger Group.
This sees certain services that were role of Group Chief Operating Officer.
Patrick and the Group previously managed within Business Intelligence and Operations leadership team have end-to-end responsibility for Knowledge & Networking separately, including central delivering common operational services effectively, including marketing, HR, divisional finance and communications, being shared finance services, technology, procurement, property, delivered centrally and in a more common way across those travel and health, safety and security.
Divisions and the Informa Tech Division.
In Group Functions, UBMs in-house Internal Audit function has been brought into Informa and expanded to cover the combined Group.
KPMG, which previously acted as Informas outsourced Internal Audit provider, will supplement the in-house team in a co-source Internal Audit arrangement.
The Group Sustainability team provides leadership and A structured subject matter expertise on sustainability and responsible business practice to all areas of Informa.
It reports to the approach Director of Investor Relations to ensure business alignment and representation of sustainability at an Executive to sustainability Management Team level.
The team takes a structured approach to sustainability, focusing its efforts on the five areas we believe are most relevant to the Group and where our impact is greatest: the responsibility and wider impact of the content we produce, Our Our our relationships with customer communities, how we work environment customers with local communities, the way colleagues are supported, and the businesss use of natural resources and impact on the environment.
2019 will see the introduction of a new Informa Sustainable Event Management System, building on the Groups previous Sustainable Events Ladder and UBMs 10 Sustainability Our Our content Principles, which will set out minimum sustainability standards communities for our events and include a self-assessment toolkit for show teams to deploy wherever they are.
Our We became part of the global Science Based Targets Initiative colleagues in 2018, and in 2019 will be setting Company-specific targets around reducing our emissions to help keep global temperature rises below 1.5C.
58 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Spotlight Continuous improvement in health, Spotlight safety and security Meet the COO: The Group Health, Safety and Security HSS team acts as a second line function, providing expert guidance, support Patrick Martell and advice to the Operating Divisions, putting in place Company-wide systems and governance, and empowering How would you describe the new role of Group Chief colleagues to make risk-aware decisions.
In 2018 the team Operating Officer?
focused on improving the processes and systems for managing Informa has changed significantly over the past five years.
HSS risk while assessing the most appropriate structures and We are larger in exhibitions, more digital in our research and approach for the enlarged Group.
content product mix, working in more geographic markets and with more colleagues.
During 2018, the Group HSS team continued to engage with operations teams throughout the business, providing Under GAP, we added businesses in some areas and divested recommendations and ensuring common minimum standards others.
All of this has created an operational architecture are adhered to.
This included delivering well-received training that is quite complex in places.
Looking through the lens of to key event partners in Egypt see page 34.
In the second Informas reach today, it is clear that by making considered half of the year, the team visited UBM businesses across the decisions about the systems and processes we use, there world and attended team get-togethers in the US and several is an opportunity to simplify the landscape and apply what parts of Asia to understand current practice and start to build is working well at a larger scale.
consistency and continuous improvement in Group reporting.
That is the reason the COO role has been created: it is the right New HSS learning activities will be rolled out across Informa time to start to optimise our common systems and architecture in 2019, including business travel.
It is common for colleagues and create efficiencies from doing so.
within the Group to travel for work, particularly in our events Divisions, and this is designed to provide more guidance on What is the opportunity in Global Support?
personal safety, appropriate behaviour and managing risk What I know from my time in Business Intelligence is how when working outside a normal place of work.
The business moves fast: we are agile and customer focused and like to get things done.
I think The depth and regularity of HSS reporting to the Executive that is true of each Operating Division even if the products Management Team and divisional management teams has and the customers are different.
been increased, and the Group HSS team continues to report to the Board through the Risk Committee.
We operate hundreds of exhibitions every year, and for many of the largest ones, that means creating a mini city from scratch over a matter of days.
Anyone visiting a site during its build stage could not fail to be struck by the scale of the task and the deadlines the business works to.
The opportunity is to enable our commercial businesses to do their work seamlessly and effectively, help them to meet their deadlines and their customers needs, and not to get in the way.
What is your immediate focus?
Consistent, effective and high quality operations are where it all comes together.
It is about continuing to serve our businesses while simplifying and improving our systems in flight, with our shared finance platforms an early area of focus.
It is also about ways of working and the colleagues who deliver these support services, making sure Global Support is a supportive and enjoyable place to work while our approach to supporting the wider Group evolves.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 59 59
