Strategic report Viability statement The Groups viability is dependent and approves the budget for the and address the reasonably possible upon execution of our business upcoming year as well as the longfinancial implications of legal strategy, with a focus on: term strategic plan, which includes proceeding risks.
challenging key assumptions and risk expansion of HCP and patient mitigation plans included therein.
Other risks identified in the adoption of SUBLOCADE : principal risks table on pages 31 to In accordance with the UK Corporate 34 were also considered, but the the US launch of PERSERIS : Governance Code, the Directors above financial risks and operating optimization of the base business: have assessed the viability of the considerations were considered and Group.
In determining a time period the most immediate and significant to assess the viability of the Group, management of our risk related to that could prevent the Group from the Directors considered the Groups delivering on its strategy.
A number legal proceedings and response strategic plan, business cycle, strategy.
of other aspects of the principal risks potential impacts of new product because of their nature or potential launches, generic challenges, ongoing The Board has evaluated the Groups impact could also threaten the legal proceedings, cost reduction Groups viability in its current form, if risk profile through the lens of the actions and liquidity.
Considering the challenges faced in 2018, including they were to occur.
newly launched portfolio products the material uncertainty that may and the term loan expiration date, cast significant doubt on the Groups The results of this stress testing the Directors believe a period to showed the Group would be able ability to continue as a going 2022 factors in the risks in these concern, as discussed in Note 2 to towithstand the impact of these activities.
This assessment period scenarios occurring over the period the Financial Statements.
Further, the provides a reasonable basis for the elevated risk resulting from slower of the viability assessment.
The financial impact of these significant Group will be required to use its than expected SUBLOCADE adoption in addition to the loss of SUBOXONE developments to be fully considered.
cash reserves and may need to Accordingly, a four-year period of make further cuts to its operating Film exclusivity in the US have exposed the Group to heightened assessment is deemed appropriate.
Depending upon the viability risks.
Considering these risks, Although the strategic plan reflects structural changes have been made, ultimate realization under the the Directors best estimate of the different scenarios, the actions that including significant early retirement future prospects of the business, of debt and cost reduction actions, management would need to take they have also stress tested the willvary to ensure ongoing viability as the Group streamlines its focus on plan under various scenarios.
The the two newly-approved products.
scenarios, which encompass a wide Once these are established, Indivior spectrum of potential outcomes, Possible scenarios may occur where will once again seek to expand with reflect the impact from the loss of the uptake of both SUBLOCADE and new treatments in the addiction and exclusivity for SUBOXONE in the US, PERSERIS falls significantly below behavioral health disease spaces.
and contemplate limited uptake of expectations and the outcome of legal PERSERIS in the US, are designed to proceedings or timing of payments for The prospects of the Group are explore the resilience of the Group legal proceedings is materially worse evaluated throughout the year to the potential impact of significant than planned, in which circumstances as part of the strategic planning risks set out on pages 30 to 34.
These the Groups viability may be impacted process.
This process is led by the scenarios represent severe but during the assessment period.
In the Chief Executive Officer through the plausible circumstances the Group early portion of the viability period, Executive Committee and involves could experience.
The scenarios the Directors control over certain allrelevant functions such as tested included: matters, such as legal proceeding R&D, supply, commercial, medical, response strategy, helps to mitigate legal, compliance and finance.
underperformance in the expected risk to the Groups viability.
However, Development of the strategic market acceptance of SUBLOCADE plan includes a deep dive into the over the full viability period, the over the viability period, and Directors ability to influence the principal risks and contemplated actions to manage and mitigate outcome of such matters may be unfavorable outcome of legal more limited.
Based on their assessment of The output of the strategic plan is a Having considered these risk factors prospects and viability above, the set of objectives, an analysis of key along with other principal risks set Directors confirm their reasonable risks that could prevent the plan out on pages 30 to 34, the Directors expectation that the Group will being delivered, and a financial have assessed the Groups ability to continue in operation and meet its forecast covering the following comply with the financial covenant liabilities as they fall due over the fouryear.
Within the Groups extended in the Groups debt facility, maintain year period ending December 31, 2022. strategic horizon, financial forecasts sufficient liquidity to fund its are also prepared.
The Board reviews operations, pay off the debt in 2022, Indivior Annual Report 2018 35
