Chairs statement We are committed to helping patients bypioneering innovative and accessible treatments for addiction and itsco-occurring disorders.
At Indivior, we have been on a impacted.
As a result, the Groups net longstanding journey devoted to revenue declined over the prior year transforming addiction from a global and our share price also reflected this human crisis to a recognized and performance.
The Board, Executive Committee and every The Executive Committee, supported employee are dedicated to realizing by the Board, moved swiftly to our Vision and making it a reality.
implement its enterprise contingency We believe that all patients around planning with the goal of ensuring the the world should have access to business remains viable and able to evidence-based treatment for the deliver for patients, and that we can continue to drive value growth.
chronic conditions and co-occurring Howard Pien disorders of addiction.
Chair While we experienced setbacks, As the global addiction crisis we also made progress toward our continues to grow, we are inspired Vision.
In addition to launching by the needs of patients, even amid SUBLOCADE in the US market, the turbulent times for the Group.
In Group received its first international 2018, while we made some advances, approval for SUBLOCADE from Health we also experienced several Canada.
We remain confident that difficulties including setbacks to the SUBLOCADE will help address Groups intellectual property related treatment gaps for OUD and we to SUBOXONE buprenorphine continue to target $1 billion-plus and naloxone Sublingual Film of peak annual net revenue from CIII, which created additional SUBLOCADE.
material uncertainty in an already competitive environment.
The The Group also received a U. S. February 2018 launch of SUBLOCADE Food and Drug Administration FDA buprenorphine extended-release injection for subcutaneous use CIII was impacted, in part, by As the global reimbursement complexity within the US payor system as the first longaddiction crisis acting injectable LAI treatment for opioid use disorder OUD.
Additional continues to grow, barriers to launch acceleration also included the length of the we are inspired prescription journey time to treat and, given the entirely new treatment by the needs of paradigm, slower than anticipated Health Care Provider HCP trial and patients, even treatment adoption.
These barriers are being steadily identified and amid turbulent addressed, however, SUBLOCADE net revenue development was negatively times.
com Strategic report approval for PERSERIS risperidone With the need to conserve cash in At Indivior, we for Extended-Release Injectable theface of generic buprenorphine Suspension for the treatment of naloxone film entry into the US have been on schizophrenia in adults.
PERSERIS market, and the need to fuel our marks an important milestone in future growth drivers SUBLOCADE alongstanding the diversification and expansion and PERSERIS, we did not make any of our business and commitment direct returns to shareholders.
While journey devoted to patients.
Serving patients with we continually evaluate Indiviors schizophrenia is well-aligned with capital allocation priorities, given totransforming our Vision: a recent systematic anticipated ongoing pressure to review and meta-analysis revealed the business, it is unlikely that addiction that the prevalence of any any cash will be directly returned substance use disorder in to shareholders in the nearor from aglobal treatment-seeking patients mediumterm.
diagnosed with schizophrenia or humancrisis to 1 first-episode psychosis was 42%.
Changes to the Board Yvonne Greenstreet, Non-Executive a recognized and Despite the challenges faced by Director and Chair of the Science & the business, the Group made the Policy Committee, has advised that treated chronic strategic decision to prudently invest she will step down from the Board in the US market launch of PERSERIS.
and will not seek re-election at the disease.
We maintain a peak annual net Annual General Meeting to be held revenue goal for PERSERIS of $200 inMay 2019.
There are no current the profitable long-term growth to$300 million.
plansto recruit a successor to we anticipate from SUBLOCADE Dr. Greenstreet and the Nomination and PERSERIS.
You may read more about & Governance Committee will keep SUBLOCADE and PERSERIS in our the composition of the Board and In relation to the various litigation Chief Executive Officers statement its Committees under close review.
and investigational matters, the onpage 12.
On behalf of the Board, I would like Group carries a provision for to thank Yvonne for her significant investigative and antitrust litigation Risks, challenges and contribution to Indivior.
Substantially uncertainties all of the provision relates to the As we look ahead, the financial Outlook U. S. Department of Justice DOJ impact of generic buprenorphine We have aligned the Group to investigation.
The Group is in naloxone film entry into the US manage the business challenges advanced discussions with the DOJ market in early 2019 will place the ahead, building in part upon actions about a possible resolution to its Group under further substantial initiated in 2018 and early 2019. investigations, although it cannot topand bottom-line financial Looking ahead, we will continue predict with any certainty whether, pressure until more progress is to develop our business to create when, or at what cost it will reach achieved with SUBLOCADE and sustainable long-term value for an ultimate resolution.
highly engaged in these discussions Addiction remains one of the greatest and has been throughout the process.
The Group was prepared for this public health crises of our time We continue to cooperate fully with through contingency planning and and we are committed to helping the various parties and arehopeful actions initiated in 2018 and early patients by pioneering innovative and for resolution in a timelymanner.
2019 to streamline the organization accessible treatments for addiction and further reduce costs.
These and its co-occurring disorders.
Share price performance contingency actions also included anddividend the February 2019 launch by Indivior Finally, I would like to thank all Indivior shares ended the year down of an authorized generic version of my colleagues at Indivior for their 72%, compared with a 15% decline SUBOXONE buprenorphine and significant contribution during a for the FTSE 250 Index of which the naloxone Sublingual Film CIII difficult year, and their steadfast Company is a member: this reflects intheUS.
These preparations will commitment to our shared culture the significant business challenges assist us in remaining compliant and Vision.
the Group has faced throughout 2018. with our borrowing covenants and position the Group to leverage Howard Pien Chair 1.
Sansone, Randy, Substance Use Disorders and Borderline Personality Common Bedfellows, 2011 v1.0 Page 1, Abstract, Paragraph 1 p. 1 Santucci K, Psychiatric Disease and DrugAbuse, COP 2012 v1.0 Page 2, Background, Paragraph 2 p. 2 Santucci K, Psychiatric Disease and Drug Abuse, COP 2012 v1.0 Page 2, Background, Paragraph 1 p. 2.
