Governance Relations with Shareholders Relations with Shareholders E. 1 Dialogue with Shareholders Director and Executive participation and engagement As described on page 30, Shareholders are one of Informas On a day-to-day basis, Shareholder engagement is led by the most important stakeholders.
Director of Investor Relations, Corporate Communications & Brand, who is a member of the Executive Management Team and The support of our equity and debt holders provides the attends all main Board meetings.
The Group Chief Executive and financial capital that enables Informa to fund ongoing Group Finance Director are also heavily involved in institutional operations, reinvest in people, products and platforms investor and analyst engagement, and Informas divisional CEOs and add new businesses that extend the Groups scale, take part where practical and where Shareholders have a reach and specialism.
particular interest in meeting them.
Informas Directors and Executives participate in a proactive All Board members attend the AGM, where they are available Shareholder engagement programme designed to maintain to engage with, and answer questions from, Shareholders.
They positive and constructive relations with investors, analysts also make themselves available for ad hoc meetings and the and debt holders throughout any given year.
The Group Chairman, Derek Mapp, undertakes his own Annual Engagement also engages with the proxy agencies that advise certain Roadshow to meet Shareholders.
Most recently, he was joined Shareholders on governance and voting matters.
on his Roadshow by the Senior Independent Director, Gareth Bullock, and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Stephen Davidson.
We aim to provide clear, timely and balanced corporate and financial information, in person and through the latest digital A detailed Investor Relations Report is submitted to every Board channels, enabling Shareholders to engage with the Executive meeting and the Director of Investor Relations provides an Management Team while meeting all necessary standards for update on investor activities in person.
The report includes public company disclosure.
detailed shareholding information, movements, sector news flow and feedback from analysts and institutional investor Informa operates a Level I sponsored American Depository meetings, as well as the latest analyst reports on the Group.
Receipts ADR programme through BNY Mellon to facilitate investment from US-based Shareholders, with ADR ownership accounting for 1.1% of Informas share capital at the end of December 2018.
126 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Informa also attends major investor conferences as an efficient Year-round digital communications way to meet with current Shareholders and non-holders.
In any The Groups Investor Relations and Communications given year, there will also be ad hoc individual meetings with team provides relevant materials online in an engaging investors, as well as pre-planned roadshows to meet current and accessible format.
To ensure that investors have access and potential Shareholders and analysts, in London and in to the latest information no matter their location, size of cities throughout the world.
holding or communication preference, presentations are streamed live through Informas website, with audio, video The Investor Relations and Communications team is available and written transcripts and presentation materials published for individual information requests on an ongoing basis and, online promptly afterwards.
Major news is also delivered where it is of interest, provides investors with the opportunity via social media.
to visit Informa events and access our data and content products for research purposes.
Shareholders are encouraged to access corporate materials online, as a way of reducing the cost and resources involved During 2018, the Executive Management Team participated with printed materials and to ensure the prompt delivery in an extensive investor engagement programme to discuss of information.
Colleagues who are Shareholders are also and answer questions on Informas offer for UBM.
In total, in encouraged to use these facilities to stay up to date on 2018 it undertook over 450 meetings with institutions.
For the developments, as well as receiving major news through purposes of the offer for UBM, it also created a dedicated and internal communication channels.
legally compliant hub on Informas website for information about the offer, including formal documentation, Company 2018 Shareholder engagement information, video interviews and media commentary.
During a typical year, formal Shareholder engagement takes place to coincide with Informas financial reporting calendar.
Informas Directors also met with a range of Shareholders to This includes in-person presentations at full and half-year discuss views and feedback on our updated Remuneration results and at the time of the AGM, and statements and Policy ahead of the AGM in May.
Further information on this conference calls at the time of quarterly trading updates.
consultation can be found on page 114 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Key 2018 engagement forums January February May 30 January 28 February 2324 May Presentation on Informas 2017 full-year results presentation Investor meetings at Berenberg offer for UBM US Conference 25 May Annual General Meeting and trading update July September November 25 July 4 September 9 November 2018 half-year results presentation Investor meetings at Barcap Media 10-month trading update statement & Telco Conference and conference call 7 September 1415 November Investor meetings at Deutsche Investor meetings at Morgan Stanley Media Conference TMT Conference WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 127 Governance Relations with Shareholders continued Relations with debt holders AGM 2018 Informa also runs an active programme of engagement with The last AGM was held in London on 25 May 2018 with all debt holders.
A poll was taken on each resolution and all were passed by the required majority.
In July 2018, the Group entered the public bond market for the first time, issuing 650m five-year notes and 300m eight-year The Board noted the voting outcome on the resolutions in notes.
In addition, at the end of December 2018, the Group had relation to Informas updated Directors Remuneration Policy and 1,396.4m of private placement loan notes held by over 30 the amendments to the Long-Term Incentive Plan, which received institutions and a further $350m of US public bonds originally 64.2% and 69.5% support from Shareholders respectively.
Informa maintains a regular dialogue with its Shareholders to establish an open forum for discussion on key market The Group regularly holds conference calls and face-to-face and Company-specific issues, and the Board had consulted meetings with debt investors to keep them updated with extensively before the proposals were put to the AGM.
It was developments and the latest financial results.
These are clear at the time that there were many differing views, which co-ordinated through the Treasury and Investor Relations were reflected in the minority vote against these resolutions.
In line with the majority of our Shareholders, the Board firmly believe the updated Directors Remuneration Policy is in the Planned engagement in 2019 best interests of the Company.
However, given our clear A programme is underway to refresh and update all the commitment to governance best practice and proactive Groups materials and digital platforms, reflecting Informas stakeholder engagement, the Board has since written to all its new operating structure and brands and the position of the major Shareholders inviting further discussion, and a series of combined Group after the AIP.
Informas Investor Relations and face-to-face meetings took place in early 2019.
Further details Communications team is expanding in 2019 to meet increased are given on page 114 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
demand for information and interaction with the Group.
Informas 2019 Investor Day is scheduled for 10 May in London.
AGM 2019 Investors will have the opportunity to hear from the Executive The 2019 AGM will be held on Friday 24 May 2019 at 240 Management Team as well as divisional Senior Management.
Blackfriars Road, London SE1 8BF at 11.00 am.
The formal The event and all materials presented will be made available Notice of Meeting is being dispatched as a separate document online shortly afterwards.
to all Shareholders and is also available on Informas website.
It sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM and an explanation of each resolution.
Constructive use of general meetings We value the AGM as a major forum for engaging with All members are invited to attend the AGM and, as required investors, and retail investors in particular.
All Directors by the 2016 Code, at least 20 working days notice is given attend, and an update is given on the Companys performance.
to allow Shareholders time to consider the resolutions being Shareholders are encouraged to ask questions to individual proposed.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend in person Directors and the Chairmen of the Board Committees are or may appoint a proxy if they are unable to do so.
Details on available for specific questions relating to Audit, Nomination proxy appointments and the voting process can be found in and Remuneration matters.
The Directors are also available to meet with Shareholders on an individual basis after the AGM.
128 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance Directors Report and other statutory information Directors Report and other statutory information The Directors present their Report on the affairs of the Group Directors together with the audited financial statements and report of The names and biographical details of all the Directors and the auditor for the year ended 31 December 2018. details of their Board Committee membership are set out on pages 94 and 95.
This Directors Report forms part of the Strategic Report of the Company as required by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic In accordance with the Articles and the 2016 Code, all continuing Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
The Strategic Directors will offer themselves for election or re-election by Report also forms the Management Report for the purposes Shareholders at the 2019 AGM.
of Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
8R and includes the reporting requirements of the EU Non-Financial Reporting Directors interests Directive.
Information that is relevant to the report, and Details of the remuneration paid to the Directors, their interests information required in accordance with the Companies Act in the shares of the Company and any awards granted to the 2006 and Listing Rule 9.8.
4R, is incorporated by reference and Executive Directors under any of the Companys all-employee can be found in the following sections: or executive share schemes are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 113 to 125.
The service contracts Information Section in Annual Report Page of the Executive Directors and the letters of appointment of Future developments the Non-Executive Directors are summarised in the Directors of the Company Strategic Report 475 Remuneration Report and are available for inspection at the Risk factors and principal risks Strategic Report 6272 Companys registered office.
Use of financial instruments, financial risk management Note 32 objectives and policies Strategic Report 195203 No Director had a material interest in any contract in relation Sustainability Strategic Report 17, 36, 60 to the Companys business at any time during the year.
Greenhouse gas emissions Strategic Report 60 Viability and going concern Appointment and replacement of Directors statements Strategic Report 7375 The rules for appointment and replacement of the Directors Governance arrangements Governance 90133 are set out in the Articles.
Directors can be appointed by Directors Governance 9495 ordinary resolution of the Company or by the other members Employment policies and of the Board.
The Company can remove a Director from office, employee involvement Strategic Report 3032 including by the passing an ordinary resolution, or by notice Post balance sheet events Financial statements 221 being given by all of the other members of the Board.
Dividends Strategic Report 84 Articles of Association Powers of the Directors The Companys Articles of Association Articles may only The powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles and be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of provide that the Board may exercise all the powers of the Shareholders.
The Articles are available on the Companys Company.
The Company may by ordinary resolution authorise website: http: www.
the Board to issue shares, and increase, consolidate, sub-divide and cancel shares in accordance with its Articles and English law.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 129 Governance Directors Report and other statutory information continued At the 2018 AGM, the Directors were granted authority by the Directors indemnities Shareholders to make market purchases of Ordinary Shares The Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, to the representing up to 10% of its issued share capital at that time, extent permitted by English law and the Articles, in respect of any being 82,400,505 Ordinary Shares.
This authority, which has liability arising from or in connection with the execution of their not been exercised during the year ended 31 December 2018 powers, duties and responsibilities as a Director of the Company, or to the date of this report, will expire at the conclusion of any of its subsidiaries or as a Trustee of an occupational pension the 2019 AGM, when the Directors intend to propose that the scheme for colleagues.
The indemnity would not provide authority is renewed.
coverage where the Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Company purchases and maintains Directors See Note 35 for further information on the Companys and Officers insurance cover against certain legal liabilities and share capital.
costs for claims in connection with any act or omission by its Directors and officers in the execution of their duties.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares The rights attaching to the Companys Ordinary Shares are set Substantial shareholdings out in the Articles, available on the Companys website.
Subject As at 31 December 2018, the Company had received notice to relevant legislation, any share may be issued with or have in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA attached to it such preferred, deferred or other special rights Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 5 of the following and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution notifiable interests in the Companys issued share capital.
decide or, if no such resolution is in effect, or so far as the The information provided below was correct at the date of resolution does not make specific provision, as the Board notification to the Company: may decide.
No such resolution is currently in effect.
% Shareholder Shareholding The Company may pass an ordinary resolution to declare a BlackRock, Inc. 5.49% dividend to be paid to holders of Ordinary Shares subject to Newton Investment Management Limited 5.30% the recommendation of the Board as to the amount.
On Lazard Asset Management LLC 4.30% liquidation, holders of Ordinary Shares may share in the assets Artemis Investment Manager LLP 3.59% of the Company.
Holders of Ordinary Shares are also entitled Invesco Ltd 3.56% to receive the Companys Annual Report and, subject to certain APG Asset Management N. V. 3.49% thresholds being met, may requisition the Board to convene a general meeting or the proposal of resolutions at AGMs.
No additional notifications have been received by the Company None of the Ordinary Shares carry any special rights with between 31 December 2018 and the date of this report.
regard to control of the Company.
All notifications made to the Company under DTR 5 are Voting rights published on the Regulatory Information Service and made Holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to attend and speak at available on the Investors section of our website.
general meetings of the Company and to appoint one or more proxies or, if the holder of shares is a corporation, a corporate Share capital representative.
On a show of hands, each holder of Ordinary Informa PLC is a public company limited by shares and Shares who, being an individual, is present in person, or, incorporated in England and Wales.
It has a premium listing being a corporation, is present by a duly appointed corporate on the London Stock Exchange and is the holding company representative not being themselves a member, shall have one of the Informa Group of companies.
vote and on a poll, every holder of Ordinary Shares present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which The Company has one class of shares, being Ordinary Shares they are the holder.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments of 0.1p each, all of which are fully paid.
As at 31 December 2018, and voting instructions must be received no later than 48 hours the Companys issued share capital comprised 1,251,798,534 before a general meeting.
A holder of Ordinary Shares can lose Ordinary Shares of 0.1p each.
the entitlement to vote at general meetings where that holder has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to During the year, 427,536,794 new Ordinary Shares were issued provide the Company with information concerning interests pursuant to the recommended offer by the Company for UBM held in those shares.
Except as set out above and as permitted plc which was completed on 15 June 2018.
A further 256,689 under applicable laws, there are no limitations on voting rights shares were issued during the year to satisfy awards under of holders of a given percentage, number of votes or deadlines UBM plcs Save As You Earn share scheme.
130 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Restrictions on transfer of securities in the Company Political donations There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Neither the Company nor the Group made any political Company, except that: donations during the financial year 2017: nil.
the Directors may from time to time refuse to register a Overseas branches transfer of a certificated share which is not fully paid, The Company operates branches in the following countries: provided it meets the requirements given under the Articles: Australia, China, Hong Kong, Ireland, Japan, Luxembourg, transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using Malaysia, the Netherlands, Singapore, South Africa, South CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of Korea, Switzerland, Taiwan, the UAE, the US and Vietnam.
an uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation of CREST: Audit and auditor legal and regulatory restrictions may be put in place from Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this report time to time, for example insider-trading laws: confirms that: in accordance with the Listing Rules of the FCA, the Directors and certain employees of the Company require approval to to the best of their knowledge there is no relevant audit deal in the Companys shares: information that has not been brought to the attention where a Shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in the of the auditor: and Companys certificated shares has been served with a they have taken all steps required of them to make disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company themselves aware of any relevant audit information with information concerning interests in those shares: or and to establish that the Companys auditor was aware the Directors may decide to suspend the registration of of that information.
transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of Shareholders.
The Directors cannot suspend the registration This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance of transfers of any uncertificated shares without obtaining with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. consent from CREST.
Deloitte LLP has indicated its willingness to continue in office There are no agreements between holders of Ordinary Shares as auditor and, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, that are known to the Company which may result in restrictions a resolution to reappoint Deloitte as the Companys auditor will on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Shares held on trust Colleague engagement From time to time, shares are held by a Trustee in order to Informa has a continuous and proactive programme of internal satisfy entitlements of employees to shares under the Groups communications and colleague engagement activities, designed share schemes.
Usually the shares held on trust are no more to support and inform colleagues and foster a dynamic and than sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Groups share engaged culture throughout the Group.
The shares held by these trusts do not have any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Further details are given on pages 30 to 36.
Colleagues are kept While these shares are held on trust, their rights are not informed about major Group and divisional developments by exercisable directly by the relevant employees.
The current various digital, physical and in-person channels, including written arrangements concerning these trusts and their shareholdings and video blogs from the Group Chief Executive, divisional are set out in Note 36. newsletters, email campaigns, stories and discussions on the Groups Portal digital workspace and both in person and Change of control through online town halls and meetings.
Colleagues are also There are no significant agreements to which the Company able to chat, share ideas and ask questions using the Portals is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of social capabilities and are encouraged to create local groups control following a takeover bid except for the Groups principal and forums based around activities and topics of interest.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide Colleagues receive regular updates on the Companys compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from performance and the Group Chief Executive holds an online a change of control on takeover, except that provisions in the town hall to coincide with half-year and full-year results, as well Companys share schemes and plans may cause options and as at other times, where colleagues can ask questions directly.
awards granted to employees under such schemes and plans to vest on a change of control on takeover.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 131 Governance Directors Report and other statutory information continued The Group actively seeks feedback from colleagues on their experience of working in the Company and takes that feedback into account when prioritising investment in talent and workplaces among other matters.
Informa was, once again, named as a UK Top Employer for 2018 by the Top Employers Institute.
Equal opportunities Informa sets great store by diversity and aims to attract and retain talented colleagues with a wide range of backgrounds, skills and experiences.
This breadth is both an essential business need and, the Group believes, the only and right way to operate.
We recognise the value that differences bring, including but not limited to difference of gender, age, race, nationality, social background, professional and personal experiences and preferences.
We comply fully with all national equal opportunities legislation and make recruitment and promotion decisions based solely on the ability to perform each role.
Colleagues, and potential colleagues, receive the same treatment regardless of age, gender, sexual orientation, disability, ethnicity or religion.
In the event that a colleagues circumstances change, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues including, where possible, providing specialised training and adjusting their working environment.
The Directors Report was approved by the Board on 6March2019 and signed on its behalf by Gareth Wright Group Finance Director Informa PLC Company Number: 08860726 132 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018
