Directors Report Directors Report The Directors present their Both the Directors Report and the No Director held a material interest Annual Report together with the Strategic Report have been drawn at any time during the year in any audited consolidated financial up and presented in accordance derivative or financial instrument statements for the year ended with, and in reliance upon, relating to the Companys shares.
December 31, 2018. applicable English company law.
Powers of Directors The liabilities of the Directors in Corporate Governance The Directors are responsible for connection with those reports shall Statement managing the business of the be subject to the limitations and The Directors Report forms part Company and may exercise all the restrictions provided by such law.
powers of the Company, subject to of the management report as Results and dividends required under DTR 4.1.
The the provisions of relevant statutes, The consolidated income statement to any directions given by special Strategic Report on pages 4 to 35 includes forward-looking statements is on page 95.
Profit for the financial resolution and the Articles of year attributable to equity Association.
Powers relating to the indicating important events affecting the Group, future likely shareholders amounted to 275m.
issuing of shares are also included in the Articles of Association and developments and the Groups In line with the dividend policy business model and strategy.
The such authorities are renewed by approved by the Board, the Directors shareholders at the AGM each year, Corporate Governance Report on do not recommend payment of a pages 36 to 77 is incorporated into see page 79. dividend in respect of the financial the Directors Report by reference.
The Appointment and replacement The following information fulfilling Directors are of the view that the of Directors dividend policy remains appropriate the further disclosure requirements The Companys Articles of contained in the Companies Act for the Group in light of its current Association give the Directors power financial position, strategy and 2006, Schedule 7 of the Large and to appoint and replace Directors.
Medium-Sized Companies and prospects and the continuing Under the Terms of Reference of uncertainties faced.
These Groups Accounts and Reports the Nomination & Governance Regulations 2008 and the FCAs uncertainties include ongoing Committee, any appointment litigation, the ongoing government Listing Rules and Disclosure will be recommended by that Guidance and Transparency Rules investigation and the need to Committee for approval by the establish more diverse revenue DTRs have been included Board of Directors.
elsewhere within the Annual Report streams in light of generic entry The Articles of Association require into the market.
and are incorporated into the Directors to retire and submit Directors Report by reference: Directors and their interests themselves for re-appointment at Disclosure Location The Directors of the Company who the first Annual General Meeting Future business Strategic Report pages served during the financial year AGM following appointment, and developments and 16 to 17 ended December 31, 2018 and up to all Directors who have held office at R&D activities the date of signing the financial the date of the two preceding AGMs.
Financial risk Strategic Report statements appear on pages 38 to management pages 29 to 34 Notwithstanding these provisions 39.
Yvonne Greenstreet will step of the Articles of Association, in Greenhouse gas Strategic Report down as a Director prior to the 2019 emissions page 18 compliance with the UK Corporate Annual General 2019 AGM and will Directors pages 83 to 84 Governance Code and in line with not seek re-election.
Details of Responsibilities previous years, all Directors wishing Statement Directors interests in the Companys to continue in office will offer ordinary shares, including any themselves for re-appointment by interest in share awards and longthe shareholders at the 2019 AGM.
term incentive plans, are set out in Details of unexpired terms of the Directors Remuneration Report Directors service contracts are set on pages 62 to 77. out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 76.
com Governance that certain restrictions may from of ordinary shares, being Director indemnities and time to time be imposed by laws approximately 10% of the issued insurance cover and regulations: and pursuant to share capital.
As at December 31, In accordance with the Companys the EU Market Abuse Regulation, 2018 the full extent of this authority Articles of Association and to the Directors and certain employees remained in force and unutilized.
extent permitted by law, the require clearance to deal in the The authority is renewable annually Directors have been granted an Companys securities.
and shareholders will be asked to indemnity from the Company in approve an equivalent resolution at respect of liability incurred as a no person holds securities in the 2019 AGM.
In addition, the Company which carry special the Company maintained Directors voting rights with regard to control The Directors consider it desirable and Officers liability insurance of the Company.
The Company for these general authorizations throughout the year.
Neither the is not aware of any agreements to be available in order to maintain indemnity nor the insurance provide between holders of securities an efficient capital structure but will cover in the event that a Director is that may result in restrictions on only purchase the Companys shares found to have acted dishonestly the transfer of securities or on in the market if they believe it is in or fraudulently.
the best interests of shareholders generally.
Articles of Association The Company has a Sponsored The Articles of Association may be Level 1 American Depository Receipt Substantial shareholdings amended by special resolution of ADR program in the US.
As at December 31, 2018 and the the shareholders.
date of this Report, the Company Authority to allot shares had been notified under Rule 5 Shares At the 2019 AGM, the Directors of the Disclosure Guidance and will ask shareholders to renew the Share capital Transparency Rules of the following authority last granted to them at the Details of the Companys share major interests in the voting rights 2018 AGM to allot shares up to a in the capital of the Company: capital and the rights attached to maximum of an amount equivalent the Companys shares are set out At March 1, At December to two-thirds of the shares in issue 2019 31, 2018 in Note 7 on page 129.
% of total % of total of which one-third must be offered Name of shareholder voting rights voting rights The Company has one class of by way of rights issue.
The renewed Standard Life ordinary share which carries no authority will apply until the Aberdeen 17.31% 15.04% rights to fixed income.
Each share conclusion of the 2020 AGM.
Scopia Capital carries the right to one vote at Two separate special resolutions Management 15.98% 18.03% general meetings of the Company.
will be proposed at the 2019 AGM Old Mutual Global The ordinary shares are listed on Investors UK Limited 8.02% 8.02% to authorize the Directors to allot the Official List and traded on the equity shares in the Company for Artemis Investment London Stock Exchange.
As of Management 5.30% 5.30% cash, without regard to the preDecember 31, 2018, the Company emption provisions of the 5.22% 5.22% Prudential had 728,441,653 ordinary shares in Companies Act 2006.
The Company does not hold Shares held in the Indivior PLC authorities are also renewable any shares in Treasury.
The authorities sought The rights and obligations attached are in line with institutional The trustee of the Indivior PLC to the Companys ordinary shares shareholder guidance.
Employee Benefit Trust EBT has are set out in the Articles of agreed not to vote any shares held Authority to purchase Association.
There are no by the EBT at any general meeting.
If own shares restrictions on the voting rights any offer is made to shareholders to attaching to the Companys ordinary At the 2018 AGM, shareholders acquire their shares the trustee will shares or the transfer of securities approved a resolution for the not be obliged to accept or reject in the Company except, in the case Company to make purchases of its the offer in respect of any shares of transfers of securities: own shares to a maximum number which are at that time subject to Indivior Annual Report 2018 8 79 3 Directors Report continued subsisting awards, but will have create a workplace that has an open Group.
Information relevant to the regard to the interests of the award atmosphere of trust, honesty employees is provided to them and, holders and will have power to and respect.
Harassment or where appropriate, to employee consult them to obtain their views discrimination of any kind based trade union representatives.
Subject to the above, on race, color, religion, gender, age, The Group supports the wider the trustee may take action with national origin, citizenship, mental fundamental human rights of its respect to the offer it thinks fair.
or physical disabilities, sexual employees worldwide, as well as orientation, veteran status, or any those of its customers and suppliers.
Principal risks and other similarly protected status is uncertainties Further information regarding our not tolerated.
This principle applies people can be found on pages 19 The principal risks and uncertainties to all aspects of employment from to 20. facing the Group have been recruitment and promotion, through reviewed by the Directors and are to termination and all other terms Significant agreements detailed on pages 30 to 34, where and conditions of employment.
It change of control information is also provided on the is Group policy not to discriminate There are a number of agreements performance of the Directors in on the basis of any unlawful that take effect, alter or terminate actively managing those risks.
criteria, and its practices include upon a change of control of the the prohibition on the use of child Greenhouse gas emissions Company following a takeover, such or forced labor.
Employment as commercial contracts, bank Disclosures concerning the Groups policies are fair and equitable agreements, property lease greenhouse gas emissions are and consistent with the skills and arrangements and employee share contained within the managing our abilities of the employee and the plans.
None of these are deemed business responsibly section of the needs of the business.
to be significant in terms of their Strategic Report, on page 18, The Group is committed to offering potential impact on the business of and form part of the Directors equal opportunities in recruitment, the Group as a whole.
training, career development and There are no significant agreements People promotion to all people, including between the Company and its During the year under review, the those with disabilities, having regard Directors or employees providing for their particular aptitudes and Group employed an average of for compensation for loss of office 1,024 people worldwide 2017: 1,012. abilities.
As a matter of policy, full or employment that occurs because and fair consideration is given to The Groups business priority is of a takeover bid, except that to safeguard the well-being, applicants with disabilities and provisions of the Companys share every effort is made to give development and safety of its plans may cause options and awards workforce.
It also wants its employees who become disabled granted under such plans to vest on while employed by the Group an workforce to have opportunities a takeover.
to grow and progress as part of an opportunity for retraining and for There is no information that the continuation in employment.
Company would be required to Group policy that the training, career The Group is an inclusive and equal disclose about persons with whom development and promotion of opportunity employer that relies it has contractual or other disabled persons should, as far as on Human Resources specialists arrangements which are essential possible, be the same as that of throughout its worldwide locations to the business of the Company.
Employees and to ensure compliance with all their representatives are briefed and The Directors acknowledge that applicable laws governing consulted on all relevant matters on there are other significant employment practices and to advise a regular basis in order to take their stakeholders, in addition to on all Human Resources policies and views into account with regard to shareholders, who provide valuable practices, including for example decision-making and to achieve feedback and help shape the recruitment and selection, training a common awareness of all the Companys overall approach and development, promotion and financial and economic factors to governance.
Group policies seek to affecting the performance of the 80 84 www.
com Governance the Audit Committee to determine Pukang Biotechnology Co. Ltd.
Political donations their remuneration, will be proposed Pukang for total potential There were no political donations, at the forthcoming AGM.
consideration of up to $122.5m as defined in the Companies Act based on achieving certain 2006, during 2018 2017: nil.
The Financial risk management milestones.
The agreement is Companys US subsidiaries do Details of the Groups use of subject to various closing make political donations as financial instruments, together with conditions and is anticipated defined under UK law, but these information on the Companys risk to close in Q4 2019. donations are not subject to that objectives, policies and exposure to law.
Donations by US subsidiaries During the year, the Group price, credit, liquidity, cash flow and will not exceed US$500,000.
announced its intention to interest rate risks, can be found in implement a program to Note 16.
Branches streamline the Group and The Group has branches in Finland, reduce certain costs.
Disclosures required under Norway and Sweden.
The Group had This resulted in a further Listing Rule 9.8.
4 a branch in Greece during the 2018 reduction in headcount of more There are no disclosures required to financial year, which formally than 120 employees in Q1 2019. be made under UK Listing Rule 9.8.
Incremental costs to effect the Details of long-term incentive plans savings will be reflected as an Disclosure of information to can be found in the Directors exceptional cost in Q1 2019.
Remuneration Report on pages 62 External Auditor to 77.
Each of the persons who are Viability statement Directors at the time when this The Directors have assessed the Post-balance sheet events Directors Report is approved prospects of the Group over a Following February 19, 2019 confirms that: four-year period to December 31, orders from the U. S. District so far as he she is aware, there 2022, as set out on page 35.
Court for the District of New Jersey, is no relevant audit information This has taken into account the Dr. Reddys Laboratories DRL of which the Companys External business model, strategic aims, risk and Alvogen Pine Brook, Inc.
Auditor is unaware: and appetite, and principal risks and Alvogen are no longer uncertainties, along with the Groups prevented from selling, offering each Director has taken all current financial position.
Based on to sell, or importing their generic reasonable steps that he she this assessment, the Directors have buprenorphine naloxone ought to have taken as a Director a reasonable expectation that the sublingual film products.
On to make himself herself aware of Group will continue in operation February 20, 2019, Indivior any relevant audit information and and meet its liabilities as they fall announced that it had launched to establish that the Companys due over the four-year period under an authorized generic version of External Auditor is aware of that review.
The viability statement can SUBOXONE buprenorphine and information.
be found on page 35. naloxone Sublingual Film CIII For these purposes, relevant audit in the U. S. It is possible that Disclaimer information means information other generic manufacturers may The purpose of this Annual Report needed by the Companys External also launch generic versions of and Accounts is to provide Auditor in connection with the SUBOXONE Film following information to members of the preparation of their report on pages Indiviors launch of this Company.
The Annual Report and 85 and 94. authorized generic.
Accounts have been prepared for, External Auditor Indivior reached a definitive and only for, the members of the agreement February 4, 2019  LLP Company, as a body and no other to divest rights related to have agreed to be re-appointed persons.
The Company, its Directors SUBOXONE Sublingual Tablets as the External Auditor of the and employees, agents or advisors Sai Bo Song in the Peoples Company.
Resolutions for their do not accept or assume Republic of China to Zhejiang re-appointment, and to authorize responsibility to any other person Indivior Annual Report 2018 85 81 Directors Report continued to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
The Annual Report and Accounts contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and Accounts and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forwardlooking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts should be construed as a profit forecast.
Annual General Meeting AGM The AGM will be held at 11am UK Time on Wednesday, May 8, 2019 at the offices of Addleshaw Goddard LLP, Milton Gate, 60 Chiswell Street, London EC1Y 4AG.
A full description of the business to be conducted at the meeting is set out in the Notice of AGM, available from the Companys website www.
Strategic Report The Strategic Report set out on pages 4 to 35 was approved by the Board on March 1, 2019.
By Order of the Board Kathryn Hudson Company Secretary of Indivior PLC 103-105 Bath Road Slough, Berkshire, SL1 3UH Company registration number: 9237894 March 1, 2019 82 86 www.
