Managing our business responsibly The Groups approach to managing the business responsibly drives the delivery ofits mission, vision, strategy, risk management, governance, management systems and performance monitoring.
We seek to continuously improve by the substance use disorder of 1.
Environment, climate change ourstandard operating procedures, family members, with the aim of and health and safety management systems and breaking the intergenerational cycle The Groups main impacts are linked performance indicators.
to our fine chemical plant in Hull.
Our facilities have an excellent track This section provides an overview of Our grant supports the strengthening, record and recorded no material Indiviors framework which addresses growth, and expansion of addiction environmental e. g. spills, emissions six key areas of its business: prevention resources, sites to air or health and safety incidents and services.
Environment, climate change and health and safety Indivior also supports Camp Mariposa Emissions 2.
Communities through its employee volunteering Type Tonnes of CO e 2 programs including collecting and 3.
Patient safety and product quality Scope 1 473 donating hygiene supplies and duffle 4. Business conduct Scope 2 location-based 2301 bags, contributing direct volunteer 5.
People hours, and collecting funds for Scope 2 market-based 2599 6.
Advocacy and stakeholder camp supplies for Camp Mariposas Scope 3 157 engagement 12 locations.
Total emissions location-based 2932 Reporting, investor dialogue 3.
Patient safety and Total emissions andratings productquality market-based 3230 Patient safety and product quality are The Group is in regular dialogue Per tonne of production embedded in the Groups culture and with its investors about its approach location-based 583 patient-focused business model, and to responsible business.
We also are fundamental to the integrity of participate in several related Per tonne of production our global brands and businesses.
research exercises conducted by market-based 642 organizations such as CDP, FTSE Per full time employee 1 Through a robust pharmacovigilance Russell, VigeoEIRIS and MSCI.
location-based 3.2 process, we monitor the safety of the Per full time employee Groups marketed and investigational The Group has been a member of market-based 3.5 products in a comprehensive and the FTSE4Good index series since it thorough manner.
This includes a Risk became independent and recently Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies 2.
Communities received a comparably high ESG REMS program to mitigate the risks rating in comparison to several of its Camp Mariposa 2 of accidental overdose, misuse and significantly larger peers from MSCI.
In September 2016, Indivior entered abuse for SUBOXONE Film and to into an agreement with the Eluna mitigate the risk of serious harm Network formerly the Moyer or death that could result from Foundation to provide a three-year intravenous self-administration for grant to support Camp Mariposa, SUBLOCADE in the US.
Globally, Risk Elunas addiction prevention Management Plans RMPs are being and mentoring program.
Camp put in place to minimize risks outside Mariposa serves youth impacted the US.
Information about FTSE4Good membership verified by email from FTSE Russell on July 6, 2018.
Information about MSCI ratings verified in ESG ratings report received from MSCI dated September 24, 2018.
com Strategic report The Group is committed to a Health and Human Services, and 5.
People culture of innovation and quality the appropriate industry codes of The Group has a variety of defined as maintaining patient ethics, including those published employment policies that create trust, empowering our workforce by the Pharmaceutical Research aframework to ensure that it is and partnering with regulators to and Manufacturers of America an employer of choice and that drive excellence.
PhRMA : Association of the British it provides a fair, equitable and Pharmaceutical Industry: and by conducive working environment Patient Help Foundation Medicines Australia.
free from discrimination and harassment.
The Group views its In 2018, the Indivior Patient Help In 2018, the Group continued to employees as fundamental to its Foundation provided SUBOXONE enhance its Integrity and Compliance long-term success and strives to Film product valued at $16.7m program through the implementation provide a working environment in through its patient assistance of the following among other key line with this ambition.
It conducts a program in the US.
Since 2010, the deliverables : variety of communications, training Foundation has provided medication and development programs to access to an average of 5,000 undertaking a comprehensive achieve this aim and to ensure that qualified patients per year.
review of key internal processes, employees conduct their activities including implementation of inline with the Groups Guiding 4. Business conduct appropriate enhancements: Principles.
These include: The Group requires compliance conducting distributor country with laws, regulations, and industry culture champions program: compliance training and supported codes of conduct at all times via multiple distributor audits: established policies and procedures.
regular performance reviews: and Its comprehensive compliance developing and disseminating an local town hall program includes a focused Integrity enterprise-wide quarterly Integrity communications events.
and Compliance department, with and Compliance newsletter to our Chief Integrity and Compliance drive awareness and best practice As of December 31, 2018, Indivior Officer as a member of the Executive throughout the organization: employed 915 people worldwide Committee.
The distribution of adopting gamification as an Compliance department helps these people by function and approach to reinforce the fieldassure that the Groups operations location is shown on page 20. based sales teams knowledge of are conducted in line with all legal and compliance with policies: and and regulatory requirements, guidance from the Office of Inspector appointing the Executive General for the U. S. Department of Committee to serve as the Indivior Compliance Committee.
Compliance leadership As Chief Integrity and Compliance Joining Indivior in October 2018, Cindy Officer, Cindy Cetani will continue more than 30 years of experience in to leverage the Groups strong driving a culture of learning, integrity commitment to compliance and and compliance program vision.
Reporting Cindy joined Indivior from Novartis, to the Chief Executive Officer, where she held roles of increasing Cindy will focus on compliance responsibility over the past 15 program strategy, governance and years and was most recently Head sustainability, related strategic of Compliance Operations, Group and integrated communications, Integrity & Compliance.
workforce continuing education and development, and ongoing risk awareness and management to help assure compliance with relevant laws, regulations and industry codes of conduct.
Indivior Annual Report 2018 19 Managing our business responsibly continued Our gender diversity figures for the purposes of s414C 8 c of the Companies Territories Act 2006 are as follows: Number United States of America 573 At December 31, 2018 Total Women Men Australasia 27 Directors of Indivior PLC 11 4 36% 7 64% China 6 Senior managers 59 18 30% 41 70% Europe, Middle East, Africa All employees 915 497 54% 418 46% and Canada 309 Includes members of the Executive Committee who are not Directors of Indivior PLC and all subsidiary company directors Employment function understanding of the Groups of the Group before the US House Number activities, strategy, products and of Representatives Energy and Commercial 429 plans and to further develop the Commerce Subcommittee on Health Compliance 9 relationship between the Groups hearing on Combating the Opioid senior management team and Crisis: Helping Communities Balance Corporate affairs and its employees.
communications 7 This hearing helped establish the Finance 76 All the events were attended and policies ultimately included in H. R. 6.
Human Resources 23 led by members of the Groups New innovations are expanding Information Technology 41 Executive Committee, including the medication-assisted treatment Chief Executive Officer, and were options, the Chief Medical Officer Legal and governance 14 video conferenced to enable the stated during her testimony.
Medical 86 participation of staff located at Government policies impacting Research and development 133 different sites.
these treatments must adapt to Supply 97 ensure patients have access to all 1 International Women evidence-based treatment options.
inLeadership Culture champions Enacted on October 24, 2018, this The Groups international women The Groups culture champions are lawincludes multiple, comprehensive in leadership program is called IWiL anetwork of nearly 50 employees initiatives to improve access to and its mission is to help support from around the world who act as treatment for patients suffering diversity in leadership.
The program ambassadors and create opportunities 2 fromsubstance use disorders.
is conducted within each territory for greater engagementand sharing and consists of a variety of events, of best practices.
Champions are The Chief Medical Officer also activities and communications tasked with proposing ideas and participated in the US State initiatives.
During 2018, these implementing activities todrive a Government Affairs Council Leaders activities included: positive culture, incollaboration Policy Conference on Innovations with Human Resources, managers inHealthcare panel entitled networking events at Group sites: and leaders.
Revolutionary Treatments for access to training videos and Society in 2018.
At the conference, To reinforce its culture and Guiding abusiness skills library: she underscored the importance Principles, in 2018 the Group of understanding the patient mentoring activities: and implemented an on-line training journey and giving patients and development of volunteering program to supplement the live their healthcare providers access opportunities.
Employees are to thefull range of evidencenow expected to complete both based therapies.
Advocacy and modules to understand and quickly  begin exemplifying our values and In 2018, Indivior also supported a Guiding Principles.
In 2018, Indivior continued range of non-governmental agencies engaging with stakeholders and and campaigns around the world advocating for patients to help Town hall events tohelp destigmatize and raise stimulate and accelerate changes During the year, the Group held awareness of the disease of addiction to public policy.
In the US, Indivior several town hall events across and other mental health disorders.
supported the passage of H. R. 6, our global regions and functions, Indivioralso supported efforts to the SUPPORT for Patients and including several global Skype develop resources for patients, Communities Act.
Medical Officer testified on behalf events serve as two-way dialogue opportunities to improve employee 1. https: docs.
gov bill 115 -congress house-bill 6 all-info?r l. 20 www.
