A patients journey Ashlynn, US At Indivior, we believe patient voices are vital in helping toshed light on the opioid epidemic and destigmatize the disease of addiction and other mental health disorders.
They also highlight the importance of a full treatment program and provide hope to others.
Every patient journey is different, and Ashlynns story is uniquely her own.
Ashlynn began treatment for anxiety treatment regimens.
She struggled I hope people will and depression at age 12, although but stuck with it.
Each day sober was she recalls these feelings at an even a small victory.
Working with her learn thatwe are younger age without knowing what counselor, she learned about another not just a number.
Throughout middle and buprenorphine medication option.
At high school, she was treated for these first, she found the treatment painful We can be working mental health disorders, but nothing but since then she has worked with seemed to help.
Struggling with her healthcare provider to minimize next to you.
We depression as a college freshman, the discomfort and is now in her can be anyone in Ashlynn left university and was ninth month of treatment.
She also admitted into a psychiatric ward.
attends Narcotics Anonymous and yourlife.
Leaving treatment, vulnerable and other counseling programs to help still struggling, she snorted her first maintain her treatment protocol Ashlynn prescription opioid analgesic.
This anddeal with her past.
Patient, US led to heroin and a seven-year spiral into opioid addiction, rehabilitation, Now 24, Ashlynn says she is able outpatient and inpatient programs, tofocus on other aspects of her and abusive relationships.
life, like her family and her full-time job.
She is also currently enrolled Ashlynn found herself living in an in a community college working abandoned building, which she toward acertification in addiction pinpoints as the worst experience counseling.
Ashlynn hopes to pursue ofher addiction.
She recalls, I was so a masters degree and become a scared that I would die, and nobody licensed Professional Counselor would know that I did not want this sothat she can help others.
In September 2018, Ashlynn Ashlynns journey to recovery began celebrated being sober for one year.
Ashlynn received compensation from Indivior for sharing her story with small steps through various 6 www.
com Strategic report A patients journey Nathalie, US Addiction not only impacts patients lives, but can also devastate families and relationships, and deprive people of the everyday activities so easily taken for granted.
Nathalies patient journey to recovery is the story of reuniting with her three children after many years apart, rebuilding her relationships with loved ones and working to create a newlife that brings her meaning and joy.
Through all of this, Nathalies relationship with her partner of more than eleven years was a constant in her life.
He stood by her side, supporting her, forgiving her and trying to help her regain her life and overcome her addiction.
She describes putting him through hell and it was only when he ended up in hospital for health reasons, and Nathalie was facing the prospect ofjail time and being away from him, that she hit rockbottom.
Nathalie had tried various medication-assisted treatment options in the past, but she had not changed her people, places At 40 years old, Nathalie struggled I am embracing and things.
She realized that in with her addiction for over 20 order to truly embrace her recovery years before beginning her journey having my children journey, she would need to make to recovery.
They are in a study for a new medicationNathalie describes growing up in an proud of me, they assisted treatment option, she was area where drugs were everywhere.
able tojointhe Drug Court program She started experimenting with accept me, they whichprovided the structure alcohol and marijuana at age 14 trust me, and we andpsychosocial supports she and rapidly progressed to heroin, neededtobe successful in the eventually dropping out of school area family again.
Homeless, she describes living between drug Nathalie Now, after more than 15 years, houses and in cars, spending time in Patient, US Nathalie has all three of her children jail and making several unsuccessful back in her life.
She is in school attempts at treatment.
Although she to earn her High School diploma, remained sober during each of her has her drivers license back and is pregnancies, Nathalie lost custody driving for the first time since she was ofher three children when they were a teenager.
She is proud of her first very young.
real job working as a peer counselor at a local community center helping She recalls, I damaged everything patients with Hepatitis C who are Itouched back then.
She is also fought with my addiction from Day looking forward to getting married to One.
I used drugs as a way to cope her longtimepartner.
with my life: I used drugs as a way to numb my feelings.
It caused me to do Nathalie has been sober since things that I am not proud of.
I felt Nathalie received compensation from Indivior for sharing her story December 2016. soalone.
Indivior Annual Report 2018 7 A patients journey Miss T, US Schizophrenia is a chronic and complex medical condition that can affect how a person thinks, feels and behaves.
Symptoms include delusions, hallucinations, confused thoughts and speech and difficulty concentrating and remembering things.
More than half of all people with schizophrenia have anosognosia or a lack of insight this symptom makes them unaware they have the illness and complicates treatment.
Schizophrenia is typically diagnosed during late adolescence or early adulthood.
Miss T was diagnosed in her late teens and we share herstory to help raise awareness and understanding ofthelife-changing and profound personal and family impactof this disease.
By her account, Miss T had a bright She wasnt convinced doctors had of the group home family.
Educated at good schools, accurately identified her problems.
describes the home and its staff, she was an accomplished ballet As prescribed by her healthcare whose goal is to enable each resident student and a competitive diver.
She provider, she would maintain her to have the best quality of life, as graduated with high honors and was treatment regimen.
She is grateful they are accepted to a prestigious university as she started feeling better, she able to help her navigate lifes daily where she hoped to study law.
I did stopped her medication and would challenges including helping her very, very well until I got my illness, then find herself back in hospital.
remember to take her medicine.
It was through the home that Miss T The stigma attached to her illness Just a few months into her first made things even worse.
She recalls met a psychiatrist and was enrolled in a study for a monthly treatment for semester at university, she began many people looking down at her, not feeling as though something was taking her seriously, and misjudging schizophrenia.
She said the monthly regimen was helpful for her as she wrong with her.
The illness and stigma took away voices and seeing things that were all her confidence.
sometimes has trouble remembering to take, or if she has taken, her not there.
She withdrew from university, and helped by her family, If youre high functioning, its hard daily medication.
to accept theres anything wrong pursued treatment which resulted inadmission to a hospital.
It was only Mostly, Miss T feels people suffering after staying on treatment that she from mental illness need care and It was like the world was began to understand there is really understanding from others.
She something wrong with me.
said she is fortunate to have a crashing around me all the time, Miss T recalls.
I wasnt really nephew who visits her and helps her She was last hospitalized in 2012, feel better about her illness.
People would talk to youand it would go in one ear after the stress of losing her parents way of treating me is that youre coupled with a terrible storm that special, she explained.
So, youre andout the other.
shut off the heat in her apartment paranoid schizophrenic.
Her diagnosis of paranoid After leaving hospital, she moved to a state-licensed personal care schizophrenia in her late teens forever changed her life.
She is described by the home administrator as very high patients with schizophrenia, Miss T Miss T received compensation from Indivior for had difficulty accepting her illness.
functioning and a loved member sharing her story.
com Strategic report You should never let your illness take over what you want to do because you could be the person that makes adifference in someones life.
Miss T Patient, US Indivior Annual Report 2018 9
