Strategic Report Our markets Working in specialist markets Health & Nutritionb bbvnnvbbbb From hubs in Boulder, Colorado: Phoenix, Arizona: Amsterdam: and London, we deliver large-scale Through the enlarged Groups five Operating exhibitions around the world, as Divisions, we work in a range of customer well as insight and intelligence, to markets, delivering intelligence, research, the growing international community content, connections and data through our for health and nutrition products and food and pharmaceutical ingredients.
For more information on our brands visit: informa.
com New York Aviation vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv The aviation and aerospace community is a global one, and relies on the latest data, analytics and intelligence, as well as forums to source new services and network.
Our brands support specialists working in air transport, defence and space, network planning, aerospace, and maintenance, repair and operations.
So Paulo 22 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Pharma, Life Sciences and Medical From sourcing medical equipment to analysing clinical trial data, finding Life Sciences investment opportunities and understanding the latest trends in neurology, Informas brands help a range of specialist communities research, discover and do business in the Pharma, Life Sciences and Medical markets.
London Tokyo Finance In Finance, we provide major Technology branded events, opportunities to connect and network, and data and Technology intelligence services to specialist professional communities from The new Informa Tech Division brings private equity to retail banks and together all our brands that serve financial technology providers.
areas of the technology community, from information security to artificial intelligence, 5G networks, the Internet Sydney of Things, cloud computing, smart cities and more.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 23 Strategic Report Our markets continued The customer markets Informa focuses on are typically highly specialist, international Trends in and dynamic, with long-term growth prospects.
This section includes insight our specialist into five of the markets we work in from Informa sector experts: markets Artificial Intelligence Life Sciences Consumer Retail Banking Pharmaceutical Ingredients Asia 24 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Endless opportunities Artificial intelligence AI is entering a new growth phase, driven by the convergence of three trends: more data, faster hardware and better algorithms.
Together, they are accelerating research, development and commercial investment in AI applications at lightning speeds.
Many organisations are scaling from pilot deployments to full-scale, enterprise Human interactions rollouts of AI technology within months, rather AI currently has a complex relationship with humans than years.
Tractica forecasts that worldwide that will change over time.
While certain jobs will annual revenue generated from the direct and become automated, AI is more often poised to indirect application of AI software will increase augment human labour and decision making.
Longer term, many applications will be designed to empower humans with non-human capabilities, The breadth and velocity of the AI market have, memory, experiences and knowledge.
Various however, led to increasing challenges for both ethical, philosophical, cultural, societal and business technology adopters and suppliers, in maintaining norms will be forced into reassessment.
the same pace of innovation with their products and integration plans.
AIs manifestation will shift The jury is still out regarding the ability of machines alongside other technology macro trends: it is not the to seamlessly interact as a human would.
Numerous other technologies, social media bots have effectively passed for Twitter including the Internet of Things, augmented reality, and Facebook users, neither robots nor virtual digital virtual reality, blockchain, renewable energy, genomics assistants can disguise their code-based composition.
and 3D printing will influence AIs development, Another area to consider is how companies are adoption and regulation.
deploying AI to power virtual agents for consumer facing interactions.
They must balance unprecedented Developing use cases opportunities for personalisation with significant As the creation of data continues to increase risk of failure, faux pas or backlash.
exponentially and customers expectations of AItechnology shift, companies must navigate the Fragmented maturity hype, adopt new capabilities and adapt their Maturity and the metrics for success in AI vary widely strategies, all while demonstrating improved from application to application.
Relatively low stakes efficiencies and generating new revenue streams.
applications, such as movie recommendations, are widely accepted and used, while others such as credit Broadly, all AI falls into three macro categories: big scoring or medical treatment recommendations data, vision and language.
Although most people remain regulatory grey areas and face significant think of it as being driven by big data analytics, the barriers to widespread adoption.
larger growth opportunity is related to vision and language perception capabilities.
But AI applications mark the next evolutionary step in digital transformation.
Computing, sensing, For end-users, AI interactions like robotics or networking and data generation were only the autonomously moving machines are obvious, beginning.
The ability to process data more quickly even tangible.
But looking at other use cases, and intelligently across systems, leveraging hardware, profound opportunities lie in forecasting, empirical sensors and cameras, and to digitise language itself, decision making, operations automation, product marks the next era of enterprise transformation.
optimisation, new business models, greater access to services, targeted services, enhanced user Clint Wheelock experiences and even improved environmental Managing Director and public health.
Simultaneously, AI poses Tractica, Informa Tech many urgent challenges, from data privacy and re-skilling workforces to uncharted legal and regulatory questions.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 25 Artificial Intelligence The Welcome desk at Strategic Report BIO-Europe, our Life Sciences Our markets continued international partnering event Clinical thinking The Life Sciences industry enters 2019 with cautious optimism amid a great deal of change.
Biotech innovation is booming, exit markets are robust, and new drug classes are emerging and gaining regulatory approval.
At the same time, Western companies face increasing competition, the political and regulatory climate is mixed and Progress in approvals should continue in 2019, with the economics of healthcare remains a challenge.
key clinical results expected to impact public health for years to come.
After much hype and discussion Investment and consolidation around safety and ethics, the first clinical trials of Innovation is moving fast, particularly in the CRISPR gene-editing therapeutics are slated to begin US, where venture capital continues to pour in the US.
New drugs for neural disorders, such as into biotech companies in areas such as oncology, depression and schizophrenia, are poised to receive genomics and chronic diseases.
In 2018, US Life regulatory approval, while novel approaches to Sciences firms reached a decade high in venture Alzheimers and neurodegenerative diseases face capital raised, while their European counterparts crucial tests in patients.
Rising prices Mergers and acquisitions surged in the past Software and analytics are playing an increasing year, with 150-plus transactions worth a total role in industry progress.
Life Sciences companies of $148bn in disclosed deal values among continue to apply AI techniques, particularly in therapeutics, diagnostics and medical device imaging, pathology and diagnostics.
The consolidation trend is hitting major players in pharmaceuticals and biotech.
Digital therapeutics have emerged, with regulatory Bristol-Myers Squibbs $74bn buy-out of approvals granted for new kinds of software to treat Celgene, a merger of two oncology drug giants addiction and other disorders.
Amazon, Microsoft announced in early 2019, will impact research, and other tech giants are moving deeper into health, development and drug pipelines worldwide.
making advances in areas such as healthcare delivery and infrastructure.
Regulatory approvals The drug industry continues to see an upswing in The high cost of healthcare remains a difficult issue.
regulatory approvals, with the US Food and Drug Tension over rising drug prices is mounting, and Administration approving 59 new drugs in 2018, biotech and pharma companies are preparing for up from 46 the previous year.
The US Government announced Medicines Agency approved 42 new active policy proposals to lower drug prices but the substances, up from 35 in 2017. immediate future is unclear.
Meanwhile, drug companies and insurers are signing more outcomesMeanwhile, regulatory changes in China have made based agreements, which tie the payment for a drug it easier to develop drugs and get them approved to its performance in patients.
Drug makers have for the fast-rising domestic market.
China recently touted these approaches to control costs, but they approved a drug developed by Western companies, might only be useful for a small group of drugs.
an anaemia treatment from AstraZeneca and Fibrogen, before any other country.
With some uncertainty in the regulatory environment, Life Sciences companies expect to Recent US drug approvals of note include the save more of their cash in the short term, even as first-ever RNA interference drug: the first-ever they navigate the substantial opportunities ahead.
cancer drug that targets a genetic fingerprint instead of a tumours location: and a new class of Gregory Huang migraine medication.
Conversely, despite breaking Xconomy Editor in Chief new ground, CAR-T immunotherapies for blood Informa Connect cancers have had mixed results commercially.
26 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Life Sciences Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements to enable third party developers to build applications Digital payoff and services for banks, is a clear example of how this data and technology transformation is having The global banking sector is in good health, with a direct impact.
assets, profitability and capitalisation all having materially increased since the global financial crisis.
Demographics and customer expectations Add the prospect of rising interest rates and relaxed Ensuring the best customer experience in the regulatory pressures, and the retail banking industry multi-channel world of brick and mortar branch, appears in better shape than it has been for some time.
online and mobile banking is critical.
The emergence of non-traditional banks is driving market opportunity The landscape is changing, however.
Technology, as innovative, fast-moving lenders like Quicken, demographics, customer expectations and new Freedom Mortgage, PennyMac and Nationstar have competitors are forcing traditional retail banks, rapidly taken share from traditional mortgage banks.
credit unions and mortgage lenders to change Quicken surpassed Wells Fargo as the single largest their business practices to avoid being left behind.
mortgage originator in the US, largely due to its customer experience.
Forces of technology Digital banking has transformed the way bank Consumer loyalty to big bank brands has diminished services are delivered and consumed.
Bank of and satisfaction with mobile and online functionality America announced in 2018 that, for the first has decreased.
Only 28% of US consumers say the time, deposits made through smartphones and experience they receive from their banks branch, tablets outpaced those made through branches.
online and mobile channels is seamless, according to Accenture.
And according to EY, 85% of banks say that implementing a digital transformation programme New competitors is a near-term business priority.
The investment in Consumers are willing and desirous to transact technology to drive efficiency, manage evolving digitally, and nimble non-banks like Quicken have risks and capture growth opportunities will be used technology to enhance the customer experience critical for sustainable success.
Innovative fintech companies like Blend promise to make transactions faster and more The emergence of non-traditional disrupters consumer friendly, especially in the face of new means banks, credit unions, mortgage lenders regulations.
These technologies offer the potential and insurers have been forced to turn to big data, to jump ahead of incumbents with lower costs and machine learning and advanced analytics to offer superior customer experience.
more directed product placement and capture new customers.
Underpinning these goals and challenges The net result is that traditional models face is the need to make investment decisions based on significant margin pressure and must adapt or real-time, granular data.
The appetite for this type risk being left behind.
And this is happening of intelligence varies depending on the size of the across lending, with companies like SoFi using institution: larger institutions have developed these technologies to disrupt student lending, sophisticated analytics while smaller ones require personal loans and other markets as well.
As consumers are forever wedded to their The traditional model of keeping all data in-house smartphones, the banking sector has changed is being turned on its head.
Matching attractive rates with the speed exchanges are being formed across the financial and execution of world-class, multi-channel services world and having access to this data will customer experience are table stakes for retail give retail banks important insights on price banks worldwide.
elasticity, market share, revenue enhancement, cost containment and more, helping them make Craig Woodward better investment decisions faster.
Open Banking President, Financial Intelligence in the EU, a regulation that allows the use of Informa Intelligence open application programming interfaces APIs WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 27 Consumer Retail Banking Strategic Report Our markets continued Recipe for growth The global pharmaceutical ingredient, processing and manufacturing market continues to mature, with the start of 2019 heralding significant acquisitions and major product announcements.
Businesses in emerging markets like China and India are shaking up supply chains and bringing scrutiny from regulators and customers.
As companies from emerging markets mature in this flattened supply chain, there is a growing expectation Acquiring to stay ahead for them not only to meet the needs of the clients they Our CPhI Forecast predicts continued consolidation are supplying but also to adhere to strict US Food and through mergers and acquisitions of startups.
Larger Drug Administration and European Medicines Agency companies will use their scale to bring these startups regulations, to ensure they can reach consumers new technologies, biologics and drug delivery methods across the globe.
The result is a growing need for to market: recent notable acquisitions have focused on pharma ingredients, contract services and packaging the development of cancer fighting drugs and the providers to develop strategies that work not only continued growth of biopharma and biotech.
These trends suggest that if large pharma companies With the supply chain becoming more closely want to keep filling their drug development pipelines, controlled, integrated pharma supply companies they will need to innovate through acquisition and have an opportunity to offer multiple services and continue to bring new technologies under larger solutions, from contract and lab services to sales.
But everyone, from pharma companies to healthcare providers, needs to be able to trust the effectiveness A question of trust of the process and of the end products.
In order to meet the growing demands of ageing populations, global R&D investment is forecast to Digital future reach over $183bn by 2020.
While R&D continues The drug delivery and packaging market is becoming to be focused in Europe and the US, China and highly competitive and is focusing on drug delivery India are making large investments, including in innovations that meet efficiency standards and large molecule biologics, and increasingly not only demand from digital healthcare systems.
to support the global market but the domestic market as well.
The packaging community in particular has been investing in digital solutions, with innovations and The fastest-growing pharma countries realise the research helping to bring new delivery methods importance of increasing their reputation as reliable, to consumers, as well as new ways to track usage, reputable and transparent markets.
According to dosage and efficiency.
These digital offerings the latest CPhI Report, published in October 2018, complement the overall trend of digitisation within a survey of more than 2,000 industry professionals healthcare, from patient records to drug usage, that found that India and China were the countries will continue to offer opportunities for the pharma whose reputations had increased the most in ingredients market.
Adam Andersen Flattening supply chain Group Brand Director While the Pharma industry is facing scrutiny from Pharma, Informa Markets regulators and the media, the pharma ingredients market is facing pressure for transparency, traceability and efficiency in production, pricing and delivery.
However, with markets including China and India gaining industry trust and scale, the supply chain for active pharmaceutical ingredients is flattening.
28 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Pharma Ingredients Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements demand from businesses to connect with national Diversity and growth and international customers, something exhibition platforms provide at scale.
While Asia is by no means a homogenous region, there are several business and economic trends This alignment is reflected in the rapid expansion common to a number of Asian markets, which of the exhibitions industry in the region.
make it an exciting place to do business and find commercial opportunities, particularly in exhibitions.
China became the worlds second largest exhibitions market in 2015 and was valued at $2.7bn in 2017, Countries such as China, India and Vietnam are growing at 11%.
Part of this growth is thanks to the growing at a much higher rate than the rest of the construction of new venues in tier two cities as well world as their economies develop and mature, with as expansion of existing venues in the countrys Chinas GDP growth hitting 6.9% and Indias nearly largest hubs.
In late 2019, the Shenzhen World 6.7% in 2017 according to the World Bank, compared Exhibition & Convention Center is slated to open, which with 3.1% globally.
will ultimately offer over 500,000 sq.
m of exhibition space, the largest single exhibitions venue in the world.
Asia is also home to three of the five most populous countries in the world, creating large consumer This commitment to exhibitions as a source of markets for businesses to target.
According to IATAs international investment is a trend being mirrored 2018 data, Asia-Pacific recorded the largest year-onin other countries across Asia.
year increase in international aviation traffic of any region, and Indias domestic market for air travel For example, both Thailand and Indonesia have posted the highest annual growth rate of any formed a national Convention and Exhibition country, with an 18.6% increase in demand.
Bureau, specifically to provide active support for the exhibitions market.
When it comes to exhibitions, one of the great strengths of Asia is its appetite and level of national In a region as large and diverse as Asia, there is not support for business, commerce and innovation.
a one-size-fits-all model for a successful exhibitions operating approach but there are common factors In industries like Manufacturing, Automotive and that are important.
Local relationships are critical, Technology, Asia is increasingly taking a leading position as individual markets have their way of doing things, in the global supply chain, and this creates huge from dealing with local authorities and trade associations, to collaborating with partners and managing suppliers.
Having a strong and recognised Informas footprint in Asia brand also helps, as trust and reputation are key.
Presence in 10 countries Perhaps the most important factor is attracting talent.
Exhibitions is by nature a people business, dependent on the commitment and focus of individuals to bring brands to life.
With the growth and innovation happening around us in other industries, attracting Beijing high quality talent into the exhibitions industry is not Seoul easy.
One of the ways we are addressing this is through Tokyo local partnerships: for instance, we have collaborated Shanghai New Delhi with the South China University of Technology to create a training base for future event professionals.
Hong Kong In addition, our Asia operation is known for its internal Mumbai training programmes which have proved successful Bangkok in retaining and developing talent.
Ho Chi Minh City Margaret Ma Connolly Kuala Lumpur Singapore Informa Markets Asia CEO Jakarta WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 29 Asia
