Legal proceedings interactions with a non-profit thirdand Amneal has dismissed its claims Litigation Investigative matters party organization.
On November against the Group with prejudice.
The The Group carries a provision for 16, 2016, Indivior was served with a other antitrust cases are pending in investigative and antitrust litigation subpoena for records from the State federal court in the Eastern District of matters of $438m.
Substantially of California Department of Insurance Pennsylvania.
Pre-trial proceedings all of the provision relates to the under its civil California insurance were coordinated.
The fact discovery U. S. Department of Justice DOJ code authority.
The subpoena period has closed: expert discovery investigation.
The Group is in requests documents related to and briefing on class certification advanced discussions with the DOJ SUBOXONE Film, SUBOXONE issues is ongoing.
about a possible resolution to its Tablet, and SUBUTEX Tablet.
investigations, although it cannot The State has served additional Estate of John Bradley Allen predict with any certainty whether, deposition subpoenas on Indivior in when, or at what cost it will reach an On December 27, 2016, the Estate 2017 and served a subpoena in 2018 ultimate resolution.
of John Bradley Allen filed a civil requesting documents relating to complaint against Indivior, among the bioavailability bioequivalency U. S. Department of other parties, in the Northern District of SUBOXONE Film, manufacturing Justice Investigation of New York seeking relief under records for the product and its Connecticuts products liability A US federal criminal grand jury components, and the potential to and unfair trade practices statutes investigation of Indivior initiated in develop dependency on SUBOXONE for damages allegedly caused December 2013 is continuing, and Film.
The Group is fully cooperating by SUBOXONE.
This lawsuit was includes marketing and promotion inthese civil investigations.
dismissed without prejudice on practices, pediatric safety claims, and August 9, 2018. over prescribing of medication by FTC investigation and certain physicians.
The US Attorneys AntitrustLitigation Opioid Class Action Litigation Office for the Western District of The US Federal Trade Commissions Virginia has served a number of In February 2019, Indivior PLC, investigation remains pending.
subpoenas relating to SUBOXONE along with other manufacturers of Litigation regarding privilege claims Film, SUBOXONE Tablet, SUBUTEX opioid products, was named in the has now been resolved.
Indivior has Tablet, buprenorphine and our national civil opioid class action produced certain documents that it competitors, among other issues.
litigation brought by state and local had previously withheld as privileged: The Group has responded to the governments, alleging misleading other such documents have not subpoenas and has otherwise marketing messages.
cooperated fully with the Department was filed by several Kentucky public and prosecutors and will continue health agencies in the class action Civil antitrust claims have been to do so.
The Group is in advanced consolidated in the federal district filed by a a putative class of discussions with the Department of court for the Northern District of Ohio direct purchasers, b a putative Justice about a possible resolution on February 6, 2019.
On February class of end payor purchasers, to its investigation.
However, it is 21, 2019, Indivior was voluntarily c Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC not possible to predict with any dismissed with prejudice from Amneal, a manufacturer of generic certainty the potential impact of the lawsuit.
buprenorphine naloxone tablets, and this investigation on the Group or d a group of states, now numbering to quantify the ultimate cost of 41, and the District of Columbia.
Each set of plaintiffs filed generally similar claims alleging, among State Subpoenas other things, that Indivior violated On October 12, 2016, Indivior was US federal and or state antitrust served with a subpoena for records and consumer protection laws in from the State of Connecticut attempting to delay generic entry of Office of the Attorney General alternatives to SUBOXONE tablets.
under its Connecticut civil false Plaintiffs further allege that Indivior claims act authority.
The subpoena unlawfully acted to lower the market requests documents related to the share of these products.
The Group Groups marketing and promotion has settled the dispute with Amneal, of SUBOXONE products and its 26 www.
com Strategic report TRO, preventing DRL from continuing its forthcoming petition for certiorari Intellectual property to sell or offer to sell its generic seeking to overturn the CAFCs PI relatedmatters product.
Indivior was required to vacatur.
On February 19, 2019, the ANDA Litigation post an $18 million surety bond to Supreme Court of the United States Actavis is currently enjoined from cover DRLs damages in the event denied Indiviors motion to stay launching a generic buprenorphine of an Indivior loss of its patent case issuance of the CAFCs mandate naloxone film product until April against DRL.
On June 28, 2018, the vacating the PI granted against DRL.
2024 based on a June 3, 2016 ruling court heard oral argument in support The CAFC subsequently issued the by the United States District Court of Indiviors motion for a PI against mandate vacating the PI granted for the District of Delaware finding DRL and, at the conclusion of this against DRL.
The U. S. District Court the asserted claims of the 514 hearing, extended the TRO for an for the District of New Jersey then Patent valid and infringed.
Actavis additional 14 days in order to rule on confirmed the PI against DRL had has appealed this ruling.
On October the PI motion and required Indivior to been vacated.
24, 2017, Actavis received tentative post another $18 million surety bond.
approval from FDA for at least its On July 13, 2018, the District Court DRL is therefore are no longer 8mg 2mg generic product under its issued its ruling granting Indivior a prevented from selling, offering Abbreviated New Drug Application PI against DRL.
On July 18, 2018, the to sell, or importing their generic ANDA No.
204383 and on November District Court ordered Indivior to buprenorphine naloxone sublingual 15, 2017, it received tentative approval post a surety bond for $72 million film products.
DRL has re-launched for its 12mg 3mg generic product that total figure being inclusive of its generic product, and any sales under ANDA No.
Litigation the $36 million surety bond already in the U. S. are on an at-risk basis, against Actavis is also pending in posted in connection with the PI.
subject to the outcome of the CAFC the District of Delaware on Indiviors DRL appealed to the United States appeal of the judgments related to more recently listed Orange Book Court of Appeals for the Federal U. S. Patent No.
8,603,514, and U. S. Patents: US Patent Nos.
9,687,454 Circuit CAFC on the same day.
On 8,017,150 in the case of DRL, as well the 454 Patent, and 9,931,305 November 20, 2018, the CAFC issued as ongoing litigation in the District of the 305 Patent.
adecision vacating the PI against New Jersey asserting Orange BookDRL.
Indivior filed a timely petition listed U. S. Patent Nos.
9,931,305 and On August 31, 2017, the United for rehearing and rehearing en banc 9,687,454.
States District Court for the District on December 20, 2018.
The CAFC of Delaware found that asserted denied the petition on February 4, On February 12, 2019, the CAFC claims of US Patent No.
On February 5, 2019, Indivior granted Indiviors request to the 150 Patent, US Patent No.
filed an emergency motion to stay expedite the appeal of the non- 8,900,497 the 497 Patent, and the the issuance of mandate pending infringement judgment in the 514 514 Patent are valid but not infringed the resolution of the appeal of the patent case tothe extent it will be by DRL.
Indivior has appealed this District of Delaware decision with placed on thenext available oral ruling.
Litigation against DRL is respect to the 514 patent, and argument calendar.
currently pending in the District pending Indiviors forthcoming of New Jersey on the 454 and 305 petition for a writ of certiorari to the On November 13, 2018, DRL filed patents.
DRL received final FDA Supreme Court of the United States two separate petitions for inter approval for all four strengths inthe PI matter.
The CAFC denied partes review of the 454 Patent with of its generic buprenorphine that motion on February 11, 2019, and the USPTO.
Indiviors preliminary naloxone film product on June 14, Indivior filed a second emergency responses are due March 6, 2019 and 2018, and immediately launched its motion to stay the mandate pending March 7, 2019. generic buprenorphine naloxone resolution of its forthcoming film product at-risk.
On June 15, application for an administrative stay Teva filed a 505 b 2 New Drug 2018, Indivior filed a motion with to the Supreme Court of the United Application NDA for a 16mg 4mg the United States District Court for States.
The CAFC denied that motion strength of buprenorphine naloxone the District of New Jersey seeking a. Indivior, Aquestive and ordered issuance of the mandate film CASSIPA Temporary Restraining Order TRO Pharmaceuticals formerly known as on February 19, 2019.
Indivior filed an and Preliminary Injunction PI MonoSol Rx and Teva agreed that application to the Supreme Court of pending the outcome of a trial on infringement by Tevas 16mg 4mg the United States requesting a stay the merits of the 305 Patent.
The dosage strength would be governed of the mandate pending resolution of court granted Indivior a two-week by the infringement ruling as to Indivior Annual Report 2018 27 Legal proceedings continued Dr. Reddys 8mg 2mg dosage strength Alvogen is enjoined from the use, Rhodes Pharmaceuticals that was the subject of the trial in offer to sell, or sale within the United On December 23, 2016, Rhodes November 2016.
Accordingly, the nonSates, or importation into the United Pharmaceuticals filed a complaint infringement ruling in the Dr. Reddys States, of its generic buprenorphine against Indivior in the United States case means that the Teva 16mg 4mg and naloxone sublingual film product District Court for the District of dosage strength has been found not unless and until the CAFC issues a Delaware, alleging that Indiviors to infringe.
Indivior has appealed this mandate vacating the PI against DRL.
sale of SUBOXONE Film in the US November 2016 ruling.
Litigation is Alvogen has launched its generic infringes one or more claims of US ongoing against Teva in the District product, and any sales in the US are Patent No.
of New Jersey on the 454 patent on an at-risk basis, subject to the The asserted patent, which was and 305 patent.
Teva received final outcome of the appeal of the nonissued in June 2016, claims priority to approval from the FDA for CASSIPA on infringement judgment related the an application filed in August 2007.
September 7, 2018, and has agreed 514 patent, as well as the ongoing to be bound by the decision in the litigation against Alvogen in the On March 16, 2018, Indivior filed a DRL PI case.
Now that the mandate District of New Jersey.
On February petition for inter partes review IPR has issued in the DRL PI case, Teva is 12,2019, the CAFC granted Indiviors with the United States Patent and no longer prevented from launching request to expedite the appeal of the Trademark Office USPTO asserting CASSIPA.
Any sales of CASSIPA in the non-infringement judgment in the that all claims of the 512 Patent US would be on an at-risk basis, 514 patent case to the extent it will are invalid.
subject to the outcome of the appeal be placed on the next available oral of the non-infringement judgment argument calendar.
On October 4, 2018, the USPTO related to the 514 patent, as well as declined to institute an IPR on the the ongoing litigation against Teva By a Court order dated August 22, challenged claims of the 512 patent.
and DRL in the District of New Jersey.
2016, Indiviors SUBOXONE Film patent litigation against Sandoz Trial against Alvogen in the lawsuit was dismissed without prejudice involving the 514 and 497 Patents because Sandoz is no longer pursuing forSUBOXONE Film took place Paragraph IV certifications for its in September 2017.
The trial was proposed generic formulations of limited to the issue of infringement SUBOXONE Film.
because Alvogen did not challenge the validity of either patent.
On March On September 25, 2017, Indivior 22, 2018, the United States District settled its SUBOXONE Film patent Court for the District of Delaware litigation against Mylan, the terms issued its ruling finding both patents ofwhich are confidential.
Mylan not infringed by Alvogen.
Indivior received final FDA approval for has appealed this ruling.
Litigation its generic version of the 8mg against Alvogen is also pending in buprenorphine naloxone film theUnited States District Court for product on June 14, 2018. the District of New Jersey on the 454Patent and the 305 Patent.
On May 11, 2018, Indivior settled its OnJanuary 22, 2019, Indivior filed a SUBOXONE Film patent litigation motion for a temporary restraining against Par.
Under the terms of the order TRO and preliminary settlement agreement, Par can launch injunction in the District of New its generic buprenorphine naloxone Jersey, requesting that the Court film product on January 1, 2023, or restrain the launch of Alvogens earlier under certain circumstances.
generic buprenorphine naloxone Other terms of the settlement filmproduct until a trial on the merits agreement are confidential.
Alvogen received Indivior is aware, FDA to date has not approval for its generic product granted tentative or final approval on January 24, 2019.
The same day, for Pars generic buprenorphine the District of New Jersey granted a naloxone film product.
TRO until February 7, 2019, with a PI hearing scheduled for that day.
On January 31, 2019, Indivior and Alvogen entered into an agreement whereby 28 www.
