Research and development We believe that integrated clinical development programs actively engage patients and their communities, andwill progressively break down barriers and misconceptions aboutsubstance use disorders and their treatment.
One of our core guiding principles, The FDA approval of SUBLOCADE in focus on patient needs to drive November 2017 and the approval of decisions, incentivizes our Research SUBLOCADE in Canada in November and Development R&D.
Our aim is to 2018 were the most recent steps advance treatment innovation in the in a long commitment to better face of the growing global addiction understand how to address the needs crisis.
We do this by focusing on of patients suffering from OUD.
Our continuity of care, monitoring patient pivotal Phase 3 data demonstrating progress in the short-, mediumand the clinical efficacy, safety and long-term, and understanding better tolerability of SUBLOCADE were 5 the underlying causes of relapse.
recently published in The Lancet.
In 2018 Indivior also initiated Christian Heidbreder Despite availability of medications the planning and execution of Chief Scientific Officer to treat OUD, data derived from the post-marketing and lifecycle 2012-2013 National Epidemiologic management strategies along Survey on Alcohol and Related five main pillars: Conditions III NESARC-III showed only 30% of those with lifetime 1.
Post-marketing requirement non-medical prescription OUD have PMR studies: These studies aim 1 ever received treatment.
For those to understand better the patient receiving treatment, comorbidities populations that may benefit e. g. alcohol use disorder, non-opioid from a higher maintenance dosing drug use disorder, schizophrenia, regimen of SUBLOCADE and to and or bipolar disorder and explore how SUBLOCADE canbe chronic pain and high rates of safely initiated without a periodof non-adherence have been associated sublingual buprenorphine titration.
with increased odds of relapse and 2, 3, 4 higher total healthcare costs.
Post-marketing commitment PMC studies: These analyses compare the safety and efficacy of SUBLOCADE given monthly vs. SUBLOCADE given at a longer inter-dose interval.
They also aim to evaluate the transition of patients with long-term stability on a transmucosal buprenorphine dose to a monthly dose of SUBLOCADE.
Nonmedical Prescription Opioid Use and DSM-5 Nonmedical Prescription Opioid Use Disorder in the United States.
Compliance with buprenorphine medication-assisted treatment and relapse to opioid use.
Relationship between buprenorphine adherence and relapse, health care utilization and costs in privately and publicly insured patients with opioid use disorder.
Compliance with Buprenorphine Medicated-Assisted Treatment and Relapse to Opioid Use v1.0 Anchor 1 p. 6.
Haight BR, Learned SM, Laffont CM, Fudala PJ, Zhao Y, Garofalo AS, Greenwald MK, Nadipelli VR, Ling W, Heidbreder C 2019 Efficacy and safety of a monthly buprenorphine depot injection for opioid use disorder: a multicentre, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
Lifecycle evidence generation Addressing co-occurring Focusing on andoptimization LEGO studies: disorders ofaddiction These studies aim to: theimportance Epidemiological and clinical studies have shown that substance use demonstrate that craving ofcontinuity of disorders are highly comorbid can potentially be used as with psychiatric disorders.
an endpoint to predict illicit care, monitoring These disorders include anxiety, opioiduse: patient progress depression, bipolar disorder, study the effects of initiating attention-deficit hyperactivity SUBLOCADE treatment in in the short-, disorder, borderline personality emergency rooms to prevent disorder, antisocial personality medium-and repeated opioid overdoses and 7 disorder, and schizophrenia.
A recent potentially change standards of long-term, providing systematic review and meta-analysis care: and revealed that the prevalence of any evidence-based investigate if high plasma substance use disorder in  of buprenorphine seeking patients diagnosed with training to similar to those delivered by schizophrenia or first-episode 8 health-care SUBLOCADE may reduce the psychosis was 42%.
effects of respiratory depression providers, and In July 2018, Indivior received produced by fentanyl, which has FDA approval for PERSERIS, the been increasingly and directly understanding first once-monthly subcutaneous related to drug overdose deaths better the  long-acting in the US.
injectable for the treatment of underlying causes schizophrenia in adults in the US.
Patient-reported outcomes Following FDA approval, we initiated research and health economics: of relapse are the planning and execution of postIndivior has invested a substantial the hallmarks of marketing and lifecycle management amount of time and effort into the strategies in support ofPERSERIS.
integration of patient-reported our mission and outcome measures as part of A holistic approach to its clinical development plans.
vision in addiction addictionmedicine For example, we have launched medicine.
Beyond the development Remission from Chronic Opioid of treatments for OUD and Use: Studying Environmental and schizophrenia, Indivior is Socioeconomic Factors on Recovery pioneeringtherapies to address also known as the RECOVER Study, the unmet needs of patients which is collecting up to 24-month struggling with SUD.
To that end, longitudinal data encompassing we are investigating innovative demographics, drug use, drug approaches that selectively target treatment, family relationships, theaminobutyric acid type B quality of life, mental and physical 9 GABA receptor, the orexin-1 health, healthcare utilization, crime, B 10 receptor, and the dopamine D3 housing, employment, and urine 6 11 receptor in partnership with Arbor drug screening.
Regulatory filings outside the US: Addex, C4X Discovery, and Aptuit.
Plans are being implemented to Filings were made in Australia May 2018, Israel July 2018, New accelerate our backup program new lead identification and optimization Zealand September 2018, and Europe November 2018. inpartnership with Addex.
Remission from Chronic Opioid Use Studying Environmental and Socio-economic Factors on Recovery RECOVER : study design and participant characteristics.
Remission from Chronic Opioid Use: Studying Environmental and Socioeconomic Factors on Recovery v1.0 Table 3: Schedule ofAssessments p. 23.
Sansone, Randy, Substance Use Disorders and Borderline Personality Common Bedfellows, 2011 v1.0 Page 1, Abstract, Paragraph 1 p. 1 Santucci K, Psychiatric Disease and Drug Abuse, COP 2012 v1.0 Page 2, Background, Paragraph 2 p. 2 Santucci K, Psychiatric Disease and Drug Abuse, COP 2012 v1.0 Page 2, Background, Paragraph 1 p. 2.
Prevalence of comorbid substance use in schizophrenia spectrum disorders in community and clinical settings, 1990-2017: Systematic review and meta-analysis.
 depression of GABA B receptor signaling in GABA neurons of the VTA.
Perrey DA & Zhang Y. Therapeutics development for addiction: Orexin-1 receptor antagonists.
Heidbreder C. Rationale in support of the use of selective dopamine D receptor antagonists for the pharmacotherapeutic management of substance use disorders.
