16 Strategic Report | Our business model Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our business model Placing our customers at the centre of everything we do Gaining competitive advantage through our corporate responsibility and our people Our competitive advantage comes from our networks, our innovative technology, the expertise of our people and the strength and breadth of our partnership ecosystem Market leading networks Supported by: L-BAND OUR TECHNOLOGY Our resilient L-band networks, based on our lnmarsat-3 and lnmarsat-4 We continue to invest in innovation to deliver market-winning satellite constellations, will continue to support the evolving mobile solutions to our customers and differentiate our propositions.
communications requirements in our key customer segments.
BEST-IN-CLASS PARTNER ECOSYSTEM Our new Inmarsat-6 satellites will support our growth ambitions.
Our relationships with our partners, from suppliers to distributors, help us to strengthen our service offering.
DUAL PAYLOAD The Inmarsat-6 satellites comprise two dual payload L-band and HIGHLY SKILLED WORKFORCE Ka-band satellites due to be launched at the start of the next decade.
Our people have the skills, competencies and experience to deliver This will ensure the reorientation of our L-band capabilities towards our business objectives and create value.
Our culture and values new growth opportunities, as well as providing additional capacity are focused on innovation and performance excellence.
to the existing GX network.
OUR FINANCIAL RESOURCES KA-BAND We use our balance sheet to support the organic and inorganic Global Xpress GX, based on our 4 Inmarsat-5 satellites currently investment needed to deliver our strategic imperatives.
in orbit, is the worlds first global, mobile, high bandwidth network, designed to support our customers high bandwidth connectivity requirements.
GX5 is planned for launch in 2019.
Corporate social responsibility S-BAND Page 42 The integrated S-band satellite and air-to-ground network, the EAN, Our people will be a compelling and unique proposition for commercial aviation Page 49 customers in Europe.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements P A R T N E R S S R E P O Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report | Our business model 17 Our value chain Delivering value for our stakeholders By operating global satellite networks and fully We are committed to optimised ground infrastructure networks, supported creating and delivering by market-leading distribution partnerships, we provide sustained value for all our customers with global coverage to any device our stakeholders Our products, services and solutions enable our customers to operate safely, Shareholders and bondholders securely and efficiently and to deliver innovative communications services We aim to drive profitable growth to to their users across our four customer-focused business segments.
help deliver value for our shareholders and bondholders.
Maritime Customers and partners We focus on the key drivers of value for our partners and customers such as security, reliability and seamless delivery with global coverage Enterprise Aviation and mobility.
CUSTOMERS Employees We have a strong culture, underpinned by our values and our commitment to diversity, and we are focused on our employees career development, making internal promotions where possible.
Communities Government We are proud of our public service Business overview Page 20 ethos and the part we play in ensuring the safety of the public and particularly the maritime community.
Our revenue streams Our four business units, Maritime, Government, Aviation and Enterprise, are our interfaces with our customers and drive the Groups revenue.
