36 Strategic Report | Business overview Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 ENABLING CONNECTIVITY From managing and operating our networks to helping the business deliver its strategic priorities, Central Services is there to ensure we serve our customers needs 24 7 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report | Business overview 37 Business overview CENTRAL SERVICES Our Central Services team is responsible This new satellite technology will be able to deliver This agreement stipulates that payments for managing and operating our satellite a significant step-up in throughput and capacity from Ligado to Inmarsat will pause in 2019 and ground networks and supporting the into key regions of high demand at low cost.
unless Ligado obtains its FCC licence during business to deliver its strategic priorities.
2019, in which event payments will resume thereafter and then resume from the Operations beginning of 2020 at c. $136m per annum, Technology Our organisational infrastructure is managed growing thereafter at 3% compound over Our Central Technology Office manages and operated by our Central Operations Office, the next 89 years.
and operates our global satellite and ground with support from our functional teams in infrastructure, and manages the design, Finance, HR, Marketing, Legal, Regulatory, Any payments not made in 2019 up to build and launch of our new satellite networks.
$132.3m in aggregate, together with prior payments deferred between 2016 and 2018 Our L-band satellite networks, through our We continue to drive best practice and approximately $35m in aggregate will Inmarsat-3 and Inmarsat-4 satellites, have innovation to drive out cost and complexity become due for payment by Ligado with helped Inmarsat to establish and develop a across our organisation, to become more agile interest from their original date of payment loyal customer and distribution base over time.
and to become easier for partners, customers no later than 30 June 2021.
Our average L-band network availability remains and suppliers to do business with.
at 99.9 per cent, with this reliability remaining Ligado continues in its efforts to obtain its attractive to government and commercial users Product Group licence from the Federal Communications whose operations require mission and business In 2017, we established a Central Product Group Commission FCC, with the timing and critical communications support.
to drive end-to-end product development consequent impact on Inmarsat of any and management across the Group, bringing such decision remaining uncertain.
The Inmarsat-6 satellites comprise two dual together all product-related activities under payload L-band and Ka-band satellites Central Services direct costs increased one roof, with the addition of a nascent digital to be launched at the start of the next decade.
by $3.8m in the year mainly due to higher services team.
This will provide more focus and This will ensure the reorientation of our L-band inventory provisions.
agility in our product and service innovation, capabilities towards new growth opportunities development and life cycle management, uniquely addressable by a cutting edge global Indirect costs in Central Services fell both digital and non-digital.
network, with a small, low-cost, highly reliable by $27.2m, mainly reflecting the $19.9m and agile device to deliver our services to restructuring charge in Q4 2017, the impact The Product Group will work as a catalyst end users.
of the implementation of IFRS 16 which between the business units and the central moved lease costs into depreciation during functions, focusing on the strategic and The GX network, based on our four Inmarsat-5 the year $12.8m, lower operating costs commercial value of these services, as well satellites in Ka-band, is fully operational and and adverse currency movements of $8.7m.
as driving a multi-disciplinary approach to has been revenue generating since 2016, with building them.
With full global Central Services capex increased by coverage established, our future strategy for GX $82.0m to $496.5m, due to the timing 2018 results for Central Services is to augment our network with new, low-cost of expenditure on major infrastructure Revenue and EBITDA from Ligado increased technologies which will provide additional programmes, including the 5th GX satellite by $1.9m and $3.8m, respectively, in line with capacity by adding highly-targeted density.
our co-operation agreement with Ligado.
