102 Governance | Report of the directors Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Report of the directors For the year ended 31 December 2018 Governance report This Report has been Under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7, prepared in accordance with a requirement exists for certain parts of the Governance Report to be outlined in the Report the requirements outlined of the Directors.
This information is laid out in the Governance Report on pages 60 to 106. within the Companies Act 2006 2006 Act Post-balance sheet events There were no such events required to and Listing Rule 9.8.
and forms part of the Results and dividends management report as The results for the year are shown in the required under Disclosure Consolidated Income Statement on page 116. and Transparency Rule 4 A final dividend of 12 cents US$ will be paid on 30 May 2019 to shareholders on the share register at the close of business on 23 April 2019.
Certain information that fulfils the requirements Dividend payments are made in Pounds Sterling of the Report of the Directors is incorporated or in shares using an exchange rate derived into the Report by reference and is referred from the WM Reuters GBP USD 9am fix to below.
London time four business days prior to the announcement of the scrip reference price.
The purpose of this Report is to provide Explanatory documentation in respect of the information to the Companys shareholders.
operation of the scrip dividend is available The Report contains certain forward-looking on our website.
statements based on knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of the Report.
These statements involve uncertainty Interest capitalisation since future events and circumstances can The Group capitalised $43.7m during the ALISON HORROCKS cause results and developments to differ period under review.
The $43.7m of interest CHIEF CORPORATE from those anticipated.
Nothing in this Report capitalised in the period has been treated AFFAIRS OFFICER AND should be construed as a profit forecast.
as fully tax deductible in the UK.
COMPANY SECRETARY Responsibility statement Branches The Responsibility Statement made by The Group has activities operated through the Board regarding the preparation of the many jurisdictions.
financial statements is set out on page 106.
Capital structure and rights Business review, strategic attaching to shares report and future developments The Companys ordinary shares of Euro 0.0005 A description of the Companys business model, each are listed on the London Stock Exchange strategy, and factors likely to affect the Groups LSE: ISAT.
L. Details of the issued share capital future developments are incorporated into of the Company, together with movements this Report by reference.
They are set out in in the issued share capital during the year, the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 59. can be found in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Company has one class of ordinary share which carries no rights to fixed income.
On a poll, each member is entitled to one vote for each share of Euro 0.0005 held.
All 76,612 ordinary shares held by the Inmarsat Employee Share Ownership Trust carry voting rights.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance | Report of the directors 103 There are no specific restrictions on the size Viability statement Health and safety of holding or on the transfer of shares, which are The viability statement containing a broader The Group is committed to maintaining high both governed by the general provisions of the assessment by the Board of the Companys standards of health and safety for its employees, Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
ongoing viability is set out on page 59. customers, visitors, contractors and anyone The Directors are not aware of any arrangements affected by its business activities.
During 2018, between shareholders that may result in we continued to work closely with our subsidiary On-market purchase authority restrictions on the transfer of securities or on companies to harmonise health and safety best The Directors authorities are determined by voting rights.
No person has any special rights practice.
Rupert Pearce, our CEO, is the Director UK legislation and the Articles of Association.
of control over the Companys share capital designated for health and safety matters at At the 2018 AGM, the Directors were authorised and all issued shares are fully paid.
One of the objectives for the CEO by shareholders to allot ordinary shares up includes how health and safety is managed to agreed limits and to have the ability to across the Company.
Going concern make market purchases of ordinary shares.
Despite the continuing rerating of the satellite Shareholders are being requested to renew sector and increased competitive environment, these authorities at the 2019 AGM.
Environmental performance coupled with a continuing uncertain economic and strategy outlook particularly regarding Brexit and its We operate in over 39 locations with a Indemnities and insurance potential impact on the global economy, the combined workforce of approximately 1,800 Details of the Directors and Officers liability Directors believe that the Group has a resilient staff.
Due to our diversity of activities the insurance and the indemnities provided business model and is compliant with all its Company recognises it has impacts affecting to the Directors, Company Secretary and financial covenants.
In making their assessment the local and global environment.
However, certain employees where they serve as of going concern, the Directors considered the it should be noted that the satellite industry directors of subsidiaries at the Groups Board-approved budget, the rolling forecast, and our own business is low on the scale of request are provided on page 70 in the the cash flow forecast and the most recent carbon generators.
The satellite launch industry Governance Report.
In addition, is reviewing how it becomes more accountable the Directors considered the maturity profile for carbon generation through innovative Employment policies and of existing debt facilities, other liabilities as well new satellite launch techniques and we will employee involvement as actual and forecast covenant calculations.
work with these launch providers to see how Details of the employment policies and employee Furthermore, the forecasts and covenant we can benefit from improved techniques for involvement are provided in the Our People calculations were stress tested by applying a set our future launches.
We have provided details section and also in the Governance Report.
After making enquiries, of our objectives for how we manage our the Directors have a reasonable expectation environmental activities on pages 47 and 48.
Long-term incentive schemes that the Group has adequate resources The following information summarises our actual Details of the long-term incentive schemes to continue in operational existence for the environmental performance over the year.
can be found on page 101 of the Directors foreseeable future.
Our environmental impacts include the use continues to adopt the going concern basis in of natural resources, the consumption of preparing the consolidated financial statements.
energy and water, the production of a variety of waste, as well as staff and visitors who travel extensively.
All energy and waste management activities are controlled by the Business Environment team GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS which is based in London and are supported by Greenhouse gas emissions tCO e 2018 2017 2016 2 inputs from colleagues across the Group.
The CEO Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities Scope 1 849 1,048 1,164 has an objective to ensure there is an effective Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for our own use process in place to monitor environmental, Scope 2: location-based 11,053 11,014 11,743 social and governance matters.
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for our own use Scope 2: market-based 7,756 8,808 10,559 Greenhouse gas emissions Other indirect emissions Scope 3 15,117 21,044 13,568 This section has been prepared in accordance with our regulatory obligation Emissions from the consumption of electricity outside the UK and Scope 2 emissions calculated using the market-based approach to report greenhouse gas GHG emissions using supplier specific emission factors are calculated and reported in tCO e 2 pursuant to Section 7 of the Companies METHODOLOGY Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
The table shows Location-based approach Market-based approach Greenhouse gas emissions our greenhouse gas emissions for the years tCO2e 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 ended 31 December 2016 to 2018.
We are Total Scope 1 and 2 11,902 11,918 12,907 8,605 9,712 11,724 in the process of having our emissions tCO e per full-time 2 independently verified to the ISO 14064-3 equivalent FTE standard to ensure continuous improvement employee 6.5 6.9 6.8 4.7 5.7 6.2 of our GHG reporting.
The emissions intensity calculation is based on a figure of 1,842 employees in 2018, 1,737 employees in 2017 and 1,900 employees in 2016.
We have restated our total Scope 2 figures for 2017 due to improved data quality and accuracy within Scope 3 emissions 104 Governance | Report of the directors Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Report of the directors continued Methodology Scope 1: Natural gas combustion within TOTAL EMISSIONS 2018 tCO e 2 We quantify and report our organisational boilers, gas oil combustion within generators, GHG emissions according to the Greenhouse road fuel combustion within owned and Gas Protocol.
Consumption data has been leased vehicles, and fugitive refrigerants collated by our sustainability consultant, from air-conditioning equipment Carbon Credentials, and has been converted Scope 2: Purchased electricity consumption into CO equivalent using the UK Government 2 for our own use 2018 Conversion Factors for Company Reporting and the International Energy Scope 3: Business travel, water, waste, and Agency international electricity conversion well-to-tank and transmission & distribution 23,722 factors in order to calculate emissions electricity emissions from corresponding activity data.
Assumptions and estimations This report has been prepared in accordance In some cases, missing data has been estimated with the GHG Protocols Scope 2 Guidance: we using either extrapolation of available data have therefore reported both a location-based from the reporting period or data from previous and market-based Scope 2 emissions figure.
When quantifying Details of principal risks and uncertainties emissions using the market-based approach Scope 3 15,117 are provided on pages 52 to 58. we have used a supplier specific emissions factor where possible.
If these factors were Financial risk management unavailable, a residual mix emissions factor Details of the financial risk management EMISSIONS INTENSITY SCOPE 1 AND 2 was then used, and as a final alternative objectives and policies of the Group, including MARKET-BASED tCO e FTE 2 the location-based grid emissions factor hedging policies and exposure of the entity was used.
to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash 4.7 flow risk are given in notes 3 and 31 to the The table on this page shows our total emissions consolidated financial statements.
and our emissions as a metric for the year 2018 4.7 ended 31 December 2018 using the two 2017 5.7 Research and development different Scope 2 accounting methodologies.
The Group continues to invest in new Performance services and technology necessary to We set an interim target to reduce absolute In 2019 we will be working with Carbon support its activities through research Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 20% by year Credentials to assess our full value chain and development programmes.
Scope 3 emissions with the ambition of We achieved a 27% decrease in our emissions setting a science-based emission reduction Political donations Scope 1 and 2 emissions by since 2016 using the target in line with the UKs commitment under During the year, no political donations were market-based Scope 2 accountancy method the UN Paris Agreement, thereby contributing made.
It remains the policy of the Company and exceeded our target.
We continue to to the global effort to prevent the worst not to make political donations or incur expand the number of low emissions sources consequences of climate change.
The Company will of electricity across the Group and have Reporting boundaries and limitations be reducing the aggregate limits it will seek already switched to a renewable electricity We consolidate our organisational boundary approval for from shareholders at its 2019 AGM.
supply at our London Head Office, our largest according to the operational control approach We consider that it is in the best interests of  site.
Overall, 37% of the and have adopted a materiality threshold shareholders for the Company to participate electricity we use is from renewable sources.
of 5% for GHG reporting purposes.
As a result, in public debate and opinion-forming on emissions from locations with fewer than 15 Our emissions intensity has decreased by matters which affect the Companys business.
staff on-site have been reasonably estimated 18% from 5.7 2017 to 4.7 2018 tCO e FTE The definition of donation is widely defined 2 as immaterial and are thus excluded from our using the market-based Scope 2 accounting within the context of the Companies Act 2006 GHG disclosure.
Emissions for all significant approach.
and can extend to bodies concerned with sites have been included in our calculations, policy review, law reform and the representation We have also chosen to voluntarily disclose which includes our top five highest consuming of the business community, including special a selection of our Scope 3 emissions, including locations: London, Burum The Netherlands, interest groups which the company and its water, waste, business travel and WTT electricity Auckland New Zealand, Paumalu USA subsidiaries might wish to support and the emissions and emissions associated with and Perth Australia.
The GHG sources that Company believes it is appropriate to renew the transmission and distribution of electricity.
constitute our operational boundary for the authority, on lower limits, at the 2019 Our Scope 3 emissions have decreased by the 2018 reporting period are: AGM to avoid any inadvertent infringement 28% between 2017 and 2018.
This is largely of the Act.
due to a decrease in business travel.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance | Report of the directors 105 Interests in voting rights Directors and their interests 2019 Annual General Meeting As at 18 March 2019, the Company had A full list of the individuals who were Directors The Annual General Meeting will be held on been notified, in accordance with chapter 5 of the Company during the financial year ended 1 May 2019 at 10.00am at 99 City Road, of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure 31 December 2018 is set out below: London EC1Y 1AX.
The Notice of Meeting, and Transparency Rules, of the following which sets out the resolutions to be proposed Tony Bates, Simon Bax, Sir Bryan Carsberg, significant interests: at the forthcoming AGM, is contained in Warren Finegold, General C. Robert Kehler Rtd, a separate circular and is enclosed with Phillipa McCrostie, Rupert Pearce, Dr Abe Peled, this Annual Report.
Percentage of voting rights Janice Obuchowski, Robert Ruijter, Andrew over ordinary shares of Shareholder 0.0005 each Sukawaty and Dr Hamadoun Tour.
By order of the Board Lansdowne Partners Limited 11.43% We were delighted to announce the appointment Capital Group Companies, Inc. 9.83% of Tracy Clarke as an additional Non-Executive ALISON HORROCKS FCIS Aberdeen Asset Managers 6.30% Director effective 1 February 2019.
CHIEF CORPORATE AFFAIRS OFFICER Artemis Investment Management 5.21% Details of the interests of each Director and AND COMPANY SECRETARY Nomura International plc 5.03% their connected persons in the Companys 18 March 2019 Jupiter Asset Management Limited 4.91% ordinary shares and share awards held are Openheimer Funds, Inc 4.83% set out in full in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 100 to 101.
Standard Life Investments Ltd 4.32% Pictet Asset Management 3.13% Details of the Directors conflicts of interest Allianz SE 2.98% policy are provided on page 70.
Voting rights are based on the information Articles of Association submitted via TR1 forms from shareholders The Articles of Association can only be amended to the Company, adjusted for the issued by special resolution of the shareholders.
share capital of 463,480,897 as at This year we are seeking to amend Article 83 18 March 2019. which relates to the overall level of fee paid to the Non-Executive Directors, details of this Rules governing directors special resolution are contained in the AGM appointments Notice of Meeting.
Shareholders can appoint or remove Directors by an ordinary resolution in a general meeting Auditor but specific conditions on vacation of office Each of the Directors has confirmed that: apply where a Director becomes prohibited by law or regulation from holding office: so far as the Director is aware, there is or where a Director becomes bankrupt, no relevant audit information of which mentally incapacitated or persistently absent the Companys Auditor is unaware and from Directors meetings.
Further information the Director has taken all the steps that on Directors appointments are provided on he she ought to have taken as a Director pages 72 and 73 of the Governance Report.
to make him herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that Directors power the Companys Auditor is aware of General powers of the Directors are provided that information by the Companys Articles of Association and the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
This confirmation is given and should be The powers are subject to limitations imposed interpreted in accordance with the provisions by statute and directions given by special of s418 of the Companies Act 2006. resolution of the shareholders applicable at A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP a relevant time.
Details of Directors powers as Auditor of the Company and to authorise are provided on pages 67 to 69 of the the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors Governance Report.
to determine its remuneration will be proposed at the 2019 AGM.
