80 Governance | Relations with Shareholders Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Relations with shareholders Communicating with the Investor communication channels 2018 Annual Report and 2019 AGM investment community The Board is responsible for ensuring This audited 2018 Annual Report will be Given the importance placed by the Company that a consistent and open dialogue with made available to shareholders and all in communicating with our investors, we seek shareholders is maintained, with the Chief results are posted on the Companys website, to maintain a regular and open dialogue with Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and as are presentations made in respect of the current equity shareholders, potential equity Head of Investor Relations being the Companys companys financial results.
investors, debt investors and sell side and principal representatives with the investment Shareholders are welcome at the Companys credit analysts through a comprehensive community.
Furthermore, the Chairman and AGM where they will have an opportunity to investor relations programme.
Senior Independent Director are available meet the Board.
The notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders if they have concerns which This programme is based around investor and to all shareholders at least 20 working days cannot be raised through the normal channels analyst presentations by senior management, before the meeting.
The Chairmen of the or if such concerns have not been resolved.
covering the full year and interim results Audit and the Remuneration Committees, in person, and quarterly results announcements In total, senior management participated together with as many Directors as possible, by webcast and conference call.
The in over 600 meetings or conference will attend the 2019 AGM and be available shareholder communication programme calls with buy side and sell side institutions to answer shareholders questions.
Voting incorporates the AGM, investor roadshow in 2018, both in the equity and debt markets, on all resolutions at the AGM is on a poll.
meetings, investor conference participation including existing shareholders and The proxy votes cast, including details of as well as presentations to analysts and potential shareholders.
votes withheld, are disclosed on our website investment banks equity sales teams.
The Board obtains feedback from senior and announced to the UK Listing Authority Management participated in meetings with management as well as from its joint through a Regulatory Information Service investment communities in the UK, the U. S. corporate brokers, J. P. Morgan Cazenove immediately after the meeting.
Facilities and in Europe in 2018. and Credit Suisse, on the views of are provided for shareholders to vote The key objective of the Companys investor institutional investors on a non-attributed electronically either through Electronic communication programme is to ensure that and attributed basis.
As a matter of routine, Proxy Voting or through CREST.
the investment community continues to have the Board receives regular reports on issues a comprehensive and clear understanding relating to share price and trading activity, Details of our results announcements of the various dynamics and elements relating and details of movements in institutional for 2019 are shown below: to Inmarsats business, market environment, investor shareholdings.
The Board is also strategy, operational performance and regularly provided with current analyst 1 May 2019 future outlook.
AGM and Q1 2019 results The Board is aware that institutional During 2018, after the 2018 AGM, there have 1 August 2019 shareholders and bondholders may be in been three sets of shareholder communications Interim results for the half year more regular contact with the Company than to key shareholders and proxy agencies as part to 30 June 2019 other shareholders, but care is exercised to of a detailed shareholder consultation exercise 7 November 2019 ensure that any price-sensitive information regarding a new Remuneration Policy.
This Q3 2019 results is released to all shareholders, institutional has been led by the Remuneration Committee and private, at the same time in Chairman, the Board Chairman and the These dates are provisional and may change accordance with the Financial Conduct Company Secretary.
The engagement from Authority requirements.
those consulted has been very much appreciated.
600 Meetings or conference calls with analysts and institutions in 2018
