Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report | Risk management 59 Viability statement Event leads to sharp reduction of Each scenario was tested and the financial In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of air traffic: We modelled the impact impact estimated based upon a combination the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, of materially lower Aviation passenger of internal estimates and data available the Directors have assessed the viability of connectivity growth rates than expected from external sources.
Mitigation strategies the Group over a three-year period, taking were identified and costed in conjunction Geo-political risk, political uncertainty into account the Groups current position with internal experts to calculate the net likely including Brexit impact: We modelled and the potential impact of the principal financial impact of each scenario in both the loss of government revenue due to risks documented on pages 52 to 58 isolation and if they were to occur concurrently.
geo-political events outside the control of the Annual Report.
The Audit Committee reviewed and discussed of the Company the process undertaken by management.
Competition technology disruption, Assessment period new entrants and different business plans: Conclusion The Directors have determined that a We modelled the impact of materially Based on this assessment, the Directors three year period to 31 December 2021 is an lower growth rates than expected confirm that they have a reasonable appropriate period over which to provide its expectation that the Company will be viability statement.
This is the key period of Major operational failure: We modelled able to continue in operation and meet its focus within the Groups strategic planning the separate impact of a catastrophic liabilities as they fall due over the period process and it reflects the period over failure to a satellite in each of our I-4, to 31 December 2021. which the Group has reasonable visibility I-5 or GX5 constellations of both customer contracts and product In reaching this conclusion, the Directors development programmes.
Protectionism: We modelled the impact of noted that the Group is exposed to particularly materially lower growth rates than expected high levels of risk when a satellite is launched Assessment process although this risk is routinely mitigated Security risk: We modelled the impact of The Long Range Business Plan the Plan, through launch insurance, for which there aggressive cyber-attacks that penetrate or LRBP, which is updated annually, formed is a well-developed market.
Once satellites our networks and or key systems the basis for the viability assessment.
The Plan, have been successfully placed into orbit, as a matter of routine, takes account of business Loss of failed customer: We modelled the experience of the last 35 years is that as usual risks including slower revenue growth, the impact of the loss of a key customer failures are rare, which is due in part to the increased operating costs, higher working high levels of redundancy that are routinely Spectrum, Orbital slots and Market capital requirements and adverse outcomes built into the satellites and ground network.
access risk: We modelled the impact of to disputed items.
In completing the viability Looking beyond the risks associated with the our inability to retain appropriate licenses assessment, the Plan was tested against a satellites and our network the geographical and market access to deliver services to number of severe but plausible principal risk and sector diversification of the Groups our key markets scenarios.
The scenarios were determined operations helps reduce the risk of a loss by considering which of the principal risks to that might endanger the viability of the Group.
the business outlined previously contribute significantly to the longer term viability of the Company.
The following risks were deemed as having the potential to threaten the operational viability of the group:
