32 Strategic Report | Business overview Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Business overview ENTERPRISE Industrial Internet of Things We are focused on delivering IIoT  end-to-end solutions for a for satellite operators small number of IIoT markets In the IIoT market, satellite connectivity Mining, agriculture and fisheries, will directly serve end users or augment transportation and the global supply cellular technology in doing so.
chain are key potential growth areas for our solutions and services.
com 7.6% Growth in our Machine to Machine revenues in 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report | Business overview 33 OPTIMISING OPERATIONS From field to fork were connecting the physical world to the digital world, wherever the location We continue to seek to stabilise and We are re-aligning our optimise our legacy product base Enterprise business unit Despite increasing competitive pressure from terrestrial coverage, we aim to stabilise to ensure we are placed our legacy product base and re-orientate to capture the major them towards back-up, emergency and event-driven usage.
long term growth Discover more at opportunity in IIoT inmarsat.
com Paul Gudonis President Inmarsat Enterprise 34 Strategic Report | Business overview Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Business overview ENTERPRISE Market overview and 2018 results Arbitration proceedings continue for Inmarsats Inmarsats position Enterprise revenues declined by $2.6m or GX Take-or-Pay contract with RigNet.
The major long-term growth opportunity 2.0% in the year, as a result of the on-going In December 2018, the International Centre for Enterprise is in the emerging Industrial market pressure on our legacy product for Dispute Resolutions arbitration tribunal Internet of Things IIoT market, where base outlined above.
issued a ruling in favour of Inmarsat to conclude satellite connectivity will directly serve end Phase 1 of the arbitration proceedings.
This market pressure, as well as a challenging users or augment cellular technology in Q3 2017 comparator, impacted BGAN during doing so.
To capture this growth opportunity, The tribunals ruling found that a Take-or-Pay the year, when revenues fell by $2.5m or we are re-aligning our Enterprise business obligation under the original 2014 contract had 9.0%, to $25.3m.
to deliver connectivity as a service, focused commenced and consequently RigNet owed on delivering end-to-end solutions to a small Inmarsat $50.8m plus interest, subject to any Satellite phone revenue increased by $9.2m, number of targeted Satellite IIoT markets, offset from RigNets counterclaims in Phase 2, or 30.0%, to $39.9m in 2018, driven principally including mining where Satellite IIoT can for which are expected to be adjudicated upon by several sizeable handset orders during example lead to material improvements in during the second half of 2019. the year.
safety, agriculture and fisheries, transportation Fixed-to-mobile revenues declined by $5.8m Direct costs increased by $2.8m to $26.2m and the global supply chain.
A number of these to $10.9m, reflecting continued migration to in 2018, due to a higher proportion of lower services are at an early trial stage with blue Voice-over-IP.
gross margin satellite phone handsets sold in chip corporations, as we build a sustainable the period.
Indirect costs increased by $4.2m IIoT platform for the long term.
Machine to Machine M2M revenue increased to $21.5m in 2018, mainly as a result of legal by $1.4m, or 7.6%, to $19.8m in 2018, driven While there is limited future growth potential costs associated with the RigNet arbitration.
by on-going demand for M2M in commercial for our legacy products, due to increasing EBITDA was consequently $9.6m lower in 2018, applications.
We made continued progress terrestrial network coverage which places with EBITDA margin declining to 62.7%.
in developing a number of proof-of-concept our legacy markets in secular decline, we initiatives in IIoT during the year.
will continue to seek to optimise the revenue generation of our legacy products, such as Revenue from other services within Enterprise Broadband Global Area Network BGAN fell by $4.9m to $34.1m in 2018.
These services Customer and and satellite phones.
While these products include leasing contracts of $13.5m and FB will continue to decline over time, we will for energy customers of $5.5m for the year.
product foundations to re-orientate these products towards back-up, From Q1 2019, our FB energy business in emergency and event-driven usage.
penetrate the emerging Enterprise will be transitioned into Maritime and, consequently, related revenues of global satellite Industrial c. $5m pa will be reported in the Maritime Business Unit going forward.
Internet-of-Things opportunity building steadily Enterprise Business Results Year ended 31 December Revenue 2018 2017 $m $m Change Revenue 130.0 132.6 2.0% $130.0m Direct costs 26.2 23.4 12.0% Gross margin 103.8 109.2 4.9% 2.0% Indirect costs 21.5 17.3 24.3% EBITDA 82.3 91.9 10.4% EBITDA EBITDA margin % 63.3% 69.3% Cash capex Business Unit Operating Cash Flow 82.3 91.9 10.4% $82.3m 10.4% Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report | Business overview 35 antennas losing connectivity.
Delivering reliable The subsequent constant re-alignment connectivity to the of the platforms took up much time and was very costly.
aquaculture sector The Inmarsat-based solution Aquaculture is one of the OXZO then engaged Tesacom, fastest-growing food industries in a specialist in deploying integrated the world, due to a steady increase communication networks in remote in consumer demand for fish and the environments, to develop a solution continuing depletion of wild fish stocks.
that was based on Inmarsats Fish farmers are constantly looking global L-band satellite network, for innovative ways to accelerate the accessed through a Hughes M2M growth of their stocks, which can be integrated terminal.
achieved by ensuring that sea cages, large nets attached to floating With 99.9% availability, the Inmarsatplatforms anchored off-shore, based solution delivered constant have the optimal level of oxygen.
connectivity and reliable transmission of data from the floating platforms to OXZO, a leading Chilean specialist the companys monitoring centre.
in oxygen solutions for the salmon farming industry, developed specialist This solution ensured that the oxygen technology to monitor the level distribution system could be effectively of oxygen in the water in sea cages monitored remotely, regardless and distribute additional oxygen, of conditions, by enabling constant if subsequently required.
However, and reliable communication between as the cages are often many miles the control room and the oxygen away from the shore, it was critical generation equipment, to ensure full that the oxygenation equipment automation of the delivery of oxygen could be operated and controlled at its floating platforms.
remotely, making constant connectivity essential.
By ensuring an optimal level of oxygen was present in the cages at Originally, OXZO equipped the all times, thereby speeding up the platforms with Ku-band satellite fish cultivation process, OXZO could technology.
However, constant reduce costs and improve productivity, movement of the platforms, ensuring the provision of the very due to ocean swells, resulted in the best service to its clients.
weather-susceptible Ku-band The Inmarsatbased solution delivered constant connectivity and reliable transmission of data from the floating platforms to the companys monitoring centre
