Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance | Executive management team 65 Executive management team Supporting the development of Inmarsat as a high-performing company and a focus on culture are key elements of this teams responsibilities 1 3 5 2 4 6 1.
PAUL GUDONIS CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER GROUP GENERAL COUNSEL PRESIDENT, ENTERPRISE Details shown previously on page 62 Tenure Tenure 1 year 12 years 2.
PHILIP BALAAM Responsibilities Responsibilities PRESIDENT, AVIATION Trudy brings extensive international legal, M&A and Paul leads the Inmarsat Enterprise Business Unit, management experience.
She has worked for over which is responsible for land-based sectors including Tenure 20 years, first as a corporate lawyer and then more agriculture, aid and NGOs, energy, mining, media, 3 years recently as the Chief Operating Officer and member and transport and logistics.
Since he started in his of the Executive Board at a leading international role in 2016, Paul has moved the focus of the Business Responsibilities private equity investment firm in London.
Unit towards delivering transformational business Phil is responsible for delivering the Aviation outcomes through managed services and the Business Units business plan in line with Trudy is responsible for managing Inmarsats Industrial Internet of Things IIoT.
With over 10 years its growth strategy.
This includes secure Legal and Regulatory risks and for providing Legal, of experience in Inmarsat, Paul is regularly invited cockpit communications, business aviation Regulatory and Strategic services to the Company.
to comment on industry news and to speak at events, and commercial airline cabin connectivity.
and is viewed as a thought-leader for the global Previous roles include Previous roles include application of Industrial IoT technology.
Terra Firma, various roles including Chief Operating Inmarsat Chief Strategy Officer 2016 2017 : Officer and Group General Counsel 2004 2018, Previous roles include Asiasat VP, Strategy, Business development Lovells 2000 2004, Osborne Clarke 1995 2000 Inmarsat Maritime 2012 2015, Inmarsat Global and Sales 2011 2016 : Arianespace Sales Account Manager 2007 2012, British Army Director and various roles 1998 2011.
NATASHA DILLON CHIEF PEOPLE OFFICER 3.
TONY BATES CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Tenure 2 years Details shown previously on page 63 Responsibilities Natasha is responsible for creating and implementing Inmarsats people strategy, including developing excellent leadership, building an effective and capable organisation, delivering a compelling employee value proposition for our people and driving strong performance.
Previous roles include Korn Ferry Hay Group, Senior Client Partner 2015 2016 : Hay Group, Associate Director 2012 2015 : Ernst and Young, Senior Manager Manager 2010 2012 : BP, various commercial and HR roles 1997 2009.
66 Governance | Executive management team Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Executive management team continued 7 9 11 8 10 12 7.
RONALD SPITHOUT CHIEF TECHNOLOGY OFFICER PRESIDENT AND CEO PRESIDENT, MARITIME INMARSAT GOVERNMENT, INC.
Tenure Tenure 8 years Tenure 7 years 5 years Responsibilities Responsibilities Peter became CTO in 2018.
He leads the engineering Responsibilities Since the end of 2014, Ronald has been responsible teams responsible for delivering Inmarsats future Susan is responsible for: defining and implementing the for Inmarsats Maritime Business and its global satellites, network infrastructure, terminal technologies overall strategy of expanding Inmarsats leadership commercial strategy and execution in Merchant and spectrum resources.
CTO delivers the differentiated position across U. S. defense, intelligence, homeland Marine, Offshore Energy, Fishing, Passengers and reliable global communications capabilities security and civilian organizations.
Based on a strategy of that make a difference in the lives of our customers innovative customized, secure communication customer intimacy and channel engagement and ensure that Inmarsat remains a leader in capabilities to land, maritime and aero users, the Maritime Business Unit is effectively driving enabling the connected world.
meeting mission-critical connectivity needs around themes of Digitalisation at Sea and the Connected the world.
Their business manages a robust partnership Vessel to deliver long-term sustainable growth Previous roles include programme that includes working with best-of-breed for Inmarsat in the sector.
Inmarsat, President U. S. Government Business channel partners to deliver Inmarsats reliable Unit 2013 2018 : Inmarsat, VP GX Government Previous roles include satellite communication services and solutions 2011 2013 : TRW Northrop Grumman Space, Inmarsat, President Enterprise Business 2012 2104 : to U. S. government end users worldwide.
Leadership roles in Engineering and Business Stratos Global, Senior Vice President Global Development 1981 2011.
Previous roles include Marketing and Sales 2006 2011.
MTN Satellite Communications, Executive VP, Strategy and Corporate Development 2012-2013 : 8.
ALISON HORROCKS Spacenet Integrated Government Solutions, Inc. CHIEF CORPORATE AFFAIRS OFFICER Tenure denotes time with Inmarsat and does not include CEO 2009 2012 : SkyTerra, Inc. Senior VP, AND COMPANY SECRETARY service with companies acquired by Inmarsat.
Satellite Services 2007 2009 : Intelsat General Corp. President and Chairman of the Board Details shown previously on page 64 2002 2006.
JASON SMITH PRESIDENT, GLOBAL GOVERNMENT CHIEF OPERATIONS OFFICER Tenure Tenure 6 years 2 years Responsibilities Responsibilities Todd became president in 2018 and is responsible Jason is responsible for Inmarsats global operations for leading and driving Inmarsats government and service delivery, including the satellite fleet and business in all regions of the world outside of ground network, business and IT systems, business the USA.
This includes developing strategies that transformation programmes, global service delivery deliver greater operational capability to governments and distribution, assuring the quality of service and providing holistic solutions that meet and customer experience excellence.
Previous roles include Previous roles include Rolls-Royce: President Nuclear COO Nuclear Inmarsat, VP Global Government Solutions 2013 2018: President Submarines 2009 2015 : AWE: TC Communications, CEO 2003 2013.
Deputy Managing Director Programme and Business Management Director 2000 2009.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance | Leadership 67 Leadership also been in post beyond the advisory nine years The Board recognises the recommended Overall summary statement due to the time served as executive Chairman.
term within the Code and will transition the on governance With the recent FRC guidelines regarding the longer-serving Directors.
We added a new The Company is committed to the highest recommendation that Chairs should retire after Director to the Board in 2019 which means standards of governance.
The Directors consider nine years, during 2019, the Board and the that out of the now 10 Non-Executive Directors that the Company has, throughout the year, Nominations Committee will start the process excluding the Chairman, only one is classed as complied with the provisions of the 2018 UK to seek a new Chair.
To support succession non-independent by the Board.
A copy of the Corporate Governance Code save as noted below.
planning the Board supports his continued UK Corporate Governance Code can be found at During 2018, Andrew Sukawaty was Chairman.
He did not meet the independence criteria Director, Dr Abe Peled, was appointed to this on appointment as he had previously been position in November 2015 and plays a key role How the Board operates an Executive Director.
Although the Code within the Company on any matters which may To ensure effective governance, the Board has recommends that the Chairman is independent be raised of a governance nature.
Last year, structured its governance framework as set on appointment, the Board unanimously we advised shareholders that Sir Bryan, due to out below.
believes that his wide experience means that his tenure is no longer considered independent, he remains extremely well qualified to lead the The Board has established Committees to however the Board recommends him too for Company as its Chairman and has the skills and assist it in exercising its authority.
Sir Bryan remains valuable to experience to ensure that the Board continues Committees of the Board are the Audit, support the Companys strategic objectives.
Andrew Sukawaty has Remuneration, Nominations and Telecoms Board committees CHAIRMAN: ANDREW SUKAWATY Key objectives: Leadership, operation and governance of the Board Setting the agenda for the Board INMARSAT PLC BOARD 13 Directors: two Executive Directors, the Chairman, one Non-Independent Non-Executive Director and nine Independent Non-Executive Directors Key objectives: Responsible for the overall conduct of the business: setting strategy and a positive culture AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATIONS TELECOMS REGULATORY CHIEF COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE Chairman: Chairman: Chairman: Chairman: CEO: Robert Ruijter Simon Bax Dr Abe Peled Andrew Sukawaty Rupert Pearce Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objectives: Oversight and Oversight and review Oversight and review Oversight of Management of review of financial of remuneration, of Board and senior key regulatory the overall business and operational bonus and share management challenges Implementation of risk management, plan issues appointments and strategy and policy audit and internal succession planning control issues EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM Chairman: Rupert Pearce Key objectives: To focus on strategy, financial performance, culture, succession planning, business growth, organisational development and adherence to Group-wide policies 68 Governance | Leadership Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Leadership continued Regulatory Committees.
Each Committee has on current trading from the Chief Executive Implementing governance and ethics Terms of Reference under which authority is and Chief Financial Officer and detailed papers and monitoring risk: delegated by the Board.
Copies can be found are provided on matters where the Board will Assessed the risks faced by the Group on our website at inmarsat.
Reports of the be required to make a decision or give approval.
and received updates on internal controls Committees can be found on pages 72 to 101.
Where appropriate, specific responsibilities are Reviewed regular reports on legal and compliance delegated to Board Committees or to committees matters from the Company Secretary convened for special purposes.
Role of the Board Our Board is responsible for the overall conduct Received reports from the Board In 2018 we focused our attention on the of the Inmarsat Groups the Group business.
It is Committee Chairmen following key areas: the primary decision-making body for all material Received reports in the implementation matters affecting the Group.
It provides leadership Strategy review and development: of GDPR and guidance and sets our strategic direction.
Attended a focused Group strategy day, Held individual Director meetings with Our Board is ultimately accountable to the in addition to the regularly occuring an external evaluator as part of the Board shareholders for: strategy discussions with members of the evaluation process, the outcome of which was Executive Management Team and other being responsible for the long-term discussed at the January 2019 Board meeting senior executives, to consider key strategic success of the Company, having regard priorities and the market environment Reviewed the Directors Conflicts for the interests of all stakeholders of Interest procedures Discussed and approved the Group strategy being responsible for ensuring the Discussed the additional focus on s172 effectiveness and reporting on our Received regular strategy and business reporting and other outputs from the revised system of governance and development reports from the CEO and other Governance Code and FRC reporting senior management at each Board meeting the performance and proper conduct of the business and ensuring a positive Reviewed strategic objectives and updates Workplace reviews: culture is supported on the operational performance for the Received an annual health and safety report Groups key business areas covering activity across the Group as well as Responsibility for developing and implementing a report on emissions from the Companys strategy within the Groups operations and for Received reports on technology and innovation largest sites day-to-day management of the business is and related industry developments delegated to the Chief Executive Officer who, Received regular updates from the CEO Reviewed Group risk and cyber security as the head of the Executive Management Team, about reorganisation and restructuring as part of the discussion on strategy cascades this responsibility through the Group.
activity taking place The CEO is empowered by the Board to handle Received detailed competitive assessments Received a detailed update regarding new all business activities up to a designated level of traditional and disruptor technology People policies being introduced in the Company of authorisation and to report to the Board companies including improved training capabilities for guidance, support and approval on other The appointment of a new Group General for all employees, succession planning and matters which require Board input.
A list of the Counsel with the overall responsibility of identification of high performing individuals members of the Executive Management Team Group Strategy is provided on pages 65 and 66.
Special business: A formal schedule of matters specifically Ensuring appropriate financial Received multiple presentations on the reserved for decision or consideration by and operational management: aviation business with a specific focus on the Board as a whole has been agreed by the Received and discussed reports from the CEO In-Flight passenger Connectivity and Directors.
This schedule covers areas such as: on the performance of the Groups operations associated capex and opex costs the Groups business strategy and Received and discussed regular reports Spent dedicated time to review the maritime long-term plans on the Groups financial performance business to understand the performance and competitive impacts major capital projects Approved financial announcements for publication Reviewed the Groups capital funding structure significant capital structure changes Discussed the annual budget and long range Approved investment in the modernisation investments and business plan of a multi-year programme to change the acquisitions and divestments billing and IT capabilities across the Group Reviewed and approved the changes to the The Board has an annual rolling plan of items for Companys dividend policy, recommendations Independent Non-Executive Directors discussion which is reviewed formally at Board and payments thereof The diverse experience and backgrounds meetings and adapted regularly to ensure all Discussed the Groups capital structure of the Non-Executive Directors ensures that matters reserved for the Board, with other items as and completed a new RCF facility they can provide a strong independent element appropriate, are discussed.
There is an established on the Board, debate and constructively procedure for the review of the agenda between Reviewed reports from the Companys challenge management both in relation to the Chairman, Executive Directors and Company corporate brokers following meetings with the development of strategy and review of the Secretary in advance of each Board meeting.
shareholders and executive management Groups operational and financial performance.
At each Board meeting there is a detailed report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance | Leadership 69 To determine their independence, all KEY ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES Non-Executive Directors are reviewed by the Nominations Committee annually against The Chairman The Senior Independent Director any circumstances relevant to their current Andrew Sukawaty Dr Abe Peled or ongoing independence as set out in The role of the Chairman is set out The Senior Independent Director the Code and recommendations are made in writing and agreed by the Board.
is responsible for: to the Board for election or re-election.
He is responsible for: acting as a sounding board Executive Management Team effective leadership, operation for the Chairman The Chief Executive chairs the Executive and governance of the Board serving as an intermediary Management Team which meets on a monthly ensuring the effectiveness for the other Directors basis for generally 1.5 2 days.
As part of of the Board its remit, this team focuses on the Groups reviewing the Chairmans strategy, financial reviews and long range setting the agenda, style and performance with the business planning, the competitive landscape, tone of Board discussions and Non-Executive Directors strategic updates from all areas of the business, ensuring Directors receive being available as an alternative risk reviews, culture, learning and development accurate, timely and clear channel to discuss issues or and organisational development.
It has regular information concerns from our shareholders executive development days.
The Executive where they have been unable Management Team includes the Executive to resolve them through Directors, the Business Unit Presidents and The Chief Executive Officer existing channels for investor the key functional heads.
The names of the Rupert Pearce communications and Executive Management team are shown The role of the Chief Executive is set out on pages 65 and 66. in writing and agreed by the Board.
He is convening regular meetings responsible for: of the Non-Executive Directors Governance and conduct the development and of Board meetings implementation of the business The Company Secretary Our Board meets as often as necessary to strategy Alison Horrocks effectively conduct its business.
During 2018, The Company Secretary acts as the Board met eight times, with one of the day-to-day management Secretary to the Board and its those meetings being held over two days in of Inmarsats operations and its Committees and in doing so she: Washington DC and another held over two days financial results in The Hague, Netherlands.
The meetings in assists the Chairman in ensuring recommending the strategic local offices provide the Board with greater that all Directors have full and objectives for the Inmarsat Group, insight into our local business operations, and timely access to all relevant for debate, challenge and approval an opportunity for interaction with employees.
information by the Board This helps the Board develop deeper insights assists the Chairman by organising into the quality of our current senior management ensuring we meet the milestones induction and training programmes and the potential for succession in the next for our key programmes with generation of managers.
a priority to target revenue growth assists the Chairman with the and deliver enhanced returns annual Board evaluation procedure Key management are invited to attend all to shareholders and Board meetings to present on specific business is responsible for ensuring that issues which will include an operations update chairing the Executive the correct Board procedures are from each of the Business Units and central Management Team followed and advises the Board services divisions, covering commercial, on governance matters and Mr Pearce is the Board sponsor for technology and operational matters.
environmental and social governance, administers the procedure under Unscheduled supplementary meetings also community investment, and other which Directors can, where take place as and when necessary, for example corporate social responsibility matters, appropriate, obtain independent the calling of Defence Committee meetings as well as responsibility for Health professional advice at the regarding the conditional proposal from and Safety.
These elements have Companys expense no requests EchoStar and the need of the Board generally been included as part of his for external professional advice to be available to provide timely inputs and annual objectives.
were received during the year decisions.
At each regular Board meeting, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer provide reports to the Board.
The Board is regularly given exposure to the next layer of management at the Executive Management Team level and often to their direct reports.
This is helpful to the Board as it provides it with additional insight into internal talent and provides additional inputs when discussing for 70 Governance | Leadership Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Leadership continued management succession.
Strategy sessions agenda items being raised for discussion There has been additional work undertaken are attended by several senior executives.
which could have the perception of a conflict in 2018 on risk processes and assessment and Elements of the business strategy and business of interest for the individual Director, these updates were noted in the changing content development are reviewed as appropriate were discussed at the relevant Board meeting and improved presentations presented at each Board meeting throughout the year and agreed in each case there were no conflicts to the Audit Committee and Board.
ensuring that all Directors are kept up to date of interest identified.
The Companys Articles The Board has annual updates on the with discussions and activities.
All Committee of Association contain provisions to allow Companys policies for compliance with the Chairmen report verbally on the proceedings the Directors to authorise potential conflicts UK Bribery Act and the U. S. Foreign Corrupt of their Committees at the next Board meeting.
of interest so that a Director is not in breach Practices Act FCPA requirements and Meeting proceedings and any unresolved of his her duty under company law.
As noted health and safety.
As part of our commitment concerns expressed by any Director are above and as happens in practice, should a to preventing bribery and establishing a culture minuted by the Company Secretary.
Director become aware that they have an that does not tolerate corruption wherever interest, directly or indirectly, in an existing In instances where a Director is unable to attend and in whatever form it may be encountered, we or proposed transaction with the Company, Board or Committee meetings, any comments have a formal Board-approved anti-corruption they are required to notify this to the Company which he or she may have arising out of the policy and a summary of the anti-bribery policy Secretary.
Directors have a continuing duty papers to be considered at the meeting are is included on our website.
We have appropriate to notify any changes to their conflicts of relayed in advance to the relevant Chairman procedures in place to ensure compliance with interest and to their external Board commitments or the Company Secretary who would then current legislation.
An independently managed, to the Company Secretary and any changes report to the Board or Committee thereon.
confidential whistleblowing helpline email and are noted in the conflicts register.
telephone is available for employees to use.
The Senior Independent Director will convene There was no use of it during 2018.
Additionally, meetings with the Non-Executive Directors Board meeting attendance the Board was updated on the Companys at least annually and on an ad-hoc basis as The attendance of the Directors at the Board compliance with the recent legislation required to discuss Board balance, monitor meetings held in 2018 is shown in the below concerning a Corporate Criminal Offence the powers of individual Executive Directors table.
Attendance at Committee meetings is relating to failure to prevent tax evasion.
and raise any issues between themselves shown in the relevant Committee reports.
During 2018, these meetings The Company recognises the importance of Number of scheduled Board meetings were held more regularly and also discussed electronic information, systems and network held and meeting attendance in 2018 the FRC reporting guidelines regarding Chair security cyber security and this is included succession.
The Chairman will attend these as a separate agenda item at least twice a year Percentage Meetings attendance meetings but will not be in attendance where and also incorporated in strategy discussions Andrew Sukawaty Chairman 8 8 100% there is discussion about his own performance and other key projects.
We are increasingly or succession.
required to be compliant with, or align to, Rupert Pearce 8 8 100% various legal, contractual and regulatory Tony Bates 8 8 100% standards and codes of practice relative to  Simon Bax 8 8 100% information security governance and the Directors and Officers insurance cover has Sir Bryan Carsberg 8 8 100% preservation of the confidentiality, integrity been established for all Directors and Officers Warren Finegold 8 8 100% and availability of customer or internal to provide cover against their reasonable General C. Robert Kehler Rtd 8 8 100% data and services.
This is part of a broader actions on behalf of the Company.
In accordance Phillipa McCrostie 8 8 100% programme supported by a dedicated cyber with our Articles of Association and to the extent security team whose primary role is to safeguard permitted by the laws of England and Wales, Dr Abe Peled 8 8 100% the Company to meet its legal and regulatory Directors, the Company Secretary and certain Janice Obuchowski 8 8 100% obligations, maintain business continuity employees who serve as directors of subsidiaries Robert Ruijter 8 8 100% and limit damage to business interests by at the Groups request have been granted 1 Dr Hamadoun Tour 6 8 75% preventing and reducing the occurrence of indemnities from the Company in respect of 1 Dr Tour missed two Board meetings due to time taken to put security incidents and their impact upon liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
his candidature forward to become President of the country business operations.
In recognition of this Neither our indemnity nor the insurance of Mali.
The Chairman gave him permission to miss the importance, in 2018 we were accredited with provides cover in the event that a Director meetings and briefed him regarding the meetings he the ISO 27001 certification which requires us is proven to have acted dishonestly or had not been able to participate in to have an information management security fraudulently.
No amount has been paid under procedure in place.
We also increased our any of these indemnities during the year.
Risk management process investments on cyber security during 2018 An overview of the Groups framework for in terms of resources and on tools.
Conflictsofinterest identifying and managing risk, both at an The Company has in place procedures for operational and strategic level, is set out on There has been focus within the Company managing conflicts of interest and is aware pages 52 to 58 in the Strategic Report.
The during 2018 on the work required to ensure of any potential conflict through an annual Board has responsibility for managing risk and compliance with the new General Data review of the other commitments of its Directors.
although the Audit Committee has responsibility Protection Regulation GDPR which came We are satisfied these commitments do not for the risk management process the Board into effect in May 2018.
We had tested conflict with their duties as Directors of does not delegate overall responsibility for risk procedures in place by the due date.
During the year, where there were to either the Audit Committee or management.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance | Leadership 71 Internal controls Risk management: an overarching risk Information systems: information systems The Board acknowledges its responsibility management policy is in place which sets out are developed to support the Groups for establishing and maintaining the Groups the tolerance for risk within the Group and long-term objectives and are managed by system of internal controls and it receives how this is measured across identified macro professionally staffed teams.
Appropriate regular reports from management identifying, and business risks.
As required by the policy, policies and procedures are in place evaluating and managing the risks within the management operates a risk management covering all significant areas of the business.
The system of internal controls is process to identify, evaluate and report Contractual commitments: there are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, significant risks within the business and to clearly defined policies and procedures the risk of failure to achieve business report to the Board on how those risks are for entering into contractual commitments.
objectives and can provide only reasonable being managed and mitigated.
Risks are These include detailed requirements that and not absolute assurance against material highlighted through a number of different must be completed prior to submitting misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee reviews and culminate in a risk register, proposals and or tenders for work, both in reviews the system of internal controls through monitored by Risk Committees across the respect of the commercial, control and risk reports received from management, along Group, which identify the risk area, the management aspects of the obligations with those from both internal and external probability of the risk occurring, the impact being entered into.
Management continues to focus if it does occur and the actions being taken and procurement process procedures on how internal control and risk management to manage the risk to the desired level.
also strengthen the review of contractual can be further embedded into the operations All the risk registers are reviewed by senior commitments before any such commitment of the business and to deal with areas of management and provided quarterly to the is agreed to.
improvement which come to managements Board and to the Audit Committee.
Details and the Boards attention.
of the risk process and key risks are shown Monitoring of controls: the Audit Committee on pages 52 to 58 in the Strategic Report.
receives regular reports from the internal There is an agreed process for determining and external auditors and assures itself what information is required to be included in Management structure: there is a clearly that the internal control environment of the public disclosure of financial and related defined organisational structure throughout the Group is operating effectively.
There information and other procedures necessary the Group with established lines of reporting are formal policies and procedures in place to enable the Chief Executive Officer and and delegation of authority based on to ensure the integrity and accuracy of the the Chief Financial Officer to provide their job responsibilities and experience.
The accounting records and to safeguard the certifications in relation to publicly disclosed delegation policy is regularly updated where Groups assets.
This review is undertaken by the there are changes in business operations.
and acquisitions and disposals require Board Chief Financial Officer, Company Secretary, Within the business, senior management approval.
There are formal procedures by IR Director and senior finance staff.
meetings occur regularly to allow prompt which staff can, in confidence, raise concerns discussion of relevant business issues.
The Board and the Audit Committee have about possible improprieties in financial A process of self-certification is used where carried out a review of the effectiveness of and pensions administration and other Directors and senior managers are required the system of internal controls during the year matters often referred to as whistleblowing to detail and certify controls in operation ended 31 December 2018 and for the period procedures.
There is a worldwide anonymous to mitigate risk in key process areas.
The up to the date of approval of the consolidated whistleblowing programme in place and Presidents of the Business Units, and now financial statements contained in the Annual monthly reports are issued by the external the Executive Management Team members Report.
The review covered all material controls, provider to the Company Secretary and responsible for their functional areas, also including financial, operational and compliance Head of Internal Audit.
No issues were confirm every quarter that they are not aware controls and risk management systems.
Where there are any of any breach of key policies including our The Board confirms that the actions it considers reports made, arrangements are in place for sensitive information policy which relates necessary have been, or are being taken to proportionate and independent investigation to protection of partner data and any remedy any significant failings or weaknesses and appropriate follow-up action with anti-bribery activities.
identified from its review of the system of the results being reported to the Audit internal control.
This has involved considering Financial reporting: monthly management Committee.
The annual anti-bribery and the matters reported to it and developing accounts provide relevant, reliable and corruption training also highlights the ways plans and programmes that it considers are up-to-date financial and non-financial in which an employee can raise an issue in reasonable in the circumstances.
The Board also information to management and the Board.
confirms that it has not been advised of material Analysis is undertaken of differences between weaknesses in the part of the internal control actual results and the annual budget on Directors remuneration system that relates to financial reporting.
Annual plans, forecasts, Details of the Companys remuneration performance targets and long-range business policy and Directors remuneration are The key elements of the Groups system plans allow management to monitor the key contained in the Directors Remuneration of internal controls, which have been in place business and financial activities, and the Report on pages 81 to 101. throughout the year under review and up to progress towards achieving the financial the date of this Report, include: objectives.
The annual budget is approved by the Board, as is the long-range business plan.
The Group reports half-yearly based on a standardised reporting process, and in addition, also reports on a quarterly basis.
72 Governance | Report of the Nominations Committee Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Effectiveness Report of the Nominations Committee More recently with the recommendations from An area of continued the UK Financial Reporting Council regarding focus for the Committee tenure for Chairs of UK listed public companies, the Board and the Committee will during MEMBERS IN 2018 has been Non-Executive 2019 start the process to seek a new Chair.
Scheduled Mr Sukawaty, the Companys current Chairman, Director succession meetings attended will not be involved in any decision regarding planning, leading to the individual appointment of a new Chair, Dr Abe Peled Chairman 2 2 but will be asked to provide his inputs into the Andrew Sukawaty 2 2 the appointment of an skills and capabilities he believes relevant to Dr Hamadoun Tour 2 2 additional Non-Executive ensuring a successful appointment is made.
1 General C R Kehler Rtd 1 1 As the timing matures for announcing any Director in February 2019 1 General Kehler joined the committee dates for a new appointment, we will advise effective November 2018 shareholders.
The Nominations Committee will also make recommendations to the Board Independent Non-Executive Directors make concerning the annual reappointment by up a majority of members of the Committee.
shareholders of any Non-Executive Director The Nominations Committee meets as and and separately assessing each year whether when necessary, generally formally twice Directors continue to be independent.
Dr Abe Peled has been Chairman Committee also has responsibility for approving since November 2015.
Other members of the any changes to Executive Directors and also Committee are Andrew Sukawaty, Dr Hamadoun senior management appointments.
Tour and more recently General Kehler who joined the Committee in November 2018.
All currently appointed Directors will retire at the 2019 AGM and offer themselves for election The Committee has responsibility for or re-election as appropriate.
Mrs Clarke, our nominating candidates for appointment new Director, will be elected at the 2019 AGM.
as Directors to the Board, bearing in mind As noted earlier in the Governance Report, the need for diversity including gender, the Committee continues to believe that nationality and experience and ensuring Sir Bryan remains an effective and contributing a broad representation of skills across the DR ABE PELED Board member and are recommending to Board.
In doing this, the Committee gives CHAIRMAN, shareholders therefore, that he be re-elected NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE full consideration to succession planning as a non-independent, Non-Executive Director.
and the leadership needs of the Company.
The Committee will review the continued The Committee also makes recommendations appointment of Directors to the Board on to the Board on the composition of the an annual basis.
Boards Committees and will review and make recommendations in relation to the structure, Composition size and composition of the Board including Our Board comprises Directors drawn from a the diversity and balance of skills, knowledge wide range of professional backgrounds.
All our and experience, and the independence of Directors bring strong judgement to the Boards the Non-Executive Directors, including deliberations and we believe our new Director, the tenure of each Director.
Tracy Clarke, will also contribute in this way.
Over the years, we have added new Directors to the Board ahead of longer serving ones retiring.
Prior to Tracys appointment, the previous appointments were in 2016 and 2017.
As at March 2019, the composition of the Board is two Executive Directors, 10 Non-Executive Directors and a Non-Executive Chairman.
With the exception of Tracy Clarke, all current Directors served throughout the year.
The names of the Directors on our Board, their relevant skills and experience are set out in their biographical details and can be found on pages 62 to 64.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance | Report of the Nominations Committee 73 The composition of the Board and its various Private Bank.
Her previous senior roles each area of the business with the opportunity Committees is regularly reviewed and evaluated at Standard Chartered Bank include Group for further discussion as appropriate.
Each so as to reflect the balance of skills, knowledge, Head Corporate Affairs, Group Head Human Directors individual experience and background diversity of which gender is one component, Resources, and Director, Legal and Compliance.
is taken into account in developing a programme experience and the ability of Directors to She is an experienced director on various tailored to his or her own requirements.
provide sufficient time to fulfil their Board listed company boards.
Aside her significant The induction programme was reviewed and responsibilities.
During 2018, an additional experience she also brings global management updated in 2017 for Mr Finegold and will be member was made to both the Nominations experience as well as working in emerging refined for Mrs Clarke.
The induction process and Remuneration Committees.
will run over a number of days to allow sufficient time for each meeting.
The Committee, when reviewing succession Succession planning planning, considers diversity in its broadest For professional ongoing development, Appointments to the Board are made on merit, sense and takes this into account in its the Board receives presentations relevant to against objective criteria and with due regard recommendations to the Board.
It takes into the Companys business and updates on any to the benefits of diversity on the Board.
This account the challenges and opportunities changes in legislation which may affect the process is led by the Chairman of the Committee, facing the Company.
In determining succession Companys operations.
The Company Secretary with support of additional Directors who form planning, diversity, including gender, and supplies all Directors with information on part of the interview and assessment process, what cultural experience, skills and expertise relevant legal and best practice.
Directors are which also includes several members of the are needed on the Board and from senior given the opportunity to ask for any separate Executive Management Team as part of the management in the future are considered.
training and development needs and also take interview process.
After evaluating the balance Gender is one element of the considerations steps to ensure they are adequately informed of skills, knowledge and experience of each made in appointing senior management about the Company and their responsibilities Director, and in addition considering the and Board members and as part of general as a Director and attend external briefings diversity to the Board that a potential Director recruitment practices across the Group.
The Board is will contribute, the Nominations Committee The Committee has issued an updated confident that its members have the knowledge, Chairman will make a recommendation to Diversity Policy which highlights its support for ability and experience to perform the functions the Board.
An external consultancy search diversity in its broadest sense, and an objective required of a Director of a listed company.
will be used to identify potential candidates of achieving 33% of senior management roles for a Chair role when the Board has agreed held by females by 2020.
The Committee Board evaluation the qualities and experience required for gives full consideration to succession planning In 2018, the Company undertook an external a new person.
This process will commence in the course of its work and receives updated evaluation, facilitated by Duncan Reed of during 2019. management succession plans which look Condign Board Consulting.
This was the third at succession planning for the Executive In appointing Non-Executive Directors, time Mr Reed had undertaken the external Management Team and identifies the next layer the Boards practice is to use a combination evaluation as it was felt helpful to have someone of management below them who are identified of external consultants and personal referrals.
undertake the review to build on the previous as those with potential for promotion to senior The appointment of Tracy Clarke was through evaluations.
Neither Mr Reed nor Condign management positions.
Where there has been Board Consulting have any other commercial of Executive succession planning, including a personal referral, we will generally invite relationships with Inmarsat.
The 2017 Board identification of high potential employees was more participants than usual to be part evaluation was undertaken by the Company held at the June 2018 Board meeting.
As this is of the interview and assessment process.
Secretary on behalf of the Chairman which took a critical discussion, not only for discussion by In Tracys process, she met the Chairman of the form of a questionnaire to all Directors and this Committee, this presentation included the the Nominations Committee, one NED, both a meeting between the Company Secretary full Board.
There will be future annual updates Executive Directors, the Chief People Officer and each of the Directors.
to the Board on this key issue, with additional and Chief Corporate Affairs Officer who is For the 2018 review, all participants were summaries as needed.
She also met sent a discussion guide by Mr Reed in advance the Board Chairman again.
Formal peer-to-peer Induction and ongoing In considering the skills required for the new Director evaluation was also included in this professional development Non-Executive Director, there was focus on process.
With the verbal, anonymised feedback To ensure that each Director receives seeking an individual who had broad corporate, gathered as part of the process, the Chairman appropriate support on joining the Board, public company experience with recent will be reviewing the performance of the they are given a comprehensive, formal and experience too of sitting and ideally chairing Directors at the appropriate time, as will the tailored induction programme organised a Remuneration Committee to understand Senior Independent Director SID in relation through the Company Secretary, including the increasing demands made in remuneration to the Chairman.
the provision of background material on planning.
Tracy has over 30 years experience the Company and briefings with each of the in a range of international roles at Standard Executive Management Team members.
Chartered Bank PLC, and is currently Regional These meetings will ensure that the on-boarding CEO, Europe and Americas and CEO, process for a new Director provides a view of 74 Governance | Report of the Nominations Committee Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Report of the Nominations Committee continued The summary from the report was that External directorships fundamentally this remains as noted also The Board believes, in principle, in the benefit at the last formal external evaluation in of Executive Directors accepting non-executive 2015 a functional, and effective, board directorships of other companies in order to of committed, experienced and perceptive widen their skills and knowledge for the benefit individuals.
It still is a relatively diverse group, of the Company.
All such appointments require in more than just its gender make-up and is the prior approval of the Board and the number a board with an inclusive, respectful culture.
of public company appointments is generally Internally, striking and maintaining the right limited to two.
The number of appointments balance of challenge with support is one of will be kept under review in line with corporate the most important tasks for any chairman governance requirements.
Details of external and also for his colleagues which has been appointments for the CEO can be found in his balanced well taking into account some of the biography on page 62.
There were no fees significant corporate activities during 2018. paid to the CEO for these duties.
The Board reported it has good access to Appointment and reappointment and input from the business unit and other key The Directors may appoint additional functional heads.
The Board agreed an action members to join the Board during the year.
that an added degree of focus on reviewing Directors appointed in this way will, upon the pricing evolution to support business growth recommendation of the Board, offer themselves was important.
There will be work which will be for election by shareholders at the first undertaken to comply with the new requirements Annual General Meeting AGM after their on workforce engagement, with the decision appointment.
Tracy Clarke, who was appointed taken already to have a formal group on 1 February 2019 will fall into this category.
providing inputs to the Board and Executive The reappointment of Directors is subject to Management Team.
their ongoing commitment to Board activities There was some interest to encourage external and satisfactory performance.
All Directors will speakers to brief the Board from time to time stand for re-election annually in accordance on external perspectives on industry and with the provision of the Code.
The Nominations competitive matters and this will be considered Committee confirmed to the Board that the for future meetings.
contributions made by the Directors offering themselves for re-election at the 2019 AGM The Board should look to balance the time continue to benefit the Board and the Company it spends on the commercial enablers of the should support their re-election.
Non-Executive delivery of strategy, alongside the focus it Directors are appointed initially for three years gives to technical or engineering matters, and all Non-Executive Directors may not, unless new projects or initiatives.
The Board continues agreed by the Board, remain in office for a period to value the early inclusion from executive longer than six years, or two terms in office, management on strategic planning before whichever is the shorter.
Where there has been any decisions are presented for decision.
service longer than six years, the Committee has The NED sessions will continue, with time recommended those Directors alongside other on some occasions for them to review the remaining Directors for re-election.
As noted Chairmans performance without him being earlier in this Report, the Board continues to present.
These sessions were also helpful support the re-election of Sir Bryan Carsberg to ensure all the NEDs were briefed on the as a non-independent Non-Executive Director sensitive discussions on remuneration at the 2019 AGM.
issues in preparation for finalising a new Remuneration Policy.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance | Report of the Telecoms Regulatory Committee 75 Accountability Report of the Telecoms Regulatory Committee Review upcoming key regulatory meetings, The focus for the Committee the proposed agendas and events and the was to contribute oversight Companys plans to cover such events MEMBERS IN 2018 Support the Company in various countries and guidance for the to secure authorisations for market access Scheduled Companys activities meetings as identified by the Company attended across the different global Andrew Sukawaty Obtain the advice and assistance of any of Chairman 1 1 the Companys executives having particular regulatory activities with expertise in such matters and Sir Bryan Carsberg 1 1 which we are involved Janice Obuchowski 1 1 Review, and advise on, the ongoing Dr Hamadoun Tour 1 1 appropriateness and relevance of the The Telecoms Regulatory Committee was Companys regulatory policy and strategy created in May 2015, specifically to ensure as presented by the Companys executives there was focus from the Board on this key and provide guidance on proactive measures area which affects all parts of the Companys proposed by the Company to maintain its business operations.
The Committee comprises leading position and competitiveness in a number of independent Non-Executive the industry Directors and meets as and when necessary, One of the key focus areas discussed at the generally twice a year.
Andrew Sukawaty is meeting in September 2018 was 5G planning Chairman.
The Committee had one meeting and Inmarsats positioning in this global during 2018 where there were detailed updates discussion.
The Committee heard how the provided on some key regulatory matters.
regulatory policy team was participating in At this meeting, the Committee also met the regulatory reviews in Europe, the U. S. and in new Group General Counsel who would be ITU meetings to explain how satellite could responsible for leading the regulatory team.
The Telecoms Regulatory Committee An update on the S-band EAN regulatory is authorised by the Board to: progress was also provided which covered deep ANDREW SUKAWATY Review key regulatory challenges facing dive reviews on the engagement with regulators, CHAIRMAN, TELECOMS REGULATORY COMMITTEE the business of the Company and the the reporting obligations to the European strategy and action plans proposed to Commission, an update on the legal cases meet such challenges which had been made against individual regulators and the EC, the progress being Discuss the Companys strategy for acquisition made with customers to take the EAN service of spectrum and frequency rights and, due to Brexit, the action taken to redomicile the Inmarsat subsidiary which is the licence Facilitate high level engagement with holder for the EAN.
governments, regulatory bodies and international organisations as identified The Committee received an update on the by the Company regulatory progress in select countries globally, noting the current framework in each and discussed the current market access plans.
The next ITU World Radiocommunication Conference will be held in Egypt during November 2019.
This is one of the significant regulatory meetings where key regulatory agenda items will be discussed.
The Committee was briefed on the activities being conducted by the regulatory and spectrum management teams in preparation for the meeting, which included the Company participating in ITU working parties and CEPT technical groups as well as involvement in some of the national and regional preparatory groups.
76 Governance | Report of the Audit Committee Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Accountability Report of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee has particular All members of the Audit responsibility for: Committee are independent Monitoring the financial reporting process MEMBERS IN 2018 Non-Executive Directors and The adequacy and effectiveness of Scheduled the operation of internal controls and the majority have significant, meetings attended risk management recent and relevant financial Robert Ruijter Chairman 4 4 The integrity of the financial statements.
The Board is This includes a review of significant issues Janice Obuchowski 4 4 and judgements, policies, and disclosures confident that the collective 2 Phillipa McCrostie 3 4 Keeping under review the scope and results experience of the Audit Warren Finegold 4 4 of the audit and its cost effectiveness 1 Sir Bryan Carsberg ceased to be a member Committee members enables in May 2018 and now attends meetings Consideration of managements response as an observer them, as a group, to act as to any major external or internal audit 2 Pip McCrostie was unable to attend recommendations one meeting of the Committee due an effective Committee to personal reasons Reviewing the risk management process and reporting throughout the year The table shows the composition of the Being assured of the independence Audit Committee and their attendance at and objectivity of the internal and meetings during 2018.
Robert Ruijter has external auditor and been Chairman since November 2015.
All members, apart from Janice Obuchowski, During 2018 there was particular focus are considered financial experts.
on the new IFRS 9, 15 and 16 accounting standards and their implementation By invitation, the meetings of the Audit Committee may be attended by the Chairman, The Board requested that the Committee Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer advise whether it believes the Annual Report and the Head of Internal Audit and other ROBERT RUIJTER and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, senior finance members.
Sir Bryan Carsberg CHAIRMAN, balanced and understandable and provides also now attends on invitation due to his AUDIT COMMITTEE the information necessary for shareholders expertise in the field.
The Deloitte LLP Deloitte to assess the Companys financial position, audit engagement partner is present at performance, business model and strategy.
all Audit Committee meetings to ensure full The financial results include those from Inmarsat communication of matters relating to the audit.
Government Inc. a proxy company based in the The Chairman of the Audit Committee meets U. S. which is managed under a Proxy arrangement regularly with the internal and external auditors as required by the U. S. Government to ensure and at the end of each Audit Committee meeting it is insulated from foreign ownership, control there is a short meeting of just the Committee, or influence.
This company was acquired Company Chairman and auditors which includes in 2010 and has been operating under the the internal auditor several times during the year Proxy arrangement since that time.
Deloitte for an open discussion about the audit process is auditor to this company and our CEO attends and relationship with management.
their board meetings to receive appropriate briefings on items he is authorised to receive.
The Committees terms of reference to reflect best practice, and can be found on our website.
Details about the Committees assessment are shown at the end of this Report.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance | Report of the Audit Committee 77 There is a forward agenda used for the years Review and approve risk management Audit Committee with documents which the activities which focuses on: updates and the annual risk management Committee reviewed and provided clarity on the process completeness of financial reporting disclosures Review of the annual financial statements prior to their release by the Board.
and the results of the annual external Agree external and internal annual audit plans audit and review of the external auditors Receive updates on management  quarterly and interim review work and responses to audit recommendations During 2018, the Audit Committee considered relevant quarterly and interim financial the significant accounting matters described reporting and the external audit plan Complete a detailed assessment of below.
In addressing these issues the Committee the 2017 Audit Effectiveness using the Review of the risk management process considered the appropriateness of managements FRC guidance reports for audit committees and reporting accounting estimates and key judgements, and ethical standards expected of auditors outlined in note 4 to the consolidated financial Consideration of new accounting as reference material.
The Committee discussed these standards and governance changes outcome was that the Committee had with the external auditor during the year and, sufficient knowledge about its own where appropriate, details of how they have been Review of the preparation of the viability responsibilities and those of the auditors addressed are provided in the Independent statement for use in the 2018 Preliminary Auditors Report on pages 108 to 115.
Statement and Annual Report and Review key accounting judgements relating to specific transactions as well as changes Review of internal audit plans and, discussing to any accounting policies affecting the Change in accounting policies staffing impact on their work load, findings Groups financial position and Changes to accounting policies impacting and recommendations revenue accounting, lease accounting and Regularly monitor key programmes financial instruments have been adopted The Audit Committee ensures that the across the Group including the plans for in 2018 in response to the new accounting external audit process and audit quality the implementation of a new billing and standards IFRS 15, IFRS 16 and IFRS 9 are effective.
It does this by: accounts payable system respectively.
IFRS 16 has been early adopted Monitoring the engagement between in 2018 as the overall impact on the financial Reviews by the Committee of audit plans the Audit Committee Chairman and the statements is considered low.
As part of and risk reports include all Group operations.
lead audit engagement partner which will the adoption, management has outlined Detailed risk reporting is used for all Group generally be through face-to-face meetings the Groups updated accounting policies companies and business operations.
One of to align with each of the standards.
Revenue our subsidiary companies, Inmarsat Group Ltd, Monitoring the reports which are brought recognition, installation and Ligado revenue is required to produce quarterly financial to the Committee by the lead audit have each had their recognition policies statements, as required by its loan agreements: engagement partner and other senior updated and the comparatives adjusted as the format and content for these are based on members of the audit team permitted by IFRS 15.
For lease accounting, the ultimate group reporting which falls under Monitoring the quality of the management a right to use asset was recorded on the the Committees review.
The quarterly review responses to audit queries statement of financial position as at 1 January of the risk reports and the process adopted 2018 with a corresponding lease liability, to manage risk is a key area of focus for Monitoring meetings held by the CEO while changes in the income statement have the Committee.
and the Chairman with the lead audit been mainly presentational.
For financial engagement partner which are reported With several significant changes to IFRS instruments, there are no material changes.
to the Audit Chairman and Committee reporting being implemented, the Committee Further details of the adjustments are outlined received detailed briefings and updates from Monitoring a review of independence and in note 1 to the financial statements.
objectivity of the audit firm and also the quality of the formal audit report given Revenue recognition Audit Committee meetings generally take by the Auditor to shareholders and The timing of revenue recognition is a key place just prior to a Board meeting to maximise area of judgement, especially in the effectiveness and time planning efficiency Seeking feedback from members of the telecommunications industry.
The Groups of those attending.
The Committees Chairman finance team, the Company Secretary accounting policy on revenue recognition reports to the Board as part of a separate and the Head of Internal Audit has been adjusted to accommodate IFRS 15, agenda item on the activity of the Committee During the reporting year to 31 December 2018, refer to note 2 for more details.
The Groups and matters of particular relevance to the Board the activities of the Audit Committee were to: Internal Audit team have kept significant in the conduct of their work.
All members of the revenue systems, processes and recognition Board have access to Audit Committee papers Confirm to the Board that the Annual Report and as a focus area during the year and the external and minutes of meetings, and may, on request Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable auditor performed detailed audit procedures to the Chairman, attend the meetings.
on revenue recognition, with the findings of Review and endorsement, prior to submission As part of the preparation of the financial both being reported to the Audit Committee.
to the Board, the half-year and full-year statements, there is an internal senior team, The Audit Committee has therefore concluded financial statements, interim management which includes the CFO and Company Secretary, that the Groups revenue recognition policies statements and results announcements which reviews the preparation and content of continue to be in line with IFRS requirements.
Review and approve internal audit reports, the reporting to ensure there is timely disclosure and findings and recommendations arising of financial and other material information from the reports to the Board.
This preparation provided the 78 Governance | Report of the Audit Committee Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Report of the Audit Committee continued Revenue in respect of the Ligado Applying diligent professional care and assets.
The key judgements involved in the networks cooperation agreement judgement to ensure that the tax risk is capitalisation of space segment assets The Audit Committee continues to review managed with a high degree of certainty and associated borrowings costs are: the accounting treatment for the recognition Working positively, pro-actively and Whether the capitalisation criteria of revenue and costs in respect of each phase of transparently with tax authorities to of the underlying IFRS have been met the Ligado Networks formerly LightSquared minimise the extent of disputes, to achieve Cooperation Agreement.
Allocation of an appropriate asset class early agreement on disputed issues when and associated useful economic life Deferred income in respect of Phase 1 from they arise and achieve certainty wherever in accordance with Group policies Ligado continues to be carried on the balance possible and sheet.
Although the cash has been received, Whether an asset is deemed to be Ensuring that tax strategy is aligned with the timing of the recognition of this deferred substantially complete and as a result the wider business and commercial strategy income, together with any related future capitalisation of borrowing costs costs and taxes, is dependent upon a number From time to time the Group may be involved should cease and of factors that continue to be uncertain.
The in disputes in relation to ongoing tax matters Whether an asset is ready for use and as a impact of the foregoing on the deferred revenue where a tax authority adopts a different result further capitalisation of costs should balance of $206.7m 2017 restated: $206.8m interpretation to our own.
The level of cease and depreciation should commence carried by the Company in respect of the costs provisioning for these disputes is an issue of implementation of this agreement is still to be where management and tax judgement The external auditor examined the capitalisation determined.
During 2018, Inmarsat recognised are important.
of development costs in the year, particularly $0.1m 2017: $2.0m of deferred income.
in relation to the Global Xpress and S-band The Committee addresses these matters through satellite programmes and reported its control In March 2016, Ligado Networks agreed to a range of reporting from senior management findings to the Audit Committee.
The Audit take the 30MHz option the 30MHz Plan and by challenging the appropriateness of Committee is satisfied that space segment under the Cooperation Agreement between the managements views including the degree to assets and associated borrowing costs companies.
In exchange for the deferral of some which these are supported by third party expert have been capitalised correctly in the year.
payments from Ligado to Inmarsat, the parties advice.
This is an area of higher audit risk and agreed to delay the transition to the 30MHz accordingly, the Committee received detailed Viability statement Plan, with Ligado providing Inmarsat enhanced verbal and written reports from the external The Audit Committee received a detailed spectrum usage rights for its satellite operations auditor on these matters.
Following these paper from management setting out both for a minimum period of two years.
With this procedures, the Audit Committee deemed the Directors obligation to include a viability in mind, Ligado made quarterly payments to the income tax assets and liabilities balances statement in the Annual Report and a Inmarsat of $118.5m during the course of 2018 for the year, as well as the Groups disclosure in detailed assessment of the Groups viability.
and recognised revenue of $130.7m, increasing respect of income taxes and related liabilities, The Committee endorsed the selection of the receivable in relation to deferrals to $35.0m to be appropriate.
a three-year time horizon as a basis for the as at 31 December 2018 2017 restated: $25.0m.
We ensure that the Groups tax risk is managed statement and reviewed the detailed viability The Audit Committee has deemed the current conservatively and professionally, by observing assessment including the assumptions that accounting treatment of all phases of the laws and meeting our compliance obligations had been made in conducting the assessment.
in all territories in which we operate.
We seek Further detail on the assessment of viability to work proactively and collaboratively with and the viability statement are set out on Taxation our stakeholders, including tax authorities page 59.
The calculation of some of the Groups potential and colleagues within the business, whilst tax assets and liabilities involves a degree of ensuring that the Groups tax strategy is aligned Internal audit estimation and judgement in respect of certain with the wider business and its commercial Monitoring and review of the scope, extent items, whose tax treatment cannot be finalised strategy of generating sustainable value for and effectiveness of the activity of the Internal until resolution has been reached with the relevant our shareholders.
During 2018, we provided Audit Department is an agenda item at each tax authority, or, as appropriate, through a training to our staff on the requirements issued Committee meeting.
Additionally, the Chairman formal legal process.
Issues can, and often do, by the UK HMRC regarding the failure to prevent of the Committee meets regularly with the take a number of years to resolve.
the criminal facilitation of tax evasion: this was Internal Auditor.
included in our anti bribery training module.
The Groups tax strategy is published on the Internal Audit prepares its annual audit plan website and this is subject to review by the based on the principal risks of the Company Capitalisation of space segment assets Board of Inmarsat plc on an annual basis.
for the Committee to approve.
Internal Audit and associated borrowing costs conducts reviews of business operations, Inmarsat is committed to: Space segment assets comprise satellite financial and internal controls, IT and cyber construction, launch and other associated Observing all applicable laws, rules and security, and legal and regulatory compliance.
regulations in meeting our tax compliance It presents its reports at each meeting covering In addition, borrowing costs attributable to and reporting responsibilities everywhere updates on Internal Audit activities, results qualifying space segment assets are added we operate of audits and follow-up actions required.
to the cost of those assets.
Given the nature of the Groups business, significant capital expenditure is incurred on space segment Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance | Report of the Audit Committee 79 External auditor Inmarsats policy is to adopt a strict 70% cap Are the key messages in the narrative The Financial Reporting Council issued a guide for allowable non-audit services.
To ensure the reflected in the financial reporting?
for Audit Committees to help them evaluate policy is adequately controlled, we adopt several Are the KPIs disclosed at an appropriate level auditor effectiveness.
There are several criteria processes, which were reviewed and confirmed based on the financial reporting and are they included within the report and in 2018 the as being used during 2018.
Fees charged by the right ones to use to describe the business?
Committee completed a detailed assessment Deloitte in respect of non-audit services require of the 2017 Audit so that Deloitte and the prior approval of the Audit Committee, Is the report balanced?
management could review how any changes except where the fee is less than 50,000.
Is there a good level of consistency between could be made to improve the effectiveness Any commitments above this amount will require the narrative reporting in the front and the going forward.
The Committee receives inputs the Audit Committee Chairmans approval.
financial reporting in the back of the report, from different sources such as the Auditors A summary is available to the Audit Committee and does the messaging reflected in each themselves, management, as well as the input where amounts have been committed below remain consistent when read independently from the members of the Committee which 50,000.
Separate engagement letters are of each other?
assisted it to determine that the Auditor and its signed by our CFO for each audit and non-audit work were effective.
At each of the Audit engagement with Deloitte.
Is the Annual Report a document which is Committee meetings, the Auditor report on any understandable by shareholders?
A breakdown of the fees paid to Deloitte issues it perceived related to quality control and during the year, including non-audit services, Are the statutory and adjusted measures where it thought judgements had been applied is set out in note 6 to the consolidated explained clearly with appropriate prominence?
by management and if it agreed with these, financial statements.
or offered an alternative view if appropriate.
Are the key judgements referred to in the The findings and reports from the Auditor help It is the Companys practice that it will seek narrative reporting and the significant issues the Audit Committee make assessments about quotes from several firms, which may include reported in this Audit Committee Report the need to update processes or undertake Deloitte, before work on non-audit projects is consistent with the disclosures of key estimation further review work on any particular issues.
Contracts are awarded to our suppliers uncertainties and critical judgements set based on individual merits.
The Committee out in the financial statements?
Deloitte LLP were reappointed at the 2018 Annual and the Companys management are aware General Meeting and will also be put forward How do these compare with the risks that that the level of fees paid to Deloitte for for reappointment at the 2019 Annual General Deloitte plan to include in their audit report?
non-audit services compared to audit services Meeting.
Under the EU directive, Deloitte are was significantly higher several years ago due now capable of being reappointed for a further to work undertaken regarding specialist tax Is the report understandable?
10 years after the retender 2016, however advice on certain transactions and, has worked Is there a clear and understandable shareholder approval will be required each year.
to ensure that the non-audit fee levels have framework to the report?
reduced or are nil over the last few years as in Auditor objectivity and independence is Are the important messages highlighted 2017 and 2018. safeguarded through a variety of mechanisms.
To ensure the Auditors independence, the We receive advice from other firms for specific Committee annually reviews the Companys Is the layout clear with good linkage projects and other long-term projects.
We have relationship with Deloitte and receives throughout in a manner that reflects continued to use PwC, KPMG and EY for various summaries at each Audit Committee meeting the whole story?
projects some are new projects and some from the Auditor as to their independence.
The have been continuing for several years.
We also Committee concluded that it continues to have Conclusion use different firms to support us on VAT and ad an objective and professional relationship with Following its review, the Committee was of hoc PAYE issues.
Deloitte and that there are sufficient controls the opinion that the 2018 Annual Report and and processes in place to ensure the required Accounts is representative of the year and Fair, balanced and understandable level of independence.
The External Auditor is presents a fair, balanced and understandable When forming its opinion as to whether the required to change the audit partner responsible overview, providing the necessary information Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced for the Group audit every five years.
In 2016, for shareholders to assess the Groups position, and understandable, the Committee reflected a new audit partner was identified and took over performance, business model and strategy.
on the information it had received and its as the lead for the 2016 reporting period after discussions throughout the year.
During the year, Deloitte charged the Group $1.2m In particular, the Committee considered ROB RUIJTER 2017: $1.2m for audit and audit-related services.
the same themes as it had in 2017: CHAIRMAN, AUDIT COMMITTEE 18 March 2019 Non-audit services Is the report fair?
The Companys Auditor may also be used Is the whole story presented and has to provide specialist advice where, as a result any sensitive material been omitted of their position as Auditor, they either must, or that should have been included?
are best placed to, perform the work in question.
Is the reporting on the business segments A formal policy is in place in relation to the in the narrative reporting consistent with provision of non-audit services by the Auditor those used for the financial reporting to ensure that there is adequate protection in the financial statements?
of their independence and objectivity.
