Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report | Market trends 13 Market trends their proprietary military communications While all global LEO and MEO constellations The satellite communications systems with fungible commercial satellite would be covering the oceans, most of them industry continues to be capabilities as they face increasing are built for land based applications and not requirements to support applications such configured for mobility which will leave them driven by several major as communications on-the-move COTM with large amounts of their capacity stranded and Airborne Intelligence, Surveillance and in areas of low demand and ultimately make market trends, which Reconnaissance AISR, which drive demand them uncompetitive with future GEO satellites are expected to impact for ubiquitous, consistent coverage, and in terms of capacity cost and capacity high performance global satellite services.
available in demand hot spots.
Inmarsat and other satellite In Aviation, cabin connectivity, both in the This will lead to a situation where, despite operators in the future Business and Commercial Aviation segments, potential significant new capacity supply is seeing rapid adoption by airlines and an coming in the market, global mobility markets increasing usage by passengers, as airlines will require substantial amounts of new targeted, Demand outlook: continued are starting to explore the opportunities mobility-based, capacity to service a number requirement for satellite connectivity and advantages of the connected aircraft.
of significant future hotspots of demand, Customer requirements for broadband satellite Passenger demand as well as connected in particular for customers in the In-Flight connectivity are expected to continue to grow, aircraft services will drive future bandwidth Connectivity segment in Commercial Aviation.
particularly for mobility-based applications, requirements per aircraft and lead to a at sea, on land and in the air.
In addition, continued increase in the number of aircraft Implications for satellite operators a growing range of applications is emerging, using connectivity services.
These dynamics bring challenges and predominantly in the area of Industrial Internet opportunities for satellite operators, which will Aside from broadband, there is also expected to of Things IIoT, to drive demand for lower constantly need to innovate, evolve and adapt, be growth in L-band satellite services in certain bandwidth connectivity services.
to support efforts in capturing market share in niche segments, particularly in the area of IIoT.
high growth segments, particularly mobility.
The growing demand for broadband satellite Euroconsult is forecasting the number of active connectivity will be driven by data-rich satellite IoT devices to increase from 3.5 million Satellite operators are changing their business applications and an increase in the number of in 2017 to nearly 11 million by 2026.
L-band models to move from selling pure capacity connected devices.
This is creating significant offers differentiated utility for applications in to marketing solutions and services.
With a growth opportunities in the area of mobility, this area, which requires small form factors and prospect of global aggregate overcapacity and where satellite connectivity is often the only high resilience capabilities.
The development of partial capacity shortage in demand hotspots, solution, given the absence of terrestrial small and lower cost satellite IoT terminals in the future satellites are also being increasingly network coverage.
future will unlock demand for this connectivity developed with flexible payloads, enabling and enable new user applications in this exciting, coverage in areas with highest demand rather In Maritime, the growth potential of emerging growth market over the long term.
than wasting supply over low-demand regions.
broadband services, referred to as VSAT, remains strong across all market segments, The increasing role of satellite in the wider Supply outlook: rapidly including merchant shipping, leisure, fishing connectivity landscape should create evolving dynamics and off-shore.
These segments are serviced by more opportunities for satellite operators.
From a supply perspective, much of the swathes operators and distributors of broadband satellite For mobility markets in particular, Inmarsat of capacity that were previously expected connectivity, particularly in the relatively high is extremely well positioned to capture to come on-line in the coming years, mainly frequency Ka-band, which Inmarsat operates in, a large part of the future growth given our: focused on land-based communication services and Ku-band spectrum bands.
Euroconsult such as consumer broadband in rural areas or estimates that over 50% of maritime VSAT Dedicated focus on mobility satcom markets GSM backhaul, remains highly uncertain and capacity demand will be for Ka-band services Established global market presence at a minimum will likely see substantial delays by 2023, outpacing Ku-band satellite across all key mobility markets compared to initially targeted service dates.
capacity demand, and growing at a CAGR of Differentiated capabilities in end-to-end In particular for new broadband NGSO 35% between 2017 and 2027.
The increasing network management services to constellation projects significant hurdles demand for broadband connectivity in Maritime our customers remain, including: is driven by a commercial requirement for Technology leadership with best-in-class value-added data services to help improve networks Gaining key regulatory clearances a vessels operating environment, as well as a Valuable global spectrum assets Organising spectrum coordination need for higher bandwidth to service a vessels Market-leading distribution channels with regulators and other operators crew, as they access basic applications in Achieving Global market access their everyday lives, like internet access and through distribution partnerships Voice-over-Internet Protocol video calls.
Nurturing on-going relationships with key commercial launch partners Government spend on satellite Building relationships with key suppliers communications, particularly for secure, to develop terminals and equipment high-bandwidth connectivity to and from Significant investment required, airborne and seaborne platforms is also particularly on ground infrastructure expected to grow significantly in the future.
Addressing issues of space debris and Government customers are augmenting fide-orbiting requirements
