VIABILITY STATEMENT The strategy and business plan is approved annually by the Board and Prospect assessment updated as appropriate.
It considers and assumptions the Groups profitability, cash flows, capital requirements, dividend Key factors affecting the Groups payments, and other key variables prospects are its market position such as liquidity and the solvency and recurring revenue.
requirements of the regulated entities.
These are considered under Market position stress and scenario tests to ensure Independent research consistently the business has sufficient flexibility rates Transact as the top platform in to withstand such impacts by the market page 11.
The number of adjusting its plans within the normal advisers using the platform increased course of business.
Accordingly, by 6% during the year and the the Board have concluded that the The Directors assessment has number of clients on the platform Group has adequate resources to been made with consideration and increased by 10% demonstrating continue in operational existence reference to: the Groups current satisfaction with the service provided.
for the foreseeable future, being a position and business plan: the Groups period of at least 12 months risk appetite: the Groups financial Recurring revenue from the date this Annual report projections: and the Groups principal is approved.
For this reason, The absolute level of revenue is risks and uncertainties, as detailed they have adopted the going concern dependent on market values, but key in the Strategic Report.
basis for the preparation of the to the recurrence is the retention of Financial Statements.
FUD which is achieved through Going concern retaining clients and advisers through The Group continues to maintain Viability Statement our service delivery.
96% of revenue a robust financial position.
is of recurring nature page 17.
In accordance with the Code, Having conducted detailed cash flow the Directors have assessed the The Group is targeting organic and working capital projections and Companys prospects by reference revenue growth, with moderate appropriate stress-testing on liquidity, to the three-year planning period margin improvements driven by profitability and regulatory capital, to September 2021, and have efficiency delivered from process taking account of possible adverse reasonable expectation that the and system enhancement.
changes in trading performance, Company will continue to operate and the Board is satisfied the Group It is the Boards view that a three meet its liabilities as they fall due is well placed to manage its business year time horizon is an appropriate over the period of this assessment.
The Board is also satisfied period over which to assess its viability that it will be able to operate within and prospects, and to execute its the regulatory capital limits business plan.
This assessment Alexander Scott imposed by regulators, being the period is consistent with the Groups Chief Financial Officer Financial Conduct Authority FCA, current business plan projections and Prudential Regulation Authority PRA, 12 December 2018 the ICAAP and ORSAs of the Groups and Isle Man Financial Services regulated entities.
INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 35
