ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 93 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited The profiles of the Directors currently financial statements for the 12 months ended 31 March 2018. serving are shown on pages 40 and The risks to which the Group is subject and the policies in 41: those details are incorporated into this report by reference.
In addition, respect of such risks are set out on pages 27 to 33 and are Chistophe Evain served as an Executive incorporated into this report by reference.
The Corporate Director during the year, stepping down Governance section set out on pages 37 to 92, is incorporated on 25 July 2017. into this report by reference.
The Strategic Report section set The composition of each of the Committees of the Board and the Chair of each out on pages 2 to 36, is also incorporated by reference.
Committee are detailed in the report of each Committee, found on pages 49 to 92.
Throughout the year to 31 March 2018 the Group was in compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
A copy Directors interests of the Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils website: www.
The interests of Directors who held office at Significant shareholdings 31 March 2018 and their connected persons, as defined by the Companies Act, are As at 31 March 2018 the Company had been notified or otherwise become aware of the disclosed in the report of the Remuneration following interests pursuant to the Disclosure Rules and the Transparency Rules representing Committee on page 85.
3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company.
There have been no notifications made subsequent to the year end.
Details of Directors share options are provided in the report of the Remuneration Committee on page 85.
During the financial Number of Percentage of year ending 31 March 2018, the Directors Institution shares voting rights had no options over or other interests in the shares of any subsidiary company.
Aviva Investors 24,842,589 8.56 No options over Company shares were issued to Directors under the Executive Schroders Plc 12,526,306 4.32 Share Option Schemes during the year.
BlackRock Inc 12,022,453 4.15 The roles of the Chairman and Old Mutual Plc 11,105,301 3.82 Chief Executive In accordance with the Code, the Board has Ameriprise Financial Inc 10,363,727 3.57 adopted a formal division of responsibilities J. P Morgan Asset Management 9,423,983 3.25 between the Chairman and the CEO, so as to establish a clear division of responsibilities The Company is a public company limited by shares.
between the running of the Board and the executive responsibility for the running of the Companys business.
The current Chairman, Kevin Parry, was considered independent at the date of his appointment as Chairman.
94 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED is responsible for finance, operations, IT, Senior Independent Director The Board has delegated the human resources, compliance and legal.
Peter Gibbs currently holds the position of following responsibilities to the Senior Independent Director SID of the Two Steering Committees have been Executive Directors: Company.
He will retire from the Board on put in place during the year to support, The development and 26 July and will be succeeded by Andrew assist and challenge the Executive recommendation of strategic plans for Sykes.
In accordance with the Code, Directors in the exercise of their authority.
consideration by the Board any shareholder concerns not resolved These Committees are made up of other through the usual mechanisms for investor Delivery of objectives and priorities individuals from the senior management communication can be conveyed to the SID.
determined by the Board team of the Group and respectively focused Andrew Sykes is available for such meetings on ongoing business operations and Implementation of the strategies and in future.
policies of the Group as determined by the Board The SID acts as a sounding board for the Board process Chairman and also leads the annual appraisal Monitoring of operating and financial Each Board member receives a of the Chairman.
results against plans and budgets comprehensive Board pack at least five days Monitoring the quality of the prior to each meeting which incorporates Directors indemnity investment process a formal agenda together with supporting The Company has entered into standard papers for items to be discussed at the Developing and maintaining risk contractual indemnities with each of the meeting.
Further information is obtained management systems Directors.
The Company also provides by the Board from the Executive Directors Directors and Officers insurance for and other relevant members of senior the Directors.
management, as the Board, particularly Conflicts of interest its Non-Executive Directors, consider Disclosure documents appropriate.
A similar process is followed Directors have a statutory duty to avoid The terms of reference of each of the for each Committee.
conflicts of interest with the Company.
Board Committees, together with the The Companys Articles of Association Advice for Directors Directors service agreements, the terms allow the Directors to authorise conflicts of and conditions of appointment of Non All Directors have access to the advice and interest and the Board has adopted a policy Executive Directors and Directors deeds of services of the Company Secretary and the and effective procedures for managing and, indemnity, are available for inspection at the Secretaries to each of the Committees on where appropriate, approving potential Companys registered office during normal which they serve, and may take independent conflicts of interest.
No material conflicts business hours.
professional advice at the Companys of interest exist.
expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Committee proceedings Internal control The appointment or removal of the Company Each Committee has access to such external Secretary would be a matter for the Board.
The Board has overall responsibility for advice as it may consider appropriate.
the Companys internal control system Meetings with the Chairman The terms of reference of each Committee and monitoring risk management and are considered regularly by the respective The Non-Executive Directors regularly hold internal controls for which we review Committee and referred to the Board meetings in the absence of the Executive their effectiveness at least annually.
Directors at least five times per year and internal controls include giving reasonable, usually before or after each Board meeting Delegation to Executive Directors but not absolute, assurance that assets are and, separately, in the absence of the safeguarded, transactions are authorised The Company has two Executive Chairman at least twice per year.
and recorded properly and that material Directors, each of whom has a specific errors and irregularities are prevented or area of responsibility.
Benot Durteste is detected within a timely period.
CEO and in addition to his strategic and operational remit he oversees the Groups Through the regular meetings of the Board Investment Committees in his role as the and the schedule of matters reserved to the Chief Investment Officer.
Philip Keller is Board or its duly authorised Committees, Chief Finance and Operating Officer and the Board aims to maintain full and effective control over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 95 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Board has put in place an organisational The Directors have made this assessment of operations, financial condition, liquidity, structure with clearly defined lines of after reviewing the Groups latest prospects, growth, strategies and the responsibility and delegation of authority.
forecasts for a period of three years, industries in which the Group operates.
noting the 729.7m cash and unutilised The Board annually considers and approves By their nature, forward-looking statements committed debt facilities as at the end of a strategic plan and budget.
In addition involve risk and uncertainty because they FY18.
Following the refinancing of ICGs there are established procedures and relate to future events and circumstances.
committed bank facilities, effective 4 April processes in place for the making and Forward-looking statements are not 2018, there are currently no drawings and monitoring of investments and the planning guarantees of future performance and the there is no maturity of committed facilities and controlling of expenditure.
The Board actual results of the Groups operations, within two years.
also receives regular reports from executive financial condition and liquidity, and the management on the Companys operational The Groups business activities, together development of the countries and the and financial performance, measured against with the factors likely to affect its future industries in which the Group operates the annual budget as well as regulatory and development, performance and position may differ materially from those described compliance matters.
are set out in the Strategic Report on in, or suggested by, the forward-looking pages 2 to 36.
The financial position of the statements contained in this Annual Report.
The Company has in place arrangements Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and In addition, even if the results of operations, whereby individuals may raise matters borrowing facilities are described in the financial condition and liquidity, and the of concern in confidence about possible Finance and Operating Review on pages 20 development of the countries and the improprieties in matters of financial to 26.
In addition, note 20 to the financial industries in which the Group operates, reporting or other matters.
statements includes the Groups objectives, are consistent with the forward-looking The rationale for the system of internal policies and processes for managing its statements contained in this Annual Report, control is to maximise effectiveness for the capital: its financial risk management: details those results or developments may not be commercial management of the business of its financial instruments and hedging indicative of results or developments in and to provide the Board with regular activities: and its exposures to credit risk subsequent periods.
Many of these factors and effective reporting on the identified and liquidity risk.
are beyond the control of the Directors, significant risk factors.
The Board is the Company and the Group.
Should one The Directors believe that the Group and responsible for determining strategies and or more of these risks or uncertainties Company are well placed to manage the policies for risk control, and management materialise, or should underlying business risks successfully in the current is responsible for implementing such assumptions on which the forward-looking economic environment.
statements are based prove incorrect, Forward-looking statements actual results may vary materially from those The Board confirms that an ongoing process described in this Annual Report.
Except to This Annual Report includes statements for identifying, evaluating and managing the extent required by laws and regulations, that are, or may be deemed to be, forwardthe Groups significant risks has operated the Directors, the Company and the Group looking statements.
These forward-looking throughout the year and up to the date of do not intend, and do not assume any statements can be identified by the use of the approval of the Directors report and obligation, to update any forward-looking forward-looking expressions, including the financial statements.
For further details of statements set out in this Annual Report.
terms believes, estimates, anticipates, the risks relating to the Group, please see expects, intends, may, will or should pages 30 to 33 and the report of the Risk or, in each case, their negative or other Committee on pages 59 to 63. variations or similar expressions, or by Going concern statement discussions of strategy, plans, objectives, The Directors have, at the time of approving goals, future events or intentions.
the financial statements, a reasonable These forward-looking statements expectation that the Company and the include all matters that are not historical Group have adequate resources to continue facts.
They appear in a number of places in operational existence for the foreseeable throughout this Annual Report and include, future.
Therefore they have adopted the but are not limited to, the following: going concern basis of preparing the statements regarding the intentions, beliefs financial statements.
or current expectations of the Directors, the Company and the Group concerning, amongst other things, the Groups results 96 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Change of control agreements grade or withdrawal, or a downgrade of Non UK branches one or more notches or withdrawal of the There are no significant agreements to which A subsidiary of the Company, Intermediate rating if already sub-investment grade.
the Group is a party that take effect, alter or Capital Managers Limited, operates a branch terminate upon a change of control of the in France.
The employee share schemes, details of Group, other than: which can be found in the Report of the Auditor Remuneration Committee on pages 68 to 1.
The Private Placement arrangements A resolution for the reappointment of 92, awards and options under the 2001 totalling 20m equivalent dated 26 June the current auditor, Deloitte LLP, will Approved and Unapproved Executive 2008, $150m dated 8 May 2013, $279m, be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Share Option Schemes and SAYE Plan 13m and 79m dated 11 May 2015, Details of auditors remuneration for audit 2004 become exercisable for a limited $292m and 74m dated 29 September and non audit work are disclosed in note 10 period following a change of control.
2016 where a change of control of the to the accounts.
Awards and options under the Omnibus Company gives rise to a prepayment offer, Plan and the BSC Plan vest immediately Further details are set out in the Audit whereby the Company must make an offer on a change of control.
Committee report on pages 49 to 58. to all holders of the Private Placement notes to prepay the entire unpaid principal 5.
Carried interest arrangements in respect amount of the Private Placement notes, of a number of funds vest fully in favour of together with accrued interest thereon.
the Company and certain of its employees following a change of control event.
The 500m committed syndicated loan facilities agreement entered into There are no agreements between the on 4 April 2018 contains a change of Group and its Directors or employees control provision which provides, upon providing for compensation for loss of office the occurrence of a change of control of or employment that occurs because of a the Company, for a 30 day negotiation takeover bid apart from those described period with the syndicate lenders to above and the usual payment in lieu of notice.
agree terms and conditions which are Dividend acceptable to syndicate lenders and the The Directors recommend a final net Company for continuing the facilities.
If, ordinary dividend payment in respect of the at the end of the negotiation period, no ordinary shares of the Company at a rate of such agreement is reached, the facilities 21.0p per share 2017: 19.5p, which when agreement gives each lender the right, added to the interim net dividend of 9.0p per but not the obligation, upon applicable share 2017: 7.5p, gives a total net dividend notice, to cancel their commitments under for the year of 30.0p per share 2017: 27.0p.
the facilities agreement and declare their The recommendation is subject to the participation in the loans then outstanding approval of shareholders at the Companys repayable on demand, together with AGM on 26 July 2018. accrued interest and all other amounts payable thereon.
The amount of ordinary dividend paid in the year was 80.7m 2017: 70.9m.
The terms and conditions of the 35m retail bond issue which took place in Distributable reserves December 2011, the 80m retail bond The distributable reserves of the Parent issue which took place in September Company at 31 March 2018 were 702.1m.
2012, the 50m wholesale bond issue which took place in March 2014, the 25m Disclosures required under UK Listing wholesale bond issue which took place Rule 9.8.
4 in June 2014 and the 160m bond issue Dividend waivers have been issued in which took place in March 2015, each of respect of shares which are held by the which set out that following a change of Groups EBT, or held as treasury shares: control event, investors have the right but other than this, there are no disclosures not the obligation to sell their notes to the required to be made under UK Listing Company if the change of control results Rule 9.8.
4. in either a credit ratings downgrade from investment grade to sub-investment ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 97 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION U nder the Companys Articles of They or any interested person has TO THE AUDITOR Association, any share in the Company may failed to supply the Company with be issued with such rights or restrictions, the information requested within 14 Each of the persons who is a Director at the whether in regard to dividend, voting, days where the shares subject to the date of approval of this report confirms that: transfer, return of capital or otherwise notice the default shares represent a.
So far as the Director is aware, there is as the Company may from time to time by at least 0.25% of their class or in any no relevant audit information of which the ordinary resolution determine or, in the other case 28 days after delivery of Companys auditor is unaware absence of any such determination, as the the notice.
Where the default shares Board may determine.
All shares currently represent 0.25% of their class, unless b.
The Director has taken all reasonable in issue are ordinary shares of 26p each the Board decides otherwise, no steps that they ought to have taken as carrying equal rights.
The Articles of dividend is payable in respect of those a Director in order to make themselves Association of this Company cannot be default shares and no transfer of any aware of any relevant audit information amended without shareholder approval default shares shall be registered.
and to ensure that the Companys auditor These restrictions end seven days after At a general meeting of the Company is aware of that information receipt by the Company of a notice every member present in person or by a This confirmation is given and should of an approved transfer of the shares duly appointed proxy has one vote on a be interpreted in accordance with the or all the information required by the show of hands and on a poll one vote for provisions of section 418 of the Companies relevant section 793 notice, whichever each share held Act 2006. is the earlier The Intermediate Capital Group EBT Post balance sheet events The Directors may refuse to register any 2015 holds shares which may be used to transfer of any share which is not a fully Material events since the balance sheet date satisfy options and awards granted under paid share, although such discretion are described in note 32 and form part of the the Companys employee share schemes may not be exercised in a way which the Directors report disclosures.
including its long term incentive plans.
Financial Conduct Authority regards The voting rights of these shares are Political contributions as preventing dealings in the shares of exercisable by the trustees in accordance No contributions were made during the the relevant class or classes from taking with their fiduciary duties current and prior year for political purposes.
place on an open and proper basis.
The notice of any general meeting The Directors may likewise refuse to Greenhouse gas emissions specifies deadlines for exercising voting register any transfer of a share in favour rights either by proxy or present in person All disclosures concerning the Groups of more than four persons jointly in relation to resolutions to be passed at a greenhouse gas emissions are detailed on The Company is not aware of any other general meeting page 36 which forms part of the Directors restrictions on the transfer of ordinary report disclosures.
No shareholder is, unless the Board shares in the Company other than: decides otherwise, entitled to attend or Acquisition of shares by Employee vote either personally or by proxy at a Certain restrictions that may from time to Benefit Trust general meeting or to exercise any other time be imposed by laws and regulations Acquisitions of shares by the Intermediate right conferred by being a shareholder if: for example, insider trading laws or the Capital Group EBT 2015 purchased during UK Takeover Code They or any person with an interest in the year are as described in note 22 to the shares has been sent a notice under Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the financial statements.
section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 Financial Conduct Authority whereby Share capital and rights attaching to which confers upon public companies certain employees of the Company require the Companys shares the power to require information approval of the Company to deal in the with respect to interests in their Companys shares As at 31 March 2018 the issued share capital voting shares of the Company was 294,055,428 ordinary shares of 26p each including 3,733,333 shares held in treasury.
Certain key matters regarding the Companys share capital are noted below: 98 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Company is not aware of any Powers of Directors agreements between shareholders that Subject to its Articles of Association and may result in restrictions on the transfer relevant statutory law and to such direction of securities or voting rights.
as may be given by the Company by special resolution, the business of the Company is At the 2017 AGM the Directors were given managed by the Board, who may exercise all the power to allot shares and grant rights to powers of the Company whether relating to subscribe for, or convert any security into, the management of the business or not.
shares: up to an aggregate nominal amount of 25,389,909 and, in the case of a fully The Companys Articles of Association pre-emptive rights issue only, up to a total give power to the Board to appoint amount of 50,779,818.
The Articles also require any Directors appointed by the Board to submit A resolution will be proposed to renew themselves for election at the first AGM the Companys authority to allot further following their appointment and for one new shares at the forthcoming AGM.
third of the Companys Directors to retire by In accordance with applicable institutional rotation at each AGM.
Directors may resign guidelines, the proposed new authority will or be removed by an ordinary resolution of allow the Directors to allot ordinary shares shareholders.
Notwithstanding the above, equal to an amount of up to one third of the the Company has elected, in accordance Companys issued ordinary share capital with the UK Corporate Governance Code, to as at 21 May 2018 plus, in the case of a fully have all Directors reappointed on an annual pre-emptive rights issue only, a further basis other than any who have decided to amount of up to an additional one third of the retire at the relevant AGM.
Companys issued share capital as at 21 May 2018.
The authority for Directors to allot In relation to the Directors who are standing shares in the Companys shares is renewed for election or re-election, the Chairman annually and approval will be sought at the is satisfied that, following the formal forthcoming AGM for its renewal.
performance evaluation described above, each of the other Directors continues to be The Directors authority to effect effective and demonstrates commitment to purchases of the Companys shares on the their role.
In the case of the Chairman, the Companys behalf is conferred by resolution Non Executive Directors are satisfied that he of shareholders.
At the 2017 AGM the continues to be effective and demonstrates Company was granted authority to purchase commitment to his role.
its own shares up to an aggregate value of approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 21 May 2017.
During the year no shares were bought back.
The authority to effect purchases of the Companys shares is renewed annually and approval will be sought at the forthcoming AGM for its renewal.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 99 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RESULTS OF RESOLUTIONS PROPOSED AT 2017 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Resolution Votes for Votes against Votes withheld To receive the financial statements and reports of the Directors and auditors 1 231,932,244 150,000 218,099 for the financial year ended 31 March 2017.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 2 196,438,667 35,368,237 493,438 31 March 2017.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Policy for the financial year ended 3 196,956,367 34,847,709 496,266 31 March 2017.
To reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company to hold office as the 4 226,583,890 5,715,424 1,029 Companys auditors until the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2017.
To authorise the Directors to set the remuneration of the auditors.
To reappoint Kevin Parry as a Director.
8 231,518,799 781,544 0 To reappoint Benot Durteste as a Director.
12 231,884,547 415,796 0 To appoint Michael Nelligan as a Director.
13 231,886,594 413,749 0 To appoint Virginia Holmes as a Director.
Subject to the passing of resolution 15, to authorise the Directors to allot equity 16 232,275,883 23,213 1,247 securities and to sell ordinary shares pursuant to sections 570 1 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006.
In addition to the authority granted under resolution 16 and subject to the passing 17 215,811,952 16,487,144 1,247 of resolution 15, to authorise the Directors to allot equity securities.
To authorise the Company to make market purchases of its ordinary shares.
18 228,491,549 3,808,590 204 To approve that a general meeting of the Company other than the Annual General 19 226,153,600 6,146,742 0 Meeting may be called on less than 14 clear days' notice.
The issued share capital of the Company at the date of the Annual General Meeting was 290,178,170 ordinary shares of 26p each excluding 3,733,333 treasury shares.
2018 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The AGM of the Company will take place at the Head Office of the Company on 26 July 2018 at 4:00pm.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM along with explanatory notes are set out in the circular to be posted to shareholders in June 2018 convening the meeting.
In line with market practice, if votes of more than 20% of those voting are cast against a resolution, the Company will make a statement when announcing the results of the vote to explain any actions it intends to take to understand the reasons behind the vote result.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD ANDREW LEWIS COMPANY SECRETARY 21 MAY 2018
