Directors' Report | Corporate Governance LEADERSHIP continued 1 2 3 4 5 2 4 Andr Lacroix Graham Allan BOARD OF DIRECTORS Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent N R Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board as Chief Executive Committees: Officer in May 2015.
Andr Lacroix is an Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive experienced Chief Executive with a strong Director in October 2017.
Graham Allan is a A Audit track record of delivering long-term growth Non-Executive Director of Associated British strategies and shareholder value with Foods plc and a member of their Audit and N Nomination global companies across diverse territories.
He is also a Board Andr was previously Group Chief Executive member of IKANO Pte Ltd, an Asian retail and R Remuneration of Inchcape plc from 2005 to 2015 and prior property company.
Until August 2017, he was to this he was Chairman and Chief Executive the Group Chief Executive of Dairy Farm Officer of Euro Disney S. C. A.
From 1996 to International Holdings Limited, a pan-Asian 1 Sir David Reid 2003 he was the President of Burger King retailer and a subsidiary of Jardine Matheson.
N Chairman International, previously part of Diageo.
Prior to joining Dairy Farm in 2012, he had been Andr was formerly the Senior Independent President and CEO at Yum!
Restaurant Appointed to the Board in December 2011 Director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
International and was responsible for global and became Chairman in January 2012. brands KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell in all Sir David Reid retired as Chairman of Tesco PLC 3 Ross McCluskey markets except the US and China.
Since 1989, in November 2011 after serving in that role Chief Financial Officer he has held various senior positions in since April 2004.
Prior to that he was Deputy Appointed to the Board as Chief Financial multinational food and beverage companies Chairman of Tesco PLC and had served on the Officer in August 2018.
Ross McCluskey joined with operations across the globe and has lived Tesco Board since 1985.
David is Chairman of Intertek in August 2016 as the Groups and worked in Australia, Asia, the US and Europe.
In February 2012 he Financial Controller.
Prior to that, he spent five He was previously a Non-Executive Director of was appointed a member of the Global Senior years at Inchcape plc, where he held senior InterContinental Hotels Group plc, Yonghui Advisory Board of Jefferies International operational financial positions, including Superstores Co. Ltd in China and a Commissioner Limited, a global securities and investment Finance Director of Inchcapes Australasian of Hero Group, an Indonesian retailer.
He was formerly the Senior and UK businesses.
From 2002 to 2011, Independent Non-Executive Director of Reed 5 Gurnek Bains Ross worked within the investment banking Elsevier Group PLC now RELX Group, Chairman N R Non-Executive Director sector, specialising in mergers and acquisitions, of Kwik-Fit Group Ltd, Non-Executive Director and held roles at J. P. Morgan, Gleacher Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive at Greenalls Group Plc now fide Vere Group, Director in July 2017.
Gurnek Bains was the Shacklock and Greenhill & Co. Legal & General Group Plc and Westbury plc.
co-founder of YSC Ltd, a premier global business psychology consultancy.
He led the business as CEO and Chairman for 25 years to a position of global pre-eminence, and a client base comprising over 40% of the FTSE 100.
Gurnek has worked extensively with multinational organisations in the areas of culture change, vision and values, executive coaching and assessment, Board development and strategic talent development.
Gurnek is also a Trustee of the School of Social Entrepreneurs.
He has a doctorate in psychology from Oxford University.
74 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors' Report 6 8 9 7 10 6 8 10 Dame Louise Makin Gill Rider CB Lena Wilson CBE A N R A N Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in July 2012.
Dame Louise Makin is Director in July 2015.
Gill Rider currently holds Director in July 2012.
Until October 2017, currently Chief Executive Officer of BTG plc, non-executive directorships with Pennon Lena Wilson was the Chief Executive Officer a growing international specialist healthcare Group Plc, where she chairs the Sustainability of Scottish Enterprise, Scotland's national company, a position she has held since 2004.
Committee and Charles Taylor Plc where she economic development agency, a member of Before joining BTG, Louise was at Baxter chairs their Remuneration Committee.
She is Scotland's Financial Services Advisory Board Healthcare Ltd from 2000, holding the roles of the Senior Independent Director at both.
and Chair of Scotland Oil and Gas Taskforce.
Vice President, Strategy & Business Gill is Pro-Chancellor of the University of Lena was also a Senior Advisor to The World Development Europe, and from 2001, President Southampton previously Chair from 2012 to Bank in Washington DC on private sector of their Biopharmaceuticals division, where she 2018 and was the President of the Chartered development for developing countries.
She is was responsible for Europe, Africa and the Institute of Personnel & Development for five an Ambassador for the Prince and Princess Middle East.
Prior to her time at Baxter, she was years until 2015.
Formerly Gill was head of the of Wales Hospice and the Edinburgh Military a Director of Global Ceramics at English China Civil Service Capability Group in the Cabinet Tattoo, a visiting professor and advisor to the Clays PLC, and in her earlier career, held a variety Office reporting to the Cabinet Secretary and University of Strathclyde Business School and of roles at ICI between 1985 and 1998.
Louise prior to that held a number of senior positions is a Non-Executive Director of the Royal Bank is a Non-Executive Director of Woodford Patient with Accenture culminating in the post of Chief of Scotland Group plc and ScottishPower Capital Trust plc, Chair of the 1851 Trust, a Leadership Officer for the global firm.
She was Renewable Energy Limited.
Trustee of the Outward Bound Trust and an previously a Non-Executive Director of fide La Honorary Fellow of St Johns College, Cambridge.
She was previously a Non-Executive Director of 9 Jean-Michel Valette Premier Foods plc.
A Non-Executive Director 7 Andrew Martin Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive A R Non-Executive Director Director in July 2017.
Jean-Michel Valette Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive currently serves as an independent advisor in Director in May 2016.
Andrew Martin is the US to select branded consumer companies Chairman of Hays plc and Chairman of their and has more than 30 years experience in Nomination Committee, a Non-Executive management, US public company corporate Director of easyJet plc where he is a member governance, strategic planning and finance.
of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration He is currently the Chairman of Select Comfort Committees, and Chairman of the Finance Corporation and the Lead Director, Chair of the Committee: and a Non-Executive Director of Nomination Committee and member of the the John Lewis Partnership Board and Chairman Audit Committee of The Boston Beer Company, of their Audit and Risk Committee.
From 2012 both US listed companies.
From 2004 to 2012, to 2015, Andrew was the Group Chief Jean-Michel was Chairman of Peets Coffee & Operating Officer for Europe and Japan for Tea, Inc.
He has an MBA from Harvard Compass Group PLC and prior to that served as Business School.
their Group Finance Director from 2004 to 2012.
Before he joined the Compass Group, he was the Group Finance Director at First Choice Holidays plc now TUI Group.
Andrew also previously held senior financial positions with Forte plc and Granada Group plc now ITV plc and was a partner at Arthur Andersen LLP.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 75 Directors' Report | Corporate Governance EFFECTIVENESS DIRECTORS INDUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT senior management to the Board and meetings have been held There is a full, formal and extensive induction programme which on regional strategy to increase the understanding of operations, is tailored to ensure that Directors joining the Board are provided opportunities and risks together with presentations from with the knowledge and materials to add value from an early external advisors on regional micro and macro-economic trends.
This is managed by the Chairman and the Group Company The Chairman and the Group Company Secretary also put Secretary.
During the programme, new Directors receive a wealth together a schedule of external training for the Directors to of background information on the Company and details of Board attend which included Audit Committee technical updates, procedures, Directors responsibilities and various  Committee briefings and general Board Directors' related issues.
The induction also includes a series of meetings updates and discussions.
with other members of the Board, senior members of management and external advisors.
This process is kept under BOARD VISITS AND WORKFORCE ENGAGEMENT review, taking into account Directors' feedback.
Visit to the US October 2018 Every year, one of the board meetings is held overseas and a Ongoing and continual development is crucial to our Directors detailed itinerary is prepared to allow plenty of time for Directors remaining highly engaged, effective and well informed.
All to visit the local laboratories and meet management and Directors are kept up to date with information about Interteks employees.
In October 2018, the Board visited the US to give business and there is an ongoing programme of information the Board an in-depth view of our business across this region dissemination throughout the year.
It is important that the and the itinerary is outlined below: Directors have an appreciation of the business both in the UK and overseas.
During the year there were presentations from VISIT TO THE US OCTOBER 2018 Monday, 15 October Board members arrived in the US and travelled to Syracuse.
Tuesday, 16 October The Board travelled to our laboratory in Cortland.
In the morning, there was a Health & Safety briefing and the Board received an introduction to the laboratory in Cortland by Tim Corcoran Executive Vice President, Electrical & Connected World.
The Board was then split into two groups for a three-hour tour of the laboratory visiting the different departments, meeting the staff and seeing the huge variety of testing undertaken in Cortland ranging from light bulbs, washing machines to safety equipment used by fire fighters to mention just a few.
In the afternoon, presentations were made to the Board by: Gregg Tiemann Executive Vice President, Americas Carlos Velasco Vice President, Latin America Michael Grigsby CFO, Americas Gavin Campbell Senior Vice President, Building & Construction In the evening, there was an informal dinner with the Board and the Americas senior team.
Wednesday, 17 October In the morning, presentations continued to provide a detailed overview of the different US businesses and were made to the Board by: Tony Walker Global Business Line Leader, Connected World Nimer Al-Hafi President, Caleb Brett Andrew Gleason Vice President, Products, Resources and Transportation Matthew Allen Vice President, Global Operations In the afternoon, the Board meeting convened, and the Directors had two presentations by external speakers on the US economic and political environment.
Thursday, 18 October The Board meeting reconvened and concluded with a discussion on the visit to the US.
The Board agreed that the commitment and pride of the team working in Cortland shone through and they really appreciated the time taken by the Cortland staff to demonstrate with passion the services provided.
The US management team had also provided very clear and detailed analysis of their businesses in the US and future strategy.
76 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors' Report OUR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS' SITE VISITS 2017-2018 The Non-Executive Directors have visited a number of Intertek with the wider workforce.
The map below shows some of facilities across the world to improve their understanding of the the visits undertaken over the previous two years: operations of the Group and provide an opportunity to engage Sir David Reid and Graham Allan in India EUROPE & CHINA & CENTRAL ASIA NORTH ASIA AMERICAS SOUTH & SE ASIA, Gurnek Bains and Gill Rider in Turkey AUSTRALASIA AMERICAS EUROPE & CENTRAL ASIA CHINA & NORTH ASIA Destination NEDs Destination NEDs Destination NEDs Mexico 1 Sunbury, England 2 China 4 Cortland, USA 8 Aberdeen, Scotland 2 Hong Kong 1 Menlo Park, USA 1 Milton Keynes, England 4 SOUTH & SE ASIA, AUSTRALASIA Turkey 3 Destination NEDs Switzerland 1 Bangladesh 2 Germany 2 India 2 Dubai 1 Australia 1 Indonesia 3 Singapore 8 DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Conflicts of Interest Register is maintained by the Group The Board operates a policy to identify, authorise and manage Company Secretary and the Board undertakes an annual review any conflicts of interest to assist Directors in complying with of each Directors interests, if any, including outside the Company.
their duty to avoid actual or potential conflicts.
The Directors Any conflicts of interests are reviewed when a new Director is areadvised of the process upon appointment and whenever appointed, or if and when a new potential conflict arises.
anyDirector considers that he or she is, or may be, interested During the year, this process operated effectively.
inany contract or arrangement to which the Company is, or maybe, a party, the Director gives due notice to the Board in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Articles.
Aformal process is also in place for managing such conflicts toensure no conflicted Director is involved in any decision relatedto their conflict.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 77 Directors' Report | Corporate Governance EFFECTIVENESS continued BOARD, COMMITTEE AND DIRECTORS' As planned, and recommended by the Code, the formal PERFORMANCE CYCLE evaluation process was facilitated by an independent third party, Lorna Parker, under the direction of the Chairman at the end of 2018.
Lorna Parker has no other connection to the Company and 2018 was appointed after a review of independent advisors in the field Externally of formal Board evaluations.
facilitated evaluation The last external review undertaken in 2015 flagged the sense conducted by an of early progress and improved Board effectiveness once independent Andr was in post as CEO, with the general recognition that consultant the Board understood the scale of the challenges and opportunities in realising the value they could deliver for shareholders and were optimistic that it could be done.
Over the last two years, the reviews had demonstrated how the Board was actively progressing and implementing the agreed strategy and putting in place the strategic initiatives and capability to 2020 2019 deliver sustainable growth and strong returns for our Internal Review Internal Review shareholders through the Total Quality Assurance value proposition which forms the core of our 5x5 differentiated strategy for growth.
The key findings of this years report are very positive: The Board is functioning well and demonstrates strong 2018 BOARD AND COMMITTEE EVALUATION corporate governance.
The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is reviewed Intertek is part-way through a major strategic, organisational annually and an independent externally facilitated review is and operational transformation, going from being a good conducted every three years.
company to a truly great company.
The progress that has The 2017 internal Board review covered how the Board had been made in a relatively short time is hugely impressive, continued to deliver sustainable growth and strong returns for especially given the scale, complexity and geographical our shareholders through the Total Quality Assurance value spread of the business.
proposition which forms the core of our 5x5 differentiated Three years on, the strategy development and review process strategy for growth.
The key findings of last years report were are comprehensive, detailed, rigorous and clear, with wellvery positive, confirming that the Board was performing at a high planned and articulated priorities and targets.
The strategy is level demonstrating the right behaviours, culture and tone.
being executed effectively and is delivering great results.
The Board refreshment programme had been successfully Over the last three years, the share price has nearly doubled: concluded and the Board strengthened by the addition of three revenues increased by over 29%, operating margin by 130bps new members bringing new skills, experience and attributes and EPS by over 40%.
Since the last external review there has been a significant For 2018, a full externally facilitated Board evaluation process evolution of the Board both in terms of Executive Directors was led by the Chairman, with the support of the Group Company and Non-Executive Directors and, with the changes in the past Secretary and entailed: two years, this feels like a relatively new Board which is settling The completion of detailed questionnaires by each in well and has made huge progress.
Board member: Andr has brought clarity to Interteks purpose, mission, vision, One-to-one meetings with each Board member: values and strategy.
Discussions on the Board evaluation outcomes and This is a collegiate, supportive, committed and engaged Board recommendations with the Chairman and CEO: with an impressive and diverse mix of complementary skills, experiences and backgrounds.
Discussion of the results of the evaluation with the relevant Committee and the Board as a whole: and The Board continues on a journey from good-to-great, alongside that of the business, and while there are enduring The Board identifying and agreeing areas for improvement aspects of the role of any Board, emphasis and tone evolve.
the strategy and strategic agenda having already been During the past three years, the focus has been on reshaping agreed at the Board meeting in December 2018. the Board and executive team, improving behaviours and tone A similar process was followed for the evaluation of each in the Boardroom, further refining and delivering the growth Committee with the results of each evaluation discussed by strategy and moving from a decentralised, entrepreneurial the relevant Committee and future steps agreed.
portfolio approach to a more integrated, customer-centric, FTSE 50-calibre company.
78 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors' Report The culture has evolved massively and is one of high Chairman and Director evaluation performance and high integrity with a sense of purpose: The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent driven by ambitious, transparent, proud scientists who Non-Executive Director, conducted a performance review of always want to do the right thing and are increasingly the Chairman.
They considered his leadership, performance and customer focused.
overall contribution to be of a high standard and he continues to have their full support.
The pace and energy in the business have increased significantly.
The sharper focus on customers through The Chairman met with each Director to discuss individual TQA has been another key success factor.
contributions and performance, together with training and There is also clarity and alignment around strategic priorities development needs.
Following these reviews, the Board remains from a portfolio perspective in the near term with much focus satisfied that, in line with the Code, all Directors are able to on the shift from TIC to ATIC.
allocate sufficient time to the Company to enable them to discharge their responsibilities as Directors effectively and that People, including talent development, retention, succession any current external appointments do not detract from the and employee engagement figure high on the agenda given extent or quality of time which the Director is able to devote the importance of the relatively highly qualified employee to the Company.
base to the ongoing success of Intertek.
The Board recognises the key challenges and risks facing The Board has reviewed the independence of the Non-Executive Intertek.
There is confidence in the thoroughness of risk Directors, other than the Chairman, and considers that all of management processes, controls and reporting which have them continue to demonstrate independence in both character been transformed over the last couple of years.
As the Company continues on its journey from good-to-great, The Board recommends that shareholders should be supportive the Board should continue to evolve its role, style, engagement of their election or re-election to the Board at the 2019 AGM.
There is clarity and broad alignment on the role of the Board during this next phase in Interteks development which is around supporting, motivating, inspiring and appropriately encouraging management to sustain pace and progress on multiple fronts to create shareholder value.
Lastly, as with all good companies, the Board culture is to aim for best in class and also for continuing improvement which we call 'Ever Better, Ever Stronger'.
So, we will be implementing plans to push on in what we call our 'journey areas' such as sustainability, where we believe we can deliver for society at large and also our customers for whom we can provide our expertise and services in the key areas of sustainability.
We will also be following up on actions to implement the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
This would include understanding views of our stakeholders, in particular focusing on engagement with our workforce, which is already a priority of our Board.
As part of this, inter alia, we will be increasing the number of site visits our Non-Executive Directors will make to the businesses around the world as part of their monitoring of culture at ground level.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 79
