64 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT Nominations and Governance Committee Report We oversee the membership of the Board to ensure a balance of skills and experience amongst the Directors.
We also oversee senior management succession planning and the governance practices and processes of the Group.
Our work ensures that the Group has a stable Board and senior management team who are able to deliver increased shareholder value.
KEVIN PARRY OBE CHAIR OF THE NOMINATIONS AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE The following pages set out the member of remuneration committees: DEAR SHAREHOLDER Nominations and Governance Committee both were recruited with this eventual It has been a busy year for the Committee, Committee report for the financial succession in mind.
Kim Wahl, having which has considered a number of year 2018.
The report is structured in served six years on the Board, also stands Board appointments, helped embed two parts: down at this years AGM.
In the year we the new CEOs management structure have also welcomed Stephen Welton an 1.
Committee governance: roles and and expanded its role to oversee the experienced banker, chief executive and responsibilities, composition and Groups governance.
investor and Amy Schioldager a US based effectiveness page 65 senior asset management executive.
A key focus of the Committee is to consider 2. Review of the year: the significant Committee compositions have been updated the skills and experience of the Board issues we addressed page 66 see page 65 to reflect the Board changes and ensure that the Boards membership and the skill sets of individual directors.
is adequate to meet the challenges of Two of the Boards committees are chaired our business.
When considering Board by women and two by men.
appointments, our priority is to identify persons of independent mind with All of the Board appointments were made the strength of character to challenge following thorough searches to meet the management and hold it to account.
skill set specifications determined by the We believe that different and diverse Committee.
We used three search firms and backgrounds make for a stronger Board.
platforms, identified over 60 candidates on long lists, 11 on short lists and made These factors were particularly important three appointments.
this year as the Committee oversaw the search for, and appointment of, three new FY18 was a year of CEO succession.
Following this Last years report described the succession years AGM, the Board will comprise the process.
This year the Committee supported Chairman, two Executive Directors and six Benot Durteste in implementing an Non-Executive Directors.
Three of those enhanced management structure to improve nine Directors are women.
Peter Gibbs, the smooth running of the Group.
having served over eight years on the During the year, the remit of the Committee Board, stands down at this years AGM and was expanded from solely acting as a is to be succeeded by Andrew Sykes as Nominations Committee, to ensure that Senior Independent Director and Virginia Governance matters are appropriately Holmes as Chair of the Remuneration overseen throughout the Group.
Andrew is an experienced Chair and SID, and Virginia is an experienced ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 65 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Committee has responsibility for actions AREAS OF COMMITTEE FOCUS to improve our diversity, inclusiveness and culture, which are business priorities not just DIRECTOR SKILLS DIVERSITY, INCLUSIVENESS SUCCESSION for us but for all listed companies.
These will AND EXPERIENCE AND CULTURE PLANNING continue to be key areas for the coming year.
To that end, increased focus is being put on personalised executive development plans to ensure there is a pipeline of succession candidates for key positions that embraces diversity and inclusion.
The Committee has also taken responsibility for ensuring Board engagement with employees to ensure their views are NON-EXECUTIVE EXECUTIVE incorporated into decision making at Board APPOINTMENTS APPOINTMENTS and Committee level.
I have served nine years on the Board, and two as Chairman.
When the revised Corporate Governance code is published, sufficient time to devote to their approval and election or re-election at a the Committee will consider its implications prospective responsibilities General Meeting of the shareholders.
Regularly reviewing the appropriateness Terms of reference I would be pleased to respond to any of the size, structure and skills of the Board The Committees terms of reference are shareholders questions about the Considering the composition of the approved and reviewed by the Board on a Committees work either at the AGM Board to ensure that the balance of regular basis, most recently in May 2018. or otherwise.
its membership between Executive The terms of reference are available on KEVIN PARRY Directors and Non-Executive Directors the Groups website or by contacting the CHAIR OF THE NOMINATIONS AND is appropriate Company Secretary.
GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE 21 MAY 2018 Overseeing diversity, inclusiveness, Effectiveness culture, employee engagement and An external evaluation of the Committees other governance related matters within GOVERNANCE OF COMMITTEE effectiveness was undertaken by the Group Roles and responsibilities Independent Audit in January 2017.
Ensuring the Group is managed to high Prior to any appointment to the Board, the The report concluded that the Committee standards of corporate governance Nominations and Governance Committee continues to operate effectively.
The report considers the balance of skills, experience, highlighted that the Committee needed Composition independence and knowledge appropriate to consider: The Nominations and Governance to determine the requirements and Committee consists of six Non-Executive Succession planning for the Senior necessary capabilities of the role.
In addition, Directors: Kevin Parry Chair of the Independent Director any proposed Director normally meets all Committee, Peter Gibbs, Kim Wahl, Kathryn Whether further Non-Executive Director existing Directors prior to appointment.
Purves, Stephen Welton and Andrew Sykes.
appointments will enhance the expertise The Committee is responsible for: Biographical details can be found on pages of the Board Identifying, and nominating for the 40 and 41.
The management structure of the Group Boards approval, candidates to fill any The Company Secretary acts as Secretary below the Executive Directors Board vacancy to the Committee.
Peter Gibbs and Kim All of these topics were considered by the Succession planning, including the Wahl will retire from the Committee on Committee during the year, and have been progressive refreshing of the Board, and 26 July 2018. resolved.
A further internal evaluation led developing executive talent below the by the Chairman took place in early 2018.
Appointments of Executive Directors and Executive Director level This concluded that refreshing succession Non-Executive Directors are made as Ensuring that all appointments to planning in respect of the wider executive necessary as a result of discussions by the the Board are made on objective team should be a priority, as should long Committee and are subject to full Board criteria and that candidates have term planning for Chairman succession.
66 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT Nominations and Governance Committee Report CONTINUED REVIEW OF THE YEAR Once feedback on candidates was available, As a result of these new appointments, the Committee met at various stages during the Committee believes that the previously New Chief Executive the year to conclude on whether particular identified areas where additional During the year, Benot Durteste succeeded candidates should be offered a role as a expertise was needed are well covered.
Christophe Evain as Chief Executive Officer.
In three cases, the Committee The Committee is satisfied that the The Committee sought to ensure that Benot unanimously concluded that such an offer membership of the Board is coherent was appropriately supported in this role, and should be made.
and mutually complementary, and should worked with him to establish two Steering support the Groups development over Stephen Welton was appointed in Committees which support the Executive the next few years.
Stephen is the Chief Directors in their roles.
The Steering Executive of the Business Growth Fund and Proposed election and re-election Committees, which are made up of other has been since its inception in 2011 and so of Directors members of senior management acting in has considerable insight into the demands of an advisory capacity to the two Executive The Chairman has met with each Nonthe executive role.
He is also an experienced Directors, act as a forum for discussion Executive Director individually and investor with a career background in and challenge, to ensure that business conducted a formal review of their private equity and banking and was seen decisions are made robustly and with the performance.
In the case of the Chairman as likely to be a valuable contributor to benefit of input from across the business.
this was conducted by the SID, and in the the Board on matters of strategy and Their operation is kept under review by Noncase of the Executive Directors by the entire business development.
Executives, with initial feedback indicating Board.
Each appraisal concluded that all that the discussions are improving the Board members remain effective.
In addition In January 2018, Amy Schioldager joined quality and rigour of decision making within the Committee has also reviewed the time the Board.
Amy had a significant executive the Group.
commitments and training records of Noncareer at BlackRock, where in her role as Executive Directors and concluded that Global Head of Beta Strategies Index Appointment of new Non-Executives each of them is able to devote sufficient time Equities, she had P&L and strategic At the start of the year, the Committee to their role, and is undertaking sufficient responsibility for $3.6bn in gross considered whether further Non-Executives continued profession development.
revenues across seven global offices.
It was concluded that as the The Committee has therefore recommended She was a member of BlackRocks Executive Senior Independent Director SID, who to the Board that all Board members should Committee and enhances the Boards was also the Chair of the Remuneration be proposed to shareholders for re-election understanding of the asset management Committee, would retire at the 2018 or election in the case of new joiners at industry.
As she is based in the US, a key AGM, candidates with senior board and the AGM.
growth area for ICG, she is able to add governance experience would be required.
valuable insight into that market.
She also Size, structure and composition The Committee also noted that the planned has experience of corporate governance of the Board retirements of Peter Gibbs and Kim Wahl matters and, was as Founder and Chair would leave a reduced level of investment The Committee intends to keep the size, of BlackRocks Womens Initiative on expertise on the Board.
Further, the structure and composition of the Board leadership, diversity and inclusiveness.
Committee wanted to improve the gender under review during the year, particularly Her appointment increases the number of balance of the Board and obtain recent in the light of the recent appointments.
women on our Board to three, meaning that knowledge of US business expansion.
While the new Non Executive appointments from the end of the Annual General Meeting provide more audit and investment The Committee launched search processes female representation will be 33%.
experience, the Committee is keen to for up to three candidates who would, Taking into account the overall profile of ensure that the overall skill set of the Board between them, meet these criteria, using the Board, the Committee was keen to accurately reflects that of the Groups three executive search agencies during ensure that a Non-Executive with extensive business.
The Committee will monitor the year.
One NuRole is a new, online FTSE 100 listed board experience should the balance of the Board to ensure that platform, while the other two Ridgeway be recruited as the successor to Peter broad enough insight and expertise is Partners and Russell Reynolds operate Gibbs as the Senior Independent Director.
available from the existing members, and a more traditional model, which led to a This led to the appointment of Andrew will recommend further appointments if wide range of candidates being identified.
Andrew has acted as desirable.
The table opposite details the The agencies conducted extensive research a director of a number of other boards with experience each Director currently brings and provided over 60 candidates.
A number a particular focus on the financial services to the Board.
of strong candidates were identified and sector, including some as Chairman.
He has interviewed by the Chairman and, if the first an executive background in banking and interview was successful, other members investment management.
of the Committee and Executive Directors.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 67 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Succession planning inclusiveness, employee representation As part of this initiative, gender pay matters and subsidiary governance.
No disclosure in During the year, the Committee considered the Committee was renamed to reflect this area is legally required as we have not Executive succession.
There was also an this expanded remit, and will report to yet reached the number of employees at extensive amount of time spent at Committee shareholders on such matters in future.
which we are obliged to disclose this data.
meetings on succession planning, covering However, during the year we voluntarily several tiers of management.
The report Diversity, inclusiveness and culture conducted an externally led review of our considered potential successors in key The Committee has a standing policy gender pay practices.
This has enabled us positions, gave details of the proposed on the background and diversity of to state with confidence that we do not have approach for those persons who do not Board members.
The policy provides equal pay issues i. e. men and women being have possible internal successors, and that, prior to any appointment to the paid differently for the same job.
We have discussed how talented individuals can be Board, the Nominations and Governance already begun to take action to enhance our identified early in their careers and given Committee considers the balance of skills, ability to recruit and retain a more diverse an appropriate career path.
The Committee experience, independence and knowledge talent pool and will report on this in full in has debated the reports presented to it and appropriate to the role.
In considering future annual reports.
has agreed that while there are no material candidates, appointments are made with concerns in respect of executive succession, In line with the incoming version of regard to a number of different criteria, further work should be undertaken to ensure the Corporate Governance Code, the including diversity of gender, background that appropriate succession planning is in Committee will consider during the year how and personal attributes, alongside the place for key individuals in executive roles best to seek direct feedback from employees appropriate skills, experience and expertise.
and that talented individuals are retained.
and improve engagement between NonThe Committee has assumed responsibility Executives and staff of the Group, with In order to ensure that we have a high quality for overseeing the Groups initiatives in the the goal of incorporating their views in pipeline of talent for succession to vacant areas of diversity, inclusiveness, culture proceedings at the Board and its Committee roles, the Committee has begun to put more and employee engagement.
We will give more information in next focus on succession planning below the wider environment continues to focus on years report.
This will improve these areas, we will develop our thinking management in general as it will ensure The Committee has also commenced work and practices to ensure we are meeting that the Committee is well appraised of the to study and understand the culture of appropriate governance standards.
In addition, the adoption the Group.
This is an important initiative Gender diversity is a significant focus for of bespoke development programmes for which will inform how the Group operates.
A bespoke plan is being some of those who may be considered During the year, a bespoke training session developed with the Executive Directors and possible successors to senior roles can be was delivered by an outside specialist, the Head of Human Resources to help drive used to assist with gender diversity and following which the Committee concluded improvement in this area.
As is typical in our related issues.
that the Group should foster a high industry, women are under-represented performing and entrepreneurial culture, Expansion of Committee remit at more senior levels of management and having full regard to ethical and regulatory During the year, a full review of the authority a programme is underway to resolve this.
A further update will be provided of the Board and the delegation of powers However, we recognise that this effort on this work in next years report.
to various Committees and individual will take some years to have full effect.
This resulted in The Committee will support management the Committees terms of reference being in the interim to ensure that as much as expanded to include a number of additional possible is being done to change the governance matters including diversity, current balance.
Asset UK Corporate Risk Remuneration Audit Name Management Investment Governance International Management Financial Committee Committee Kevin Parry Chairman x x x x x x x x Andrew Sykes SID x x x x x x x Virginia Holmes x x x x x Rusty Nelligan x x x x Kathryn Purves x x x x x Amy Schioldager x x x x Stephen Welton x x x x
