10 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES AND MODEL AND STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS WHAT MAKES US DIFFERENT strength through connected excellence Investor insight Our dedicated global marketing and distribution team gives us insight which enables the nimble and efficient design of new strategies to respond to market developments, investor demand and investment opportunities.
Strengthening investor relationships by responding to their needs We continue to expand and strengthen our third party investor relationships by providing our clients with the opportunity to invest in a diversified portfolio of strategies, with a single investment manager, which meet their risk and return requirements.
This year: Our strong investor relationships and attractive strategies resulted in record funds being raised across 11 investment strategies.
We currently have 331 investor relationships of which 57 have invested in more than one strategy.
Our business model is built on providing fund investors with direct An outstanding track record access to private markets through a wide range of alternative asset strategies, a disciplined investment approach and a focus of post investment management.
We are a specialist among asset managers.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 11 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Skills and Promoting diverse and engaged employees We believe our strategic priorities are best achieved experience through engaged and motivated employees, enhanced by a diversity of people, cultures and skills.
Our local teams and sector specialists speak For further information see page 34. the languages, have long standing relationships and understand the markets in which they operate, providing deal flow and early access to investment opportunities.
Strong relationships provide access to deals We leverage our strong relationships to originate and source investment opportunities for our funds and build opportunities based on market conditions.
These relationships include financial and investment advisers, banks and other investment managers.
Our reputation, built up over 29 years, has generated strong, supportive, asset sourcing networks.
Using our expertise to add value to our portfolio companies We invest across the capital structure of companies and property assets.
We seek to develop strong relationships both with owners and the management teams.
Our investment teams have local market knowledge and access to the Groups extensive sector and market experience to support those businesses.
This year: Our local market presence has enabled us to source attractive deals in competitive markets.
This year our direct investment funds have invested into 45 companies across 9 countries.
Our successful approach has enabled us to generate returns for our fund investors consistently at, or above, target across investment strategies.
This track record makes us different.
12 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES AND MODEL AND STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS WHAT MAKES US DIFFERENT strength through connected excellence Disciplined and responsible approach Our consistent, efficient and robust investment culture, based on core investment principles and a strong focus on capital preservation underpinned by rigorous risk analysis, is applied consistently across investment strategies.
Ensuring a responsible approach to investment ICG is a signatory to the UN Principles for Responsible Investment.
We acknowledge the relevance to the investor of environmental, social and governance factors, and of the long term health and stability of the market as a whole.
Our investment committees and investment professionals take responsibility for applying the principles in practice, taking a proactive approach to considering environmental, social and governance factors in all our investment decisions.
Maintaining an analytical approach to investing Our granular and origination heavy investment approach provides a valuable information database on which our investment teams can gain market intelligence and unique insight.
Managing risk and driving best practice This year: Our investment teams have considered The Group has an active risk and compliance team who the potential impact of the UKs decision to leave work with business, outside advisers and regulators the European Union when making decisions.
to identify and manage regulatory risk and promote In addition, infrastructure teams have ensured that best practice within the marketing, investment and our investment teams maintain awareness of, and infrastructure teams.
The Group has also established compliance with, a number of new regulations, a system of oversight controls to ensure that services including EMIR and MiFID II.
from key suppliers, including fund administrators, are delivered in accordance with contractual agreements and to an appropriate quality.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 13 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ability to allocate capital Our balance sheet capital is an enabler and accelerator of growth supporting the development of new strategies and actively supporting long standing strategies to create, and maximise, long term shareholder value.
Accelerating development of new strategies We allocate capital to grow our fund management franchise by providing capital for new investment strategies to invest and demonstrate proof of concept, underwriting start up operating costs, and investing in the acquisition of teams or more established fund management businesses.
This year: We have committed balance sheet capital to five new strategies in our real asset and capital markets asset classes to demonstrate proof of concept and track record prior to fundraising.
Maintaining access to financing We are committed to financial discipline and maintaining an appropriate Group-wide capital structure.
The availability of capital is further underpinned by our relationships with key finance counterparties, including banks, bond holders and rating agencies.
