Strategic Report | Executive Management Team EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM 1 Andr Lacroix 1 2 3 Chief Executive Officer See full biography on page 74 2 Ross McCluskey Chief Financial Officer See full biography on page 74 3 Diane Bitzel Chief Information Officer Joined Intertek in May 2018 as Chief Information Officer.
Diane has over 22 4 5 6 years of global management experience, particularly in the areas of IT strategy, operations and management, HR transformation, and business strategy and process implementation.
Dianes previous roles include CIO for global life science and food companies including Syngenta AG, Apetito AG and Lonza Group, as well as a senior leader in management consulting for leading organisations including Capgemini.
Diane has a MSc in Maths, a PhD.
from 7 8 9 Heidelberg University and an MBA from Bocconi University.
4 Ann-Michele Bowlin Chief ATIC Innovation Officer Joined Intertek in 2009.
Ann-Michele leads Interteks ATIC Global Innovation Strategy.
She was previously Chief Information Officer, responsible for IT business processes, infrastructure and cybersecurity.
She joined Intertek from 10 11 12 Ernst & Young consulting where she led shared services transformation programmes.
Prior to Ernst & Young, Ann-Michele held leadership and operations roles in technology companies, including Hotels.
com, and in the manufacturing and services sectors.
5 Alex Buehler Executive Vice President, GlobalResources Joined Intertek in 2017.
Alex has 13 14 responsibility for Global Resources, comprising our business lines of Industry Services and Minerals.
Prior to joining Intertek, Alex was President and CEO of Energy Maintenance Services EMS and before this held senior executive management positions at Energy Recovery and Insituform Technologies, Inc. now Aegion Corporation in both the US and Europe.
Alex has a BSc in Civil Engineering and an MBA in Finance.
20 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report 6 9 12 Ian Galloway Patrick Lee Julia Thomas Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, North Senior Vice President, Middle East, Africa and East Asia and Australasia Corporate Development Global Trade Joined Intertek in 2018.
Patrick is Joined Intertek in 2013.
As SVP Corporate Joined Intertek in 2011.
Ian is responsible responsible for leading the Group's North Development, Julia has responsibility for for the Middle East, Africa and Global East Asia and Australasia region.
Prior to Intertek's acquisition and disposal Trade comprising our business lines of joining Intertek, he was CEO of Inchcape activities.
Before joining Intertek, Julia Government & Trade Services, Caleb Brett plc Greater China and has over 30 years' spent 12 years in investment banking and AgriWorld.
Prior to assuming his management experience with a proven with J. P. Morgan Cazenove and Rothschild, current role, Ian held senior finance and track record of success with blue-chip focusing primarily on mergers and business roles within Intertek.
He has companies including P&G, Coca-Cola and acquisitions.
previously held international roles in Agfa Gevaert.
Before joining Inchcape, 13 Mark Thomas finance managementwith BG Group in the Patrick served as the Group General Group General Counsel UK, Egypt and Tunisia.
Ian is a qualified Manager, Sales and Marketing of Kerry Chartered Accountant.
Beverages Ltd. Patrick holds a BBA and Joined Intertek in 2015.
Mark has anMBA from The Chinese University of responsibility for Interteks legal, risk and 7 Tony George Hong Kong.
He joined Intertek Executive Vice President, from Inchcape plc where he was Group 10 Human Resources Graham Ritchie General Counsel.
Prior to this, Mark was in Executive Vice President, Europe Joined Intertek in 2015.
Tony is private practice with Slaughter and May in responsible for Human Resources.
He has Joined Intertek in 2014.
Graham is London, advising on a wide range of public over 31 years' experience in HR, General responsible for Interteks operations in and private M&A transactions, equity and Management and Business Development Europe, including Russia, and Central Asia.
debt financing, and general corporate having held senior leadership positions Prior to assuming his current role, Graham lawissues.
in international FMCG, chemicals, was Interteks Group Financial Controller.
14 Gregg Tiemann telecommunications and retail companies Before joining the company he held senior Executive Vice President, including Vodafone plc, Starbucks, Diageo financial positions at BT Group plc and Americas plc and ICI.
Prior to joining Intertek, he was other technology services organisations, Group HR & Business Development having started his career with PwC.
Gregg has Director at Inchcape plc.
Prior to 11 Rajesh Saigal assuming his current role, Gregg was 8 Ken Lee Executive Vice President, responsible for the Americas, North Asia Executive Vice President, South & South East Asia and Australasia as well as the former Marketing and Communications Joined Intertek in 2007.
Rajesh has Consumer Goods and Commercial & Joined Intertek in 2016.
Ken has responsibility for South & South East Asia.
Electrical divisions, having started as responsibility for Interteks marketing Prior to this he was Regional Managing General Manager of the Los Angeles as well as internal and external Director for Interteks South Asia laboratory in 1993.
He joined the Company operations.
He has over 27 years general Gregg worked in sales and marketing for from Inchcape plc where he spent 13 management and operational experience the software industry.
years in various senior marketing roles, with Fortune 500 companies covering most recently as Chief Marketing and consumer durables, industrial products Communications Officer.
Prior to this he and engineering.
Before joining Intertek, held marketing leadership positions with Rajesh was CEO South Asia for GEWISS RAC Motoring Services and Hyundai and General Manager at Honeywell.
Car UK Ltd. Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 21
