Directors' Report | Corporate Governance OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 DIVIDEND Act and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 67.2p per DTR of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA, the following ordinary share 2017: 47.8p making a full-year dividend of 99.1p section describes the matters that are required for inclusion in per ordinary share 2017: 71.3p which will, if approved at the the Directors report and were approved by the Board.
Further AGM, be paid on 4 June 2019 to shareholders on the register details of matters required to be included in the Directors report at the close of business on 17 May 2019. that are incorporated by reference into this report are set GENERAL MEETING out below.
During the year to December 2018, the Directors became aware DIRECTORS that the payment of the interim dividend paid on 19 October The names of the members of the Board, as at the date of 2018 the Relevant Distribution totalling 51.4m had been this report, and their biographical details are set out on pages made otherwise than in accordance with the Companies Act 74 to 75.
2006 the Act because interim accounts had not been filed at Companies House prior to payment.
At a General Meeting ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION of the Companys shareholders held on 16 January 2019, a The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions resolution was passed, the effect of which was to return all relating to the retirement, election and re-election of Directors potentially affected parties so far as possible in the position but, in accordance with best practice, all Directors who wish to in which they were always intended to be had the Relevant continue to serve will stand for election or re-election at the Distribution been made in accordance with the procedural Annual General Meeting AGM.
This constituted a related-party The Articles of Association set out the internal regulation transaction under IAS 24.
The Company had at all times sufficient of the Company and cover such matters as the rights of distributable reserves to justify the payment of dividends.
shareholders, the appointment or removal of Directors and the SHARE CAPITAL conduct of the Board and general meetings.
Copies are available The issued share capital of the Company and the details of upon request from the Group Company Secretary and are the movements in the Companys share capital during the year available at the Companys AGM.
Further powers are granted are shown in note 15 to the financial statements.
by members in general meeting and those currently in place are set out in detail in the appropriate section of this report.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends when declared, to receive the Companys Annual Report and DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES Accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the Group Company, to appoint proxies and exercise voting rights.
A waiver to attract and retain the services of the most able and of dividend exists in respect of 455,463 shares held by the experienced Directors by offering competitive terms of Intertek Group Employee Share Ownership Trust Trust as at engagement, including the granting of indemnities on terms 31December 2018.
Details of the shares purchased by the Trust consistent with the applicable statutory provisions.
In accordance during the year are outlined within note 15 to the financial with the Articles of Association, the Company has executed deed statements.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary polls of indemnity for the benefit of Directors of the Company.
These provisions which are deemed to be qualifying third-party The rights attached to shares in the Company are provided by indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Act, the Articles of Association, which may be amended or replaced were in force during the financial year ended 31 December 2018, by means of a special resolution of the Company in a general for the benefit of the Directors and, at the date of this report, meeting.
The Directors powers are conferred on them by UK remain in force in relation to certain losses and liabilities which legislation and by the Companys Articles of Association.
they may incur or have incurred in connection with their duties, powers or office.
No ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company and there are no restrictions on voting rights DIRECTORS INTERESTS except that a shareholder has no right to vote in respect of a Other than the Directors service agreements or letters of share unless all sums due in respect of that share are fully paid.
appointment, none of the Directors of the Company had a There are no arrangements known to the Company by which personal interest in any business transactions of the Company financial rights carried by any shares in the Company are held by or its subsidiaries.
The terms of the Directors service agreements a person other than the holder of the shares, nor are there any or letters of appointment and the Directors interests in shares arrangements between holders of securities that may result and share awards of the Company, in respect of which in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights transactions are notifiable to the Company and the FCA under known to the Company.
All issued shares are fully paid.
Article 19 of the Market Abuse Regulation, are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 89 to 107.
Shares are admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange and may be traded through the CREST system.
DIRECTORS POWERS The Directors are responsible for the strategic management of ALLOTMENT OF SHARES the Company and their powers to do so are determined by the At the AGM held in 2018, the shareholders generally and provisions of the Act and the Companys Articles of Association.
unconditionally authorised the Directors to allot relevant 110 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Other Statutory Information Directors' Report securities up to approximately two-thirds of the nominal amount MATERIAL INTERESTS IN SHARES of issued share capital.
Up to 4 March 2019, being the latest practicable date before the publication of this report, the following disclosures of major It is the Directors intention to seek renewal of this authority holdings of voting rights have been made and have not been in line with guidance issued by the Investment Association.
amended or withdrawn to the Company pursuant to the The resolution will be set out in the Notice of AGM.
requirements of Rule 5 of the DTR of the FCA.
There have been At the AGM in 2018 the Directors were also empowered by no changes since the year end.
the shareholders to allot equity securities, up to 5% of the Companys issued share capital, for cash under section 570 of AT THE DATE OF NOTIFICATION the Act.
It is intended that this authority be renewed, at the Number of % of voting Shareholder voting rights rights forthcoming AGM.
BlackRock Inc. 10,473,019 6.49 It is the Boards intention, in line with guidance issued by the MFS Investment Management 9,547,182 5.92 Pre-Emption Group, to also propose the renewal of the additional Mawer Investment Management Ltd 8,110,417 5.03 special resolution to allow the Company to allot equity securities Marathon Asset Management LLP 8,037,714 4.98 up to a further 5% of the Companys issued share capital.
This is Fiera Capital Corporation 8,485,236 5.26 applicable when the Board determines a transaction to be an Fundsmith LLP 8,215,293 5.10 acquisition or other capital investment, as defined by the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles and is announced EMPLOYMENT contemporaneously with the allotment, or has taken place in the Information about the Groups employees, employment of disabled preceding six-month period and is disclosed in the announcement persons and employment practices is contained within the of the allotment.
Sustainability report on pages 28 to 31.
Information on employee PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES share schemes is in note 17 to the financial statements.
Shareholders also approved the authority for the Company to buy GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS GHG back up to 10% of its own ordinary shares by market purchase Information about the Groups Greenhouse Gas emissions is given until the conclusion of the AGM to be held this year.
The Directors in the Sustainability report on pages 34 to 36. will seek to renew this authority for up to 10% of the Companys issued share capital at the forthcoming AGM.
This power will only POLITICAL DONATIONS be exercised if the Directors are satisfied that any purchase will At the AGM in 2018, shareholders passed a resolution, on a increase the earnings per share of the ordinary share capital in precautionary basis, to authorise the Company to make donations issue after the purchase and accordingly, that the purchase is in to EU political organisations and to incur EU political expenditure the interests of shareholders.
The Directors will also give careful as such items are defined in the Act not exceeding 90,000. consideration to gearing levels of the Company and its general During the year the Group did not make such political donations financial position.
Any shares purchased in this way may be held 2017: nil.
It is the Companys policy not, directly or through any in treasury which, the Directors believe, will provide the Company subsidiary, to make what are commonly regarded as donations to with flexibility in the management of its share capital.
treasury shares are used to satisfy Share Awards, they will be At the forthcoming AGM of the Company, shareholders approval classed as new issue shares for the purpose of the 10% limit on will again be sought to authorise the Group to make political the number of shares that may be issued over a 10-year period donations and or incur political expenditure as such terms are under the relevant share plan rules.
The Company currently holds defined in section 362 to 379 of the Act.
Further information is no shares in treasury.
contained in the Notice of AGM.
SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS CHANGE OF CONTROL BRANCHES The Company is not a party to significant agreements which The Company, through various subsidiaries has established take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following branches in a number of different countries in which the business a takeover bid apart from a number of credit facilities with operates.
The list of related undertakings is available on pages banks together with certain senior notes issued by the Company.
The total amount owing under such credit facilities and senior note agreements as at 31 December 2018 is shown in note 14 AUDITOR to the financial statements.
These agreements contain clauses The auditor,  LLP, have expressed such that, in the event of a change of control, the Company can their willingness to continue in office.
Upon the recommendation offer to or must repay all such borrowings together with accrued of the Audit Committee, resolutions to re-appoint them as interest, fees and other sums owing as required by the auditor and to determine their remuneration will be proposed individual agreements.
The rules of the Companys incentive plans contain clauses FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS relating to a change of control resulting from a takeover and Details about the Groups use of financial instruments are in such an event awards would vest subject to the satisfaction outlined in note 14 to the financial statements.
of any associated performance criteria.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 111 Directors' Report | Corporate Governance OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION continued ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4C R, the information required to be The Notice of AGM, which is to be held on 23 May 2019, disclosed by LR 9.8.
4 R can be found in the following locations: is available for download from the Companys website at www.
The Notice details the business TOPIC LOCATION to be conducted at the meeting and includes information 1.
Amount of interest capitalised Not applicable concerning the deadlines for submitting proxy forms and 2.
Any information required Not applicable in relation to voting rights.
18 R Publication of unaudited financial information STATEMENT OF DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION 3.
Details of long-term incentive Directors Remuneration TO AUDITORS schemes Report pages 89 to 107 The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 4.
Waiver of emoluments Not applicable Directors report confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is by a Director no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is 5.
Waiver of future emoluments Not applicable unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she by a Director ought to have taken as a Director of the Company to make 6.
Non pre-emptive issues Not applicable themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to of equity for cash establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Information required by 6 Not applicable ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS AND COMPLIANCE above for any unlisted major subsidiary undertaking of WITH LISTING RULE LR 9.8.
4 R the Company The Board has prepared a Strategic Report pages 2 to 65 which 8.
Company participation in a Not applicable provides an overview of the development and performance of placing by a listed subsidiary the Companys business during the year ended 31 December 9.
Any contracts of significance Other statutory information 2018 and its position at the end of that year, and which covers page 111 likely future developments in the business of the Company 10.
Any contracts for the Not applicable and Group.
provision of services by For the purposes of compliance with DTR 4.1.
8 R, the required content of the Management Report can be 11.
Shareholder waivers Other statutory information found in the Strategic Report and this Directors Report, including of dividends page 110 the sections of the Annual Report and Accounts incorporated 12.
Shareholder waivers Other statutory information by reference.
Agreements with Not applicable controlling shareholders 112 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
