14 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES AND MODEL AND STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS OUR MARKETS Our ability to deliver our strategic objectives is framed by the markets in which we operate, whether to raise new funds, invest the capital raised or to maximise value from existing investments.
Whilst our markets differ by asset class and geography, they all exhibit some common characteristics.
GROW ASSETS INVEST UNDER MANAGEMENT SELECTIVELY Our success in growing assets under management is dependent We believe that the environment for alternative investments is on our ability to attract institutional investors such as pension most attractive in the midmarket corporate sector where higher funds, insurance companies or sovereign wealth funds into the risk-adjusted returns can be achieved.
It is this investment market higher return alternative investment strategies that we offer.
The long term, structural trend towards alternative investment CORPORATE INVESTMENTS strategies is projected to continue as: Our corporate investment strategies selectively invest in, and lend to, midmarket private companies.
Institutional investors find it difficult to achieve their long term investment objectives through traditional investment As these companies often require flexible tailored capital, bank strategies, such as public bonds and equities financing or public debt markets may not be an appropriate source of finance for corporate transactions.
The absolute size of global assets under management is be acquisitions, refinancing or growth capital.
The volume of this set to increase as the wealth of populations in developing activity defines the size of our investment opportunity.
nations grows and the trend of ageing populations in developed nations continues We compete with other providers of finance in this market.
However, in private markets local knowledge, long standing relationships, The growing demand for alternative assets makes our markets certainty of funding and flexibility of approach are real advantages attractive to new entrants.
However, through rising complexity, to accessing deals and a significant hurdle for new entrants.
greater investor demands and expanding regulation the market is becoming more sophisticated and in so doing increasing the We are well positioned to take advantage of these market trends.
This is accelerating the growth of diversified As an established manager with a local network of investment managers as investors look to streamline their number of professionals, we are able to offer a range of financing options as relationships with a preference for global managers with a our experience enables us to adapt our investment structures to strong track record, credibility and infrastructure.
meet the requirements of corporates.
We are well positioned to take advantage of these market trends REAL ASSET INVESTMENTS as an established global manager focused on the specialist Our real asset investment strategies are currently focused on end of alternative asset management.
Our strategies offer selectively providing finance to private midmarket assets in the institutional investors access to a range of risk reward and UK commerical real estate market.
geographical profiles investing in private, and therefore less As banks reduce their overall exposure to real estate, mid market liquid, asset classes and high yielding liquid specialist markets.
assets are increasingly reliant on non-bank providers of capital to finance transactions, be they acquisitions, refurbishment or expansion.
It is transaction volumes in the UK property and property finance markets that frame the size of our investment opportunity.
We compete with other providers of finance in this market.
However, our smaller asset focus, deep knowledge of the UK ommercial real estate market, strong industry relationships and flexible approach mean we are able to originate attractive deals.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 15 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We are well positioned to take advantage of favourable market conditions and the long term structural trend towards alternative asset classes BENOT DURTESTE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER MANAGE PORTFOLIOS TO MAXIMISE VALUE Our ability to manage our portfolios to maximise value from our investments is in the context of the wider macroeconomic environment.
Our investment preference is for non-cyclical, low capex, CAPITAL MARKET INVESTMENTS high cash generative businesses.
We seek to position Our capital market investment strategies are focused on our diversified portfolios so they are resilient to typical selectively investing in traded, largely liquid loans, bonds economic cycles and realisations are not dependent on and structured instruments.
The benefit of closed end funds and Companies raise debt to deliver better terms, facilitate growth and long term investment horizons means we can continue to to enhance the returns.
The secondary market of this debt is driven hold investments and only realise them when conditions by portfolio managers seeking to maximise their income or returns.
The investment market is therefore driven by the number of companies Our long term track record and a funds performance are solely raising debt or secondary flows of previously raised debt.
based on cash realised returns.
However, public company We compete with other providers of finance in this market.
However, valuations impact the value of our equity investments at any our access to financial intermediaries across local markets, our balance sheet date as our portfolio is mark to market.
information database, our sector specialists and long term relationships The current attractiveness of alternative asset classes to mean we are able to source quality investments.
investors has increased demand for our assets and prices have SECONDARY INVESTMENTS increased.
These market conditions have enabled our portfolio Our secondary investment strategies are focused on selectively managers to realise assets within their portfolio enabling them investing in private equity funds operated by established managers to lock in performance, underpinning future performance fees and related direct investments.
and providing the foundations for future fundraising success.
Our Strategic Equity strategy involves a direct approach to investment by leading the restructuring of, and investment into, older, often underperforming, private equity funds.
Investments into these funds provide attractively priced access to mature underlying portfolios of assets with good visibility on performance and exit potential.
Our structuring skills, private equity investment experience and strong industry relationships have allowed us to develop a leading position in the highly complex and structured part of the secondaries market.
ICG Enterprise Trust plc invests in primary and secondary private equity funds, and selective direct co-investments.
Competition for the most desirable investment opportunities can be high, but the strong industry relationships of the team, with access to ICGs market knowledge and industry exposure, are significant advantages in this activity.
