Creating winning destinations intu Watford expertise in action he stunning Charter Place at the Charter Place end of the centre to With stylish new places to eat and drink extension at intu Watford that introducing new stores and family-friendly such as The Florist, which opens in spring T opened in September 2018 shows leisure that will draw in new visitors from 2019, the centre has plenty of reasons just what our expertise as shopping this most affluent of Home Counties to visit from early in the morning right centre landlords can achieve.
catchments and boost the daytime and through to the evening.
increased by 15 per cent since opening With the 380,000 sq ft, 180 million and there has been an increase of extension we have created a 1.4 million We have curated a tenant mix to meet 9 per cent in NPS since the development sq ft centre, with new leisure and dining shoppers expectations, with the newopened.
The new leisure and retail mix, opportunities, aspirational shopping and concept Debenhams, the nine-screen along with the fantastic architecture a spectacular new public space that is IMAX Cineworld, aspirational brands such and new Christmas decorations, proved predicted to catapult Watford into the as Hugo Boss, a range of leisure options very popular.
top-20 most desirable retail locations in and enhanced stores for H&M and Uniqlo.
the UK and is reinvigorating the town.
The 13 million refurbishment of the existing centre, with new flooring, lighting, Our expertise and experience have been decoration, toilets and car parking, evident from the first from our skill in provides the perfect backdrop for major building the state-of-the-art extension retailers Primark, Zara and Next.
26 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 Creating winning At the heart of the town uch of the success of the new extension is down to relationships we have nurtured destinations Mover many years.
Through previous collaboration our retailers trust us to offer them the right locations and size of units which is why many of them are investing heavily in new stores at intu Watford.
Our commitment to Watford and our close ties with Watford Borough Council have seen them also invest 2 million to pedestrianise the high street and for the work to complement our own, resulting in a dovetailed project that enhances peoples experience of both the town and the shopping centre.
We have been part of the town for 20 years, involved with many community bodies including schools, charities and the local Business Improvement District local people know we care about the town.
We have been transparent and open about our development plans and our widespread communication and consultation led to a resounding 91 per cent public approval rating for our plans.
166 379m stores annual contribution to the local economy 9,260 180m local people invested in employed new extension intu properties plc Annual report 2018 27 At the heart of c o m m u n i t i es Our centres are forces for good in their communities.
By providing employment, supporting local good causes, encouraging wellbeing and managing natural resources well, they bring benefits which help guarantee the long-term success of our business eing at the heart of local communities we are well positioned to work with retailers, local organisations B and charity partners on initiatives that bring prosperity, encourage inclusivity and improve the environment.
We focus on improving skills and creating employment opportunities to support economic inclusion and help equip people for work.
We want the almost one-fifth of the UK population known to have a disability to be able to enjoy our centres.
We work with specialist charities such as the National Autistic Society and dementia charities to provide support that allows all our customers to visit our centres as independently as possible.
Operating and developing our centres sustainably means responding to long-term global challenges that will affect our business, including saving energy and carbon, reducing waste, water efficiency, sustainable transport and sustainable construction.
We are always looking for new ways to increase our sustainability.
Our ambitious energy reduction programmes, such as LED roll-out and installation of solar panels, reduce our carbon footprint and help to provide stable energy pricing for ourselves and our retailers.
28 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 Building tomorrows Its good to Blurt Green Lab 2018: workforce today Compost Caf ur Retail Gold programmes work ver the last 10 years, mental ntu Chapelfield is pioneering our with our retailers, Employers in health has become a topic of first Compost Caf, an innovative OEducation, schools, colleges and Oincreasing concern in higher ischeme where coffee grounds Jobcentre Plus to offer students and education.
Those aged between that make thousands of cups of unemployed people the opportunity 16 and 24 are particularly vulnerable coffee in the centre every day are to develop the skills they need for to mental health issues and there collected to be reused for compost a career in retail, hospitality or leisure.
is a growing demand for counselling by local gardeners.
The programmes provide training services to meet their needs.
for potential job applicants to fulfil The concept is simple: centre retailers the needs of intu and its retailers.
As part of our drive to improve the refill their non-recyclable coffee bean wellbeing of our communities, we bags with their waste coffee grounds.
Since 2005, retailers at intu Eldon have teamed up with mental health The bags are collected by the centre Square and intu Metrocentre have foundation Blurt.
Our first initiative team, labelled and displayed in the provided 54,000 hours of onsite together was at our centre student centres Compost Caf shop for visitors training for more than 500 students nights which were visited by over to take free of charge.
participating in the scheme and for Education called Retail Gold donating their waste coffee include an excellent example of practice We gave Blurt space at nine centres Caff Nero and Starbucks.
and impact in careers education.
to open up conversations and help In 2019 we hope to help 200 people remove the stigma of talking about In the first six months 2,400 bags have into employment or further training mental health.
Through the project been collected with 3,600 kg of coffee in the northeast and are developing they spoke to 430 students, reached grounds saved from general waste.
training to support individuals with 6,630 and recruited 23 volunteers to The scheme has been rolled out to additional needs.
become Blurters, as part of their new intu Potteries and our London office.
university-focused, peer-led We recently launched our Retail Gold programme.
The event increased Compost Caf received a silver award handbook to support the expansion of awareness of mental health, and for environmental management Retail Gold and planning is underway young people reported being able improvement at the Green Apple at intu Merry Hill, intu Trafford Centre to talk about their emotions and Environment Awards and we will and intu Uxbridge for 2019. feeling less alone.
be growing this initiative in 2019. intu properties plc Annual report 2018 29
