Helping retailers flourish ntus portfolio of centres welcomed intu centres.
They are the places retailers and the right size of store and giving them many new brands this year, with want to be and they are showing their access to all the great services we provide: i248 new leases signed.
Many of the new confidence in the future with intu by our experience and events programmes entrants are leading international brands investing for the long term.
In 2018 designed to engage customers and keep such as Victorias Secret, Abercrombie retailers spent around 144 million of their them coming back: our great digital & Fitch and H&Ms Monki, who are rolling own money on upgrading their flagship offering including our online shopping out their brands across the UK, and stores, among them River Island, which centre which allows us to help with choosing intu centres to optimise their has doubled the size of its intu Lakeside their omnichannel strategies: and our chances of success.
store and is upsizing at intu Watford.
They know they will flourish in our Retailers investment complements our In a fast-changing retail environment high-quality and well-managed centres, own this year we spent 201 million retailers want a landlord that is able eight of which are in the UKs top 20.
With upgrading and extending our centres, to adapt swiftly.
At intu we are ahead a million visitors every day, and footfall including 67 million to complete the of the game, thinking three, five, 10 years consistently above the national average, intu Watford extension, which ahead our innovation lab intu Accelerate their stores will be in some of the busiest, Debenhams chose as the place to launch means we are constantly on the look-out most thriving retail spaces in the country.
its innovative concept department store.
for the latest ideas that will continue to keep our centres ahead and help our They will be in good company: many of We work in partnership with our retailers, retailers flourish.
our retailers top-performing stores are at making sure they are in the right place 22 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 Inditex nditex is one of the worlds largest fashion retailers, with a portfolio of brands that includes Zara, Zara Home, rolls out IStradivarius, Bershka and Pull&Bear.
with intu It is a globally successful company with a well-thought-out strategy for rolling out its brands across the UK, and intu is often its first port of call when choosing locations outside London.
A fifth of its stores outside the capital are in intu centres, including eight of the 50 Zaras and half the Stradivarius branches.
Our three Spanish centres all have stores of all nine Inditex brands.
The retailers confidence in intu is demonstrated by its investment in its stores in our centres, doubling the size of its Zara store at intu Trafford Centre, and tripling the Zara space at intu Lakeside.
intu has been one of the most forward-thinking landlords, recognising the need to have leisure offerings, such as cinemas, bowling alleys and trampoline parks alongside traditional retail to drive footfall.
Stephen Burns CEO, Hollywood Bowl intu properties plc Annual report 2018 23
