Strategic report Market trends We closely monitor market trends to enable us to respond to new opportunities and challenges and to ensure our centres are well-positioned both now and for the future More certainty in the course of 2019 Todays market 2018 has seen a higher level of over what Brexit means, and retailers A cautious consumer administrations and CVAs than in addressing the structural changes The continuing Brexit uncertainty is recent years with over 2,500 stores in their sector, will enable investors weighing heavily on consumer confidence.
affected according to the Centre for Retail to make better informed decisions.
The GfK measure of consumer confidence Research.
High profile closures and CVAs has been subdued since the EU include Toys R Us, House of Fraser, New The US is now emerging from referendum and reduced further in the Look and HMV, adding to the negative similar issues last few months of 2018.
The US has also seen significant retailer the measure of how consumers feel failures, in particular the well-publicised about the general economic situation A widening gap between the best weaker department stores, over the last over the next 12 months has slipped.
and the rest As we operate in many of the top UK 18 months with a clear differentiation retail destinations where retailers want between the prime and failing malls.
Against this, employment is at its highest to maintain their best stores, we have This, coupled with a stabilising level since 1971 and wage growth has been relatively unaffected by the multichannel model and online retailers outpaced inflation since February 2018. problems faced by the recent such as Amazon taking more physical This has translated to growth in administrations and CVAs.
space, has increased investor confidence disposable income in 2018, an increase in the best centres.
of 6 per cent according to the Asda The administrations and CVAs in the year disposable income tracker, giving a more relate to around 6 per cent of our passing With the UK typically running some two positive outlook than in the last few years.
The majority of these 72 per cent years behind the US in terms of market have had minimal impact, with the retailer trends, we would expect to see similar A challenging time for weaker retailers keeping their best performing stores in patterns emerge as the prime malls take Economic uncertainty and changes our portfolio open on the existing rent.
market share from weaker locations, in what customers are spending their Of the remainder, 9 per cent are trading which should reignite investor demand.
money on has impacted sales growth, on discounted rents, 14 per cent have with non-food retailer sales marginally closed and 5 per cent have been re-let.
down 0.3 per cent on average in Tomorrows demands 2018 according to the British Retail The shopping journey is changing, Reduced demand from investors Consortium BRC.
but stores are still critical in shopping centres In our dynamic multichannel world, The uncertainty of Brexit, the structural Shopping behaviours are also changing.
how people shop and what they want change in retail and higher than normal The trend of growth in online sales from a visit to a shopping centre is level of administrations and CVAs has BRC 2018: 1.7 per cent, offset by falling evolving rapidly.
significantly reduced demand for prime in-store sales BRC 2018: -2.0 per cent shopping centres in 2018.
With this has continued, but it is clear the store There are now many routes for customers weakening sentiment, valuation yields still plays a vital role irrespective to take on their shopping journeys.
They have risen throughout the year.
of how the product is bought.
may see a retailers store as a showroom to view and try a product or the retailers For transactions completed in 2018, Store profitability is under pressure from online presence as a medium to consume there has been a greater focus on limited sales growth and increased costs product information but both have an the quality of income, with investors from business rates, national living wage important part to play.
A key driver for seeking a higher net initial yield to and distribution costs of online sales.
The customers is convenience, whether that is protect returns where capital growth weakness in Sterling has also raised the smartphone access to a retailer whenever is seen as harder to deliver.
cost of retailers goods sold.
it suits them or physical access to a stores 4 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 85% of all transactions touch a store source: GlobalData 18% of our 3,300 units are catering and leisure full range as part of a retail experience Similarly, for leisure operators who We are seeing this in a new generation incorporating leisure as part of a day out.
are now taking a higher proportion of upsized flagship stores in our centres of a customers disposable income, from Next at intu Metrocentre and So, a visit to a shopping centre must the challenges and opportunities are intu Merry Hill, Zara at intu Lakeside offer all the things our customer wants.
to Primark at intu Merry Hill and While online sales continue to increase, intu Trafford Centre.
All this helps to GlobalData estimate that around 85 per We are responding with an ensure that when customers visit our cent of all transactions still touch a store.
adapted strategy centres they have access to all the brands What is important to the customer is that A tenant-centric approach they want offering their full ranges.
their chosen shopping location has all the Making customers smile and helping best stores offering a full range of retailers flourish is key.
On top of this, around 600 of our their products.
3,300 units offer catering and leisure This is not a one-size-fits-all business.
and the demand continues to increase.
Flexibility is key for changing Different centres have different customer For instance, at intu Watford we are customer visits bases and we use our unique insight, bringing an evening economy to its Additionally, as the proportion of assembled from extensive data, to affluent catchment and at the familyconsumer spend on leisure is increasing, help our retailers and deliver what our oriented intu Lakeside we are introducing customers want places to offer a more customers want.
the likes of Nickelodeon, Hollywood Bowl experiential day out, be it cafes, and Puttshack.
restaurants, cinemas or activities such As owners and curators of shopping as bowling, mini-golf, climbing or skiing.
centre space and the main landlord A focus on the best destinations for many of the best retailers in the We remain focused on the best Finally, shoppers are not all the same: UK from Apple to Zara, we can ensure destinations, with a portfolio concentrated on the top centres in different age groups and different that our tenants are in the right space the UK and Spain which offer day-out demographics want different things, to maximise their ability to generate destinations for customers and superior so ensuring the mix caters for all their profits.
We can guarantee them a level footfall for our tenants.
requirements is a further important step.
of quality from clean, secure and safe space with high footfall and long We continue to invest in the centres Tenants focus on brand, perception dwell times.
By contrast, high streets offering the maximum potential, and customer service have suffered where they are owned including ongoing leisure projects As the demands of their customers by multiple landlords or managed by at intu Lakeside and intu Xanad.
increase, retailers are looking to further budget-constrained local authorities.
Additionally, we are progressing mixedintegrate their online and in-store use opportunities from our significant models, with the best retailers moving Adapting fast in a changing land holdings around centres.
to seamless propositions for shoppers.
retail environment Key to this is a detailed understanding As the role of the store evolves, Ensuring our centres remain appealing of their customers and faultless customer for example with the increase in click to customers and retailers will mean that service whatever the channel.
and collect, we can offer our tenants they should become more attractive to a configuration that works successfully investors once the current negative Managing their brands and the for their business model, be it more sentiment abates.
perceptions of them is also critical, back of house space for storage and whether it be the physical proposition distribution or direct access to car parks or social media where the position of for delivery pick-ups.
intu properties plc Annual report 2018 5
