Creating compelling experiences very day at an intu centre is like centres at the cutting edge, aided by factor and it has been drawing in crowds putting on a theatrical extravaganza.
our mastery of tenant mix, centre ever since.
We are creating a retail and ETo fill all the seats, make sure our management and development planning.
leisure destination for the 21st century at audience go home with great memories intu Lakeside, where the new 72 million that make them want to return and have For more than two decades we have been development is set to create the biggest retailers continue to flock to our centres, putting on a show at our centres to give retail resort in the south of England.
we have to run the show perfectly.
The daily performance includes exciting events, Over in Spain, our plans for intu Costa del We are the experts at creating great retail positive interactions with our passionate Sol bring together all our expertise to and leisure experiences that make our people, access to the best retail and create the worlds most advanced retail centres places people want to keep leisure elements that together create and leisure resort.
It will have a high coming back to: from our razor-sharp a sense of enjoyment and belonging.
The proportion of leisure and will be a focus on creating joyful experiences to iconic intu Trafford Centre was one of the must-visit destination for both residents our long-term vision that keeps our first shopping centres to offer the wow and tourists from the whole of the region.
24 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 Centres of expertise ompelling shopping experiences dont happen by accident its C the expertise and passion of our in-house facilities management and customer experience teams that make all the difference, providing great customer service and offering value for money for retailers.
Uniquely among shopping centre landlords we manage our intubranded UK centres ourselves, directly employing all backroom and front-of-house staff because we know no one else will go as far as we will to deliver the perfect experience.
This model has many advantages over contracted-out centre teams, particularly with our people for whom working directly for intu means they are totally committed to our ethos of delivering excellent customer service.
Our scale means we can attract the leading industry specialists in security, environmental services, procurement and design.
And with 14 centres under the intu banner we can trial new projects and roll out the best, to ensure retailers get superior service and great value.
For example, our We continue to use our expertise to solar energy programme trial at intu surprise and delight our customers Chapelfield exceeded expectations and find new ways to help our retailers and we are planning to roll it out to flourish.
It works, as testified by 400 three more centres in 2019. million customer visits each year, our highest average NPS of 75 up from Retailers are buying into our 70 last year, and the commitment of expertise: Next has been testing our a succession of international retailers facilities management services at its for whom intu is the first port of call intu Trafford Centre store.
The pilot when it comes to making their proved so successful that Next is nationwide expansion plans.
With now looking at a comprehensive 35 million customers, over half the maintenance arrangement for all its UK population cant be wrong.
stores in the intu portfolio and we are in discussions with a number of other retailers to provide a similar service in 2019. intu properties plc Annual report 2018 25
