M a ki n g customers smile We aim to make our customers smile because happy customers stay longer and spend more We want our customers to really love We measure customer satisfaction intu has successfully captured coming to our centres, to tell their through Tell intu, a net promoter score a strong sense of momentum with friends and to come back, and it is NPS system, as there is a strong link UK consumers in a relatively short through our brand that we create the between high NPS, dwell time and space of time.
intu ensures that brands emotional engagement that translates spend.
Events have a great impact on are able to deliver to consumers needs into customer loyalty.
this measure and those weve run this in destinations that they want to visit year, such as the Stylist Live weekend, the and that are already being talked about Our brand is about making joyful Big Bug tour, the Nickelodeon slime as destinations on the way up.
memories, so that next time our events and the Sun tour, have driven potential customers are thinking about both engagement and hard measures, This has manifested itself in how to spend their time they choose with a clear rise in footfall, spend and a consistently strong sense of intu.
Those memories may come from NPS see case study, right.
brand advocacy, with 60 per cent one great event or a particular moment of consumers aware of the intu brand during their visit.
So we make sure every Customers contact with our people has saying they would recommend it to visit is memorable with world class a very positive impact on NPS and our a friend.
Those that would recommend customer service, excellent facilities, people are encouraged to interact with the brand are over 14 times more the best examples of the best brands, customers as often as possible, during likely to go far out of their way to visit and our signature products and services.
our regular chatty hours and more the centres than those that would spontaneously.
not recommend, highlighting the importance of the brands successful Relative consumer spend As well as the NPS, Tell intu provides focus on delivering experiences that Our insight shows that happier customers invaluable customer insight which delight and drive advocacy.
who stay longer spend more enables us to introduce, tweak or improve our offer.
We recently This is also helping to drive repeat 100 relaunched our Family Club because footfall, with 73 per cent of intu brand mums and dads told us they wanted advocates considering visiting a centre 80 to have fun with their kids rather than as the only one I would consider leave them in a club.
So we redesigned shopping at or its one I would 60 the club around that shared experience consider shopping at above most and 35,000 families have signed up.
In contrast, it is just 40 11 per cent for non-advocates.
The value of a strong brand is well Continuous category brand equity study, 20 documented.
Since we rebranded Hall & Partners to intu in 2013 we have measured 0 All data quoted represents the full year not only brand awareness but also average January December 2018 1 12 24 46 6 efficacy, through independent insight Dwell time hours consultancy Hall & Partners.
Five years Size of bubble represents spend.
on, partner Kurt Stuhllemmer explains their findings: 20 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 Net promoter score Stylist Live o celebrate intu Trafford Centres 20th birthday, we partnered with Shortlist Media to host the Tfirst-ever Stylist Live event outside London.
Fashion and beauty brands including Radley, Pandora, Max Factor and Dermalogica filled the centre and were complemented by workshops, interviews with celebrities and influencers and a stunning catwalk showpiece, which attracted 200,000 visitors over the two days a 5 per cent increase in footfall.
Retailers reported excellent sales almost double 200,000 their expected targets in some cases and huge visitors over the two days increases in footfall.
With the great activities, along with offers and 5% experiences such as personal styling and make-up increase in footfall demonstrations, the NPS score of 100 shows that events that make our customers happy also help our retailers flourish.
400,000 social media impressions 100 net promoter score intu properties plc Annual report 2018 21
