Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information The Board The role of the Board and its committees Led by the Chairman, the Board takes primary responsibility for defining the Groups strategic objectives, risk appetite and control environment: monitoring delivery of strategy by the Executive Directors: and shaping the resourcing, culture and values by which the wider business delivers targeted performance.
The Board Audit Corporate Responsibility Nomination and Review Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman Chairman Chairman Chairman Adle Anderson John Strachan John Strachan Ian Burke from 12 February 2019.
Louise Patten to 12 Members Members Members February 2019 Ian Burke, Rakhi Goss-Custard Adle Anderson, David Fischel, Adle Anderson, Ian Burke, Alexander Nicoll, Kathryn Rakhi Goss-Custard, Steven Members Key responsibilities Barber, Jennifer Sandars Underwood, Louise Patten to Adle Anderson, Rakhi Monitors the integrity of 18 February 2019 Goss-Custard financial statements, internal Key responsibilities controls and risk management Oversees the management of Key responsibilities Key responsibilities process and reviews the the Groups CR activities Ensures the Board comprises Sets remuneration policy for effectiveness of the internal people with an appropriate the Executive Directors and and external auditors balance of skills, knowledge the Chairman and recommends and experience and monitors the level and structure of remuneration for all independent Non-Executive Directors are invited to attend when senior management discussing Board succession See pages 78 to 93 for more See pages 71 to 75 for more S ee pages 57 to 59 for more See pages 76 and 77 for more information information information information Capital Projects Executive Committee Committee Chairman Members Chairman Members John Strachan David Fischel, Matthew Roberts, John Whittaker, David Fischel Matthew Roberts, Martin Breeden, Hugh Ford, Martin Breeden Barbara Gibbes, Susan Marsden, Gordon McKinnon, Trevor Pereira, Dushyant Sangar, Julian Wilkinson Key responsibilities Reviews new projects and expenditure in detail and Key responsibilities makes recommendations to the Board on certain Considers investment proposals, reviews progress projects, as appropriate.
Has no power to approve on projects and project expenditure in detail and proposals or authorise expenditure receives updates on other business matters.
Has delegated authority, within limits, to authorise The Capital Projects Committee is not a formal committee of the Board initiatives and expenditure The Executive Committee is not a formal committee of the Board intu properties plc Annual report 2018 65 The Board continued Leadership Board committees to enable the Board Board culture The Board and its governance to operate effectively and give full The Chairman is directly accountable framework consideration to key matters as shown for the culture of the Board, which is The Board is responsible for setting intus in the diagram on page 65 defined by: strategic aims and then monitoring delegated authority limits, which apply managements performance against at all levels of the business and are highly experienced and those aims as well as setting the strategic incorporated into all operational knowledgeable directors, with a framework within which those aims can procedures ensuring matters are dealt wide range of skills and diverse be achieved.
The business model with at the appropriate level perspectives who act confidently described on pages 30 and 31 illustrates internal policies, procedures and and with integrity the key value creation and operational controls including risk management a conservative, measured approach drivers for intus strategy and the means arrangements, delegated authority to business, allied with a willingness by which the Board ultimately delivers limits and a related parties protocol to take considered risks through long-term growth and sustainable returns which are regularly reported on, insightful investment to achieve for shareholders and debt investors.
reviewed and updated by the Board strategic goals and relevant committees the relationships between individual Appropriate and effective corporate internal processes which are directors and the senior executives, governance is intrinsic to all aspects communicated to all staff and which encourage beneficial debate of the Boards activities.
Consequently, are available at all times on the and open discussion of views governance is interwoven into the Groups intranet activities of management, who are The Boards culture permeates accountable to the Board, and all Each aspect is routinely reviewed by the throughout the Groups operations employees, who are in turn accountable Board and updated to satisfy the needs and is enshrined within intus values, to management.
This is reinforced by of the business.
The Board has continued which encourage staff to be bold, the established coherent governance to review its governance framework and creative and genuine.
framework which underpins the has adjusted, where necessary, the roles, culture and workings of the Group structure and accountabilities of senior Further information on intus culture with clearly defined responsibilities management to reflect the demands and values can be found on page 54 and accountabilities, consisting of: of the business.
Our approach to CR CR underpins the strategic aims of our business, creating a long-term and sustainable business that brings value to all our stakeholders.
The Board fully supports the Groups approach to CR with the Chairman of the Board chairing the Board CR Committee.
The Board CR Committees members also include the Chief Executive and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Further details of our CR activities can be found in the 2018 CR report 66 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Roles and responsibilities Role Responsibility Chairman John Strachan Leading the Board, setting agendas, achieving clarity of decision-making, ensuring effectiveness in all aspects of the Boards remit, driving the culture of accountability and openness and ensuring effective two-way communication with stakeholders including shareholders and between Non-Executive Directors and senior management Chief Executive David Fischel Delivery of Group strategy, primary accountability for day-to-day operational management, implementation of policies and strategies developed by the Board, modelling and setting the Companys culture and developing the abilities and skills of the Groups personnel to their maximum potential Chief Financial Officer Matthew Roberts Managing the Groups funding strategy, financing, reporting and investor programme, encompassing leadership of the finance function.
From January 2016 also responsible for intus centre-based operations Independent Adle Anderson Bringing an external and independent view to the Boards discussions, Non-Executive Ian Burke objectively scrutinising the performance of management, providing rigorous Directors Rakhi Goss-Custard and constructive challenge to executive management when appropriate, Louise Patten ensuring financial controls and risk management are robust, determining appropriate levels of remuneration for management.
Independent NonExecutive Directors are entitled to attend any committee meeting if they wish Senior Independent Adle Anderson Providing advice, additional support and experience to the Chairman as required.
Director Available to act as an intermediary for the other directors if necessary.
Leads the appraisal of the Chairmans performance annually in conjunction with the other Non-Executive Directors and is available as an additional point of contact to shareholders Non-Independent Richard Gordon intu currently has a representative of one major shareholder on its Board, the Non-Executive John Whittaker Deputy Chairman, John Whittaker.
Richard Gordon was formerly a representative Directors of the Gordon Family interests.
The trusts controlling the Gordon Family interests have been restructured and are no longer represented by Richard Gordon.
Direct shareholder Board representation, with appropriate management of conflicts, ensures that key strategic, operational and governance decision-making is more closely aligned with the interests of the major shareholder and other institutional and retail investors generally.
In this respect the Group surpasses the expectations of the Stewardship Code.
The representative director also contributes strongly to the Boards culture and personality, adding insight and constructive challenge from a strong commercial background, experience and expertise Alternate Director Steven Underwood In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association John Whittaker has appointed Steven Underwood as his alternate.
The Board has generally invited Steven Underwood to attend Board meetings T he Board reviews the independence of its Non-Executive Directors on an annual basis.
With the exception of John Whittaker and Richard Gordon, the Board has concluded that all Non-Executive Directors are independent.
Biographical details of each director are set out on pages 62 and 63 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 67 The Board continued Effectiveness Balance and composition Board meetings The Nomination and Review Committee Board agendas are shaped to create time for strategic discussion and debate with time regularly reviews the composition of the allocated to routine matters being closely managed.
Board to ensure that it operates efficiently 1 Board attendance table 2018 and has access to a broad range of Nomination knowledge and viewpoints.
The Board Board Audit and Review Remuneration determined that new candidates for the 4 4 John Strachan 4 4 2 2 role of Non-Executive Director should 2 John Whittaker 3 4 have sector-relevant qualifications and David Fischel 4 4 experience notably in property, retail, Matthew Roberts 4 4 finance or digital, to ensure that these 4 Adle Anderson 4 4 4 4 2 2 4 4 key areas are well-represented while 3 Ian Burke 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 also having regard to wider business 6 Richard Gordon 4 4 knowledge and diverse backgrounds Rakhi Goss-Custard 4 4 4 4 2 2 4 4 which can be beneficial to the Group.
6 4 Louise Patten 4 4 2 2 4 4 5 Andrew Strang 3 3 3 3 1 1 The appropriate balance of skills, independence, experience and knowledge 1 S cheduled meetings only, excludes Board away day, Board and Committee update conference calls and ad hoc meetings.
does not in itself ensure the efficient 2 J ohn Whittaker did not attend the scheduled October 2018 Board Meeting as the Peel Group were part operation of a board.
To this end, the of the Consortium considering a potential offer for intu.
Chairmans style and leadership of the 3 I an Burke was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2018.
He joined the Audit Committee, the Nomination and Review Committee and the Remuneration Committee in early October 2018.
Appointed Chairman of the Board are essential to creating an Remuneration Committee from 12 February 2019. environment where the Non-Executive 4 B oard or Committee chairman.
5 A ndrew Strang resigned from the Board on 30 September 2018.
Directors are able to draw on their own 6.
R ichard Gordon and Louise Patten resigned from the Board on 18 February 2019. experience to constructively challenge the views of the executive management.
At each scheduled Board meeting, the Executive Directors provide updates on their key areas The Chairman facilitates this by drawing of responsibility.
In addition, the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination and on the Non-Executive Directors range Review Committees give updates on the workings of and progress made by those of experiences to provide insight and Committees, highlighting any areas requiring escalation to, or consideration by, the full Board.
alternative perspectives and has invited Other matters for discussion are added to the agenda for scheduled Board meetings, or all independent Non-Executive Directors discussed at additionally convened Board meetings, as required.
to attend any committee, irrespective of whether they are formally a member of such committee.
The balance of the Board is illustrated on page 63.
Conflicts of interest John Whittaker and his alternate, Steven The Board has adopted a formal Underwood, did not attend any Board or Time commitment procedure under which directors must committee meetings during the potential and external activities notify the Chairman of the Board of any transaction with the Consortium Non-Executive Directors are appointed potential conflicts.
The Chairman then comprising the Peel Group, the Olayan for a three-year term and their continuing decides whether a conflict exists and Group and Brookfield Property Group.
service thereafter is subject to review recommends its authorisation by the by the Board.
All directors are submitted Board where appropriate.
In certain for annual re-election by shareholders.
circumstances, the conflicted director may be required to recuse themselves Their annual time commitment varies from the Boards discussions on a matter with specified minimum requirements in which he or she is conflicted.
Directors within the terms of their appointment must also notify the Chairman when they and is assessed as part of each directors take on any additional responsibilities or Appropriate and effective annual review.
external appointments, and it is their corporate governance is responsibility to ensure that such Each Director has demonstrated that appointments will not prevent them intrinsic to all aspects of the he or she has sufficient time to devote from meeting the time commitments Boards activities.
to their present role at intu.
68 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Board oversight of Communication Relations with Directors are kept fully informed risk management shareholders of progress on key matters, including The effective assessment and We place considerable emphasis on operational and financial performance, management of risk is key to the delivery maintaining an open and frank dialogue between formal meetings.
This is of the Groups strategy.
The setting of with investors.
Our programme of investor achieved by way of either scheduled the Groups risk appetite by the Board relations activities involves members of conference calls or less formal update provides the framework within which the Executive Committee including, on meetings in months where there is the Groups risk management occasion, the Chairman and the Head no formal Board meeting scheduled.
We seek to develop Ad hoc meetings and working visits to existing and potential investors centres are also regularly arranged to The Board has overall responsibility for understanding of intus business strategy, support the Chairmans policy of open risk management and the Audit operations, performance and investment communication.
The Chairmen of the Committee monitors and reviews the case.
This provides the Board and Executive Audit Committee and Remuneration effectiveness of the risk management Committee with an insight into the differing Committee communicate regularly process ensuring that the appropriate views of intus institutional and other and directly with relevant staff and governance and challenge around risk significant investors as well as those of external advisers, including but not is embedded throughout the business.
limited to, the Director of Risk and Key activities in 2018 included: Assurance, the Company Secretary and The Groups risk management process Korn Ferry, who act as the Remuneration results meetings and update calls: an is set out in more detail on pages 38 Committees consultants.
average of 80 institutions attended and 39, and the Groups principal risks are each event discussed on pages 40 and 41.
As part The Chairman of the Board and Company road show meetings: following results of the Governance Framework all Secretary ensure that all Directors are announcements we conducted around recommendations to the Board must provided with accurate and timely 140 meetings in the UK, South Africa include specific consideration of potential information to facilitate informed and Europe risks to ensure this aspect is given due discussion at Board meetings.
investor conferences: we attended five consideration while still permitting the real estate conferences organised by Board to act decisively.
investment banks, meeting around 70 institutions There was an increased risk profile in site visits: toured intu Asturias, intu 2018, with increases in both property Xanad, intu Watford and intu Lakeside market sub-risks.
Additionally, there have with 30 investors been some changes to existing principal interaction with sell-side analysts: risks.
Acquisitions has been removed as engaged with analysts from around a principal risk as the business has not 20 institutions to ensure the insight of engaged in acquisitions in the year and their research was accurate people has been added as a sub-category within the operations risk.
Principal risks and uncertainties are discussed in further detail on pages 40 and 41 370 investor interactions in 2018 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 69
