Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of All of the above would impact on rental The Company has a range of potential the UK Corporate Governance Code, income and or valuation, which is mitigating actions available which could the Directors have assessed the prospects factored into our viability assessment include some but not necessarily all of of the Company over a longer period than below.
We acknowledge that Brexit may the following: reductions in future capital that required in adopting the going have an adverse impact on property spend, some asset disposals and or a concern basis of accounting.
Based on valuations or availability of funds, with further temporary reduction of cash dividend payments, subject to REIT the result of this analysis, the Directors any such impact factored into the requirements as the Company is have a reasonable expectation that the potential downsides of the risks noted intending to maintain its REIT status.
Company will be able to continue in above, whether these be driven by Brexit Such mitigating actions should only be operation and meet its liabilities as they or other macroeconomic factors.
We have required towards the later stages of the fall due over the next five calendar years.
based our downside assumptions on data viability period.
The Companys facilities This period is considered appropriate from previous property cycles.
Given our have covenant headroom, as described because of the combination of the strong underlying operational in the Strategic Report on page 47, following factors: performance in 2018, with stable while the Companys strategy includes occupancy around 97 per cent, 248 new deleveraging the balance sheet through the Groups strategic plan covers leases signed at 6 per cent above previous asset disposals in order to provide 10 years, with a greater degree of rents and tenants continuing to invest in sufficient headroom throughout the detail and rigor applied to the our centres, we have assumed that once viability period.
first five years the period of uncertainty and the the Groups weighted average associated downturn has passed, there is unexpired lease term, which at a reasonable expectation that property 31 December 2018 was 7.2 years values will recover, even if perhaps not to the Groups weighted average debt the full extent of the 2017 peak.
maturity, which at 31 December 2018 was 5.8 years The Directors also consider the impact on the Groups financial position of adverse The strategic plan incorporates the but plausible changes in key input Groups strategic objectives and considers assumptions, together with mitigating the impact of the principal risks.
The plan actions not included in the strategic plan considers net rental income, cash flows, which are available to the Group.
2018 development expenditure, as well as saw a 13 per cent reduction in the market corporate transactions including the value of the property portfolio and for recycling of capital and refinancing plans viability modelling purposes total peak to over the 10-year period.
It highlights the trough declines of 25 per cent from impact of the relevant principal risks on December 2017 valuations have been key metrics such as debt to assets ratio, assumed.
Recovery is assumed to reach underlying earnings per share and 90 per cent of peak values by 2022.
key assumptions to which sensitivities are applied include: Principal risks are set out in detail on pages 40 and 41, and the relevant risks for ability to recycle capital as planned assessing viability have been identified as: refinancing of debt: 3.1 billion around 64 per cent of the Groups debt is due macroeconomic including Brexit : for repayment in the next five years, specifically impact on rental income which the Directors have assumed levels, property values and covenant can be refinanced, although subject headroom Risk 1 to valuation driven loan reductions availability of funds: specifically impact falls in income of up to 8 per cent on liquidity Risk 7 retail environment: specifically impact on occupancy and pipeline Risk 2 terrorism: specifically negative impact on lettings and rental growth Risk 5 70 intu properties plc Annual report 2018
