Governance Governance We ensure that our governance structures continue to be appropriate and support our business and culture in an ever-changing regulatory environment Dear shareholder Potential transactions Effectiveness and evaluation Potential transactions, first with As Chairman, it is my role to provide Throughout the year we have continued Hammerson and then with a Consortium leadership to ensure the operation of to ensure that our governance structures comprising the Peel Group, the Olayan an effective Board.
The Board consists at Board, Committee, subsidiary and joint Group and Brookfield Property Group, of seven directors.
The directors bring venture levels continue to be appropriate resulted in intu being engaged in a a wide range of skills and perspectives and support our business and culture in restricted offer period for some 25 weeks to the Boards deliberations, as described an ever-changing regulatory environment.
Although this was an inevitable on the following pages.
In relation to In the next few pages we provide details distraction for the Board and the senior gender diversity, we currently have two of our Board members, the role of the leadership team, we remained focused female Board members.
As highlighted in Board and its performance and oversight.
on the governance of the Group.
During the Nomination and Review Committees We also provide the information on this time the Board received detailed report on page 76, the Board considers our governance framework which we briefing on Takeover Code issues and that broader aspects of diversity, consider is appropriate for a UK premiumdirectors responsibilities and held several rather than purely gender, are key to listed company.
non-scheduled Board meetings, often stimulating constructive debate.
For called at short notice, as required in a the year under review we conducted an New Corporate Governance Code restricted offer period.
externally facilitated Board performance In the second half of the year the FRC evaluation, the findings of which are set released a new UK Corporate Governance Succession planning out on page 77.
Code, effective for financial years As described more fully in the Nomination beginning on or after 1 January 2019. and Review Committee report, we have John Strachan The Board, through the Audit and continued to focus on succession Chairman Remuneration Committees, received planning.
Following the announcement 20 February 2019 comprehensive briefings on the new Code last year that David Fischel would be and have taken steps to ensure we are stepping down as Chief Executive we placed to fully comply with the new Code.
are well-advanced with the search for We will report to shareholders on our his successor.
The Board has also devoted application of the new Code next year.
time to succession planning of NonCompliance with the UK Corporate Executive Directors following Andrew Governance Code the Code The Board has resolved that I will Strangs resignation in 2019 and the The following governance pages be the designated director for the subsequent appointment of Ian Burke explain how the Company applies the workforce as required under the new in October 2018.
Rakhi Goss-Custard main principles of the Code, issued by Corporate Governance Code.
Existing will not be seeking re-election at the the Financial Reporting Council FRC employee engagement activities at intu forthcoming annual general meeting.
in April 2016, and how it meets other will be used to facilitate engagement, Richard Gordon and Louise Patten relevant governance requirements drawn from employee forums at intus resigned on 18 February 2019.
A search including provisions of the Disclosure centres, quarterly centre management for at least one new Non-Executive Guidance and Transparency Rules of meetings, a head office staff participation Director is well underway.
We expect the Financial Conduct Authority.
Both forum to be established and Q&A to announce the appointment of a new documents are publicly available on sessions following full-year and half-year independent Non-Executive Director the FRC website frc.
to replace Rakhi Goss-Custard before the annual general meeting, in order The Board considers that the Company to preserve the required balance on the complied in full with the provisions of Board of 50 per cent independent and the Code during the year.
50 per cent non-independent directors excluding the Chairman.
60 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Governance at a glance Key strategic matters discussed in 2018 Growing like-for-like net Delivering operational Optimising our winning Making smart rental income excellence destinations use of capital reviewed and approved monitored operating considered trends in approved several debt intus strategic plan performance at every consumer shopping refinancings and new monitored operating Board meeting, including habits and behaviours facilities performance at every footfall, net promoter debated the possibility reviewed and approved Board meeting, including score, brand awareness of new and alternative intus strategic plan occupancy, new lettings and retailer sales uses of space and rent reviews monitored ongoing development projects, including intu Watford approved new capital projects Other key matters discussed Areas of focus in 2019 devoted significant time to the two potential offers which chief executive succession and induction arose in 2018, paying full attention to governance and legal strategic planning and delivery of 2019 objectives requirements relevant to an offer period capital investment programme, debt to assets ratio and reviewed strategic options for the future in the light of financial headroom current retail property market conditions and changing impact of Brexit shoppers behaviour the Nomination and Review Committee devoted time to succession planning for the chief executives role, a process which is well advanced intu properties plc Annual report 2018 61
