Our view of the m ar k et Retail has always been dynamic, but over the past few years change in the sector has picked up speed, with new technologies influencing how customers shop and what retailers have to do to keep up with the evolving retail landscape 18 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 uch is spoken about the impact Must-have destinations of online shopping on physical Mstores, but even in the UK, the most mature online shopping market in Europe, less than a quarter of retail e build close relationships with our sales are online.
They are predicted to customers and retailers to ensure plateau at 30 per cent.
Wwe deliver what they both want.
Getting this right means customers flock Customers still love physical shopping to our centres and stay.
Independent research and really like the experience of shopping by GlobalData reveals what means most to in store.
They want to touch what they customers and retailers.
buy, try it on, talk to someone about it.
They may be web-savvy and priceconscious, but with around 85 per cent of all transactions touching the physical store at some point between browsing and purchase, theres plenty retailers and intu can do to entice customers to stores in our centres.
As part of their multichannel strategies, What customers want retailers are creating full-range showroom stores in the winning g reat range of retailers and the destinations with the highest footfalls, best shops of those retailers dwell times and spend.
Over the last e asy to access 18 months, Zara has doubled the size of its intu Trafford Centre store and l ots of dining choice tripled the size of its intu Lakeside one.
c lean and stylish malls with a great Next has opened 80,000 sq ft flagships atmosphere and customer service at intu Merry Hill and intu Metrocentre.
a lways something new and interesting Pulling in the crowds has never been more important and intus focus is on making our centres great places to visit for everyone.
Whether thats the baby boomer who likes the traditional shopping experience and has plenty to spend, the family-focused Generation X, or the younger crowd who spend more on leisure and dining and are after great Instagrammable experiences.
What retailers want good sales l ots of footfall b usy malls without empty stores p otential to grow market share b est space to showcase their brand GlobalData Consulting: Top 50 UK Shopping Centres, October 2018 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 19
