Strategic report Focus on risk The effective assessment and management of risk is key to the delivery of our strategy ntus Board has responsibility for Risk management process There was an increased risk profile in 2018, establishing the Groups appetite for intus Board has overall responsibility with increases in both property market irisk on the balance of potential risks and for risk management.
Additionally, there have been returns, and has overall responsibility of the risk management system is some changes to existing principal risks.
for identifying and managing risks.
monitored and reviewed by the Audit Acquisitions has been removed as the The Board has undertaken a robust Committee and through periodic external business has not engaged in acquisitions assessment of the principal risks and review.
Our ongoing assessment of risk in the year and people has been added as uncertainties facing the Group, including is underpinned by a formal risk review a sub-category within the operations risk.
those that would impact the business process conducted for each area and model, future performance, solvency every level of the business including each The main impact from the UKs decision or liquidity.
centre, each department, internal to exit the EU on the risks that the Group committee and the executive team.
faces continues to be the potential Risk appetite These reviews provide an opportunity to negative impact on the macroeconomic An assessment of the Groups risk identify risks and assess their impact and environment, as a result of the continuing appetite in 2018 showed that the business likelihood.
The assessment also includes uncertainty around transitional and has delivered some of the reduction in risk how quickly the risks would impact our post-Brexit arrangements.
Specifically, exposure that the Board desired, but this business and for how long.
the risks we face are affected by any has also been impacted by increases in changes in sentiment in the investment some external risks.
The Board continues The risk registers created through this and occupier markets in which we to want to reduce risk in the future across process are subject to at least an annual operate, in our ability to execute our a number of categories and is working review, facilitated by the risk and recycling and investment plans and in on plans to deliver this.
As experts in assurance team.
Operational broader consumer confidence and our sector we are able to mitigate the management is responsible for managing expenditure.
intus Brexit risk review, risk involved in growing the business the risks and for updating the risk registers.
initially conducted in 2016, has been through development, our active asset reviewed and updated during the year.
management strategy, brand focus and The Audit Committee oversees the risk maximising future opportunities for management process, with the Director The intu risk framework has been updated revenue growth.
This focus on our core of Risk and Assurance reporting directly in the year.
It is based on recognised strengths is balanced by a more cautious to the Audit Committee Chairman, codes and best practice, including approach to risk in other areas.
Four risk updates are provided each year.
While the macroeconomic and retail The intu risk and assurance team provide environment is difficult at present, Principal risks and uncertainties an overview of key risks to the Board and particularly with the uncertainty We have identified principal risks and Executive Committee.
This includes surrounding Brexit, we have proven uncertainties under five key headings: horizon-scanning for new risks including expertise in this area and continue to property market: operations: financing: legislative changes, highlighting the innovate to mitigate risks.
These are output of bottom-up risk reviews and as brand awareness continues to grow discussed in detail on the following pages.
identifying risks that could impact we become more exposed to media and A principal risk is one which has the delivery of corporate objectives.
social media news stories, which have potential to significantly affect our a greater impact.
The intu operational strategic objectives, financial position or control framework is robust and we future performance and includes both have processes and procedures in place internal and external factors.
We monitor to manage reputational risk.
movements in likelihood and severity such that the risks are appropriately managed in line with the Groups risk appetite.
38 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Implementation and compliance responsibility Risk management framework ensure that risk is managed across the business Board define the Groups appetite for risk with the Executive Committee, assess the Groups principal risks establish tone at the top to drive risk culture across the business monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups risk management system Audit Committee and risk culture oversee and challenge the Groups overall approach to monitoring areas of risk lead the development of risk management for intu Risk and assurance collate outputs of risk management exercises including risk registers for presentation department to Audit Committee, Executive Committee and Board identify and communicate emerging risks for the business input into Boards process for setting risk appetite Executive Committee with the Board, assess the Groups principal risks endorse tone at the top set by the Board implement strategy in line with the Groups risk appetite lead operational managements approach to risk create an environment where risk management is embraced Operational management communicate the responsibility of risk management to all employees implement and maintain risk management processes produce and maintain risk registers including identification of risks, mitigating controls and actions required active in the day-to-day management of risk Employees give feedback to operational management on day-to-day risk management Risk profile Likelihood Impact Increased 1 2 6 9 1 2 6 9 3 4 5 7 8 3 4 5 7 8 No change Better liaison with tenants risk managers We recognise that we face a number of Note: Acquisitions has been removed as a principal risk, as the business has not engaged in acquisitions this year.
risks which are not solely our own: there are People has been added as a sub-category of operations risk and is shown as risk 6 contributory factors from retailers, service providers and visitors.
During the year, we 1 Property market macroeconomic have run two events to bring together key 2 Property market retail environment 3 Operations health and safety retail landlords with some key tenants to 4 Operations cybersecurity discuss risk issues, with the intention of 5 Operations terrorism increasing understanding, smoothing 6 Operations people processes and reducing risks for all parties.
7 Financing availability of funds 8 Developments developments The events have been positively received 9 Brand integrity of the brand and are laying down the foundations for enhanced landlord and tenant relationships to minimise risk.
intu properties plc Annual report 2018 39 Monitoring and reporting responsibility
