Executive Committee Martin Breeden Hugh Ford Barbara Gibbes Susan Marsden Development Director General Counsel and Group Director of Finance Group Company Secretary Joined the Group in 2002 and Treasurer Joined the Group as Director of Joined the Group as Company was appointed Group Development Joined the Group as General Counsel Finance in January 2017 from Secretary in 2000.
A fellow of the Director in January 2016.
Appointed General Counsel Dominos Pizza Group Plc where she Institute of Chartered Secretaries has direct responsibility for intus and Group Treasurer in April 2015. was Group Financial Controller.
and Administrators, Susan began her development programme across the Previously he was General Manager Previously she held other senior career at the London Stock Exchange, UK and intus Spanish business.
Martin Legal at Virgin Atlantic Airways, and finance roles and was a Director at and was Company Secretary of two has over 25 years experience in the before that a commercial lawyer with Deloitte.
She qualified as a chartered FTSE real estate sector companies retail property industry.
He is a fellow British Airways plc.
He qualified as a accountant in 2000 before joining intu of the RICS and a member of the solicitor in 1992 with Freshfields advisory panel of Revo Gordon McKinnon Trevor Pereira Dushyant Sangar Julian Wilkinson Operations Director Digital and Commercial Director Corporate Development Director Asset Management Director Joined the Group in January 2011 and Joined the Group in 2007 as Joined the Group in 2010 and Joined the Group in 2011 and was appointed Operations Director in Commercial Director.
He was appointed Corporate Development was appointed Asset Management November 2013.
He spent 20 years in subsequently appointed Group Digital Director in 2014.
He has been closely Director in January 2016.
Julian various roles with Marks & Spencer and Commercial Director, responsible involved in all of the Groups major has responsibility for optimising before taking up an assignment with for digital activities, commercialisation, acquisitions in the UK and Spain.
He the performance of intus shopping Manchester Millennium Limited, the marketing and customer experience.
previously worked for MGPA, a real centres.
He has held similar positions taskforce rebuilding Manchester city He previously worked for airport group estate private equity investment at director level over the last 25 years centre following the 1996 IRA bomb.
BAA plc for 21 years, latterly as Retail advisory business and for UBS.
He is on behalf of both retailers and He was appointed Director of and Commercial Director for a Non-Executive Director of Prozone landlords and is a fellow of the RICS Operations at The Trafford Centre Heathrow Airport Intu Properties Limited in 2004 Senior management team Biographies of the senior management team are available on our website at: intugroup.
co. uk en about-us our-people 64 intu properties plc Annual report 2018
