Risk management and corporate governance Internal Audit As a result of the regulatory responsibilities programme are validated by executive Internal Audits arising from the DLC structure, there management and approved by the are two Investec group Internal Audit activity is governed responsible audit committee.
Veryhigh departments located in London and risk businesses and processes are by an internal audit Johannesburg, responsible for Investec plc audited at least every 12 months, with and Investec Limited respectively.
Investec other areas covered at regular intervals charter which is Bank plc Irishbranch has its own Internal based on their risk profile.
There is an approved by the group Audit function reporting into Investec plc ongoing focus on identifying fraud risk as Internal Audit.
In combination, the functions well as auditing technology risks given audit committee and cover all the geographies in which Investec Investecs dependence on IT systems.
These functions use a global Internal Audit also liaises with the external risk-based methodology and cooperate auditors and other assurance providers to The charter defines technically andoperationally.
enhance efficiencies in terms of integrated the purpose, authority assurance.
The annual plan is reviewed The heads of Internal Audit report at each regularly to ensure it remains relevant and and responsibilities of audit committee meeting and have a direct responsive, given changes in the operating reporting line to the chairman of the audit the function environment.
The audit committee approves committee as well as the appropriate any changes to the plan.
They operate independently of executive management, Significant control weaknesses are but have regular access to the local chief reported, in terms of an escalation executive officers and to business unit protocol, to the local assurance forums, executives.
The heads of Internal Audit where remediation procedures and are responsible for coordinating internal progress are considered and monitored audit efforts to ensure coverage is global in detail by management.
The audit and departmental skills are leveraged to committee receives a report on significant maximise efficiency.
Foradministrative issues and actions taken by management purposes, the heads of internal audit to enhance related controls.
An update alsoreport to the global head of on the status of previously raised issues corporate governance and compliance.
is provided by Internal Audit to each audit Thefunctions comply with the International committee.
If there are concerns in relation Standards for the Professional Practice to overdue issues, these will be escalated of Internal Auditing, and are subject to an to the executive risk review forum to independent Quality Assurance Review expediteresolution.
The most Internal Audit proactively reviews its recent independent QAR benchmarked practices and resources for adequacy and the functions against the July 2013 appropriateness to meet an increasingly publication by the Chartered Institute for demanding corporate governance and Internal Auditors entitled Effective Internal regulatory environment.
The audit teams Audit in the Financial Services Sector.
The comprise well-qualified, experienced results were communicated to the audit staff to ensure that the function has the committees in March 2014 and to the competence to match Investecs diverse respective regulators.
Where specific specialist review was completed and results issued skills or additional resources are required, to the audit committees in January 2015 as these are obtained from third parties.
well as to the respective regulators.
Internal Audit resources are subject to Annually, Internal Audit conducts a formal review by the respective auditcommittees.
risk assessment of the entire business from which a comprehensive risk-based audit plan is derived.
The assessment and 108 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018
