Annual financial statements Schedule A to the directors report The board may withhold payment of all or Additional information for Deadlines for exercising any part of any dividends or other monies shareholders voting rights payable in respect of Investec plcs shares from a person with a 0.25% or more Set out below is a summary of certain Votes are exercisable at a general meeting interest in nominal value of the issued provisions of Investec plcs current of Investec plc in respect of which the shares if such a person has been served Articlesof Association the Articles business being voted upon is being heard.
with a notice after failure to provide Investec and applicable English law concerning Votes may be exercised in person, by plc with information concerning interests in companies the UK Companies Act 2006. proxy, or in relation to corporate members, those shares required to be provided under This is a summary only and the relevant by corporate representatives.
The Articles the UK Companies Act 2006. provisions of the Articles or the UK provide a deadline for submission of proxy Companies Act 2006 should be consulted forms of not less than 48 hours before if further information isrequired.
the time appointed for the holding of the Voting rights meeting or adjourned meeting.
Subject to any special rights or restrictions Share capital attaching to any class of shares, at a Variation of rights general meeting, every member present in The issued share capital of Investec plc at person has, upon a show of hands, one 31 March 2018 consists of 669838695 Subject to the UK Companies Act 2006, vote and, on a poll, every member who is ordinary shares of 0.0002 each, 2754587 theArticles specify that rights attached present in person or by proxy has one vote non-redeemable, non-cumulative, to any class of shares may be varied with for each share.
In the case of joint holders non-participating preference shares of the written consent of the holders of not of a share, the vote of the senior who 0.01each, 131 447 ZAR non-redeemable, less than three-fourths in nominal value tenders a vote, whether in person or by non-cumulative, non-participating of the issued shares of that class, or with proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of preference shares of R0.001 each, the sanction of an extraordinary resolution the votes of the other joint holders and for 310722744 special converting shares of passed at a separate general meeting of this purpose seniority shall be determined 0.0002 each, the special voting share of the holders of those shares.
At every such by the order in which the names stand in 0.001, the UKDAN share of 0.001 and separate general meeting the quorum the register of members in respect of the the UK DAS share of 0.001 each class as shall be two persons or, if there is only share.
Under the UK Companies Act 2006, defined in the Articles.
one holder, that holder at least holding or members are entitled to appoint a proxy, representing by proxy at least one-third in who need not be a member of Investec nominal value of the issued shares of the Purchase of own shares plc, to exercise all or any of their rights to class calculated excluding any shares held attend and vote on their behalf at a general Subject to the provisions of the Articles, as treasury shares.
The rights conferred meeting or class meeting.
A member may the UK Companies Act 2006, the UK upon the holders of any shares shall not, appoint more than one proxy in relation to a Uncertificated Securities Regulations unless otherwise expressly provided in general meeting or class meeting, provided 2001 and every other statute for the time the rights attaching to those shares, be that each proxy is appointed to exercise being in force concerning companies and deemed to be varied by the creation or the rights attached to a different share or affecting Investec plc, the approval of issue of further shares ranking pari passu shares held by that member.
Amember shareholders as provided in the Investec with them.
Where, under the companys that is a corporation may appoint an plc Articles, and without prejudice to share incentive plan, participants are the individual to act on its behalf at a general any relevant special rights attached to beneficial owners of the shares, but not the meeting or class meeting as a corporate any class of shares, Investec plc may registered owners, the participants are not representative.
The person so authorised purchase, or may enter into a contract entitled to exercise any voting rights until shall be entitled to exercise the same under which it will or may purchase, any the shares are released to the participants.
powers on behalf of such corporation as of its own shares of any class, including Under the companys employee trust, the corporation could exercise if it were an without limitation any redeemable shares, the trustee does not vote in respect of individual member of Investec plc.
in any way and at anyprice whether at par unallocated shares.
Restrictions on voting Transfer of shares Dividends and No member shall be entitled to vote All transfers of shares may be effected by distributions either in person or by proxy at any transfer in writing in any usual or common general meeting or class meeting in form or in any other form acceptable to the Subject to the provisions of the UK respect of anyshares held by him if any directors.
The instrument of transfer shall be Companies Act 2006, Investec plc may call or other sum then payable by him in signed by or on behalf of the transferor and by ordinary resolution from time-to-time respect of that share remains unpaid.
In except in the case of fully paid shares by declare dividends not exceeding the addition, no member shall be entitled to or on behalf of the transferee.
Transfers of amount recommended by the board.
vote if he has been served with a notice shares which are in uncertificated form are The board may pay interim dividends after failure to provide Investec plc with effected by means of the CREST system.
whenever the financial position of Investec information concerning interests in those The directors may, in the case of shares in plc, inthe opinion of the board, justifies shares required to be provided under the certificated form, in their absolute discretion suchpayment.
UKCompanies Act 2006. and without assigning any reason, refuse to register any transfer of shares Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 169 Annual financial statements Schedule A to the directors report continued notbeing fully paid shares, provided that Non-redeemable, Rand-denominated such discretion may not be exercised in non-cumulative, nonnon-redeemable, such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares of that class from taking place on participating preference non-cumulative, nonan open and proper basis.
The directors shares participating perpetual may also refuse to register an allotment preference shares the The following are the rights and privileges or transfer of shares whether fully paid or which attach to the perpetual preference not in favour of more than four persons ZAR perpetual preference jointly.
If the directors refuse to register shares: shares an allotment or transfer they shall within Each perpetual preference share will rank two months after the date on which the The ZAR perpetual preference shares are as regards dividends and a repayment of letter of allotment or transfer was lodged subject to substantially similar terms and capital on the winding up of Investec plc with Investec plc send to the allottee conditions as the existing Pounds Sterling prior to the ordinary shares, the plc special or transferee a notice of the refusal.
non-redeemable, non-cumulative, converting shares, the UK DAN share, Thedirectors may decline to recognise non-participating preference shares, the UK DAS share, but pari passu with anyinstrument of transfer unless the as outlined above, save that they are the plc preference shares.
The perpetual instrument of transfer is in respect of only denominated in South African Rands.
preference shares shall confer on the one class of share and, when submitted holders, on a per perpetualpreference for registration, is accompanied by the Shares required for the shares and equal basis, the right relevant share certificates and such other onareturn of capital on the winding DLC structure evidence as the directors may reasonably up of Investec plc of an amount equal require.
Subject to the UK Companies Investec SSC UK Limited, a UK trust to the aggregate of the nominal value Act 2006 and regulations and applicable company, specially formed for the purpose and premiums in respect of perpetual CREST rules, the directors may determine of the DLC structure, holds the plc special preference shares issued, divided by that any class of shares may be held in voting share, the plc special converting thenumber of perpetual preference uncertificated form and that title to such shares, the UK DAN share and the UK DAS shares in issue shares may be transferred by means of the share.
These shares can only be transferred CREST system or that shares of any class Each perpetual preference share may to another UK trust company, in limited should cease to be so held and transferred.
confer upon the holder thereof the right circumstances.
to receive out of the profits of Investec A number of the companys employee plc which it shall determine to distribute, The plc special voting shares are specially share plans include restrictions on transfer in priority to the ordinary shares, the plc created shares so that shareholders of both of shares while the shares are subject to the special converting shares, the UK DAN Investec plc and Investec Limited effectively plans, in particular, the share incentive plan.
share and the UK DAS share, but pari vote together as a single decision-making passu with the plc preference shares, body on matters affecting shareholders of Plc preference shares the preference dividend calculated in both companies in similar ways, as set out accordance with the Articles in the Articles.
The following are the rights and privileges which attach to the plc preference shares: The holders of the perpetual preference Prior to a change of control, approval of shares shall be entitled to receive notice On a return of capital, whether or not on termination of the sharing agreement which of and be present but not to vote, a winding up but not on a redemption regulates the DLC, liquidation or insolvency eitherinperson or by proxy, at any or purchase of any shares by Investec of Investec plc, the plc special converting meeting of Investec plc, by virtue of or plc or otherwise, the plc preference shares have no voting rights, except in in respect of the perpetual preference shares will rank, pari passu inter se relation to a resolution proposing the: shares, unless either or both of the and with the most senior ranking i variation of the rights attaching to the following circumstances prevail at the date preference shares of Investec plc in shares or of the meeting: issue ifany from time-to-time and with The preference dividend or any part any other shares of Investec plc that are ii winding up, and they have no rights thereof remains in arrears and unpaid expressed to rank pari passu herewith to dividends.
The special converting as regards participation in the capital, as determined in accordance with the shares are held on trust for the and otherwise in priority to any other Articles after six months from the due Investec Limited ordinary shareholders.
class of shares of Investec plc date thereof: and or Investec plc and Investec Limited have A resolution of Investec plc is proposed Investec plc may, at its option, redeem established dividend access trust which resolution directly affects the all or any of the plc preference shares for arrangements as part of the DLC.
the time being issued and outstanding rights attached to the perpetual Investec plc has issued two dividend on the first call date or any dividend preference shares or the interests of access shares, the UK DAS share and payment date thereafter the holders thereof, or a resolution UKDAN share which enables Investec of Investec plc is proposed to wind Holders of plc preference shares will plc to pay dividends to the shareholders up or in relation to the winding up of not be entitled to attend and vote of Investec Limited.
This facility may be Investec plc or for the reduction of its at general meetings of Investec plc.
used by the board to address imbalances capital, in which event the preference Holders will be entitled to attend and in the distributable reserves of Investec plc shareholders shall be entitled to vote vote at a class meeting of holders of plc only on such resolution.
170 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Annual financial statements Schedule A to the directors report continued and Investec Limited and or to address Significant agreements: the effects of South African exchange change of control controls and or if they otherwise consider itnecessary or desirable.
The Articles of Investec plc and the Memorandum of Incorporation of Investec Limited ensure that a person cannot Appointment and make an offer for one company without replacement of directors having made an equivalent offer to the shareholders of both companies on Directors shall be no less than four and no equivalent terms.
A director is not required to hold any shares of Investec plc Pursuant to the terms of the agreements by way of qualification.
Investec plc may by establishing the DLC structure, if either special resolution increase or reduce the Investec plc or Investec Limited serves maximum or minimum number of directors.
written notice on the other at any time after either party becomes a subsidiary of the Powers of directors other party or after both Investec plc and Investec Limited become subsidiaries of a Subject to the Articles, the UK Companies third party, the agreements establishing the Act 2006, the CREST regulations and DLC structure will terminate.
every other statute for the time being in force concerning companies and affecting All of Investec plcs share plans contain Investec plc, and any directions given by provisions relating to a change of control.
ordinary or special resolution, the business Outstanding awards and options would of Investec plc will be managed by the normally vest and become exercisable board who may exercise all the powers of on a change of control and, where Investec plc.
applicable, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
The board may exercise all the powers of Investec plc to borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property, assets and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities, whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of Investec plc or of any third party.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 171
