Risk management and corporate governance Compliance Regulatory change continues to be a key existing European Union law into UK Consumer protection challenge in the financial sector with global domestic law.
The likely impact of Brexit The FCA has continued to pursue its political events adding to uncertainty as to is that UK firms will lose their ability to consumer protection objective.
Overthe the shape of financial services regulation passport into the EU from London and period this has included issuing of going forward.
will be required to establish a regulatory significant fines and performing continued platform within the EU to maintain access Global regulators remain focused on strategic reviews into areas such as: to EU financial services clients and markets.
countering market abuse with heightened product design and sales practises, A transition period to December 2020 scrutiny and regulatory attention in this provision of advice, treatment of customers is expected to be implemented prior to area, including sustained focus on the EUs who suffered unauthorised transactions and March 2019 which will provide further time strengthened Market Abuse Regime.
for firms and clients to complete their Brexit This year, global regulators have planning.
Wholesale markets continued to focus on promoting stability Brexit is not likely to have a material and resilience in financial markets, with The FCA continues a proactive and impact on the Investec group.
However, sustained emphasis on recovery and assertive approach, in identifying and the groups preparations for Brexit are well resolution plans and structural reforms to addressing risks arising from firms conduct under way and on-track to ensure that the the banking sector as well as customer and in the wholesale markets.
group is in a position to continue servicing market conduct related reforms.
This has included an increasingly intensive its clients across the EU in the event of a Investec remains focused on maintaining approach to supervisory activities and hard Brexit.
the highest levels of compliance in relation thematic reviews as well as several high Tax reporting FATCA CRS to regulatory requirements and integrity profile referrals to enforcement.
in each of our jurisdictions.
Our culture is The Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act Wholesale markets have also been the central to our compliance framework and FATCA aims to promote cross-border focus of significant regulatory reform is supported by robust policies, processes tax compliance by implementing an over the past 12 months due to the and talented professionals who ensure international standard for the automatic implementation of the MiFID II reforms in that the interests of our customers and exchange of tax information relating to the EU which came into effect in January shareholders remain at the forefront of US investors.
The provisions call on tax 2018.
These reforms represent a significant everything we do.
authorities all over the world to obtain re-write of the rules applicable to detailed account information from financial investment firms in the EU and are Year in review institutions relating to US investors and expected, over time, to drive change exchange that information automatically Conduct risk across Investec Bank plc, Investec Asset with the United States Internal Revenue Management and Investec Wealth and The FCA has continued to focus on Service on an annual basis.
advancing its three operational objectives: Channel Islands, Ireland, India, Hong securing an appropriate degree of Financial crime Kong, Luxembourg, Singapore and the protection for consumers: protecting UK have entered into intergovernmental Financial crime continues to be a regulatory and enhancing the integrity of the agreements with the USA and each focus with regulators globally encouraging UKfinancial system: and promoting has enacted local law regulation to firms to adopt a dynamic approach to the effective competition in the interest of implement FATCA.
Separately, the management of risk and to increase efforts consumers.
The FCAs aim is to ensure intergovernmental agreement between around systems and controls to combat that clients interests are at the forefront the USA and Switzerland requires Swiss both money laundering and bribery and of firms agendas and that their needs are financial institutions to report to the US tax corruption.
The FCA has stated that we placed at the heart of the firms strategy.
see financial crime as a risk to the wider Firmsarealso expected to behave economy and market integrity.
The FCA The OECD has recently taken further appropriately in the wholesale markets in Business Plan also highlights financial crime steps to improve global cross-border tax which they operate with a view to conduct and anti-money launderingas one of their compliance by releasing the Common risk considerations.
The CRS The Investec board, along with senior is a set of global standards for the Brexit management are ultimately responsible for annual exchange of financial information Investecs conduct risk strategy.
Investec by financial institutions pertaining to On 29 March 2017, the UK government has continued to focus over the period customers, to the tax authorities of the invoked Article 50 of the Treaty on the on delivering good customer outcomes jurisdictions in which those customers are European Union starting the process for and effectively managing conduct risk resident for tax purposes.
CRS took effect theUK to leave the European Union EU throughout our business.
This has included on 1 January 2016 in India, Hong Kong, on29March 2019. continued and ongoing investment in Ireland, the Channel Islands, Luxembourg Prime Minister Theresa May announced and enhancement of the conduct risk andthe UK with reporting commencing that the UK would not seek permanent framework and a sustained focus on from 2017. membership of the single market or maintaining the highest levels of regulatory Investec plc is currently compliant with the customs union after leaving the EU compliance through our businesses.
itsobligations under FATCA and CRS.
and promised to repeal the European Communities Act of 1972 and incorporate Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 109
