Corporate information Secretary and Transfer secretaries registered office Computershare Investor Services plc David Miller The Pavilions 30 Gresham Street Bridgwater Road London EC2V 7QP Bristol BS99 6ZZ United Kingdom United Kingdom Telephone 44 20 7597 4000 Telephone 44 879 702 0003 Facsimile 24 20 7597 4491 Directorate Internet address Refer to page 127. www.
com Registration number Contact details Reg.
3633621 For contact details for Investec plc offices refer to page 265.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP For queries regarding information in this document Investor relations Telephone 44 20 7597 5546 44 20 7597 4493 e-mail: investorrelations@investec.
com en gb welcome-to-investec about-us investor-relations.
html Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 1 Ongoing and statutory information In order to present a more meaningful view of Investec plcs performance, additional management information is presented on our ongoing businesses.
This additional information excludes items that in managements view could distort the comparison of performance between periods for both current and historical information.
This information is set out on pages 33 to 39.
Based on this principle, the following items have been excluded from underlying statutory profit for both current and historical information where applicable to derive ongoing operating profit: The results of the businesses sold in the 2015 financial year i. e. Investec Bank Australia Limited, Kensington Group plc and Start Mortgage Holdings Limited.
These sales had a significant effect on the comparability of the groups financial position and results The remaining legacy business as set out on page 40.
This basis of presentation is consistent with the approach adopted for the year ended 31 March 2017.
A reconciliation between the statutory and ongoing income statement is provided on pages 34 to 35.
All information in our annual report is based on our statutory accounts unless otherwise indicated.
Cross reference tools 1 2 3 4 5 Audited information Page references Website Corporate responsibility Reporting standard Denotes information in Refers readers to information Indicates that additional Refers readers to further Denotes our consideration the risk and remuneration elsewhere in this report information is available information in our corporate ofa reporting standard reports that forms part of on our website: responsibility report available the groups audited annual www.
com on our website: financial statements www.
com 2 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Contents Corporate information 1 Investec plc in perspective Overview of the Investec groups and Investec plcs organisational structure 5 Overview of the activities of Investec plc 6 Our operational footprint 8 Highlights 9 Financial review Financial review 15 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management 45 Credit ratings 107 Internal Audit 108 Compliance 109 Corporate governance 110 Shareholder analysis 155 Corporate responsibility 158 Annual financial statements Directors responsibility statement 165 Approval of annual financial statements 165 Strategic and directors report 166 Schedule A to the directors report 169 Independent auditors report to the members of Investec plc 172 Consolidated income statement 174 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 175 Consolidated balance sheet 176 Consolidated cash flow statement 177 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 178 Accounting policies 180 Notes to the annual financial statements 189 Parent company annual financial statements Balance sheet 256 Statement of changes in shareholders equity 257 Notes to the Investec plc parent company annual financial statements 258 Contact details 265 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 3 Investec plc in perspective Investec plc in perspective Overview of the Investec groups and Investec plcs organisational structure Operating structure Investec plc Investec plc which During July 2002 Investec Group Limited since renamed Investec Limited implemented houses our non-Southern a dual listed companies DLC structure and listed its offshore business on the London in perspective Stock Exchange.
African businesses, has been listed on the A circular on the establishment of our DLC structure was issued on 20 June 2002 and is available on our website.
In terms of the DLC structure, Investec Limited is the holding company of our businesses in Southern Africa and Mauritius, and Investec plc is the holding company of our non-Southern African businesses.
Investec Limited is listed on the JSE Limited South Africa andInvestec plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
All references in this report to the group relate to Investec plc, whereas references totheInvestec group relate to the combined DLC group comprising Investec plc and Investec Limited.
Our DLC structure and main operating subsidiaries as at 31 March 2018 Investec Limited Investec plc JSE primary listing LSE primary listing Sharing agreement NSX secondary listing JSE secondary listing BSE secondary listing Non-Souther n African Southern African operations operations Investec Asset Investec Investec Asset Investec Management Investec Employee Investec Management Investec Bank Property Group Holdings Securities Benefits Bank plc Limited Limited Holdings Pty Ltd Pty Ltd Holdings 83% Pty Ltd 83% Pty Ltd All shareholdings in the ordinary share capital ofthe Investec Bank Investec Wealth subsidiaries are 100%, unless otherwise stated.
Channel & Investment Islands 17% held by senior management in the company 31 March 2017: 16%.
Limited Limited Investec Investec Holdings Asset Australia Finance plc Limited Investec Bank Investec Switzerland Irish AG branch Salient features of the DLC structure Investec plc and Investec Limited are separate legal entities and listings, but are bound together by contractual agreements and mechanisms Investec operates as if it is a single unified economic enterprise Shareholders have common economic and voting interests as if Investec plc and Investec Limited were a single company Creditors, however, are ring-fenced to either Investec plc or Investec Limited as there are no cross-guarantees between the companies.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 5 Investec plc in perspective Overview of the activities of Investec plc Asset Management Established in South Africa in 1991, wehave grown to become At Investec Asset Management, we believe in a successful global investment management firm.
We continue to investing in a better tomorrow.
We want to assist develop anowner culture and are people around the globe to retire with dignity or committed tobuilding a long-term intergenerational business.
meet their financial objectives by offering specialist, Our investment team, of over 200 active investment expertise.
We are a patient, investment professionals, applies organic, long-term business offering organicallyclear investment philosophies developed investment capabilities through and processes across multiple asset classes.
Our client group is active segregated mandates or mutual funds to organised across five geographically sophisticated clients.
Our clients include some of defined units serving our clients around the globe.
These teams are the worlds largest private and public sector pension supported by our global investment funds, financial institutions, corporates, foundations, and operational structure.
central banks and intermediaries serving individual We manage 103.9 billion assets investors.
Our business is to manage our clients globally.
investments to the highest standard possible by exceeding their investment and client service expectations.
Wealth & Investment The UK operation is conducted through Investec Wealth & Investec Wealth & Investment offers its clients Investment Limited.
The other Wealth & Investment operations are comfort in its scale, international reach and depth conducted through Investec Bank of investment processes.
Switzerland, Investec Wealth & Investment Ireland, Investec Wealth & Investment Channel Islands and in Hong Kong, through Investec Capital Asia Limited.
Over 1 300 staff operate from offices located throughout the above jurisdictions, with combined funds under management of 36.9 billion.
Investec Wealth & Investment is one of the UKs leading providers of private client investment management services.
Investments and savings Pensions and retirement Financial planning Discretionary and advisory portfolio Discretionary investment management Estate planning management services for private clients for company pension and Self Invested Retirement planning Personal Pensions SIPPs Specialist investment management Bespoke advice and independent services for charities, pension schemes Advice and guidance on pension financial reviews.
Independent financial planning advice for private clients Specialist portfolio management services for international clients.
6 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Investec plc in perspective Overview of the activities of Investec plc continued Specialist Banking Our specialist teams are well positioned to provide Each business provides services for both personal and business needs specialised products and across Corporate and Institutional Banking, services to defined target Investment and Private Banking activities.
Focus on helping our clients create and A highly valued partner and adviser to our clients preserve wealth High-income and high Corporates government institutional clients net worth privateclients Corporate and Investment Private Institutional Banking activities activities Banking activities T reasury and trading services Principal investments T ransactional banking and foreign exchange Specialised lending, funds and debt capital Pr operty investment and markets fund management Lending Institutional r esearch, sales andtrading Deposits Advisory and equity capital markets Investments UK and Europe UK and Europe UK and Europe Australia Australia Hong Kong Hong Kong India USA Our Corporate and Institutional Banking division Our principal investments High tech and high touch private is a client-focused business concentrating on businesses focus on providing client offering providing day-totraditional lending and debt origination activities, capital to entrepreneurs and day banking, savings, financing as well as the provision of advisory services and management teams to allow and foreign exchange tailored to treasury and trading services that are customerthem to further their growth suit our clients needs.
Investments are Our target market includes high assessed on a case-by-case Our target market includes small, mid-sized and net worth individuals, wealthy basis, with the aim to deliver listed corporates, private equity community and entrepreneurs, high-income returns on a risk-adjusted basis.
professionals, owner managers Our property business focuses in mid-market companies and In addition we provide niche, specialist solutions in on property fundmanagement sophisticated investors.
aircraft, project and resource finance.
Natural linkages between the private client and corporate business Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 7
