IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 MARKET CONTINUED UK landscape In the UK, where IP Group is headquartered and where it has relationships giving it access to innovation from 15 leading UK universities including the universities of Oxford and Cambridge, expenditure on R&D reached a new record high in 2017.
In 2017, the business sector spent 23.7bn on performing R&D, accounting for 68% of total UK expenditure.
Expenditure on research and development performed in the UK was 34.8bn in 2017, reaching its highest level on record.
This was up from 33.2bn in 2016, an increase of 4.8%, above the long-term annual average growth since 1990 of 4.1%.
According to the Office for National Statistics, total R&D expenditure in the UK in 2017 represented 1.69% of gross domestic product GDP, up from 1.67% in 2016, remaining below the European Union EU-28 provisional estimate of 2.07%.
Competitive landscape The number of companies and organisations seeking to commercialise intellectual property, and or provide capital to spin-out companies from universities and research-intensive institutions in the UK, has increased in recent years.
Further, the Group continues to face the risk of competition in new geographies in which it seeks to operate.
When approaching new opportunities, potential funders, including the Group, will often act in a collaborative manner through syndication of investment.
However, there are also occasions when IP Group may need to participate in a competitive process to obtain an interest in a particular technology.
indd 14 12 04 2019 17:09:24 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six STRATEGIC REPORT Our competitive position IP Groups key The Group and its portfolio companies regularly compete with a range of technology, and other, businesses when differentiators seeking capital for the development of their business models.
The competition for capital, and for opportunities on occasion, can come from a wide variety of entities, including: Operations in three core geographies: specialist traditional venture capital investors: UK, US and Australasia large private institutional investors: privately managed schemes based on government Breadth of partner relationships with funding: leading research institutions, giving access private individuals, both acting individually or collectively to over 15% of the worlds Top Research as groups such as business angel networks, crowdfunding platforms or through beneficial tax mechanisms such as Business-building expertise, including SEIS, EIS and VCTs in the UK: capital sourcing, IP strategy, executive direct public funding, for example the EU level JEREMIE search, administrative support and fund and other national and local schemes: and innovative portfolio board and CEO universities and research-intensive institutions seeking to programmes raise private sector funding themselves to support their in-house technology commercialisation activities.
Permanent capital structure, enabling the IP Groups approach to building businesses is one of the ways provision of funding from cradle to in which it differentiates itself from more traditional venture maturity unconstrained by artificiality funds.
The Group actively supports the development of its of fixed life funds portfolio companies through access to early-stage businessbuilding expertise, interim executive support, technical and International shareholder and commercial networks and senior team recruitment and co-investor network development in addition to the provision of capital.
In addition, the Group provides operational, legal, business Strong track record built over 15 years and company secretarial support to its companies, with a view to minimising the most common administrative factors that can contribute to early-stage company failure.
The Group has also successfully carried out several innovative programmes to accelerate company growth, including working with CEOs and company boards to improve performance.
In the UK, the Group also considers tax-advantaged Enterprise Investment Scheme EIS funds to be an increasingly important source of financing for early-stage technology companies and has seen a strong operating performance from its new subsidiary, Parkwalk, the UKs largest EIS growth fund manager focused on university spinouts, which has strong links to leading institutional wealth managers and university partners.
