IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 PORTFOLIO REVIEW: TECHNOLOGY 2018 saw strong revenue progress, major commercial deals, and several large transactions in the Technology Partnerships portfolio.
Mark Reilly Managing Partner, Technology One particularly notable element of these transactions is the Review of the year amount of money brought in from high-quality financial and Technology strategic investors who have never before invested in an IP Group portfolio company.
Between them, the Ceres Power, 2018 saw strong revenue progress, major commercial deals, WaveOptics and Ultrahaptics transactions brought in more and several large transactions in the Technology Partnerships than 75m from high-quality first-time co-investors alongside portfolio.
circa 10m invested by IP Group.
This demonstrates the WaveOptics raised 20m from investors including growing appeal of our portfolio to a broader and deeper pool Octopus, Bosch and Goertek to further commercialise its of capital.
waveguide technology, which we believe will be one of the We were also encouraged by the revenue progress at many fundamental building blocks of a huge emerging opportunity of our top assets, several of which are showing signs of in augmented reality.
The involvement of Goertek in this progressing maturity as revenue undergoes high double-digit transaction, whose customers include Samsung, Sony or even triple-digit growth.
Examples include Ceres Power and Google, is a major endorsement for the WaveOptics and Azuri, both of which have a rapidly-growing revenue technology and will enable the company to achieve mass run rate that now exceeds 10m per annum, and others such market manufacturing scale.
as Featurespace, Perpertuum and Import.
io which have all Another of our portfolio companies targeting the virtual shown rapid recent revenue growth.
and augmented reality market, remote haptics pioneer Unfortunately, the substantial fair value uplift delivered by the Ultrahaptics, capped off a year of progress by securing above-mentioned transactions was significantly offset in the the Queens Award for Enterprise and raising 35m from year by negative movement in the price of some of our listed Mayfair Equity Partners, Hostplus and Dolby Family Ventures.
assets in very challenging stock market conditions for small Another recipient of the Queens Award, Featurespace cap technology companies.
Xeros saw a large drop in price continued its impressive revenue growth in 2018, securing as the shares reacted to slower than hoped-for commercial a place in the Sunday Times Tech Track 100, Deloitte progress, but we were also disappointed to see significant Technology Fast 50 and FT 1000 Fastest Growing Companies commercial progress at some other assets contradicted by in Europe.
Featurespace announced that it had secured a the share price.
Actual Experience, in particular, achieved new round of 25.0m growth capital immediately after the major milestones in 2018 with its first full-scale deployment year end.
The round was led by Insight Venture Partners, of a large customer from one of its channel partners, yet a New York-based global private equity firm focused on its share price reduced by 30% over the year.
We hope that high-growth investments in the technology sector, while these will prove short-term anomalies that will be rectified as MissionOG, a US-based venture capital fund with significant further progress occurs.
operational experience across the payments industry, also participated in the round as a new investor.
The funding was also supported by existing investors including IP Group plc, Highland Europe, TTV Capital, Robert Sansom and Invoke Capital.
indd 34 12 04 2019 17:09:36 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six STRATEGIC REPORT Elsewhere in the portfolio, carbon capture chemistry Cleantech company C-Capture announced a major partnership with In our Cleantech portfolio we focus on building outstanding Drax, the UKs biggest power station, to deliver a Bioenergy science-based businesses that mitigate the impacts of Carbon Capture and Storage BECCS pilot plant.
If this climate change and other environmental challenges.
project is successful, the C-Capture technology could enable The IP Group Cleantech team continues to enhance its Drax to become the worlds first carbon-negative power growing reputation in both venture and policymaking station.
Our Head of Cleantech, Dr Robert Trezona, is one Finally, we were pleased to welcome a new company to of the handful of leaders from the energy sector chosen to the Cleantech portfolio, University of Oxford spin-out and be a commissioner of the Energy Transitions Commission autonomous vehicle software pioneer Oxbotica.
org, which has been working our investment, the company was among the lead recipients for over a year to develop a roadmap for how to reduce of a 25m grant supporting the UKs first trials of self-driving carbon emissions from hard to abate sectors that must vehicle services and has already secured a strategic alliance be addressed by 2050 to avoid climate breakdown.
The with Addison Lee Group, the global ground transportation commissions report was launched by Lord Adair Turner in business, to accelerate the implementation of autonomous November and vindicates a number of technology themes vehicles on Londons streets.
we have been pursuing in the IP Group Cleantech portfolio, notably fuel cells, carbon capture and fusion.
The portfolio saw significant progress this year, most notably IP Groups Technology portfolio at Ceres Power, which received new equity investment comprises 83 companies worth totalling 74m from financial investors and Bosch and 396.9m as at 31 December 2018.
The company announced in December that it had hit major milestones with both of those two strategic partners, meaning that revenue for their current 2017 18 financial year is expected to more than double to approximately 15m, from 7m in 2016 17.
