IP GROUP ANNUAL REPOR IP GROUP ANNU T AND A AL REPOR CCOUNTT 20 S 2018 18 OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION Case study About the company History The underlying research on which Microbiotica was Microbioticas aim is to develop and commercialise its eventually formed came to IP Groups attention in 2015 understanding of the complex interactions between through our connection with Mike Romanos, a seasoned the human body and the myriad organisms it hosts - its biotech entrepreneur who had been exploring the possibility microbiome.
The microbiome is believed to play a crucial role of spinning the work of Professor Trevor Lawley out of in an individuals health, including in areas such as oncology, the Sanger Institute in Cambridge.
When Mike first started gut health, infectious diseases, and CNS disorders.
talking about the idea to Sam Williams, Lisa Patel and Craig The company has built a cell culture collection and Richardson, then IP Groups Biotech team, they immediately microbiotic genomic database that enables unprecedented recognised the potential to create a company focused levels of combined analysis and correlation between on culturing, stratifying, and understanding the human particular microbiotic strains, disease, and patient groups.
Over a series of meetings, IP Group grew Microbiotica collaborates with drug developers, most notably confident that, as leading experts in this nascent microbiome Genentech, to integrate microbiome analysis into their drug field, Lawleys group was the best placed to build a leading candidate evaluation.
At the same time, the company is business in the area, led by Romanos.
In 2016, the Group developing its own pipeline of potential therapies with a participated in an 8m seed funding round together with focus on IBD, immune-oncology, and Clostridium difficile.
Through this investment, Dr Sam Williams joined the companys board of directors and he Microbiotica has received multiple awards since its founding is currently the companys chairman.
IP Groups original intent in 2016, including Biotech and Moneys Life Science Spinin founding Microbiotica had been to build an infrastructure out of the Year 2017 and Life Sciences Company of the and bioinformatics platform that uses human samples to Year at the Cambridge Independent Awards 2018.
In 2018, understand the role of the microbiome in disease and drug the company received funding from Seventure Partners via response.
The belief was that this capability would be of the investors Health for Life Capital fund, which focuses value to the pharmaceutical industry and this was borne out on improving health by harnessing knowledge on the within 18 months of the companys formation through its deal microbiome.
with Genentech in Inflammatory Bowel Disease IBD, valued at up to $534m.
The company is now replicating its IBD efforts in oncology and other therapeutic areas.
indd 20 12 04 2019 17:09:27 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six STRATEGIC REPORT A new board was formed, with Robert Trezona joining as a non-executive director and Alan Aubrey, IP Group CEO, as the new chairman.
IP Exec, the Groups dedicated executive recruitment team, brought in turnaround specialist Steve Callaghan as interim CEO to lead the company through its transition to the new strategy, and in 2013 recruited Phil Caldwell from fuel cell competitor Intelligent Energy to be its permanent CEO.
About the company Ceres Power has become a world leader in low-cost, nextgeneration fuel cell technology.
Working with partners, Ceres develops distributed power products that reduce operating Case study costs, lower emissions, increase efficiency, and improve energy security.
Fuel cell technology has become a core component of the energy strategies of nations such as Japan, Korea, China, and the USA, as well as of major industrial players like Bosch, Cummins, and Microsoft.
With a wide range of applications, Ceres Power is positioned to take a significant share of several multi-billion-dollar markets.
History Professor Brian Steele, one of the scientific pioneers behind Following the rescue led by IP Group, the company has the Li-ion battery, subsequently spent ten years researching raised a further 123m and seen its market capitalisation materials and methods for a robust and affordable fuel cell increase from 4m to more than 200m.
IP Capital, IP for clean power generation.
The result was the application Groups specialist fund management and corporate advisory of cerium oxide onto stainless steel.
This ceria coating, unit, supported Ceres on the subsequent funding rounds, previously dismissed as too fragile to be practical, provided with IP Group leading several investments.
In 2018, Ceres the required conductivity while the steel made the fuel cell sealed major strategic collaborations with Bosch and Chinese durable.
The trick of printing ceria on steel is Ceres Powers engine and bus manufacturer Weichai Power, both of which core IP, and nearly 20 years later remains known only to also invested in the company.
The company now employs Ceres.
The core patents were filed by Imperial Innovations, over 200 staff and has announced its expansion to a second and Nigel Brandon, Steeles colleague at Imperial College site that will create a further 60 jobs.
London, joined Ceres full time to lead an initial funding round Company testimonial in 2001.
The company listed on the AIM market in 2004.
The growth we have achieved at Ceres was only possible How IP Group helped due to the strong backing from IP Group, who believe in the Following a failed field trial, Ceres suffered a significant fall in long-term value of this business.
IP Group has a philosophy its share price, reflecting the markets low confidence in the of combining strong management teams with robust science companys future.
IP Groups Head of Cleantech, Dr Robert and backing them with both funding and guidance on how Trezona, had previously worked at Ceres as a technical team to operate in the public markets.
The Groups patient capital leader and believed that the field trial result was not reflective approach has enabled Ceres to pursue a more ambitious of any fundamental issue with Ceres technology.
Based on growth plan than would have otherwise been possible.
Their this knowledge, IP Group put together a new strategy and a ability to attract strong co-investors has helped us secure 3.3m rescue funding package for Ceres.
the funding we need to realise our ambition to build a world-leading UK technology company.
Phil Caldwell, CEO of Ceres Power.
