IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 PORTFOLIO REVIEW: LIFE SCIENCES In 2018, Oxford Nanopores technology was used in real time surveillance of outbreaks of rabies, Lassa fever, yellow fever, flu, dengue, malaria, E. coli and MRSA.
Dr Sam Williams Managing Partner, Life Sciences Key 2018 highlights for Oxford Nanopore included: Review of the year Technology Oxford Nanopore PromethION launch: PromethION is Oxford Nanopores The Groups largest holding, Oxford Nanopore Technologies largest device, designed to offer multi-Tb of sequence Ltd, continues to make excellent progress with tangible data, on demand.
Dramatic performance improvements signs of it disrupting the $3.7bn DNA sequencing market.
during the year showed that a PromethION could offer The company produces a range of novel, proprietary, reala 30X human genome for less than $600, and a rapid time DNA sequencing devices, from small and portable pathway to less than $300 with larger data yields.
By formats such as MinION and Flongle to the high-throughput the end of the year, researchers were routinely using PromethION, which can deliver sub-$1,000 genomes.
Oxford PromethION to sequence human genomes at scale.
Nanopores long-term goal is to enable the analysis of any Upgrades in nanopore, algorithms for enhanced living thing, by any person, in any environment.
Where performance: The Company announced that a new sequencing has traditionally been performed in the central nanopore, R10, will come online in early 2019.
Having lab environment, the company seeks to address that central delivered Q42 accuracy internally, and with a pathway market but also open up new, distributed markets.
The to Q50 99.999%, this is expected to expand the company made significant progress in 2018, as set out in applications for which Oxford Nanopore can be used.
further detail below, and this has continued in 2019, including The company is also focused on updating its analysis the announcement in March 2019 that its new R10 nanopore algorithms and other improvements that all contribute to had been released into early access.
Oxford Nanopore also ongoing performance enhancements.
described very promising internal results with R10, including RevD, a flow cell upgrade for high yields of data: This consensus accuracy of Q50 or 99.999%.
release enabled as much as 30Gb of sequence data to Oxford Nanopore successfully completed a 100m be generated from a single GridION MinION Flow Cell, fundraising in March 2018, primarily from Asian investors, to transforming these small devices into powerful devices that support commercial expansion and continued investment in can address an even broader range of scientific questions.
It subsequently announced a $50m investment from Ultra-long reads: Oxford Nanopore technology Amgen, whose subsidiary deCODE Genetics noted that they sequences the fragment of DNA RNA that is presented have now used nanopore technology to sequence several to it, allowing very long contiguous fragments to be hundred genomes.
While Oxford Nanopore has not yet analysed.
This confers huge benefits including easier disclosed 2018 orders, it noted at the start of the year that it assembly, characterisation of repeats and structural was expecting strong growth across the world, with notable variations and phasing.
In 2018, the longest read ever contribution from China.
In the previous year, between 2016 sequenced 2.3Mb was revealed.
This is symbolic of and 2017, the Company approximately tripled its orders.
a broader desire to get consistently high N50: large numbers of long reads, enabled by Oxford Nanopores 109 kits also released in 2018.
Flongle: The adapter for MinION that allows low-cost, rapid, smaller tests, was released into an early access community in late 2018.
With hugely disruptive potential in a range of testing applications, 2019 will bring more examples of how it is being used by the scientific community.
indd 32 12 04 2019 17:09:34 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six STRATEGIC REPORT Applications Other significant portfolio company Whole human genomes: At the start of the year, Nature updates Genetics published the first complete human genome The overall performance of the rest of the Life Sciences using Oxford Nanopore sequencing.
Described as the portfolio has been poor -10.4%, largely as a result of most complete genome using a single technology to negative share price movement in the listed companies.
Most date, the consortium of researchers, from nine different notably, Diurnal Group plc suffered a setback when its drug institutions, added ultra-long reads to their assembly Chronocort did not meet the primary endpoint in a Phase 3 to double their contiguity, estimate telomere lengths, study in congenital adrenal hyperplasia CAH.
The stock and resolve complex regions including the 4Mb major closed the year down 85.5%, marking a 33.1m reduction histocompatibility complex.
in our fair value holding.
However, despite this, we and the Direct RNA: A landmark paper using nanopore company are optimistic that the drug remains approvable, sequencing for the direct analysis of RNA was published given some very positive outcomes using other measures in in Nature in 2018.
RNA analysis accounts for about a third the Phase 3 study, and that premium pricing is still possible.
of the sequencing market: this information gives scientists Diurnal is due to receive advice from the EMA in the first half an insight into how DNA information is really being of 2019 which will provide an indication of the way forward.
Oxford Nanopores technology can uniquely Assuming a positive outcome, the company anticipates analyse RNA without using an intermediary bisulfite filing a Marketing Authorisation Application MAA for sequencing, giving new biological insights including Chronocort in Q4 2019. methylation profiling.
Other poor performers in the portfolio were Circassia Towards diagnostics: Oxford Nanopores technology is 14.0m, Avacta 5.0m, Cell Medica 12.4m, OxSyBio currently for research use only, however scientists are 6.6m and Abzena which, despite being acquired for 34m exploring ways to use it in a regulated environment to by a private equity buyer, provided a -5.2m return for the provide diagnostic testing.
During the year, researchers year.
showed methods for rapid characterisation of lung infections in an acute setting, TB in remote populations, In the private Life Sciences portfolio, there were some rapid characterisation of acute myeloid leukaemia, and notable successes, including Microbiotica signing a $534m rapid testing of Huntingdons disease.
These applications deal with Genentech, Mission Therapeutics signing a are expected to progress towards clinical use in 2019. collaboration with Abbvie, and Avacta signing a $310m deal Public health: Real-time, portable sequencing is uniquely with LG Group.
From a financing perspective, a number positioned to be used in the field rather than in the lab, of our companies announced significant funding rounds for rapid insights.
In 2018, Oxford Nanopores technology including Series B financings for Crescendo Biologics was used in real time surveillance of outbreaks of rabies, headline $70m raised, Artios Pharma 65m raised and Lassa fever, yellow fever, influenza, dengue, malaria, E. coli Inivata $51.4m raised.
Plant genomes: Understanding plant genomes is IP Groups Life Sciences portfolio important for agriculture and food industries, however plant genomes are typically very large and complex: the comprises 64 companies worth abundant long read sequencing of Oxford Nanopore is 624.5m as at 31 December 2018 uniquely positioned to address this.
In 2018, researchers spoke about using nanopore to sequence many plant species, including 100 tomato genomes in 100 days.
Targeted sequencing: Oxford Nanopore has indicated that in 2019 it will expand the availability of its technology in targeted sequencing, which is used in a broad range of application areas.
For more information about the uses of nanopore technology, visit https: nanoporetech.
