IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Sir Douglas Flint Non-executive Chairman Effective date of current Experience: Formerly Group Council of Motive Partners, letter of appointment: Chairman of HSBC for 7 Chairman of the Corporate Appointed as a Non-executive years, HSBCs Group Finance Board of Cancer Research Director from 17 September Director for 15 years, NonUK, a Trustee of the Royal 2018 and as Chairman from executive Director of BP plc Marsden Cancer Charity and 1 November 2018 for 6 years.
Special Envoy to Chinas Belt Age: 63 Current external and Road Initiative.
1 2 Independent: N A appointments: Chairman of Committee memberships: Tenure: Less than 1 year Standard Life Aberdeen plc, Nomination chair and Term of office: 3 years, Chairman of the Just Finance Remuneration 3 months notice Foundation, Director of the Re-election to Board: Centre for Policy Studies, Annually at AGM sits on the Global Advisory Alan Aubrey Chief Executive Officer Effective date of current Re-election to Board: Current external 2 service agreement: Annually at AGM appointments: Non- 20January 2005 Experience: Founder of executive Chairman of Age: 57 Techtran Group, 7 years as Proactis Holdings plc Independent: No partner at KPMG, FCA 20 Committee memberships: Tenure: 14 years Years None Term of office: Permanent, 6 months notice Mike Townend Chief Investment Officer Effective date of current Re-election to Board: Current external 2 service agreement: 5March Annually at AGM appointments: None 2007 Experience: 17 years equity Committee memberships: Age: 56 capital markets experience at None Independent: No Lehman Brothers, Donaldson, Tenure: 12 years Lufkin and Jenrette.
Term of office: Permanent, 6 months notice Greg Smith Chief Financial Officer Effective date of current Re-election to Board: Current external 2 service agreement: Annually at AGM appointments: None 2June 2011 Experience: KPMG Committee memberships: Age: 40 background, ICAEW Fellow None Independent: No Tenure: 7 years Term of office: Permanent, 6 months notice 1 Sir Douglas Flint was considered by the Board to be independent on appointment.
2 Excludes appointments to Group portfolio company boards.
indd 68 16 04 2019 15:13:18 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six OUR GOVERNANCE David Baynes Chief Operating Officer Effective date of current Re-election to Board: Current external service agreement: Annually at AGM appointments: None 20March 2014 Experience: 10 years as CEO Committee memberships: Age: 55 at Fusion IP plc, previous None Independent: No experience taking companies Tenure: 5 years from start-up to full listing on Term of office: Permanent, the London Stock Exchange 6 months notice Professor David Begg Senior Independent Director Effective date of current Experience: Professor Professor at M. I. T and acting letter of appointment: of Economics at Imperial as an economic policy adviser 18October 2017 College London, Principal to the Bank of England.
Age: 68 of Imperial College Business Current external Independent: Yes School 20032011.
Previous appointments: None Tenure: 1 year appointments include Committee memberships: Term of office: 3 years, Professor of Economics at Nomination, Audit and 3 months notice Birkbeck College, Visiting Remuneration Re-election to Board: Fellow at the Reserve Bank Annually at AGM of Australia and Visiting Jonathan Brooks Non-executive Director Effective date of current Re-election to Board: Committee memberships: letter of appointment: Annually at AGM Nomination, Audit chair and 31August 2011 Experience: Formerly CFO of Remuneration chair Age: 63 ARM Holdings plc, 20 years Independent: Yes technology sector experience, Tenure: 7 years FCMA Term of office: 3 years, Current external 3 months notice appointments: NCC Group plc Dr Elaine Sullivan Non-executive Director Effective date of current Re-election to Board: Current external letter of appointment: Annually at AGM appointments: Supervisory 30July 2015 Experience: 25 years Board of Evotec AG, CEO Age: 58 pharmaceutical industry of Carrick Therapeutics UK Independent: Yes experience, senior Limited Tenure: 3 years management teams of Eli Lilly Committee memberships: Term of office: 3 years, and Astra Zeneca, currently Nomination, Audit and 3 months notice CEO of Carrick Therapeutics Remuneration Mr Heejae Chae Non-executive Director Effective date of current Experience: Current CEO and an Advisory Council letter of appointment of Scapa Group plc, Former Member at Columbia 3May 2018 Group Chief Executive University Age: 50 of Volex Group plc and Committee memberships: Independent: Yes Group General Manager for Nomination, Audit and Tenure: Less than 1 year Amphenol Corporation.
Remuneration Term of office: 3 years, Current external 3 months notice appointments: CEO of Scapa Re-election to Board: Group plc, Board of Overseers Annually at AGM at Boston Childrens Hospital 69 2018-IP Group-AR.
indd 69 16 04 2019 15:13:23 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Board continues to focus on achieving the highest standards of corporate governance and accountability alongside promoting a culture of risk identification, reporting and mitigation.
Sir Douglas Flint Chairman 2018 has been a year of consolidation for the Group with Compliance with the UK Corporate the integration of the IP Group and Touchstone businesses Governance Code following the combination of the two companies, along with The Directors are committed to a high standard of corporate a number of changes to the Board.
governance and to compliance with the best practice set The Board continues to focus on achieving the highest out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
standards of corporate governance and accountability The 2016 version of the Code is applicable to the Groups alongside promoting a culture of risk identification, 2018 reporting period.
The Directors consider that the Group reporting and mitigation.
The Board remains committed to has been and continues to be in compliance with all of the the execution of the Groups strategy and working with its provisions set out in that version of the Code.
partner institutions and co-investors to develop outstanding Further explanation as to how the main principles set out in businesses based on unique intellectual property.
In doing the Code have been applied by the Group is set out in the so, it continues to recognise the importance of a top-down following statement, the Directors Remuneration Report, the focus on corporate governance as an integral part of all of Audit and Risk Committee Report and the Strategic Report.
In July 2018, the Financial Reporting Council published the The Board is accountable to the Groups shareholders for 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code the 2018 Code and good governance and this report, together with the Reports the accompanying Guidance on Board Effectiveness.
The of the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit and Risk 2018 Code emphasises the importance of demonstrating, Committees of the Board, describes the Groups detailed through reporting, how the governance of a company approach to corporate governance and further information contributes to its long-term sustainable success and on the key developments in these areas during the year.
focuses on building strong, transparent relationships with The Board looks forward to being able to discuss these key stakeholders.
The strength of the Groups existing matters with shareholders at the Groups forthcoming AGM in corporate governance framework means it is well placed May 2019 or indeed at any other point during the year.
for the implementation of the new Code.
The Board and its Committees have already reviewed their activities, spent time Sir Douglas Flint assessing the implications for the Group, identified a number Chairman of actions required to be taken in order to comply with the 2018 Code and commenced implementing such actions, all of which will be reported on in the Groups 2019 Annual Report.
indd 70 16 04 2019 15:13:24 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six S C R E O D M L M O OUR GOVERNANCE Governance Framework BOARD NOMINATION REMUNERATION SEE PAGES SEE PAGES 85-86 90-115 AUDIT & RISK SEE PAGES Managing Company 116-120 Partners Life Secretary Sciences and Technology Chief Chief Executive Operating Chief Chief Officer Officer Financial Investment Officer Officer 71 2018-IP Group-AR.
indd 71 16 04 2019 15:13:24 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six I H T E T R E A E H S S IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Governance Framework CHAIRMAN Key Responsibilities Sir Douglas Flint is the Groups Chairman.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer is clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and conduct of the Board and its overall effectiveness in directing the Group, the conduct of the Groups affairs and strategy and for ensuring effective engagement with shareholders.
The Chairman facilitates the full and effective contribution of Non-executive Directors at Board and Committee meetings, ensures that they are kept well informed and have a clear understanding of the views of shareholders, while fostering a constructive relationship between the Executive and Non-executive Directors.
The Chairman also ensures that the membership of the Board is appropriate to the needs of the business and that the Board Committees carry out their duties, including reporting back to the Board following their meetings, either orally or in writing.
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Key Responsibilities A key responsibility of the Senior Independent Director is to be available to shareholders in the event that they may feel it inappropriate to relay views through the Chairman or Chief Executive Officer.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director provides a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary between the rest of the Board and the Chairman, where necessary, and takes the lead when the Non-executive Directors assess the Chairmans performance and consider the appointment of a new Chairman.
Further, the Senior Independent Director will lead the Board in their deliberations on any matters on which the Chairman is conflicted.
AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Key Responsibilities Key Responsibilities Key Responsibilities Oversees financial reporting Evaluates the Board of Directors Determines the policy Internal control systems for Executive Director Leads the process for Risk management systems remuneration appointments to the Board Internal and external audit Designs and sets the Succession planning for functions remuneration for the the Board and senior Chairman, Executive Directors management and senior management Oversees the implementation Reviews workforce of the Groups diversity and remuneration and related inclusion policy policies to ensure they operate to attract and retain the best talent 72 2018-IP Group-AR.
indd 72 16 04 2019 15:13:24 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six OUR GOVERNANCE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Apart from those matters reserved for the Board see page 76, day-to-day decisions are delegated to the Executive Directors who, in turn, have delegated responsibility relating to portfolio investment and realisation, to the Managing Partner, Life Sciences and Managing Partner, Technology see below.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Key Responsibilities Key Responsibilities The role of the Chief Executive Officer is to lead The Chief Financial Officer is responsible for the delivery of the strategy and the executive managing the Groups finances through financial management of the Group and its operating planning, reporting, management of financial risks businesses.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible, and the overall Groups risk framework and oversees amongst other things, for proposing, developing the Groups investor relations, HR, legal, IT and and implementing strategy and processes which communications functions.
enable the Group to meet the requirements of its shareholders, for delivering the operating plans and budgets for the Groups investment partnerships and territories, monitoring business performance against key performance indicators KPIs and reporting on these to the Board.
He also provides the appropriate environment to recruit, engage, retain and develop the high quality personnel needed to deliver the Groups strategy.
CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER Key Responsibilities Key Responsibilities The Chief Operating Officer ensures the operational The Chief Investment Officer leads both the capital controls for the business are effective, thereby markets function of the Group, which is primarily enabling the Group to grow and achieve its strategic responsible for raising funds into the Group and its objectives.
portfolio, and the Groups FCA-authorised businesses, IP Capital and Parkwalk Advisors.
MANAGING PARTNERS, LIFE SCIENCES AND TECHNOLOGY Portfolio investment and realisation decisions other than those reserved for the Board are delegated to the Managing Partner, Life Sciences and the Managing Partner, Technology, with a tiered level of decision within defined parameters being delegated further to subcommittees of the Life Sciences and Technology Partnerships, as well as to the US and Australasia teams.
indd 73 16 04 2019 15:13:24 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The Directors are responsible for promoting the long-term The Board success of the Company and thereby the Group, taking Role and responsibilities of the Board into account the interests of shareholders and other key The Board is responsible to shareholders for the stakeholders, including employees, universities and other overall management of the Group.
It seeks to support research institutions, co-investors, regulators, the European entrepreneurial behaviour in its partner institutions through Investment Fund, the European Investment Bank, the the identification of compelling intellectual property with the community and the environment.
In addition, the Directors potential to grow into robust, unique and world-changing are responsible for ensuring that obligations to shareholders business propositions.
The Board defines, challenges and and other stakeholders are understood and met: and that interrogates the Groups strategic aims and direction, as well there is a satisfactory and regular dialogue with them.
as providing entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of The responsibility of the Directors is collective, taking into controls for assessing and managing risk.
account their respective roles as Executive Directors and Non-executive Directors.
The Non-executive Directors are The Board recognises that, in discharging its responsibilities, responsible for constructively challenging and contributing it is necessary to support the maintenance and evolution to proposals on strategy, scrutinising the performance of a policy and decision-making framework in which such of management and determining levels of remuneration.
strategic aims are implemented: ensuring that the necessary The Non-executive Directors must also satisfy themselves financial and human resources are in place to meet those on the integrity of financial information and that financial aims: monitoring performance against key financial and controls and systems of risk management are robust and non-financial indicators: planning for Board and senior comprehensive.
Further details in relation to the Groups management succession: overseeing the system of risk approach to the management of its business risks, and the management: setting values and standards in governance function and ongoing roles and responsibilities of its internal matters: monitoring policies and performance on corporate Risk Council are set out on pages 44 to 47 and on pages 116 social responsibility and helping to shape and embed the to 120.
Groups purpose, values and culture.
In all of this, the Boards role in setting and maintaining the Groups culture is of key The Board reviews the purpose and strategy of the Group importance, as further described on page 62. and any issues arising from it on a regular basis and exercises control over the performance of the Group by agreeing The Directors recognise that the long-term nature of the budgetary targets and monitoring performance against those business of the Group in evolving great ideas into worldtargets.
Any decisions made by the Board on policies and changing businesses presents novel and unique challenges strategy to be adopted by the Group, or changes to current from both an operational and strategic standpoint.
In policies and strategy, are made following a Board paper supporting the Groups business and its portfolio companies, and presentations by the Executive Directors and Managing the Board acknowledges the key roles of Group functions Partners, and a detailed process of review, discussion and in the fields of executive search, capital raising, company constructive challenge by the Board as a whole.
Once made, secretarial and legal support alongside the mentoring and the Executive Directors are fully empowered to implement development of portfolio company management teams and those decisions with delegation to the Managing Partners, as the facilitation of portfolio company board strategy days.
Directors believe that the Groups approach to supporting its portfolio companies in this way is unique and serves not only to build sustainable businesses with longevity, but also to provide attractive returns for stakeholders by creating value Read about our Strategy on page 18 over the longer term.
indd 74 16 04 2019 15:13:24 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six OUR GOVERNANCE Schedule of Matters Committees and Oversight Except for a formal schedule of matters which are reserved for In addition to the Executive Directors, the Board delegates decision and approval by the Board, the Board has delegated specific responsibilities to certain Committees that assist the the day-to-day management of the Groups operations to Board in carrying out its functions and ensure independent the Executive Directors, supported closely by its senior oversight of internal control and risk management.
The schedule of matters reserved for The three principal Board Committees Audit and Risk, Board decision and approval are those significant to the Group Remuneration and Nomination play an essential role in as a whole due to their strategic, financial and or reputational supporting the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities and implications.
A summary of the schedule is set out in the box ensuring that the highest standards of corporate governance in the table on page 76 and the full schedule can be found are maintained throughout the Group.
Each Committee has within the Corporate Governance section of the Groups its own terms of reference which set out the specific matters website at www.
This schedule, which was for which delegated authority has been given by the Board.
adopted by the Board in August 2014, was reviewed in early 2018 as part of the integration of the Touchstone business.
The The current terms of reference for the Audit and Risk review gave particular attention to the effect of the increased Committee, which were updated in December 2017, are size of the combined Group on delegated investment fully compliant with the provisions of the current Code and authorities to the Life Sciences and Technology Partnerships, reflect best practice.
The terms of reference were reviewed headed by their respective Managing Partners, as well as to by the Audit and Risk Committee throughout the year and no the US and Australasia.
amendments were considered necessary in 2018.
A review of the terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee in 2018 concluded that, while compliant with the provisions of the current Code, certain amendments were desirable to reflect current best and market practice and to ensure compliance with the 2018 Code.
The terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee were updated, recommended for approval and adopted by the Board in February 2019.
The terms of reference for the Nomination Committee were adopted by the Board in May 2016.
No further updates were made during 2018.
It is intended that the terms of reference for the Nomination Committee will be further reviewed in early 2019 in the light of the 2018 Code.
Each Committee will continue to review its own terms of reference at least annually and propose any updates where necessary and or appropriate so as to reflect current best practice.
indd 75 16 04 2019 15:13:24 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Matters Approval of the Annual Report and accounts and half-year results statement, Available from the Reserved for accounting policies and procedures and any matter having a material impact on Company Secretary the Board future financial performance of the Group.
or on our corporate website Strategic acquisitions or disposals by the Group.
Major portfolio investment decisions, being those: i into the Groups strategic www.
com assets as defined by the Board from time to time : ii in excess of 10m per investment: and iii in excess of 10m over a three year period on a cumulative basis in a single portfolio company and 5m increments thereafter.
Entry by the Group into strategic partnerships and collaborations with universities and other research institutions.
Major realisations from the Groups portfolio being those: i relating to the Groups strategic assets as defined by the Board from time to time : and ii in excess of 10m.
Approval and monitoring of the Groups strategic aims and objectives.
Approval of the annual budget and any material changes to it.
Considering and, where appropriate, approving Directors conflicts of interest where permitted by the Companys Articles of Association.
Approving appointments to the Board and, subject to shareholder approval, determining and approving policies relating to Directors remuneration and any subsequent changes.
Approval of terms of reference and membership of Board committees.
Approval, subject to shareholder consent, of the appointment and remuneration of the external auditor.
Approval of all circulars, prospectuses and other documents issued to shareholders governed by the FCAs Listing Rules, Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
Changes to the Groups capital structure, the issue of any securities and material borrowing of the Group.
The division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
The introduction of new share incentive plans or major changes to existing plans.
Material borrowings by the Group.
Board The terms of reference of each Committee establish its responsibilities and are Available from the Committees available from the Company Secretary and on the Groups corporate website: Company Secretary www.
or on our corporate website www.
com The Disclosure Committee continues to assist the Group to make timely and accurate disclosure of all information that is required to be disclosed to meet its legal and regulatory obligations and requirements arising from its listing on the London Stock Exchange.
It also enables the Group to meet its obligations under the Market Abuse Regulation and takes responsibility for the assessment and control of inside information, both in respect of the Group and also its quoted portfolio companies.
indd 76 16 04 2019 15:13:25 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six OUR GOVERNANCE Board size and composition Board experience: Executive Non-executive split: Board tenure: 1 2 3 4 2 4 2 Non-executive Chairman Less than 3 years Finance Executive Directors Pharmaceutical 36 years Non-executive Directors 69 years Technology Over 9 years Equity Capital Markets FCA Economics Read our Board biographies on pages 68 and 69 Academia As at 31December 2018 and following the retirement of their appointment.
Accordingly, Sir Douglas Flint and Heejae Mike Humphrey and Professor Lynn Gladden as noted below, Chae will submit themselves for election by shareholders at there were nine Directors on the Board: the Chairman, four the Groups Annual General Meeting to be held on 28May Executive Directors and four Non-executive Directors.
In accordance with both the Code and the Groups biographies of all Directors are provided on pages 68 and 69. policy, all of the other Directors will also submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at that Annual General Meeting.
2018 saw four changes to the Board: Mike Humphrey retired from the Board with effect from close of business on The Board unanimously recommends to shareholders 31October 2018 after a lengthy period of distinguished service the appointment of Sir Douglas Flint and Heejae Chae as Non-executive Director, Senior Independent Director and as Directors of the Company: Sir Douglas Flint brings a Chairman.
Sir Douglas Flint was appointed as Non-executive wealth of highly relevant experience from his time at HSBC Director of the Group on 17September 2018 and subsequently Holdings plc and his other Non-executive Director positions.
Furthermore, Sir Douglass experience and knowledge of doing business in China and his valuable contacts in the Heejae Chae was appointed as a Non-executive Director of region are highly synergistic with the Groups future plans in the Group on 4May 2018. relation to Hong Kong and China.
Heejae Chae brings to the Professor Lynn Gladden also stepped down from the Board Board considerable experience both from the perspective of with effect from 30September 2018 after four years of a CEO of a growing business and prior experience in finance, service to the Group in order to avoid any potential conflict having spent the early part of his career at The Blackstone of interests following her appointment as Executive Chair Group and Credit Suisse First Boston.
The Board is satisfied of the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council that, having considered the other demands on their time, Sir EPSRC.
Douglas and Mr Chae have sufficient time to devote to their respective roles and to be effective members of the Board New directors may be appointed by the Board from time and the various Board Committees on which they sit.
to time, but the appointee is always subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following 77 2018-IP Group-AR.
indd 77 16 04 2019 15:13:25 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The Board also unanimously recommends to shareholders Diversity the reappointment of all of the other Directors offering The Board is committed to a culture that attracts and retains themselves for re-election, on the basis that the annual Board talented people to deliver outstanding performance and evaluation demonstrated that they are all effective Directors further enhance the success of the Group.
In that culture, of the Company and continue to display the appropriate level diversity across a range of criteria is valued.
The Board of commitment in their respective roles.
recognises that diversity, in all its forms, is key for introducing different perspectives into Board debate and decision Board observers making.
A genuinely diverse board comprises individuals with Dr Sam Williams and Mark Reilly, the Groups Managing a range of personal attributes, perspectives, skills, knowledge, Partners of Life Sciences and Technology respectively, experiences and backgrounds, as well as representing have been attending the Groups Board meetings as differences in nationality, race and gender.
The Board extended the The Boards policy is to make appointments based upon invite to these individuals as they are the two most senior merit measured against objective criteria.
In addition, the investment professionals in the business with oversight and Board agrees that diversity including gender, ethnic and accountability for the performance of a majority of the value cultural diversity along with inclusion remain key aspects of the Groups portfolio.
The Board therefore considers it is in creating an optimal board in terms of balance and important for them to have a degree of direct representation composition.
at Board meetings and to be available to report to, and respond directly to questions and challenge from, the Board In relation to gender diversity, the Nomination Committee over the assets they manage.
The Board welcomes the gave further consideration throughout the year as to whether additional diversity of viewpoints that is offered by such to set a target in relation to the number of women on the individuals, their contribution to the quality of the debate Board and in particular with reference to the Women on on key issues affecting the Group and its portfolio and Boards Report by Lord Davies issued in March 2015 and the increased engagement with employees and portfolio the most recent Hampton-Alexander Review issued in company investors afforded by their attendance.
While the Group endorses Lord Davies The attendance of observers is at all times at the Chairmans recommendations and the target of 33% women in FTSE discretion and they are required to disclose and manage 350 leadership teams contained in the Hampton-Alexander any conflicts of interest which may require the relevant Review, it does not consider it appropriate nor in its best observer to be excluded from all or part of future Board interests to set either Board or Group-wide fixed targets meetings.
The observers are able to speak and participate in at this stage and prefers instead to continue to consider all the discussions of the Board, but not vote on any decisions aspects of diversity including, but not limited to, gender required by the Board.
when assessing the overall Board composition and in making new appointments.
Notwithstanding this, following the Company Secretary resignation of Professor Lynn Gladden from the Board during the year, the Company currently has only one female Director The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for on its Board.
The Nomination Committee, while it will always ensuring that Board procedures are followed, applicable consider a balanced list of the best candidates, will focus on rules and regulations are complied with and that the Board is increasing female representation on the Board through its advised on governance and relevant regulatory matters.
All next appointment, anticipated to occur through 2019.
The Directors have access to the impartial advice and services of terms of reference of the Nomination Committee include the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary acts as a a requirement that it considers diversity including, but not key point of contact for the Chairman and has an important limited to, gender, nationality and ethnicity in evaluating role in the quality of information that flows between the the composition of the Board and in identifying suitable Executive and Non-executive Directors and in ensuring that candidates for Board appointments.
The Company Secretary supports the Chairman on performance evaluation, the induction of new directors and the continuing development of current directors to enable them to comply with their duties and effectively carry out their roles.
indd 78 16 04 2019 15:13:25 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six OUR GOVERNANCE In relation to ethnic diversity, the Nomination Committee Non-executive Directors has reviewed the final Parker Review Committee Report The Non-executive Directors provide a wide range of unique on the ethnic diversity of boards issued in October 2017 skills and experience to the Group.
By virtue of such a diverse and acknowledged the recommendation that each FTSE mix of skills and experience, the Non-executive Directors are 250 board should have a director of colour by 2024.
The and continue to be well placed to constructively challenge Company currently complies with such recommendation.
and scrutinise the performance of executive management at Similar to the approach adopted by the Committee with both Board and Committee meetings.
respect to gender diversity, the Committee does not consider it appropriate to set Board or Group-wide fixed targets at The Code sets out the circumstances that should be relevant this stage with respect to ethnic diversity and will continue to the Board in determining whether each Non-executive to consider all aspects of diversity when making further Director is independent.
The Board considers Non-executive appointments.
Director independence on an annual basis as part of each Non-executive Directors performance evaluation.
Having When Board vacancies arise, the Groups Nomination undertaken this review, and with due regard to provision B.
1.1 Committee will require the Groups in-house executive search of the Code, the Board has concluded this year that all of the function and or external search consultants as appropriate Non-executive Directors are considered to be independent to identify and present qualified people of a range of of management and free of any relationship or circumstance diverse backgrounds, gender, nationality and ethnicity to be which could materially influence or interfere with, or affect, considered for appointment.
or appear to affect, the exercise of their independent The Groups commitment to diversity and inclusion at the judgement.
senior management level is also very strong and it actively Since 2009, the Boards policy has been to prohibit personal works to increase the number of women, ethnic and other investments by the Non-executive Directors in any of the cultural diversities in leadership positions within the Group.
Groups portfolio companies, whether new or existing, and Specifically on gender, while, as stated above, the Group does including all Touchstone portfolio companies from the date not consider it appropriate nor in its best interests to set of completion of the combination in October 2017.
This Group-wide fixed targets for women in leadership positions policy remains unchanged and accordingly, none of the Nonat this stage, both the Groups Chief Executive Officer and executive Directors presenting themselves for election or reformer Chairman signed up to the 30% Club in January 2018. election at the Annual General Meeting in 2019 have holdings As a result, they committed to setting an aspirational target in any of the Groups portfolio companies.
of 30% female representation in the Groups leadership team by 2020.
In order to make meaningful progress towards this Non-executive Directors are required to obtain the formal aspirational target through 2018, the Group set up a working written approval of the Chairman before taking on any group whose mandate is to examine ways in which it may further directorial appointments and the Chairman requires be achieved and to thereafter lead action on those initiatives the approval of the Board before adding to his commitments.
In all cases, the Non-executive Directors must ensure that their external appointments do not involve excessive time The working group meets once a month with CEO Alan commitments or cause a conflict of interest.
The Board Aubrey as the accountable Executive Director.
It has already considered and approved Sir Douglas Flints role as Nontaken a number of actions and has additional proposed Executive Director and Chairman Designate of Standard Life initiatives in the pipeline for 2019 as further detailed on Aberdeen plc which took effect from 1November 2018. page 61.
A breakdown of the Groups people by gender as at 31December 2018 can be found on page 61.
indd 79 16 04 2019 15:13:26 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The schedule of Board and Committee meetings each year is, Board meetings, provision of information so far as is possible, determined before the commencement and decisions of that year and all Directors are expected to attend each The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an meeting.
Board and Committee meetings are often split ad hoc basis, as required in response to the needs of the over two days to ensure sufficient time is allocated for the Groups business.
business of the Committees and the Board and that full engagement is possible from those in attendance.
Such The Board had six scheduled Board meetings in 2018 with scheduling also seeks to enable more in-depth engagement seven Board meetings scheduled for 2019 to ensure that between the Non-executive Directors and the Executive the meeting schedule is sufficient to meet the needs of Directors and Managing Partners and other staff of the Group the business.
The requirement for additional scheduled outside of the formally scheduled meetings, primarily through meetings shall be kept under review by the Chairman and the medium of Board and Observer dinners and social drinks the Company Secretary.
In order to assist the Board in with staff around the Board meetings.
Accordingly, through gaining a deeper understanding of the breadth, stage of 2018, the Board including both Executive and Non-executive development and diversity of the Groups portfolio, the Directors and the Managing Partners met for two dinners Managing Partners for Life Sciences and Technology attend and the Non-executive Directors also met with the Groups the Board meetings as observers and present to the Board employees in July 2018 and again in December 2018 following on their respective portfolios to enable the Board to review Sir Douglas Flints appointment.
In addition, the Chairman the progress, performance and objectives for the next and the Non-executive Directors met without the presence of twelve to 18 months of each sector.
Through 2018, the Board the Executive Directors once during the year.
also received presentations on the Groups strategy in China, an update from the Parkwalk team on the performance and Not less than five business days prior to each scheduled strategy of Parkwalk the Groups EIS fund management Board meeting, every member of the Board receives detailed subsidiary that operates on an autonomous basis from the Board packs, which include an agenda based upon the rest of the Group and an update from the US team.
schedule of matters reserved for its approval along with appropriate reports and briefing papers, save in respect of The majority of Board meetings are held at the Groups meetings called on short notice or where late papers are offices in London.
To encourage further interaction with permitted to be included with the consent of the Chairman.
the Groups stakeholders, the Board also aims to have at least one of its scheduled meetings, or its annual strategy The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial day s, at either one of the Groups partner universities or Officer, Company Secretary and Managing Partners of the at a location where there is one of the Groups significant Life Sciences and Technology Partnerships work together portfolio companies or a concentration of its portfolio to ensure that the Directors receive relevant information companies.
Meetings between the Chairman and the Nonto enable them to discharge their duties and that such executive Directors, both with and without the presence of information is accurate, timely and clear.
This information the Chief Executive Officer, are also held as the need arises.
includes monthly management accounts containing an analysis of performance against budget and other forecasts, In addition to the six scheduled Board meetings in 2018, the as well as monthly reports from each of the Life Sciences Board held a one-day strategy meeting in December 2018, and Technology Partnerships.
Additional information is following Sir Douglas Flints appointment as Chairman.
The provided as appropriate or if requested.
At each meeting, strategy day provided an opportunity for all Directors, and the Board receives information, reports and presentations particularly the Non-executive Directors to reflect on the from the Chief Executive Officer, the other Executive operation of the combined Group following the combination Directors, the Managing Partners of the Life Sciences and with Touchstone: to discuss in detail the current strategy of Technology sectors and, by invitation, other members of the combined Group and whether it is on course or whether senior management.
This ensures that all Directors are action or changes are required in the short to medium aware of, and are in a position to monitor effectively, the term to bring the Group to a more sustainable position: overall performance of the Group, its development and to discuss medium and longer term strategic objectives, implementation of strategy, and its management of risk.
and the key drivers underpinning these: and to review the combined Groups risk framework and risk appetite, including Any matter requiring a decision by the Board is considering the major risks facing the combined Group and supported by a paper analysing the relevant aspects its strategy and how to assess, manage, mitigate and or of the proposal including costs, benefits, potential risks monitor these risks.
involved and proposed executive management action and recommendation.
indd 80 16 04 2019 15:13:26 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six OUR GOVERNANCE Board and committee attendance The following table shows the attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board, Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees during the year: Scheduled Board Meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee 1 Mike Humphrey 2, 7 Sir Douglas Flint 3 Alan Aubrey 3 Mike Townend Greg Smith David Baynes Jonathan Brooks 4 Prof. Lynn Gladden Dr Elaine Sullivan 5 Prof. David Begg 6 Heejae Chae 1 Mike Humphrey did not attend the December 2018 Board meeting as this occurred following his retirement.
Mike Humphrey attended the Audit and Risk Committee as an observer.
2 Appointed to the Board on 17September 2018.
3 Including one Board meeting attendance by telephone.
4 Resigned from the Board on 30September 2018.
5 David Begg was unable to attend the Audit and Risk Committee on 16March 2018 as he had a prior binding commitment which had been booked in advance of his appointment to the Board in October 2017.
6 Appointed to the Board on 3May 2018.
7 Attended the Audit and Risk Committee as on observer only.
Attended Did not attend 81 2018-IP Group-AR.
indd 81 16 04 2019 15:13:30 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Directors conflicts of interest Board support Each director has a statutory duty under the Companies There is an agreed procedure for directors to take Act 2006 the CA 2006 to avoid a situation in which independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
he or she has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, conflicts or may potentially conflict with the interests of the directors have been granted an indemnity issued by the Company.
This duty is in addition to the continuing duty that Company to the extent permitted by law in respect of a director owes to the Company to disclose to the Board liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
The indemnity any transaction or arrangement under consideration by the would not provide any coverage where a director is proved Company in which he or she is interested.
The Companys to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
A copy of the Articles of Association permit the Board to authorise indemnity is available for inspection as required by the CA conflicts or potential conflicts of interest.
The Company has also arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against its directors and The Board has established procedures for managing and, officers.
where appropriate, authorising any such conflicts or potential conflicts of interest.
It is a recurring agenda item at all Board Induction, awareness and development meetings and this gives the directors the opportunity to A comprehensive induction process is in place for new raise at the beginning of every Board meeting any actual directors.
The programme is tailored to the needs of each or potential conflict of interests that they may have on the individual director and agreed with him or her in advance matters to be discussed, or to update the Board on any and monitored throughout the process to ensure that he or change to a previous conflict of interest already declared.
she can gain a better understanding of the Group and its In deciding whether to authorise any conflict, the directors businesses.
must have regard to their general duties under the CA 2006 This process includes an overview of the Group and and their overriding obligation to act in a way they consider, its businesses, structure, functions, strategic aims, risk in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys management framework and remuneration policies: success.
In addition, the directors are able to impose limits training on key legal matters relevant to the Group and or conditions when giving authorisation to a conflict or its policies: site visits to a number of the Groups portfolio potential conflict of interest if they think this is appropriate.
companies, including, where possible, at least one or more The authorisation of any conflict matter, and the terms of any within the Groups top ten holdings by value, which will authorisation, may be reviewed by the Board at any time.
The include meeting with such companies management and a Board believes that the procedures established to deal with presentation from them on their businesses.
In addition, the conflicts of interest are operating effectively.
Company facilitates sessions as appropriate with the Groups The Boards policy permits personal investments by the advisers, as well as with appropriate external governance Executive Directors in the Groups portfolio companies specialists, to ensure that any new directors are fully aware but this is strictly controlled by the Groups internal policy of and understand their responsibilities and obligations as a Holdings in IP Group portfolio companies by directors director of a FTSE 250 company and of the governance and and staff.
Amongst other restrictions, the policy includes legislative framework within which they must operate.
maximum levels of investment by directors and staff in The content of the induction process is regularly re-evaluated portfolio company financing rounds.
Furthermore, the by the Board to ensure it remains tailored to the needs Boards conflict of interest policies detailed above ensure all of the business of the Group and the specific profile of interests of Executive Directors in portfolio companies are any incoming candidate.
Following the completion of an fully disclosed and regulate any potential conflicts that could induction process for a new director, the Company Secretary arise.
will seek feedback from the relevant incoming director to assist with this refreshing of induction processes.
indd 82 16 04 2019 15:13:30 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six OUR GOVERNANCE Induction programmes were completed in 2018 for both through presentations at Board meetings by relevant Heejae Chae and Sir Douglas Flint following their respective members of the Groups staff.
In 2019, it is intended that appointments to the Board.
The induction programme further presentations will be provided on a rolling basis by covered: members of the Life Sciences and Technology Partnerships, the US team, the Australasian team and the China team, as meetings with the Chief Financial Officer and Company well as on the Groups sourcing strategy in order to continue Secretary to discuss the Groups corporate structure, risk to update the Board on progress and to enhance the management framework, an overview on the Groups awareness of the Board as to how the Group operates on a remuneration schemes, policy and approach, the Groups day-to-day basis.
share dealing code and the Groups compliance with the Market Abuse Regulation: As a further aspect of their ongoing development, each director also receives feedback on his or her performance meetings with the Groups sponsor, Numis Securities following the Boards performance evaluation in each year Limited, regarding the various obligations of the Listing and the Chairman reviews and agrees with each director their Rules and Market Abuse Regulation: training and development needs for the year ahead.
Access meetings with each of Numis Securities Limited and to training and development opportunities, including those Berenberg in their capacity as the Groups joint brokers: relevant to the Non-executive Directors membership on meetings with KMPG, the Groups auditors to discuss the the Boards Committees, is facilitated through the Company Groups accounts and audit process: Secretary.
Details relating to the assessment of the Boards meetings with the Managing Partners of the Life Sciences performance are set out below.
and Technology divisions to discuss their respective Board effectiveness and performance portfolios in detail: an update on the current developments in the corporate evaluation governance environment and the new Corporate In line with best practice under the Code a performance Governance Code 2018 delivered by Pinsent Masons, the evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual Groups external lawyers: and directors is conducted annually to ensure that Board performance continues to be effective, that each of the site visits to several key portfolio companies.
directors demonstrates commitment to his or her respective As Chairman, Sir Douglas had an extended induction role and has sufficient time to meet their commitment to the programme which covered, in addition to the above: Group.
Further, the Code requires FTSE 350 companies to meetings with major institutional shareholders: have an externally facilitated evaluation at least every three years.
one-to-one meetings with the Senior Independent Director and Jonathan Brooks as chair of the Audit and The Board undertook an externally facilitated review in Remuneration Committees: and January February 2016 for the year ended 31December in addition to the managing partners, meetings with 2015.
Three years later, during January 2019, the Company additional Group employees.
Secretary worked with PwC to conduct a limited scope, externally facilitated, evaluation of the Board and its On an ongoing basis for all Directors, the Company Secretary Committees in respect of the year to 31December 2018.
PwC arranges for an external governance specialist to attend one has no connection to the Group other than the provision Board meeting annually to present on the key corporate of ad hoc advice to the Audit and Risk Committee and the governance changes over the previous twelve months undertaking of the Groups outsourced internal risk audit and and to signpost expected developments going forwards.
review In addition, the Board is kept updated on key legislative changes affecting the Group and how the Group is ensuring The previous two externally facilitated Board effectiveness its compliance.
reviews, which have been undertaken by Deloitte LLP involved an in-depth questionnaire completed by all Directors The Chairman and Non-executive Directors are encouraged and one to one interviews between the external facilitator to continue to visit a number of the Groups portfolio and each of the Directors and the Company Secretary.
companies and its partner universities, as well as to attend Given the significant changes to the Board which took place portfolio company events both at the Groups head office during 2018, including, in particular, the appointment of Sir and off-site.
Throughout 2019, it is anticipated that at least Douglas Flint, it was concluded that the external evaluation one of the Groups Board meetings or its strategy day s in January 2019 should be more limited in scope, with a more will be held off-site and that this will include an opportunity detailed in-depth external review to be scheduled later in for the Non-executive Directors to meet with and hear 2019 or early 2020 when both Sir Douglas and Heejae Chae presentations from management teams of local Group would be able to contribute more fully, based on their longer portfolio companies.
In addition, the Board is also exposed to experience of the Boards meetings and processes.
the early-stage opportunities in which the Group has invested 83 2018-IP Group-AR.
indd 83 16 04 2019 15:13:30 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The January 2019 review comprised the distribution by PwC the enhancement in the holding to account of the of a tailored questionnaire to each of the Directors for them Managing Partners of each of the Life Sciences and to complete, but without on this occasion the accompanying Technology Partnership, enabled by the attendance one-to-one meetings between the external facilitator and of both Managing Partners at Board meetings and the the Directors.
The anonymity of all respondents was ensured presentation by each at such Board meetings on the throughout the process in order to encourage an open and material developments within each their respective frank exchange of views.
The results were collated into a portfolios, performance against budget and their report by PwC and shared with the Board at its meeting in respective Partnership strategy: and February 2019.
Following a robust discussion, and in addition the enhanced exposure to the heads of the other to the second, in-depth, review planned for later in 2019 significant business units within the Group through or early 2020, certain actions were identified to be taken interactive presentations throughout the year at Board forward as follows: meetings.
the Board, led by the Chair, is to fully consider and agree Overall, it was concluded that the Board continues to work upon its objectives for the next twelve months as a Board effectively, with demonstrable improvements being identified which is newly operating together: from the implementation of the findings of the previous the Nomination Committee is to undertake a review of years review.
the current Board composition and identify whether i Director performance assessment any changes should be made to its size and balance in order to provide greater effectiveness: ii the extent to and review which it would benefit from greater diversity including, The performance of each of the Non-executive Directors is but not limited to, gender and with a focus on increasing reviewed by the Chairman with support from the Company female representation on the Board in the first instance Secretary, the performance of the Chief Executive Officer is given the current status: and iii any priorities from a reviewed by the Chairman and the operational performance Board succession planning perspective: and to thereafter of the other Executive Directors is reviewed by the Chief work to put together a plan with input from the Head of Executive Officer as part of the annual appraisal process.
In HR, the Company Secretary and the Executive Directors addition to those reviews, the performance of the Executive and Managing Partners as appropriate to achieve any Directors is reviewed by the Board on an ongoing basis.
desired changes which should be linked to the succession plan for the Board and senior management: Director rotation and independence in addition to the above, further work is to be undertaken The Nomination Committee and the Company Secretary have by the Nomination Committee and the Board as a agreed a standardised rotation schedule for each of the Nonwhole to review the Groups succession plan for senior executive Directors including the Chairman, with each being management to ensure that programmes are in place to appointed for an initial three year term pursuant to the terms enable individuals from diverse backgrounds and across of their respective letters of appointment: such initial three both genders to move through to senior management year team is then subject to renewal for subsequent three positions in the future: and year term s and, other than the Chairman, to a maximum of the Company Secretary is to work with the Chairman to three rolling three year terms in order to maintain his or her identify any specific training needs of the Board and its independence from a governance perspective in accordance individual members over the next twelve months and to with the Code.
There is currently no maximum term on the facilitate sessions around Board meetings and or facilitate Chairmans appointment, but the Nomination Committee has access to external training sessions, as appropriate.
agreed to revisit this in light of the implementation of the 2018 Code.
Finally, the Board considered the implementation of some of the findings of the 2017 2018 review and noted the following: Committees of the Board the improved quality and detail of the reporting on the The composition of the three Committees of the Board and Life Sciences and Technology portfolio companies within the attendance of the members throughout the year is set each of the separate Life Sciences and Technology out in the table on page 81.
Partnership reports provided as part of the Board papers: 84 2018-IP Group-AR.
indd 84 16 04 2019 15:13:30 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six OUR GOVERNANCE The search process for an additional Non-executive Director Remuneration and Audit and Risk was first commenced in 2016 but was put on hold during Committees 2017 pending the completion of the combination with Touchstone Innovations.
The search recommenced in early Separate reports on the role, composition, responsibilities 2018 and following a shortlist of candidates and one-on-one and operation of the Remuneration Committee and the Audit interviews with the Chairman and Directors, Heejae Chae was and Risk Committee are set out on pages 90 to 115 and pages duly appointed in May 2018.
Following Mike Humphreys indication in May 2018 that he Nomination Committee wished to retire from the Board for personal reasons, the The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board Nomination Committee initiated a search process to find a appointments and the re-election and succession of replacement Chair.
Ahead of commencing the search and in directors and the Chairman.
Its key objective is to ensure order to enable the job specification to be framed accurately, that the Board comprises individuals with the necessary Stuart Thompson, Director of IP Exec, the Groups in-house skills, knowledge and experience to ensure that the Board is executive search function, conducted a skills analysis on effective in discharging its duties.
the Boards composition in order to identify what skills, experience and attributes would be required for a new Chair.
It is responsible for making recommendations to the Board This analysis considered in detail the current balance, skills, concerning the composition and skills of the Board including knowledge, diversity and experience of the Board, as well as any changes considered necessary in the identification the future challenges facing the business.
Mr Thompson also and nomination of new directors, the reappointment of conducted one-to-one interviews with each of the Directors existing directors and the appointment of members to both Executive and Non-executive in order to determine the Boards Committees.
It also assesses the roles of the their views on the composition of the Board.
existing directors in office to ensure there continues to be a balanced Board in terms of skills, knowledge, experience and The conclusions of Mr Thompsons analysis were reviewed diversity.
Additionally, the Nomination Committee reviews by the Nomination Committee, following which a detailed the senior leadership needs of the Group which will enable it job specification was prepared.
Mr Thompson worked with to compete effectively in the marketplace.
The Nomination Professor David Begg, the Senior Independent Director, to Committee also advises the Board on succession planning identify an independent search firm to conduct a thorough for Executive Director appointments although the Board as a review of candidates in the market.
External search firm whole is responsible for succession generally.
Spencer Stuart was appointed and it produced a shortlist of candidates.
Spencer Stuart is an international executive The Committee is chaired by Sir Douglas Flint.
Its other search consultancy firm and has no other connection members, as at 31December 2018, were Jonathan Brooks, with the Group.
Interviews were then conducted by the Professor David Begg, Heejae Chae and Dr Elaine Sullivan, Non-executive Directors and, following meetings with the ensuring a majority of independent Non-executive Directors Chief Executive Officer and other Executive Directors, the as prescribed by the Code.
To ensure compliance with the Nomination Committee recommended the appointment of provisions of the Code, the independence of the Committee Sir Douglas Flint to the Board.
The Board approved such and to avoid any potential conflicts of interest, Mike appointment, with Sir Douglas being appointed as NonHumphrey did not chair any meetings of the Committee executive Director and chairman elect on 17September dealing with the appointment of Sir Douglas Flint as his 2018 before taking on the role of Non-executive Chair on successor.
The Nomination Committee meets as and when required, or as requested by the Board, and had three scheduled meetings and three ad hoc meetings or calls during 2018.
During the year, the Nomination Committee recommended to the Board the appointment of Sir Douglas Flint as a Nonexecutive Director and Non-executive Chairman and the appointment of Heejae Chae as a Non-executive Director.
The attendance by each member of the Committee at the meetings during 2018 is set out on page 81.
indd 85 16 04 2019 15:13:30 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Following Sir Douglass appointment, and under his guidance, In addition, the Nomination Committee, together with the the previously conducted Board analysis was updated with Groups Head of HR, is responsible for developing and Sir Douglass knowledge and experience so that it could be monitoring the Groups own internal talent pipeline.
While it used to define the profile of a new Non-executive Director is the opinion of the Nomination Committee that adequate to replace Professor Lynn Gladden.
Following the approach systems and procedures are already in place to ensure adopted by the Board in appointing previous Non-executive the development of the Groups employees at all levels of Directors, Mr Thompson was appointed to run the search and the organisation, the Committee along with the Executive recruitment process on behalf of the Nomination Committee Directors will continue to oversee further enhancement so as to capitalise on the in-depth skill, knowledge and of such talent management systems and procedures for experience of IP Exec in recruiting Non-executive Directors employees during 2019, with support from the Groups Head with expertise relevant to the Groups business.
The analysis of HR and her team, along with the members of the 30% performed by the Nomination Committee enabled Mr Club working group.
Thompson to draft a specification and to thereafter compile Internal control a diverse list of candidates from his extensive executive search network.
This list is currently being considered by the The Board fully recognises the importance of the Financial Nomination Committee.
Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
The In addition to an additional Non-executive Director to replace Groups internal controls, which are Group-wide and were in Professor Gladden on the Board, it is anticipated that the place during the whole of 2018, were reviewed by the Board Board composition will be reviewed once more during 2019 and were considered to be effective throughout the year and that an additional Non-executive Director role will be ended 31December 2018. identified with the necessary qualifications and experience to be a future candidate for the chair of the Audit Committee.
The Board is responsible for establishing and monitoring internal control systems and for reviewing the effectiveness In making future appointments to the Board, the Committee of these systems.
The Board views the effective operation of will continue to adopt a formal, rigorous and transparent a rigorous system of internal control as critical to the success procedure.
It will give full consideration to the balance, skills, of the Group.
However, it recognises that such systems can knowledge, independence and diversity including gender, provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against ethnicity and personal attributes on the Board, as well as material misstatement or loss.
The key elements of the the future challenges facing the business.
In addition, the Groups internal control system, all of which have been in Committee will always assess whether identified candidates place during the financial year and up to the date of approval have enough time available to devote to the role and meet of these financial statements, are as follows: what is expected of them effectively.
Control environment and procedures Succession Planning The Group has a clear organisational structure with defined The Nomination Committee recognises that putting in place responsibilities and accountabilities.
It adopts the highest a robust succession planning framework is a key factor in values surrounding quality, integrity and ethics, and ensuring the ongoing, long-term success of the business these values are documented and communicated clearly of the Group: in mitigating the risk of any unforeseen throughout the whole organisation.
circumstances: and in ensuring that changes in Board or senior executive positions are effectively managed and do Detailed written policies and procedures have been not cause significant disruption to the Group.
At the same established covering key operating and compliance risk time, developing internal talent at all levels within the Group areas.
These are reviewed and updated at least annually by remains a continuous process.
The Nomination Committee is the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Board considers that the responsible for ensuring that suitable leadership and talent controls have been effective for the year ended 31December development plans and processes are in place to maximise 2018. the potential of the Groups employees and that the Group has effective recruitment policies to continue to attract and retain talented employees.
During 2018, the Groups Head of HR continued to work with the Nomination Committee to further advance the Groups approach to succession planning and update the formalised plan to reflect the Board and senior management structure of the combined Group following the Touchstone Innovations combination.
indd 86 16 04 2019 15:13:30 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six OUR GOVERNANCE Identification and evaluation of principal risks and uncertainties Shareholders The operations of the Group and the implementation of Employees Regulators its objectives and strategy are subject to a number of key risks and uncertainties.
The Board actively identifies and evaluates the risks inherent in the business, formally reviews these on at least an annual basis or as market or business The wider Co-investors developments require and ensures that appropriate IP Group community controls and procedures are in place to monitor and, where possible, mitigate these risks.
Specifically, all decisions relating to strategic partnerships and other collaborations The European and strategic acquisitions and disposals entered into by the Universities and Investment Fund Group are reserved for the Boards review and approval.
other research and the European institutions The Board formally reviews the performance of the Groups Investment Bank Portfolio university partnerships and other strategic collaborations Companies and relationships.
In order to ensure the effective facilitation of this review the Board receives each year a formal presentation and update from the Groups Managing Director, Shareholders New Business and Partnerships Team, alongside regular The Company is committed to a continuous dialogue with reporting within Board papers on a rolling agenda basis.
shareholders as it believes that it is essential to ensure The Board also reviews equity investments on a quarterly amongst its shareholders a greater understanding of, basis, although performance of specific investments may be and confidence in, the short, medium and longer-term reviewed more frequently, if deemed appropriate, dependent strategy of the Group and in the Boards ability to oversee on their relative size as regards the aggregate portfolio as its implementation.
It is the responsibility of the Board as a whole.
The Managing Partners attend Board meetings as a whole to ensure that a satisfactory dialogue takes place.
observers and present updates on their respective portfolios The Boards primary shareholder contact is through the during each Board meeting.
Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Investment Officer, the Chief Operating Officer and the Chief Financial The Board maintains an up-to-date Register of Risks setting Officer.
The Boards primary contact with the limited partners out mitigations in place in each case.
The key risks and and advisory boards of its managed funds is through the uncertainties faced by the Group, as well as the relevant Chief Investment Officer, Chief Operating Officer and the mitigations, are set out on pages 44 to 55.
If more than one Chief Executive Officer.
In addition, the Senior Independent of the risks occurred together, the overall impact on the Director and other Directors make themselves available, Group may be compounded.
as appropriate, for contact with major shareholders and Information and financial reporting other stakeholders in order to understand their issues and concerns.
Where considered appropriate, major institutional systems shareholders are consulted on significant changes to The Group evaluates and manages significant risks associated the Board and the structure of the Executive Directors with the process for preparing consolidated accounts by remuneration.
In particular, major institutional shareholders having in place systems and controls that ensure adequate were consulted in advance of the appointment of Sir accounting records are maintained and transactions are Douglas Flint as Chairman and were invited to express their recorded accurately and fairly to permit the preparation of views prior to such appointment.
The decision to appoint financial statements in accordance with IFRS.
The Board Sir Douglas was finalised following the support received approves the annual operating budgets and receives details from the Companys major shareholders.
Furthermore, the of actual performance measured against the budget each Executive Directors have a number of more general update month.
meetings with the Groups major institutional shareholders throughout the year, to discuss both the Group and also Relations with stakeholders any significant co-invest portfolio companies.
As part of Successful relationships with stakeholders are key to the his induction process, Sir Douglas Flint met certain of the long-term success of the Group.
Stakeholder engagement Groups major institutional shareholders.
These meetings enables the Board to be aware of key issues that matter most gave the opportunity for the new Chairman to understand to stakeholders which in turn allows the Board to understand such shareholders views and interests.
and consider these issues in its decision-making process.
The Group considers that the following are its key stakeholders: 87 2018-IP Group-AR.
