OUR GOVERNANCE Risk and internal controls GDPR The key elements of the Groups internal control framework The Group aims to ensure compliance with the General Data and procedures are set out on page 44.
Protection Regulation that came into effect in May 2018.
The Committee reviewed the impact assessment carried out by The principal risks the Group faces are set out on pages 46 management in 2017 and has reviewed the implementation to 55.
During the year, the Audit Committee devoted part of of new policies and procedures during 2018.
In addition, each meeting to items concerning risk and its management.
the Committee received a level of assurance from Bristows With a growing US platform and portfolio, the expansion LLP, which was instructed to provide advice to the Group in in Australasia and Hong Kong, and the integration of connection with GDPR, that we had taken significant steps Touchstone Innovations, the Committee felt that operational and activities towards a good level of compliance with GDPR.
issues associated with scaling and integrating the businesses had maintained their relevance.
In the context of Brexit and Internal audit increased financial market volatility, risks associated with The Committee considers the need to have its own separate portfolio company returns and access to capital had again internal audit function annually and historically considered come into sharper focus.
that it was not necessary principally due to the size of the One important element of the Groups risk management Group where close control over operations was exercised by framework is the Risk Council whose permanent members a small number of executives.
During 2018, the Committee are the Chief Financial Officer, Company Secretary and Group concluded that the Group was now of sufficient scale and Financial Controller, with other executives and management complexity to warrant a separate internal audit function.
from across the business attending periodically during the The Committee determined that an outsourced internal audit year as necessary.
The purpose of the Risk Council is to function would be more efficient and cost-effective than coordinate the review and oversight for the governance, risk staffing an internal team, will provide access to a greater and controls at IP Group prior to reporting to the ARC and depth of expertise covering a broad range of risks and will Board.
The Risk Council met six times during the year and be scalable allowing the Group to increase resource as and reported to the Committee at each meeting.
The Committee recommended to the Board that for 2019, it transitions to an outsourced internal audit Whistleblowing policy function and an appointment for PwC to act as the internal There is a formal whistleblowing policy which has been audit service provider was made in October 2018.
This policy provides PwC team continues to provide risk advisory services to the information on the process to follow in the event that any Group.
employee feels it is appropriate to make a disclosure.
The External audit Audit Committee is satisfied that the policy provides an adequate basis for employees to make representations The effectiveness of the external audit process is dependent in confidence to the Group and for appropriate and on appropriate risk identification.
In December, the proportionate investigations.
Committee discussed the auditors plan for the 2018 yearend audit.
This included a summary of the proposed audit Cyber security scope and a summary of what the auditor considered to be the most significant financial reporting risks facing the Group The Group has continued its focus on cyber security, with together with the auditors proposed audit approach to these regular updates to the Committee on the steps being taken significant risk areas.
The main areas of audit focus for the by the Group to seek to mitigate cyber risks.
The Group year were the valuation of unquoted investments, particularly completed the process for UK Cyber Essentials accreditation Oxford Nanopore Technologies Limited, given the proportion in early 2019.
As in prior years, employee awareness and that this company represents of the Groups overall Hard training on cyber security was rolled out group-wide in NAV, and the carrying value of goodwill.
In addition, the November 2018. auditor considered the approach taken by the Group in identifying and planning for Brexit-related risks.
indd 119 16 04 2019 15:13:39 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 REPORT OF THE AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE CONTINUED Appointment and independence Auditor independence The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment A formal statement of independence is received from the of the external auditor and on its remuneration both for auditor each year and the Board and the Audit & Risk audit and non-audit work and discusses the nature, scope Committee are satisfied that the independence of the auditor and results of the audit with the external auditor.
Committee keeps under review the cost-effectiveness and Auditor effectiveness the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
Controls in place to ensure this include monitoring the In order to assess the effectiveness of the external audit independence and effectiveness of the audit, implementing process, the Committee asked detailed questions of key a policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply members of management and each Committee member non-audit services, and a review of the scope of the audit individually via a survey, the results of which were collated and fee and performance of the external auditor.
and reviewed by myself and the CFO.
These results were reviewed in conjunction with KPMGs reports to the Mandatory audit firm rotation is required after 20 years and Committee.
The Committee concurred with managements a re-tender must be conducted at least every ten years.
view that there had been appropriate focus and challenge of The Code requires disclosure of the length of tenure of the the primary areas of audit risk and the Committee concluded current audit firm and when a tender was last conducted, that the substantive and detailed approach taken by the as well as advance notice of any re-tendering plans.
KPMG auditor, Jon Mills of KPMG, was entirely appropriate and LLP have acted as the auditor to the Company since 2014 effective.
As in the previous year, the vast majority of the and the lead audit partner rotates every five years to assure Groups assets were reviewed as part of the audit, and once independence.
The Committee undertook a comprehensive again there was particular emphasis on the valuation of tender process in 2014 for the audit in relation to the year unquoted investments.
KPMG utilised specialist corporate ended 31December 2014 and has no plans to re-tender the finance staff to support its audit work on selected portfolio audit at the present time.
valuation and the impairment review of goodwill and, overall, the auditors risk-based approach drew on both his Non-audit work knowledge of the business and the wider economic and The Audit Committee approves all fees paid to the auditor business environment.
In 2018 the Groups auditor, KPMG LLP once again carried out very limited non-audit engagement I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about covering the review of the Groups historic gross investment the Committees work.
track record and certain compliance reporting for the Groups Jonathan Brooks debt facilities with the EIB.
Given the natural overlap between Chairman of the Remuneration Committee this work and the financial audit of the Groups results, the Committee judged KPMG the most effective party to perform 25March 2019 this work.
In other matters, the Committee prefers to engage other firms to perform consulting engagements to ensure that the independence of the auditor is not compromised and during 2018 engaged the services of BDO tax, PwC risk and governance, Deloitte valuations and Duff & Phelps Valuations.
An analysis of audit and non-audit fees paid to KPMG is provided in note 6 to the financial statements on page 152.
