S R A E EXIT OPPORTUNITIES Y 3 - 0 3 - 1 5 IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 BUSINESS MODEL Evolving great ideas into world-changing businesses.
The Group pioneered the concept of the long-term partnership model with UK universities and has spent many years honing a unique approach to building businesses and providing support along the journey from cradle to maturity.
Our key resources Intellectual Capital Employees Relationships Our knowledge, expertise We help raise capital to Our employees enable us We work closely with and experience provides us back, build and develop our to identify, back, build and university partners to with a strong understanding portfolio companies support businesses that identify promising research of our industry and our have a positive impact on as well as with our capital portfolio the world partners to help finance our portfolio companies Our key activities SELECTION Potential IP Groups specialists work closely with our university Opportunity partners to identify promising research and to create and build businesses around this research.
Working with technology transfer teams and academics, we assess initial disclosures for their potential commercial viability alongside possible exploitation pathways.
INCUBATION Typically a company will be set up and owned by the academic team, the university and any other founders.
IP will be transferred in and an initial investment made with IP Group represented on the board and typically taking a very hands-on approach.
Time and a limited level of capital are then deployed by IP Group, often alongside soft grant funding, to develop the ideas to early commercial and technical validation using stringent milestones.
SEED As incubation opportunities show signs of traction, an investment case is made for seed funding to accelerate technical and commercial developments.
Engagement with potential customers is sought and feedback used to direct effort.
As milestones are met, further investment is released while commercial and technical teams are expanded.
Y SCALE-UP AND ACTIVE MANAGEMENT As companies mature, IP Group pro-actively sources co-investment, often through our IP Capital corporate finance function or alongside our EIS-specialist fund EXIT manager, Parkwalk Advisors.
We continue to take an OPPORTUNITIES active role in company development, commonly through continued board presence, to help grow the value of the company over time.
Resources and capital are focused on those opportunities that are considered to represent the most attractive opportunities from a risk reward perspective.
The Group continues to offer support and can help inform discussions around strategic direction, including licensing, industrial partnering and M&A, as well as exit strategies, whether trade sale or IPO.
indd 16 12 04 2019 17:09:25 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six MATURE BUSINESS EXITING E A R S T N E M T EXIT OPPORTUNITIES S E V N I E R STRATEGIC REPORT We systematically help create, build and support outstanding intellectual property-based companies in order to provide attractive returns for all of our stakeholders.
The value created for stakeholders Our supporting framework For portfolio companies Deep sector expertise Working with a trusted partner with a strong track record Our sector experts take a hands-on role in business-building, working closely with founders to shape strategic direction Working with the global industry leader and frequently taking an interim commercial management Business building and capital markets expertise role.
As the portfolio companies develop, the sector experts For society interactions remain hands-on but become increasingly Solutions to global challenges such as a cleaner strategic and non-executive in nature as the company environment, a healthier population and more secure data management team builds out.
New company creation and job creation IP Partners Sustainable value The team is the primary interface between the Group and the universities and focuses on mining and evaluating very For employees early-stage opportunities and then developing and shaping Employee engagement them into businesses.
Talent development Working for a business that helps create companies IP Exec that can change the world purpose-led employment Our specialist early-stage in-house executive search team opportunities recruits experienced and high-calibre individuals to lead our businesses alongside founders and IP Group team members.
For shareholders Investing in a business that has a meaningful impact IP Capital on society Our specialist FCA-authorised fund management and A diverse portfolio of opportunities and exposure to corporate advisory business seeks to create value for the high-growth businesses in growth markets Groups portfolio companies, primarily by supporting their access to capital as well as providing advice on corporate Financial returns finance matters including M&A.
IP Assist & Legal We provide operational, legal and business support, including company secretarial, to our portfolio companies with a view to minimising the most common administrative factors that can contribute to early-stage company failure.
Our in-house IP specialism assists companies with optimising their IP strategy.
Read about our sustainability on page 56 17 2018-IP Group-AR.
