Strategic Report Market Review The market environment in which we operate is dynamic.
It is changing and evolving rapidly, becoming increasingly competitive.
Consolidation of media and telecoms companies, the increasing influence of technology and data, growing consumer demands and the evolution in the way viewers consume media, bring both challenges and exciting opportunities.
Key market trends Broadcast television, online and direct to consumer Global demand for content continues to grow with the Changes in viewing habits proliferation of channels, platforms and new entrants, with particularly strong demand for high-quality global and local scripted content, as well as unscripted formats that travel with a strong track record.
We estimate that the global content Long-form content viewing market is growing at around 4-5% per annum, with some genres such as scripted rising faster than others.
Live including simulcast 71% A key driver of this change over recent years has been the Timeshifted PVR evolution in the delivery and availability of content with a up to 28 days 13% substantial increase in the number of ways to consume VOD: Broadcaster catch up 4% content.
Viewers are able to choose from a variety of VOD: Other 12% platforms, both free and pay to watch live, catch up and box set content.
This has led to the rapid growth of viewing on mobile devices and via connected TVs.
However, linear Source: 2018 BARB Thinkbox data television viewing remains resilient as the most popular way to consume content for all demographics.
The growth in demand for content can be further attributed The number of ways for viewers the ITV Hub and the ITV Hub, to a number of factors, including: a larger international pay to engage with content has the subscription version of television market: the consolidation of pay providers with expanded and offers increased the ITV Hub, both of which have content companies and distributors: convergence in the flexibility, which has impacted shown strong growth in the last television market, where telecoms and new media companies viewing habits globally.
are competing with traditional media companies for content we have seen a marked increase and viewers: online players such as Netflix and Amazon in viewing on over-the-top OTT An important part of our Direct to investing heavily in new original and local content: and online platforms, via non-TV devices Consumer strategy is the launch advertising-driven platforms such as Google and Facebook such as smartphones, games of a domestic SVOD proposition.
creating a new market for short form and digital content.
consoles and tablets and TV We are in the concluding phase VOD.
This evolution is not of talks with the BBC to establish With the proliferation of channels and platforms looking for uniform across demographics, a strategic partnership to bring brand dening content, we have seen an increase in viewer with younger viewers spending BritBox to the UK, offering an expectations which has driven an increase in the cost of some proportionally more time unrivalled collection of British content, particularly scripted.
As a result, deficit nancing and consuming video content on boxsets and original series all in co-productions or partnerships have become increasingly non-TV devices and TV VOD, one place.
This is in addition to important in nancing productions in the UK and US, where whilst older demographics our existing SVOD propositions, distributors are often funding the difference between what spend comparatively more time BritBox US in the US and Canada, the content buyer is paying for the original broadcast and the engaging with linear television.
and an equity stake in Cirkus.
cost of production in return for distribution rights.
In the UK linear viewing remains TV viewing, and in particular the most popular form of media free-to-air TV and public service entertainment by a significant broadcaster viewing, is more 192 margin.
However, online viewing, resilient in the UK than in other linear television viewing minutes per day, down 5% on 2017 while currently only a small share markets, because per capita, of total viewing, has grown we have a higher spend on local, rapidly, particularly via OTT original content than most other services such as Netflix and developed markets: and the 45% Amazon, which have seen strong existence of the BBC, with whom estimate growth in content market growth over the last few years.
we have to compete for viewers but not revenue.
That in turn It is our ambition to maximise our gives us a platform from which to 20% volume of total viewing across launch SVOD services using similar, our linear and online platforms indigenous content that connects UK SVOD growth year-on-year and develop SVOD.
We continue to viewers in a way that US series, to invest in ITVs online offering, with very few exceptions, do not.
18 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Market Review Broadcast television, online and direct to consumer Linear television viewing SOV by broadcaster Key metrics ITV Family 23.2% 3% 1634s BBC Family 30.7% Channel 4 Family 10.2% growth ITV total most popular channel Five Family 6.3% viewing in 2018 in 2018 was ITV Sky Family 6.6% Other 23.0% 98% 32% Source: BARB of commercial growth in online audiences 5m viewing in 2018 Linear television is offered The average for 1634s was While it is clear that younger In 2018, the ITV family of through both free-to-air and 106minutes per day which viewers do watch less linear channels achieved the highest pay services in the UK.
declined by 13% 2017: television than other SOV in ten years, increasing Free-to-air television is delivered 123minutes.
In contrast demographics, if the right their SOV to 23.2% 2017: 21.7%, through services including across the ITV main channel content is delivered, they will with the main channel up 9% Freeview, YouView and Freesat, the average number of minutes watch it either via linear to 16.9% 2017: 15.5%, while linear pay television is increased for 1634s by 2% television or online.
Love Island compared with BBCOne, delivered through operators and across the ITV family of on ITV2 was an example of this down 2%, driven by consistently such as Sky, BT, Virgin and channels decreased only 2%, in 2018, with an average of strong performances across TalkTalk.
The market dynamics and as such ITV saw a 13% share 2.0million 1634s viewers with thedaytime schedule, growth of the pay market are changing growth for this demographic a 46.2% share across the series.
inkey entertainment shows, as established pay television year-on-year Source: BARB.
On linear, Im a Celebrity Get unmissable drama, and providers face increasing Me Out of Here!
achieved an outstanding audiences for competition from BT and Younger viewers are more average of 3.0 million 16-34s the 2018 Football World Cup.
OTT providers Netflix and skewed to watching content viewers, which was its biggest Amazon.
The platform mix outside of the traditional audience ever for this between free-to-air and linear seven-day measurement demographic.
The series pay television has remained window and often on non-TV launched with 3.8 million 16-34s relatively constant for a number devices.
The data presented viewers, which was the second of years.
In 2018 the mix was in this report is for the sevenbiggest audience of 2018 for 54% free-to-air and 46% day window measured by BARB.
this age-group, beaten only linear pay.
Including SVOD Since October 2018, BARB has by the England World Cup services, the platform mix in published a joint-industry, audited semi-final, also on ITV.
the UK is 36% free-to-air and measure of linear and online 64% paid viewing.
viewing combined across all ITV competes for linear viewers devices, which includes viewing with the BBC and commercial The UK average linear television on TVs, PCs, tablets and broadcasters including Channel4, viewing in 2018 was 192 minutes smartphones, providing a Sky and Channel 5.
ITV and BBC per person per day, down from more comprehensive measure One continue to be the only 203 minutes in 2017.
ITV has of viewing for a 28-day channels consistently able to countered this trend showing measurement window.
This is deliver mass audiences as well agrowth in the hours of live currently only available on a as targeted demographics, and linear television viewing programme by programme basis in 2018, ITV delivered 98% of year-on-year, up 2%.
and is not available to calculate all commercial audiences over aggregate channel or broadcaster five million viewers and 96% viewing volume or share.
19 Strategic Report Market Review continued Broadcast television, online and direct to consumer Online viewing Advertising revenue Televisions share of the advertising market Television 23.7% Press 11.5% Radio 3.3% Cinema 1.2% Outdoor 5.4% Internet 54.9% Source: Advertising Association January 2019 Online viewing includes catch Of the estimated 16% of content ITV generates advertising The make up of television up viewing of broadcaster viewed on demand 2017: 13%, revenue through linear advertisers is changing as new content via the television set 4% is catch up viewing of television, online VOD and markets are being disrupted or non-TV devices, and video on broadcaster content via the sponsorship, competing by insurgent brands.
Some demand VOD delivery of other television set or to non-TV with both other commercial categories have grown rapidly, long-form content such as box devices 2017: 4%.
The broadcasters and increasingly the stand out being the online sets and movies via platforms remaining 12% of content alternative advertising media brands.
The well publicised issues such as Sky, Netflix and Amazon.
is other VOD viewing, where for its advertising revenues.
with the high street and FMCG viewing of box sets via services ITVs total advertising revenue companies have put them under While online viewing has grown such as Sky, Netflix and Amazon in 2018 is 1,795 million, up pressure and as a result they are rapidly, and continues to do so, is replacing viewing of DVDs 1% year-on-year.
As an integrated spending less and have largely itstill accounts for only a small 2017: 8%.
In the UK, in viewing producer broadcaster, cash from reduced spend across all media.
proportion of total viewing time.
share terms, Netflix would these revenue streams funds the In the UK, we estimate 71% of represent the third biggest broadcast of our content in the While online advertising has all viewing of legal long-form channel behind BBC One UK and content creation globally.
grown rapidly, concerns remain content is live excluding online and ITV.
as to what some online simulcast viewing 2017: 75%, In the UK, television advertising advertising delivers, especially with a further 13% timeshifted This is growing quickly, driven including spot, online VOD, when compared with television via a Personal Video Recorder by accessibility of these services sponsorship and other television in terms of both investment PVR and watched within on smartphones, tablets and revenues continues to hold a return and potential reputational 28days of the original connected televisions, providing significant share of the overall risk.
Some forms of online broadcast date 2017: 13%.
flexibility in viewing and advertising market with a 23.7% advertising have no trusted adaptability to changing share in 2018 2017: 25.5%.
measurement system, the lifestyles, facilitating viewers The decrease year-on-year adverts may not be seen by to watch content whenever can be attributed to the a human, the adverts may be and wherever they want.
ongoing political and economic off screen or viewed without uncertainty in the UK around sound, and the content around In 2018 viewing on the ITV Hub Brexit with advertisers reducing the advertising may not be has grown 32% year-on-year.
spend on television as they try appropriate for that brand or to manage margins.
The ITV Hub delivers the key demographics and growing volumes in a high-quality, trusted and measured environment for online advertisers.
20 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Market Review Broadcast television, online and direct to consumer Other Direct Advertising revenue Subscription video-on-demand SVOD to Consumer Televisions share of the advertising market Television 23.7% 8.5m Press 11.5% Radio 3.3% Paying Direct 41% of homes in the UK have an Cinema 1.2% to Consumer Outdoor 5.4% SVOD service, up from 30% in 2017 relationships, Internet 54.9% up 27% on 2017 Source: 2018 BARB Thinkbox data Source: Advertising Association January 2019 With no uniformity in the Increasingly homes are Our existing SVOD propositions Consumers are increasingly denitions used by broadcasters, supplementing their free and include ITV Hub in the UK, willing to pay to engage with the UK television advertising pay television with other forms BritBox US in the US and great brands, content and market is extremely difficult to of paid content including Canada, and Cirkus in the intellectual property IP, measure, and therefore it is not SVOD services such as Netflix Nordics, Germany, Austria and whether that is through possible to give ITVs share of and Amazon, or by purchasing Switzerland, demonstrating our competitions, live events, total advertising.
additional channels through ability and ambition to compete gaming, merchandise or no-contract providers such in this market internationally.
Online advertising can deliver as NowTV.
Many households a more targeted advertising have multiple subscriptions to ITV Hub offers the content Developing deeper and proposition and ITV is making paid content, and we expect available on the ITV Hub broader insights about our good progress on developing this to increase.
Around 41% of ad-free, available for download customers and viewers is a scaled, programmatic homes inthe UK have an SVOD and with EU portability.
increasingly possible and more addressable advertising service, up from 30% in 2017, The number of subscribers, valuable withthe greater use proposition on the ITV Hub.
and this isgrowing at a steady including subscribers via of data analytics.
Amazon, has more than tripled ITV also earns revenue from year-on-year.
Generating revenue directly various third parties, including We are in the concluding phase from consumers, while small, Sky and Virgin, through the of talks with the BBC to BritBox US, our joint venture is not new for ITV, however, licensing of channels and establish a strategic partnership with the BBC launched in 2017, it presents an area of great content, including our HD to bring BritBox, our exciting provides an ad-free SVOD potential growth with our digital channels ITV2 HD, new SVOD proposition, to UK service offering the most fantastic brands and loyal ITV3 HD and ITV4 HD and audeinces.
This will provide an comprehensive collection viewers.
Vital to this growth catch up VOD.
unrivalled collection of British of British content available in is making data analytics boxsets and original series all the US and Canada.
Subscribers a key competency across the in one place.
Research has have continued to grow steadily, organisation.
To support this demonstrated there is high exceeding 500k in 2018. we are investing in technology demand and a willingness to pay platforms to collect, process, for an additional service.
ITV is store, and analyse these data wellpositioned to deliver this.
sets, as well as investing in people to turn that data into insight.
21 Strategic Report Market Review continued Global content Scripted UK US Rest of World In the UK, we see higher demand and The US dominates global production and In Europe, we have seen the resurgence in stronger viewing gures for domestically is the largest content market in the world.
demand for local scripted content, with produced content over imported series.
This represents a significant opportunity acquired US content not performing as Original, high-quality scripted content is for ITV, with a strong, and evolving, well as it has done historically on broadcast central to our strategy and essential for presence in the region.
The OTT platforms also drive the growth of broadcasters and OTT growth across Europe for local scripted players, with its the ability to drive As with the UK, the market continues to see content, with the platforms tailoring their viewing and grow brands.
a significant increase in demand for drama, proposition on a regional basis to particularly US drama.
Original scripted differentiate the offerings and attract We are a major producer of scripted content content is essential for broadcasters and subscribers.
There is now also global delivering some of the most unmissable OTT platforms to drive viewing and attract demand for high-quality, foreign language scripted content in 2018 both on and off subscribers.
Drama is brand dening, and is scripted content on both broadcast and ITV including Bodyguard, Trauma, Poldark, used as a tool for differentiation and OTT platforms resulting in a broadening Unforgotten, and Vera.
prominence in an increasingly competitive market for European content.
The rise of Netflix The deficit on high-cost productions is and Amazon, which are investing heavily Over the last few years we have invested covered through global and secondary in signature high-quality original scripted to strengthen our position in the European sales, with our strategy of making content content, has signicantly increased market through our 2017 acquisitions of available in different territories, on different competition in the market.
Tetra Media Studio in France and Cattleya broadcasters or OTT platforms and at in Italy.
These acquisitions produce both different times, either exclusively or Leveraging our network relationships and long-running and new, critically acclaimed non-exclusively, in order to maximise international distribution network, we have foreign-language dramas for free-to-air, overall revenues.
As a distributor as well expanded our US scripted business and are pay and OTT platforms locally and as a producer, ITV is in a strong position developing a portfolio of returning drama.
Examples include Prolage to deficit finance its own productions and We are taking advantage of the increased and Balthazar from Tetra Media Studio, and therefore produce high-quality content demand from OTT platforms and other Suburra and Zero Zero Zero from Cattleya.
and retain the rights to it as well as acquiring viewing windows around the world.
Our A review of the risk of a change to legislation rights for third-party productions.
2019 scripted pipeline includes the delivery or regulation on our European operations of Snowpiercer to TNT and the remainder as a result of Brexit is included on page 57. of series five of Good Witch to Hallmark.
In recent years in the US, we have invested in backing talent and intellectual property IP, rather than large scale acquisitions.
This allows us to attract and collaborate with innovative and entrepreneurial creatives, with minimal risks, and attractive returns.
For example, in 2017 we took a 45% stake in Blumhouse Television, the TV division of the company founded by prodigious lm producer Jason Blum, which in 2018, produced Into the Dark for Hulu, and co-produced The Purge for USA Poldark is produced by Mammoth Network and Sharp Objects for HBO.
Prolage is produced by Tetra Media Screen part of ITV Studios UK for the Studio for TF1 in France.
2018 saw the show return for a delivered in January 2019. fourth series, and it has been sold in over 150 countries.
22 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Market Review Global content Unscripted UK US Rest of World While not growing as quickly as scripted The US remains a strong and vast market Demand remains strong across all major content, demand for unscripted content for unscripted content, with continued territories for unscripted content as, remains strong as networks continue to demand from broadcasters for proven consistent with the UK and US, networks require lower-cost, high-volume popular successful programming and new require lower-cost alternatives to series.
The UK remains the dominant entertainment formats.
There is growing scripted content.
The market demands producer and exporter of unique pressure in the US cable market with a combination of proven global formats, unscripted formats.
OTT as well as the development and production platforms have also started to supplement of local original ideas.
Demand is not ITV is the largest commercial production their catalogue with unscripted titles, growing as fast as for scripted content.
company for unscripted content in the which provides a lower-cost alternative UK.
The large independent production to expensive scripted titles, and to appeal ITV has a presence in what we consider companies, such as Endemol Shine Group to new audiences, or supplement the to be the most attractive TV production and Fremantle, continue to be ITV Studios viewing of existing subscribers.
markets, leveraging our international main competitors in non-scripted content.
formats and local creative expertise to ITV America is one of the largest producers grow our overall business.
2018 saw the successful return of Dancing of unscripted content in the US with over on Ice with the title having been rested 450 hours of original content produced in International production of Love Island for a number of years.
Having focused our US acquisitions tripled in 2018, with shows on air in recommissioned and returned to ITV in on the unscripted genre and grown Germany, Australia, Norway, Sweden, January 2019. organically, the business has developed Finland and Denmark.
Im a Celebrity... a foundation of formats such as Real Get Me Out of Here!, further to the hugely Returning series, including Love Island, Housewives, Marriage Bootcamp, Four successful UK version, is produced in Im a Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here!
and Weddings, The First 48, Alone, Mama June Germany and Australia, and a new TheChase achieved record-breaking and Forged in Fire.
2018 also saw the version has been commissioned by TF1 audiences in 2018, and continue to go delivery of three-time Emmy winning Queer in France.
The show is the number one from strength to strength, and provide Eye and Girl Incarcerated to Netflix.
Queer entertainment show in Germany and is the very strong track record to then Eye will return in 2019 to Netflix for a third on air for its 13th run, and a fifth season sell the formats internationally.
New in 2019 from ITV America is the launched on Network Ten in Australia hit ITV format, Love Island, for CBS.
Love Island was the most watched show on any digital channel in 2018 with the best performing series yet with an average of 4.0 million viewers and a share of 17%.
In 2019 Love Island will be produced by ITV for CBS in the US.
