Strategic Report Our Business Model Our vision is More than TV.
We will use our creativity and commercial expertise to strengthen the integrated producer broadcaster, grow the UK and globalcontent business, and create value in developing and enhancing directconsumer relationships.
We are confident that our vision and strategy isthe right long-term plan for ITV in a dynamic market environment.
Our strategy is to Competitive advantage strengthen, diversify Delivering World-class Global Intellectual and grow the unrivalled content distribution property commercial At the core of ITV ITV has built ITV has developed business, creating audiences isour focus on relationships and acquired arobust, futureThe scale of our creativity and globally with major shows that are channels and content, whether networks, platform hugely popular.
thesignicant selling our unique owners and local Owning this investment we content around the broadcasters, and intellectual make in quality world or investing owns the rights to property allows content give ITV in third-party a diverse portfolio us to monetise unique scale and content to of shows, it internationally reach across the broadcast across particularly drama through key demographics multiple platforms.
and entertainment, programme and 1 Reposition ITV Data analytics as a modern and and technology Strengthen digital brand Integrated producer on our main Internationally forinternational format sales broadcaster channel and more wehave built distribution.
and also targeted audiences production and commercially in on our family of distribution scale the development 2 3 channels and the in key global of interactive Grow Create UK and global Direct to production consumer ITV Hub.
creative markets experiences, through organic games, apps and growth, selective consumer products.
acquisitions and Lean and agile organisation talent deals.
65% 1bn 40,000 Our channels reach We invest over 1bn hours of television over 65%of the UK annually in content and lmcontent in the population each week for ourUK family Global Entertainment ofchannels catalogue Our strategic assets Our strategic assets underpin ITVs competitive advantage Creating and owning Our strong, trusted Our talented the rights to quality brand, products commercial and content and and culture creative people intellectual property 26 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Our Business Model Our diversied revenue streams Creating value for By developing and managing the rights to content, ITV isable to Advertisers maximise the value of its programme brands across a range of Through delivering revenue streams, making ITV a more balanced business and uniquescale and breadth enabling it to drive value from different revenue models.
of demographics as wellasmore targeted opportunities and new Advertising innovative ways of engaging Our family of channels and the ITV Hub drive significant advertising with consumers around revenues from the ability to deliver both mass audiences and more quality programme brands targeted demographics to advertisers.
This funds our investment in the programme budget.
Audiences Through a varied, highCommercial partnerships quality programming We work with advertisers and advertising agencies to provide schedule, which they uniqueand innovative commercial partnerships and sponsorship canwatch and engage with opportunities that extend beyond pure spot advertising.
on a variety of platforms Direct to Consumer Broadcasters We monetise our consumer interactions through competitions, live and platform owners events, merchandising, pay per view, and SVOD.
In the UK we currently Through delivering generate SVOD revenue through the ITV Hub, and we have agreed quality programming ajoint vision for BritBox UK with the BBC and are now working that they can then on a formal agreement.
Internationally we deliver SVOD revenues monetise through through our joint venture with the BBC, BritBox US, in the US and their own business models Canada and Cirkus in the Nordics, Germany, Austria and Switzerland.
Customers Pay Through our Direct to We earn pay revenue from platforms in the UK by licensing our HD Consumer business channels and our online VOD services.
we drive engagement and interaction with our muchloved brands Original production We produce original content commissions for broadcasters and platform owners internationally from our production bases in the UK, the US, the Shareholders Netherlands, Germany, France, Italy, Australia, the Nordics and the MiddleEast.
Through a track record of creating shareholder value and delivering significant Distribution shareholder returns We own the rights to a significant catalogue of programmes and formats that we sell and license to broadcasters and platform owners internationally.
The strong global demand for content Our people provides asignicant opportunity for us.
Through investing in and developing our talent andcreating a culture thatnurtures them to become both commercial and creative 5% growth in non-advertising revenue 27
