Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Directors Report Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited consolidated and parent company financial statements for the year ended 31December 2018, which they approved on 27 February 2019.
The Directors Report comprises this report and the entire Governance sectionincluding the Chairmans Governance Statement.
Colleagues ITV has a Code of Conduct which sets out the behaviours we expect from all our colleagues and forms part of their terms of employment a copy is available on our website at www.
Our employment and recruitment policies are based on equal opportunities and non-discrimination.
We have an Equal Opportunities Policy which covers all protected groups of the Equality Act 2010.
We have a diversity and inclusion strategy with a clear three year plan to amplify inclusion and diverse representation at all levels across the organisation.
Disability: ITV has been certied a Disability confident Employer by the Department for Work and Pensions and as part of this commitment guarantees an interview to any candidate with a disability who meets the minimum requirement for a role.
The Company gives full and fair consideration to the employment of people with a disability or long-term health condition.
ITV works with a variety of partners across its apprentice, early careers, permanent and xed-term contract recruitment process including Mencap, MIND, Remploy, Scope and Vercida.
We provide all colleagues with appropriate measures to ensure they are fully supported and that reasonable adjustments are made.
We are committed to ensuring that all training, career development and promotion opportunities are accessible and inclusive to all colleagues with a disability and that they have the same career opportunities for growth and progression.
We continue to run a focused programme of activity to raise awareness and dispel myths through a series of lunch and learns and management development on mental health.
Diversity: Through our programmes, channels, workforce and services, and by working in partnership with the production community, we aim to ensure we are relevant and accessible and reflect modern society.
ITV has four network groups open to all colleagues see page 16 that run a number of inspirational talks and events and development workshops.
We are a founding member of the Social Mobility Business Partnership set up to promote social mobility in business, especially in the legal and accountancy professions.
We are also pleased to be singled out by the most recent Hampton Alexander report as the sixth best performer in the FTSE100 for gender diversity in our combined Executive Committee and Direct Reports team and the fourteenth best performer at Board level.
Engagement: ITV has in place an Ambassador network who represent all parts of our business globally and are elected by their colleagues.
The role of the Ambassador is to represent colleagues interests, share information and shape our culture by giving a voice to all colleagues.
During 2018, the Ambassadors were instrumental in providing consultation support to colleagues affected by organisation design changes, proposed ofce moves and more generally providing feedback on the experience of working at ITV.
As a result of the More than TV strategy we have undertaken a review of the behaviours expected from our leaders, managers and colleagues to execute the strategy.
We have also redened the role of our Senior Leadership and Executive Leadership teams, giving them a clear purpose and remit.
Carolyn McCall has introduced a regular podcast vodcast enabling employees globally to hear directly from her providing business updates and an insight in to what is happening both internally and externally in the wider media environment.
Alongside this is an Ask Carolyn email address which allows all colleagues to ask questions and to provide feedback directly to her.
Remuneration: When the Company reviews pay it takes a number of factors into consideration, including the need to stay competitive.
Ourfocus on cash and costs remains incredibly important for the future health of our business.
We need to balance our business and financial commitments with our continuing investment in programming and people.
The Company continues to be committed to ensuring colleagues earn at least the Living Wage or greater.
Where appropriate we haveagreed additional increases.
On 1 January 2019, alleligible UK colleagues received a pay increase of 2.5% 2018: 2.75%.
In addition, a bonus arrangement extends to all our UK colleagues, providing a comprehensive incentive framework that rewards everybody when the Company is successful.
The all-colleague bonus award for 2018 was paid at 1,325 75.7% of maximum 2017: 1,750.
The Company also operates a successful and popular all-colleague Save As You Earn scheme that encourages voluntary investment inITV shares and a package of voluntary benets which provide valuable cost savings for both colleagues and the Company.
Information about remuneration for the Directors is included in the Remuneration Report on page 92.
Speaking up and Whistleblowing: ITV encourages a culture of open communication and recognises that by encouraging colleagues to raise suspected wrongdoing, fraud or malpractice in the workplace we can ensure that the highest standards of safety are maintained and good ethics and judgement are applied when making decisions.
Systems are in place to enable colleagues to speak up and these are reviewed annually by the Audit and Risk Committee.
In 2019, we launched a new reporting tool that enables colleagues and freelancers to report incidents and share observations and this will be rolled out across the Group during 2019.
Our Whistleblowing Policy ensures that concerns are investigated properly.
Any form of reprisal or victimisation against anyone who raises a genuine concern will not be tolerated.
109 Governance Directors Report continued Further information can be found in the Audit and Risk Committee Report on page 87.
A copy of the Whistleblowing Policy is available on our website.
com investors governance Succession planning, training and development: When planning succession, consideration is given to emergency cover together with medium and long-term succession and this is reviewed annually by the Nomination Committee.
The aim of this programme is to build breadth in our internal pipeline and accelerate the development of our new high potential leaders, preparing them to move into senior positions and building a strong continuation of diverse talent for the future.
2018 saw continued investment in development for our colleagues.
We introduced a refreshed New Manager Induction programme, a series of Aspiring Manager masterclasses, and a new High Potential Leadership programme.
We also continued with our series of Leadership Labs to strengthen our leadership capability, Team Development workshops and also rolled out on-line globally accessible training.
The majority of our face-to-face leadership and all colleague development was UK focused.
However, we have also run leadership development sessions in Norway and with the Britbox US management team, focused on developing high performing teams.
99% of xed term and permanent colleagues completed our updated suite of mandatory training modules.
This covered our Code of Conduct, anti-bribery and corruption, cyber security and data protection in light of the updated GDPR regulations.
Our freelancers also completed the training modules as part of their onboarding experience.
We continue to fund the development of new talent through our apprenticeship programme with the majority of the classroom training funded through the apprenticeship levy.
Additionally, some colleagues have undertaken qualications, utilising apprenticeship levy funding.
In 2018, 31% of vacancies were lled by internal candidates and 10% of our colleagues were promoted into larger different roles demonstrating our continued focus on career development.
Corporate Articles of Association: Unless expressly specified to the contrary, the Articles of Association may only be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The Articles are available on our website.
com investors governance Auditor: The Audit and Risk Committee considered the performance and audit fees of the external auditor, and the level of non-audit work undertaken.
It recommended to the Board that a resolution for the reappointment of KPMG LLP for a further year as the Companys auditor be proposed to shareholders at the AGM on 8 May 2019.
Change of control: No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control ofthe Company.
All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions and proration for timewhere appropriate.
Certain of the Groups debt and derivative instruments have change of control clauses whereby the counterparty can require ITV to repay or redeem the instruments in the event of a change of control although in some cases only if it is accompanied by a credit rating downgrade.
The Company is not aware of any other significant agreements to which it is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company Dividends: The Board has proposed a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Details of this and other dividends paid for the year are asfollows: 2018 2017 Interim dividend 2.6p 2.52p Final dividend 5.4p 5.28p Total ordinary dividend payment 8.0p 7.80p The final dividend for 2018 will be paid on 23 May 2019 to shareholders on the register on 12 April 2019.
110 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Directors Report Political contributions: It is the Companys policy not to make cash contributions to any political party.
However, within the normal activities of the Companys national and regional news-gathering operations there may be occasions when an activity might fall within the broader denition of political expenditure contained within the Companies Act 2006.
Shareholder authority for such expenditure was given at the 2018 AGM.
During 2018 the Group made no payments falling within this denition 2017: nil.
Directors Appointments: A table showing Directors who served in the year can be found on page 71.
Biographies for Directors currently in ofce canbe found on pages 66 and 67 and on ourwebsite.
com about board-of-directors Directors are appointed for an initial three year period and annually thereafter.
Each Director will retire and submit themselves for election or re-election atthe AGMon 8 May 2019.
Detail on compensation for loss of ofce can be found in the Remuneration Report on page 103.
Conflicts of interest: The Board has delegated the authorisation of any conflicts to the Nomination Committee and has adopted aConflicts of Interest Policy.
The Board has considered in detail the current external appointments of the Directors that may give risetoasituational conflict and has authorised potential conflicts where appropriate.
Thisauthorisation can be reviewed at any time butwill always be subject to annual review.
Contracts of signicance: No Director had any interest in any contract with the Company or its subsidiary undertakings.
Powers: The powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles of Association.
The Articles and a schedule of Matters Reserved for theBoard can be found on our website below.
Insurance and indemnities: The Company maintains liability insurance for its Directors and ofcers that is renewed on an annual basis.
TheCompany has also entered into deeds of indemnity with its Directors and other senior executives.
A copy of the indemnity can be found on our website.
com investors governance Disclosures Listing rule 9.8.
4 disclosures: There are no disclosures to be made other than that the trustee of the Employees benefit Trust EBT waived its rights to receive dividendson shares it holds which do not relate to restricted shares held under the ITV Deferred Share Award Plan.
Financial risk management: The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including in relation to its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
Details of our risks and associated mitigations, together with details of our approach to risk management, are set out on pages 54 to 61.
Note 4.3 to the accounts on page 176 gives details of the Groups financial risk management policies and related exposures.
This note isincorporated by reference and deemed to form part of this report.
Future developments: Our strategy is set out in the Strategic Report.
Going concern: The going concern statement is set out on page 131.
This note is incorporated by reference and deemed to form partofthisreport.
Subsequent events: There are no post balance sheet events to report.
Research and development: Relevant information is set out in the Strategic Report.
111 Governance Directors Report continued Pensions The Company operates a number of pension arrangements which provide retirement and death benets for colleagues.
The Company pensions arrangements are overseen by a Pensions Steering Committee comprised of senior executives.
The Committee meets monthly and is supported by a range of specialist advisers.
ITV Pension Scheme the Scheme : The Scheme is predominantly a dened benefit DB scheme which is closed to future accrual, but also includes a dened contribution DC section closed to future contributions.
Until the end of November 2018, the Scheme comprised three sections: A, B and C. On 30 November 2018, as part of effecting a Buy-In transaction with an insurance company, Section Bs assets and liabilities were merged into Section C. ITV Pension Scheme Limited a wholly owned subsidiary of ITV plc is a corporate trustee and manages the Scheme under a trust which is separate from the Company.
Members of the trustee board are formally appointed as directors of ITV Pension Scheme Limited.
There are nine directors including the chairman five appointed by the Company and four nominated by the members.
The trustee has four committees: Investment, Audit and Operations, DC, and Corporate Affairs.
The Corporate Affairs Committee is convened as and when appropriate for dealing with any corporate activities that may arise.
The trustee board and each committee hold regular meetings throughout the year at which key issues and more routine business matters are dealt with and a budget is agreed each year.
The trustee board has a risk register, a conflicts of interest policy and a register of interests policy, which are reviewed regularly.
It is the responsibility of the trustee to have in place appropriate training for its directors and effective committee structures.
The trustee directors receive regular training throughout the year and also have the support of various professional advisers.
The Group pensions department helps identify training opportunities.
Training is delivered both by attendance at external courses and with targeted training to support specic agenda items at the start of each trustee board meeting.
Where appropriate, longer training sessions are organised.
Comprehensive records are kept of all training completed by each trustee director.
The trustee board completes regular assessments of its advisers.
The chairman confirms in an annual statement that the trustee meets its legal duties in relation to the DC section as required under the Pensions Regulators Code of Practice 13.
Full valuations are carried out every three years.
The latest completed actuarial valuation of all three sections of the main DB scheme was carried out as at 1 January 2017.
ITV Dened Contribution Plan the Plan : This trust based Plan was established to accept contributions from 1 March 2017 for ex-DB members and DC members who transferred from the Scheme.
Eligible colleagues are invited to join the Plan after completing the required time in the Companys auto-enrolment AE arrangement The Peoples Pension.
These individuals are given the opportunity to transfer funds from the AE plan and make backdated contributions within permitted levels.
ITV DC Trustee Limited a wholly owned subsidiary of ITV plc is a corporate trustee and manages the DC assets, which are held under trust separately from the Company.
Members of the trustee board are formally appointed as directors of ITV DC Trustee Limited.
There are five directors including the chairman three appointed by the Company and two nominated by the members.
It is the responsibility of the trustee to have in place appropriate training for its directors.
The governance framework for managing the Plan and developing the board is in line with that in place for the Scheme.
The chairman confirms in an annual statement that the trustee meets its legal duties in relation to the DC Plan as required under the Pensions Regulators Code of Practice 13.
112 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Directors Report Ulster Television Pension and Assurance Scheme the Ulster Scheme : The Ulster Scheme provides DB benets.
It closed to new members in 2002 but is still open to future accrual.
However, a comprehensive 60-day consultation exercise was started on 28 January 2019 with active members on a proposal to close to future accrual with effect from 31 March 2019.
The outcome of the consultation will be confirmed in next years report.
UTV Pension Scheme Limited a wholly owned subsidiary of ITV plc is a corporate trustee and manages the DB assets, which are held under trust separately from the Company.
Members of the trustee board are formally appointed as directors of UTV Pension Scheme Limited.
There are five directors including the chairman three appointed by the Company including a professional trustee as chairman and two nominated by the members.
The governance framework for managing the Ulster Scheme and developing the board is in line with that in place for the Scheme.
The latest completed actuarial valuation was carried out as at 1 July 2017.
The trustee board has adopted the Pensions Regulators integrated risk management framework taking a holistic approach and looking at how risks around the employer covenant, funding and investment strategy are all linked and inter-dependent.
A cashflow driven investment strategy was introduced from March 2018.
The Peoples Pension: Since 2013, employers within the Group have been required to enrol all eligible individuals into a pension scheme automatically.
This applies to all eligible individuals who are contracted to work for us, regardless of their contract type or tax status.
Following a provider review, the plan is now provided by a company called The Peoples Pension under a master trust which is run by an independent board of trustee directors and eligible individuals are enrolled into this arrangement.
Pension Scheme indemnities: Qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions, as dened in Section 235 of the Companies Act 2006, were in force for the financial year ended 31 December 2018 and remain in force for the benefit of each of the directors of ITV Pension Scheme Limited, ITV DC Trustee Limited and UTV Pension Scheme Limited.
These indemnity provisions cover, to the extent permitted by law, certain losses or liabilities that may be incurred as a result of being a director or officer of these companies.
Shares Issued share capital: At the date of this report, there were 4,025,409,194 ordinary shares of 10 pence each in issue, all of which are fully paid up andquoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Purchase of own shares: The Directors have the authority to purchase up to 402.5 million of the Companys ordinary shares.
The authority remains valid until the AGM in 2019 or 8 August 2019, if earlier.
Restrictions: There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company other than those which may beimposed by law from time to time.
In accordance with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTRs, Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibility are required to seek approval to deal in ITV shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
Rights: The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Articles of Association.
113 Governance Directors Report continued Share schemes: Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 4.7 on page 184.
The Company has an EBT funded by loans to acquire shares forthe potential benefit of colleagues.
Details of shares held by the EBT at 31 December 2018 are set out on page 186.
During the year shares have been released from the EBT in respect of share schemes for colleagues.
The trustee of the EBT has the powerto exercise allvoting rights in relation to any investment including ordinary shares held within the EBT.
Substantial shareholders: Information regarding interests in voting rights provided to the Company pursuant to the DTRs is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
As at 26 February 2019, the information in the table below had been received, in accordance with DTR5, from holders of notiable interests votingrights in the Companys issued share capital.
It should be noted that these holdings are likely to have changed since notied totheCompany.
However, notication of any change is not required until the next applicable threshold is crossed.
Nature of Total number Nature of % interest interests of shares % of interest interest in financial in financial or interests in shares in shares instruments instruments in shares The Capital Group Companies Inc. 10.99% Indirect 442,468,836 Liberty Global Incorporated Limited Indirect 9.90% Loaned shares 398,515,510 0.39% Securities lending BlackRock Inc. 5.11% Indirect 0.26% Contract for difference 232,006,146 Amerprise Financial, Inc and its group 5.08% Indirect 0.045% Equities swap 206,179,898 The Goldman Sachs Group 0.03% Indirect 0.17% Securities Lending 829,368,692 20.41% Swap cash, Contract for difference cash, over the counter option physical or cash The number of shares is based on announcements made by each relevant shareholder using the Companys issued share capital at that date.
Regulations Anti-bribery and corruption: ITV is committed to conducting business in an open and ethical way.
We take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and are committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all our business dealings and relationships wherever we operate, as well as implementing and enforcing effective systems to counter bribery and corruption.
Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy sets out our responsibilities and how we expect those working for or with us to observe and uphold the policy and provides information and guidance on how to deal with bribery and corruption issues.
The effectiveness and implementation of the policy is regularly reviewed and compliance by colleagues is closely monitored.
ITV retains the right to ask associated parties to confirm compliance on an annual basis.
Further information can be found in the Audit and Risk Committee Report on page 88.
We have in place a Sanctions Policy to ensure the business complies with all relevant international and financial sanctions in force at the time by the UN, EU or UK Government.
Compliance with the policy is kept under review by the Tax and Treasury Committee.
Data: As a part of our business activity ITV processes large amounts of personal data.
In doing this ITV respects the privacy of our viewers, customers, contractors, talent and colleagues and seeks to protect personal data by complying with the applicable laws and regulations and fully cooperating with the relevant regulatory authorities.
ITV has a Privacy and Data Protection Policy and an Information Security Policy that govern the processing of data.
Compliance with these policies is mandatory and forms part of the Code of Conduct.
All colleagues undergo regular training to remind them of their responsibilities under these policies.
Privacy and data protection is kept under review by the Audit and Risk Committee see page 86.
Environment: ITV recognises that it has a responsibility to understand and minimise our impact on the environment and an opportunity to influence positively our industry and audiences.
Further information can be found on our Corporate Responsibility website.
com responsibility ITV is required to report annually on the quantity of carbon dioxide equivalent emissions in tonnes emitted as a result of activities for whichit is responsible.
All data for the financial year ended 31 December 2018 is disclosed overleaf for direct gas, vehicle fuel, fuel oils and refrigerants consumption and indirect electricity consumption emissions.
114 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Directors Report Indicator 2018 2017 Total gross CO e emissions 20,066 22,321 tCO e 2 2 Scope 1: Direct emissions 6,770 6,684 tCO e 2 Scope 2: Indirect emissions 13,293 15,637 tCO e 2 1 Total Revenue 3,766m 3,665m Emissions per unit m revenue 5.3 tCO e 6.1 tCO e 2 2 The total revenue for 2017 was restated as a result of IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers.
This did not result in a change to the emissions calculation.
Source: Mitie Energy analysis of ITV data.
The emissions data covers our global operations for which we have operational control.
We use the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and the latest conversion factors from the Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy to calculate emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents.
37% of our data set is based on estimated data.
Estimates are calculated from previous consumption trends and published benchmarks.
In 2018, the Companys greenhouse gas emissions reduced by 10% compared to the previous year.
As 85% of our greenhouse gas emissions are generated within our UK operations, this is where we focus our efforts.
We continued to replace ageing infrastructure with more efficient plant, optimise our building management software systems and replace lighting systems with more efficient LED technology.
Health and safety: The health and safety of our employees, contractors and those participating in our productions is always a high priority.
The significant loss of human life as the result of a major incident on production has been identied as a principal risk to the organisation.
ITV has in place a Group Health and Safety policy statement supported by a health and safety management system.
In line with our overall risk management approach we operate a three lines of defence model with the Companys professional Health and Safety team occupying the second line establishing a safety management system and providing expertise to support the business owner in the first line of defence.
The Health and Safety team continue to rene the management system to ensure it meets the specic risk prole of the business.
In 2018 we developed our risk toolkit for productions: Processes were launched to review, manage and escalate risks within production from initial risk analysis to engagement of creatives in risk evaluation: Our education programme was strengthened with the development and roll-out of two new courses that are accredited by the International Institute of Risk and Safety Management: and A new reporting tool was developed to support ongoing risk management including health and safety see page 87.
A key element of the risk toolkit is a set of core statements that act as our global risk language, these have been developed with the London School of Economics and reflect what we expect to see from our people, our teams, and our leaders, in a positive risk climate.
They are focused on how we ensure everyone has a voice and how we listen to that voice.
Within all our health and safety activity we are using new methodology to engage with the business, building our understanding of the effectiveness of safety management, enabling us to continually improve and rene our approach.
We continue to underpin our health and safety management system with three key principles: People are the solution Safety is about positive outcomes Safety is a moral responsibility The Audit and Risk Committee reviews health and safety annually.
Modern Slavery: ITV is fully committed to ensure that we do not participate in the violation of human rights and expect the same of our suppliers.
We are a founding member of the television industry Human Rights Working Group set up to proactively address human rights issues in the television industry and raise awareness beyond it.
ITVs Modern Slavery Statement sets out the steps taken by ITV to identify, address and prevent modern slavery and human trafcking in our business and supply chain and is reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
A copy can be found on our website.
com 115 Governance Directors Report continued The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group isfair, balanced and understandable and andparent company financial statements in accordance withapplicable law and provides the information necessary for regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent shareholders to assess the Companys companynancial statements foreach financial year.
Under that law they are andthe Groups position and performance, requiredto prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as business model and strategy.
Each of the adopted bytheEUand applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company Directors, whose names and functions are financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 listed on pages 66 and 67, confirm that, Reduced Disclosure Framework.
tothe best of their knowledge: Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless The Group accounts, which have been they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view ofthe state of affairs of the Group prepared in accordance with IFRSs and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of asadopted by the EU, give a true and theGroup and parentcompany financial statements, the Directors are required: fairview of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and To select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently The Directors Report includes a fair To make judgements and estimates that are reasonable, relevant, reliable review of the development and and prudent performance of the business and the For the Group financial statements, to state whether they have been prepared position of the Group, togetherwith inaccordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU a description of the principal risks and For the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable uncertainties that it faces.
UKAccounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements In accordance with Section 418 of the To assess the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, Companies Act 2006, the Directors confirm disclosing, as applicable, matters relating to the going concern: and that, so far as they are each aware, there is To use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate no relevantaudit information of which the the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic Companys auditor is unaware: and each alternative but to do so.
Director has taken all steps that they oughtto have takenas a Director in order The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are tomake themselves aware of any relevant sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with audit information and to establish that reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and theCompanys auditor isaware of enable them to ensurethat its financial statements comply with the Companies Act thatinformation.
They are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary toenable the preparation of the financial statements that are free from material The Board has conducted a review of misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and have general responsibility for taking theeffectiveness of the Groups systems such steps as are reasonablyopen to them to safeguard the assets of the Groupand to ofinternal controls for the year ended prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, 31December 2018.
Inthe opinion of the the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Board, the Company has complied with Annual Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with theinternal control requirements of the that law and those regulations.
UKCorporate Governance Code throughout theyear, maintaining an ongoing process for The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate identifying, evaluating and minimising risk.
andnancial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ fromlegislation in otherjurisdictions.
By order of the Board Carolyn McCall Chief Executive 27 February 2019 ITV plc Registered Number: 4967001 116 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
