Strategic Report Alternative Performance Measures consideration payable in the future is employment-linked, it is The Annual Report includes both statutory and adjusted treated as an expense under accounting rules and therefore part measures Alternative Performance Measures or APMs, of our statutory results.
However, weexclude all consideration of the latter of which, inmanagements view, reflect the this type from adjusted EBITA, adjusted profit after tax and adjusted underlying performance of the business and provide EPS as, in our view, these items arepart of the capital transaction amore meaningful comparison of how the business is and do not form part of the Groups core operations.
The Finance managed and measured ona day-to-day basis.
Acquisition-related costs, including legal and advisory fees on completed deals or significant deals Our APMs and KPIs are aligned with our strategy and that do not complete, are also treated as an expense under business segments and together are used to measure accounting rules and therefore on a statutory basis form part the performance ofourbusiness and form the basis of our reported results.
In our view, these items also form part of the performance measures for remuneration.
ofthe capital transaction or are one-off in nature and are therefore excluded from our adjusted measures.
Adjusted results exclude certain items because, if included, these items could distort the understanding Restructuring and reorganisation costs of our performance fortheyear and the comparability These arise from Group-wide initiatives to reduce the ongoing betweenperiods.
cost base and improve efficiency in the business.
Weconsider each project individually to determine whether its size and nature warrant separate disclosure.
Where there has been a material Key adjustments for adjusted EBITA, profit before tax and EPS change inthe organisational structure of a business area or Adjusted EBITA is calculated by adding back exceptional items a materialGroup-wide initiative, these costs are highlighted and high-end production tax credits to EBITA.
Further adjustments, and areexcluded from our adjusted measures.
which include amortisation and impairment of assets and certain net nancing costs, are made to remove their effect from adjusted Property costs profit before taxand EPS.
The tax effects of all these adjustments In the first half of 2018, we relocated our London headquarters are reflected in the adjusted tax charge.
These adjustments are from The London Television Centre to three central London detailed below.
The t-out costs of the three new locations were capitalised.
In October 2018, the Directors reversed their prior Production tax credits decision, reported in 2017, and agreed not to redevelop the The ability to access tax credits, which are rebates based on Groups headquarters at The London Television Centre and the production spend, is fundamental to our Studios business when site is now for sale.
The new London locations give ITV the flexibility assessing the viability of investment in green-lighting decisions, to continue to grow, while supporting our ambition to be an agile especially with regards to high-end drama.
ITVreports tax credits and increasingly digital organisation.
During the course of the generated in the US and other countries e. g. Norway, New Zealand, relocation project, dual rent, other property costs and move Italy, Canada and Spain within cost of sales, whereas in the UK tax related costs have been recognised as exceptional and are credits for high-end drama must be classied as a corporation tax therefore excluded from our adjusted measures.
However, in our view all tax credits relate directly to the property costs for the new ofces and studios are being treated production of programmes.
Therefore, to align treatment, as operating costs.
The costs associated with The London Television regardless of production location, and to reflect the way the Centre until disposal will be treated as exceptional.
business is managed and measured on a day-to-day basis, these are recognised in adjusted EBITA.
Our cash measures including Amortisation and impairment profit to cash conversion and freecash flow are also adjusted Amortisation and impairment of assets acquired through business for the impact of production tax credits.
Further detail on this combinations and investments are not included within adjusted is includedon the following page.
As these costs are acquisition-related, and in line with our treatment of other acquisition-related costs, we consider them to Exceptional items becapital in nature as they do not reflect the underlying trading These include acquisition-related costs, reorganisation and performance of the Group.
Amortisation of software licences and restructuring costs, property costs, non-routine legal costs development is included within our adjusted results as management and pension-related costs.
These items are excluded to reflect consider these assets to be core to supporting the operations of the performance in a consistent manner and are in line with how business.
the business ismanaged and measured on a day-to-day basis.
They are typically gains orlosses arising from events that are Net financing costs not considered part of the core operations of the business or Net nancing costs are adjusted to reflect the underlying cash are considered to be one-off in nature, though they may cross cost of interest for the business, providing a more meaningful several accounting periods.
We also adjust forthe tax effect comparison of how the business is managed and funded on ofthese items.
Note 2.2 to the financial statements includes a day-to-day basis.
The adjustments made remove the impact further detail.
of mark-to-market on swaps and foreign exchange, imputed pension interest and other financial gains and losses, which Acquisition-related costs do not reflect the relevant interest cash cost to the business We structure our acquisitions with earnouts or put and call and are not yet realised balances.
options, to allow part of the consideration to be based on the future performance of the business as well as to lock in and A full reconciliation between our adjusted and statutory results incentivise creative talent.
Where consideration paid or contingent is provided on the following page.
44 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Alternative Performance Measures Reconciliation between statutory and adjusted results 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 Statutory Adjustments Adjusted Statutory Adjustments Adjusted Twelve months to 31 December m m m m m m 1 EBITA 785 25 810 810 32 842 2 Exceptional items operating 93 93 153 153 3 Amortisation and impairment 92 85 7 102 97 5 Operating profit 600 203 803 555 282 837 4 Net nancing costs 43 7 36 50 17 33 Share of losses on JVs and Associates 4 4 Gain loss on sale of non-current assets and subsidiaries 2 non-operating exceptional items 10 10 1 1 profit before tax 567 200 767 500 300 800 5 Tax 97 49 146 87 67 154 profit after tax 470 151 621 413 233 646 Non-controlling interests 4 4 4 4 Earnings 466 151 617 409 233 642 Shares million, weightedaverage 3,999 3,999 4,006 4,006 EPS p 11.7p 15.4p 10.2p 16.0p Diluted EPS p 11.6p 15.4p 10.2p 16.0p 1.
25 million adjustment relates to production tax credits which we consider to be a contribution to production costs and working capital in nature rather than a corporate tax item.
E xceptional items largely relate to acquisition costs, primarily employment linked consideration, as well as restructuring and property costs.
10 million non-operating exceptional items mainly relates to the gain on sale of Manchester Quay Street.
Further detail is included in the Finance Review.
85 million adjustment relates to amortisation and impairment of assets acquired through business combinations and investments.
We include only amortisation on purchased intangibles such as software within adjusted profit before tax.
7 million adjustment is primarily for non-cash interest cost.
This provides a more meaningful comparison of how the business is managed and funded on a day-to-day basis.
Tax adjustments are the tax effects of the adjustments made to reconcile profit before tax and adjusted profit before tax.
A full reconciliation is included in the Finance Review.
Other Alternative Performance Measures Net pension deficit Total revenue This is our dened benefit pension deficit under IAS 19 adjusted for As an integrated producer broadcaster, we look at the total other pension assets, mainly gilts, which are held by the Group as revenuegenerated in the business which includes internal revenue, security for future unfunded pension payments for four Granada which isthe sale of ITV Studios programmes to Broadcast & Online.
executives and over which that pension scheme holds a charge.
Our broadcast channels are a significant customer for ITV Studios Afull reconciliation is included within note 3.7. and selling programmes to Broadcast & Online is an important part of our strategy as an integrated producer broadcaster as it ensures profit to cash conversion we own all the rights to the content.
This is our measure of our effectiveness of cash generation used for working capital management.
It is calculated as our adjusted A reconciliation between external revenue and total revenue is cash flow as a proportion of adjusted EBITA.
Adjusted cash flow, provided below.
which reflects thecash generation of our underlying business, is calculated on our statutory cash generated from operations and 2018 2017 adjusted for exceptional items, net of capex on property, plant Twelve months to 31 December m m and equipment and intangible assets, and including the cash impact External revenue Reported 3,211 3,130 of high-end production tax credits.
Internal supply 555 525 Total revenue Adjusted 3,766 3,655 Free cash flow This is our measure of free cash flow after we have met our financial obligations.
It takes our adjusted cash flow see above Adjusted net debt and removes the impact of net interest, adjusted cash tax which Net debt as dened in note 4.1 to the financial statements is is total tax paidadjusted to exclude the receipt of production tax adjusted for all our financial commitments.
This better reflects how credits and pension funding.
A full reconciliation is included in credit rating agencies lookat our balance sheet.
between net debt and adjusted net debt is provided below.
2018 2017 Twelve months to 31 December m m Net debt 927 912 Expected contingent payments onacquisitions 252 292 Net pension deficit 38 83 Operating leases 147 143 Adjusted net debt 1,364 1,430 Adjusted net debt to adjusted EBITDA 1.6x 1.6x Reported net debt to adjusted EBITDA 1.1x 1.0x E xcludes transponder costs, which are now treated as service contracts.
See the Finance Review for further detail.
The comparator has not been re-presented.
