MARKET REVIEW RESPONDING TO A CHANGING WORLD KEY DRIVERS WHAT THIS MEANS AND HOW WE ARE RESPONDING It is anticipated that 30% of the global corporate real estate 10 market will be formed of flexible space by 2030.
We will continue to take a prudent approach in meeting this global CHANGING GLOBAL ECONOMY demand for flexible workspace through strategies like Large companies across the world are responding to partnering and joint ventures.
significant changes in the global economy by Three key strengths will underpin IWGs leadership position: re-engineering their approach to office provision and our proven ability to keep pace with technological change, real estate assets to ensure the balance sheet reflects through world-class IT infrastructure and continuous service their business priorities.
In addition, a new accounting innovation: the constant listening to customers and insight standard could make workspace contracts more attractive that enable us to deliver against fast-changing expectations: for some businesses.
and our success in creating added value services for customers, from startups to corporates.
People increasingly expect high-quality personalised service as the norm.
Accessibility and flexibility are becoming core elements of workspace provision.
IWG enables flexibility to GROWING CUSTOMER DEMAND flourish at the heart of what we do.
We enable our customers Customers have responded to the changing environment by to make rapid shifts in location, scale, strategy, technological demanding flexible working options in order to use their time resource, customer focus and product development.
It brings more productively, in both working and personal lives.
them the flexibility they need to respond proactively to fast-changing markets, consumer habits and competitor activity.
In a fast-changing and unpredictable business environment, its hard for companies to identify the investments in technology they should be making.
Merely keeping up with RAPIDLY CHANGING TECHNOLOGY advancements is costly and the impact of digital interruption Smart technology and ever-present connectivity makes the need to maintain services mission critical.
We are continue to liberate people to choose where, how continuously investing to provide world-class, resilient IT and when they work.
infrastructure and connectivity at all our centres, spreading the benefit of continuous advancement across our client base.
And, through understanding the needs and aspirations of many thousands of clients across the world, we have privileged insight into the direction businesses want technology to take.
IWG has many advantages over other players.
Our reach is global, enabling us to ramp up and downsize in local markets as conditions change, and our operating platform is the most INCREASING COMPETITION efficient in the industry.
We have a multi-brand portfolio The growing market for flexible workspace has driven that enables broader customer reach and more precise more competition as workspace providers offer increasingly segmentation which helps us to develop new margindifferentiated offers and related services.
accretive ancillary and lifestyle services.
Moving forward, we will seek to grow an increasing proportion of our business through partnering and more prudent use of our capital.
CBRE EMEA Occupier survey 2017 10 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Spaces Fort Collins, USA Regus Bremen, Germany 11
