HOW WE WORK CREATING VALUE THROUGH REDEFINING WORKSPACES Customised workspace for rent wherever and whenever its needed.
Offices available by the day, by the week or by the year.
Offices with everything included high-speed internet, office furniture and utilities.
People just show up and get to work.
08 04 Ready-to-go offices Business lounge Workplace recovery Pay-as-you-go offices available as and A worldwide network of drop-in Keeping business going in the face of when you need them.
workspaces in key business locations, disaster access to a private office, equipped with high-speed internet, laptop and phone line assures business snacks and comfortable furniture.
18 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDING VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS PARTNERS We can offer landlords of all sizes and anywhere in the world exciting opportunities to achieve and sustain reliable revenue streams from their 08 04 property assets.
Depending upon Private office individual risk profiles and preferences, we can tailor our partnership A private office dedicated to you relationships to fit any requirements and your business.
from simple fit-outs to revenue and profit sharing arrangements.
CUSTOMERS Working with IWG helps corporate customers in many ways, from better Meeting room talent attraction and retention to Professional space to meet, from reduced real-estate costs and an presentations and interviews to optimised balance sheet.
For smaller conferences and board meetings.
businesses, including freelancers, Optional extras include catering, startups and expanding companies coffee and projection equipment.
in local and international growth markets, we provide a global location footprint thats supported by highquality, hassle-free customer service.
EMPLOYEES We recognise the importance that Co-working space working environment plays in Workspace in a shared environment building employee loyalty.
We have customers can benefit from our frontline people with many years first-class support as well as the experience of meeting customer opportunity to share ideas and expectations while ensuring experience with others.
sustainable rental yields for our partners.
Our world-class operating platform enables us to work efficiently across all brands, allowing us to reinvest in the customer Virtual office experience while delivering strong An instant presence anywhere shareholder returns.
includes call answering and mail handling with a professional SHAREHOLDERS business address.
Our operating model and strategy are designed to ensure we can deliver consistent and sustainable returns for shareholders while continuing to invest in our people, our brands and the customer experience.
We are committed to a sustainable and progressive dividend, which reflects our confidence in the long-term performance of the business.
