REDEFINING THE WORLD OF WORK LEADING THE GLOBAL WORKSPACE PLATFORM IWG has more locations in more cities and countries worldwide than anyone else.
More brands, more formats, more investment in technology and customer experience, more awareness, more customers and more potential for growth.
For more than a decade, annual growth in the global flexible workspace 2 market has averaged 13%.
Its even faster in cities like Amsterdam, San Francisco and Singapore.
And the scope for growth is increasing too the proportion of occupiers saying flexibility is key to meeting their real estate 3 objectives has risen by 14 percentage points in just 12 months.
The Flexible Revolution, CBRE research, 2017 3.
CBRE EMEA Occupier Survey 2018 4 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 HQ Wallisellen, Switzerland Regus Taichung, Taiwan No 18 Stockholm, Sweden Spaces California, USA 5 REDEFINING THE WORLD OF WORK REDEFINING HOW BUSINESSES WORK Powerful economic, regulatory and technological forces have liberated organisations of all sizes to transform their approach to workspace.
As a result, more and more are embracing the strategic, operational and financial benefits of the flexible workspace revolution.
Its no surprise that the flexible workspace market has grown by more 4 than 20% over the last seven years, or that 84% of corporates believe this flexibility is a permanent feature of the workspace landscape.
In fact, recent estimates suggest that by 2030 around a third of all corporate workspace will be flexible.
Getting closer to customers, suppliers and talent pools.
Reducing costs, and rapidly scaling up and down as required.
Focusing on true business priorities, not real-estate issues.
Equally important is the ability to drive improved workforce productivity and employee engagement.
The Flexible Revolution, CBRE research 2017 5.
Colliers, Flexible Workspace Report 2018, UK 6.
JLL 2018 Flexible Workspace Market Forecast 6 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 HOW WERE SUPPORTING BUSINESSES As a start-up business you dont have the At IWG, were doing more than anybody else to deliver these capital to pay for a fixed lease.
More centres, offices, co-working and drop-in workspaces across 3,306 locations in over 110 countries.
More to set up our business in a period of nine brands, ensuring we have the workspace solution for every weeks from start to finish.
More advanced technology and apps, minimising advantage by meeting our clients at a Regus admin and streamlining processes.
And more investment in our workspaces via our efficient platform and systems, or Spaces location most convenient to them.
making certain we deliver what our customers want.
Sabina Bovetti, Inizi Human Capital Consulting 56% of Asias top 200 occupiers are already using flexible workspace 5 and 91% are considering it 22% the growth rate of flexible office space over seven years.
1%: the growth rate of traditional office space over the Spaces Rotterdam, Netherlands 6 same period 7 REDEFINING THE WORLD OF WORK REDEFINING HOW PEOPLE WORK Increasingly, people are free to work in the way they choose, liberated by mobile technology and a changing culture to decide precisely where, how and when.
This demand is transforming the provision and nature of workspace.
Flexibility is driving a new, location-agnostic blend of work and personal time thats rapidly becoming the established norm.
Already, less than 20% of adults want to work a traditional 9 to 5 day, and 60% see a convenient work location as a key component of a good job.
And the overall trend is set to accelerate as the forces of change become even more powerful: 80% of the worlds adult population will own a smartphone 7 by 2020, a quarter of all mobile traffic will be on 5G networks by 2024.
Ericsson Mobile Data Traffic Growth Outlook, November 2018 8.
MacDonalds UK: Flexible Working Survey 2018 9.
PowWowNow, reported in Real Business, Demand for flexible working among UK employees is on the rise 8 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Spaces California, USA HOW WERE SUPPORTING PROFESSIONALS 69% IWGs unbeatable range of brands ensures people across the world can always find what they need.
Whether theyre of employees who work working close to home, setting up somewhere new or hosting flexibly say it encourages them 8 a meeting on the other side of the world, we can meet every to stay in a job for longer demand from a room for an hour to a building for a year.
75% Working with Regus has helped us to attract of employees favour flexible 9 working, up from 70% in 2017 and retain talented individuals looking for a flexible working policy.
53% Claire Cobbledick, of all US workers value Director of Gumtree, SA the flexibility to work in 9 different locations 9
