OUR BUSINESS MODEL CREATING VALUE FOR THE LONG TERM Our vision is to lead the global workspace revolution and provide our customers with a great day at work.
Our business model is delivered through an efficient platform creating value for shareholders and reinvestment for the benefit of our customers.
WHAT WE DO HOW WE DO IT We provide flexible workspace for over 2.5 million OUR STRATEGIC DRIVERS customers across the globe.
We work with landlords and Delivering attractive, Cash generation property owners in order to provide the largest network sustainable returns of workspace for businesses of all shapes and sizes.
Cost leadership Delivering profitable Developing multi-brand We can provide local, national and international solutions growth networks and, through our different brands, can tailor workspaces according to the needs of our customers.
That means we support our customers as they scale up or down, move See page 28 to read more about our strategy location and reconfigure existing workspace.
We can also provide the additional support services that are critical to some businesses such as workplace recovery, a virtual office or administrative support.
Our aim is to make sure we provide an ideal working environment so our customers can have a great day at work every day.
OUR COMPETITIVE OPERATING MODEL Operational efficiency We focus on optimising the performance and operational KEY INPUTS effectiveness of each of our locations which, combined with Our people a disciplined and focused approach across the business to Talented and experienced professionals who drive the overhead costs, enables us to continue delivering success of our business long-term value.
Our brands IWGs operational efficiency is underpinned by its scaled Segmenting the market for maximised uptake and returns platform and centralised support functions.
Our networks National and international, empowering businesses and Scaled platform individuals to work productively, anywhere in the world IWG plc and its commercial brands operate from a single, scaled global platform that enables us to provide workplace Our formats solutions across the world efficiently according to a Versatile, inspiring and practical, driving productivity customers requirements.
This centralised platform serves for every type of customer our different brands, allowing us to differentiate what we Our platform offer to our customers more efficiently.
Connecting the property industry, by providing a world-class and easy-to-use infrastructure with simple points of access and a great user experience 12 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS VALUE CREATED STRONG GOVERNANCE AND RISK LONG-TERM SHAREHOLDER VALUE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM We aim to deliver sustainable returns for shareholders over the long term through a progressive dividend policy.
Our operating model is underpinned by strong and robust We take a prudent approach to investments in our governance and a rigorous risk management model that business, ensuring strong cash generation and attractive ensures the business is being managed prudently and post-tax cash returns in order to provide sufficient capital risks appropriately assessed whilst ensuring that we still to meet growth demand and changing customer needs.
benefit from an entrepreneurial spirit and our ambitions for future growth.
28.6p 6.3p Cash flow per share Dividend per pre-growth, up 22% share, up 11% Centralised support functions IWGs support functions are centralised to ensure resources INVEST IN GROWTH and costs are controlled and utilised to maximise value for The flexible workspace market continues to grow at customers and shareholders.
From procurement to c. 13% and to meet future workspace demand we will marketing, the support functions benefit from economies work with franchisees and property owners to optimise of scale and global reach as well as providing the business our capital consumption and manage our market risk.
with a consistency of support and service.
Multi-branded We provide our customers with a choice of workspace solutions through our different brands.
We recognise there is no one-size fits all solution and therefore we offer different formats and workspaces to accommodate the varied needs of our customers.
See page 19 for stakeholders See pages 18-19 for value added for stakeholders See page 14 for details about our brands 13
