DIRECTORS STATEMENTS Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect Statutory statement as to disclosure to auditor of the Annual Report and financial statements The Directors who held office at the date of approval of these Directors statements confirm that: The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit applicable law and regulations.
information of which the Groups auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have Company law requires the Directors to prepare the Group financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, they taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards auditor is aware of that information.
IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law.
These financial statements have been approved by the Under company law, the Directors must not approve the Directors of the Company.
The Directors confirm that the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a financial statements have been prepared in accordance with true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and its applicable law and regulations.
profit or loss for the period.
In preparing each of the Group Statement of responsibility financial statements, the Directors are required to: We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the financial statements prepared in accordance with the consistently: applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair make judgements and estimates that are reasonable view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or and prudent: loss of the Group: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have the Directors Report, including content contained by been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the reference, includes a fair review of the development and EU: and performance of the business and the position of the Group prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the risks and uncertainties that they face: and parent company will continue in business.
the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups transactions and which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any position and performance, business model and strategy.
time the financial position of the Group and to enable them to By order of the Board ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They have MARK DIXON general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
ERIC HAGEMAN CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, a Strategic Report, 6 March 2019 a Remuneration Report and a Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys websites.
Legislation in the UK and Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
80 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 80 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
