Governance Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 42 J Sainsbury plc: Board of Directors David Tyler 65 Mike Coupe 57 Kevin OByrne 53 Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Date of appointment: 1 October 2009.
David has served as a Non-Executive Director Mike has served as an Executive Director since Skills and experience: Kevin brings to the since 1 October 2009 and as Chairman since 1 August 2007 and as Chief Executive Officer Board a wealth of retail and finance experience.
Kevin was previously Chief Executive Officer of Committee membership: Chair of the Committee membership: Corporate Poundland Group until December 2016 and held Nomination Committee.
executive roles at Kingfisher plc from 2008 to 2015, including Chief Executive Officer of B&Q Skills and experience: David has broad and Skills and experience: Appointed Chief UK & Ireland and Group Finance Director.
He was extensive experience in both executive and Executive Officer on 9 July 2014, Mike has been previously Group Finance Director of Dixons Retail non-executive roles across the consumer, retail, a member of the Operating Board since October plc and European Finance Director of Quaker Oats.
business services and financial services sectors.
Mike has vast retail industry experience in He was a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of He is also an experienced chairman having served trading, strategy, marketing, digital and online the Audit Committee of Land Securities Group PLC in that role previously at Logica plc and 3i Quoted as well as multi-site store experience.
He joined from 2008 to September 2017.
His last executive position was Sainsburys from Big Food Group where he was a as Finance Director of GUS plc, and previously he board director of Big Food Group plc and Managing held senior financial and general management Director of Iceland Food Stores.
He previously roles with Christies International Plc, County worked for both ASDA and Tesco, where he served NatWest Limited and Unilever PLC.
He has also in a variety of senior management roles.
been a Non-Executive Director of Burberry Group Other current roles: Non-Executive Director Plc, Experian plc and Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
Other current roles: Chairman of Hammerson plc and Chairman of Domestic and General Group Limited.
John Rogers 49 Chief Executive Officer of Sainsburys Argos Date of appointment: 19 July 2010.
John served as Chief Financial Officer of J Sainsbury plc from 19 July 2010 until 5 September 2016 when he was appointed as Chief Executive Officer of Sainsburys Argos.
Skills and experience: John has extensive experience in finance, strategy, digital, online, property and financial services.
As Chief Financial Officer of J Sainsbury plc for six years, John had responsibility for finance, Group strategy, Sainsburys online, business development, property, procurement and operational efficiency.
He also held various senior management roles in the Company between 2005 and 2010.
John is a member of the Sainsburys Bank plc Board.
Prior to Sainsburys, John was Group Finance Key to Committee members Retirements in 2017 18 Director for Hanover Acceptances, a diversified Mary Harris retired from the Board on 5 July 2017 Remuneration Committee corporation with wholly-owned subsidiaries in the food manufacturing, real estate and Audit Committee Life President agri-business sectors.
Nomination Committee Lord Sainsbury of Preston Candover KG Other current roles: Non-Executive Director C orporate Responsibility and of Travis Perkins plc.
Sustainability Committee Denotes Chairman of Committee Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Governance Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 43 Matt Brittin 49 Brian Cassin 50 Jo Harlow 55 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Date of appointment: 27 January 2011.
Committee Membership: Remuneration Committee Membership: Audit Committee Committee Membership: Corporate Committee and Nomination Committee.
Responsibility and Sustainability Committee and Chair of the Committee from May 2018, Skills and experience: Matt has extensive Skills and experience: Brian brings present Remuneration Committee and Nomination experience of running a high profile, fast moving, day experience of running a FTSE40 group and of Committee.
Since 2015, he has big data and analytics topics of key importance been responsible for Googles business and to Sainsburys.
Brian joined Experian as Chief Skills and experience: Jo brings a wealth of operations in Europe, the Middle East and Africa Financial Officer in April 2012, a post he held until experience in consumer-facing businesses and and hes been in leadership roles at Google since his appointment as Chief Executive Officer in in the telecoms and technology industry, both in 2007.
Prior to that, Matt spent much of his career July 2014.
Prior to this, Brian spent his career in the UK and internationally.
Jo spent 12 years in a in media and marketing, with particular interests investment banking at Greenhill & Co where he variety of senior management roles with Nokia in strategy, commercial development and sales was Managing Director and Partner and at Baring and Microsoft.
Prior to this, she spent eight years performance.
This included commercial and Brothers International and the London Stock at P&G and 11 years at Reebok in senior sales and digital leadership roles in UK media.
Exchange where he held senior roles.
marketing positions in both Europe and the US.
Other current roles: Googles President Other current roles: Chief Executive Officer Other current roles: Non-Executive Director Europe, Middle East and Africa and Director of Experian plc.
of InterContinental Hotels plc: Non-Executive The Media Trust.
Director of Halma plc: and Member, Supervisory Board of Ceconomy AG.
David Keens 64 Dame Susan Rice 72 Jean Tomlin 63 Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Date of appointment: 29 April 2015.
Committee membership: Chair of the Committee membership: Chair of the Committee Membership: Chair of the Corporate Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee and a member Responsibility and Sustainability Committee Nomination Committee.
Chair until May 2018 and a member of the Audit Committee and Nomination Committee.
Skills and experience: David has extensive Skills and experience: Susan has extensive retail experience and knowledge of consumer experience as a Non-Executive Director, as Skills and experience: Jean has extensive facing businesses, together with his core skills well as in retail banking, financial services, experience and breadth of skills in human resources in finance.
David was formerly Group Finance leadership and sustainability.
Her career in and corporate responsibility.
Jean was formerly Director Director of NEXT plc from 1991 to 2015 and their retail banking is particularly relevant to our of HR, Workforce and Accreditation for The London Group Treasurer from 1986 to 1991.
Previous ownership of Sainsburys Bank.
Previously, Susan Organising Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic management experience includes nine years in was a member of the First Ministers Council of Games, where she set the strategic direction to ensure the UK and overseas operations of multinational Economic Advisors, Managing Director of Lloyds the mobilisation of the combined 200,000-strong food manufacturer Nabisco and, prior to that, Banking Group Scotland and was previously workforce including paid staff, volunteers and seven years in the accountancy profession.
Chief Executive and then Chairman of Lloyds TSB contractors, which represented the recruitment and Scotland plc.
She has also held a range of other mobilisation of the largest peacetime workforce and Other current roles: Non-Executive Director non-executive directorships including at the Bank set the industry standard for volunteering with the and the Senior Independent Director of Auto of England and SSE plc.
She was previously Group HR Trader Group plc and Chair of its Audit Committee.
Director at Marks and Spencer Group Plc, HR Director Other current roles: Chair of Scottish Water and founder member of Egg plc and Sales & Operations and Business Stream: Chair of the Scottish Fiscal Director of Prudential Direct.
Commission: and Non-Executive Director of the North American Income Trust and C. Hoare and Co. Other current roles: Independent Board member of Michael Kors Holdings Limited: a Trustee of Step Up To Serve: and Lay Council Member at Loughborough University.
