18 Strategic Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 2017 18 value highlights Our values make Living healthier lives Offering customers nutritious and healthy us different food and encouraging active lifestyles Page 20 Our core values are integral to how we do business 18% 33,350 and they enable us to drive lasting, positive change in increase in our FreeFrom schools and clubs taking communities across the UK and overseas.
They help us range of products part in our Active Kids scheme in 2017 18 to build trust with our stakeholders, reduce operating costs, mitigate risks and attract and retain talent.
Making a positive difference With a growing population and our planets resources being pushed to their to our community limits, we are focusing our efforts where we can make the greatest difference.
Generating positive impact in the We believe that industry collaboration is the only way to address domestic communities we serve and source and global issues at the speed and scale required.
from, locally and globally Page 21 35m 91% generated for good causes store participation in our Local Charity of the Year programme Sourcing with integrity Building resilient supply chains by sourcing products ethically and sustainably Page 22 Best 95% Sustainable Seafood timber from certified Supermarket in the world in sources 2017, as recognised by MSC Respect for our environment Reducing emissions, water use and waste across our value chain Page 24 73% 14% of our stores donating emissions reduction unsold food to charity A great place to work Being an inclusive employer where colleagues love to work Page 26 713 55% colleagues enrolled or women in workforce completed apprenticeships Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Strategic Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 19 10 years of the One of the UKs Fair Development Fund Best Employers for Race For the last 10 years we have partnered with Business in the Community has Comic Relief through the Fair Development named Sainsburys one of the Fund.
We have co-funded projects aimed UKs Best Employers for Race, at helping growers, farmers and workers in for our comprehensive and developing countries to build a sustainable strategic approach to tackling income and a brighter future for themselves, racial inequalities.
their families and their communities.
CDP A list 3 millionth tree planted We are the first UK Food Retailer to achieve We have planted over three million trees since CDPs A list for more than two consecutive we joined forces with the Woodland Trust years and this years result puts us in the in 2004 mitigating 750,000 tonnes of CO. 2 top five per cent of companies tackling climate change in 2017.
Launching The Sainsburys 10 years of Dairy Foundation Advisory Board Development Group We have an independently chaired Advisory Our partnership with over 260 dairy farmers Board to drive forward our work to improve in the Group has achieved great success the resilience of the farmers and producers including higher milk yields, improved within our value chains.
animal welfare, and a price guarantee.
Making the difference Being part of something bigger Our Sustainability Plan is structured around We have mapped our sustainability activities our values and is our guide for building a against the UNs Sustainable Development We fully support the UN more sustainable future.
A lot has changed Goals SDGs.
Not only will they help us Sustainable Development since we launched the plan in 2011.
Our collectively deliver change, they also offer robust sustainability governance framework great economic opportunity and, in a highly Goals to end poverty, allows us to adapt to the changing needs of competitive industry like ours, make strong fight inequality and stop our business and the world around us, so that commercial sense.
our Sustainability Plan continues to generate climate change.
positive impact where it is needed the most and at the speed and scale required.
Mike Coupe Group Chief Executive Officer Following the acquisition of Home Retail Group United Nations Sustainable in 2016, we have focused on integrating Argos into our Sustainability Plan and will be looking Development Goals at Habitat next.
For transparent reporting against the Plan, we report the performance of Sainsburys and Argos separately.
For more detailed performance, see our Sustainability Update online.
20 Strategic Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 Reformulation Feeding our growing population, sustainably Billions of people are poorly nourished, millions of Living 77% farmers live at subsistence level, enormous amounts of of the multiple traffic food go to waste and poor farming practices are taking healthier lives 4 lights on our owna toll on the environment.
For example, to produce brand products are 60 per cent more food by 2050, we will need to meet the green and amber objectives of SDG 2.4 and use land, water and energy much more sustainably.
We are partnering with Oxford 2016 17: 75 per cent University and The Wellcome Trust on a world leading Related UN Sustainable Development Goals four-year research project looking at all aspects of diet, health and the environment.
We will support research on practical interventions and positive ways to help people who want to make healthier and more sustainable choices to do so.
See more on the sustainability of food production in our supply chains on page 22.
We help our customers to live well Did you know?
and living well starts with eating well.
It is estimated that one in four people in the UK will With 28 million customer transactions every week, we be over the age of 65 by 2040.
We are taking part in a have a responsibility to help our customers eat healthily research project Protein for Life, working with academics and improve the quality of the food in their baskets.
and industry partners to develop guidelines for higherprotein snack foods specifically for older people.
Healthy choices Healthy baskets We are making it easier for our customers to make 2 sales healthy choices.
That means increasing our range of healthier foods, cutting the amount of salt, sugar, 39% fat and saturated fat in our own-brand products and healthy products inspiring kids to live healthy, balanced lifestyles.
as a proportion of 3 total sales volume Soft drinks are a key contributor to the UKs sugar intake and we have been on a journey to remove sugar from 2016 17: 42 per cent our range for a number of years.
We have reduced sugar 1 Getting edgy with vegetables by 39 per cent across those soft drinks impacted by the Sugar Levy and we have revisited 69 per cent of our no 91 per cent of the nation is adopting a flexitarian approach 5 added sugar drinks, testing them through independent to eating reducing the amount of meat and fish they customer panelling.
We have also looked at salt and consume, opting for a more plant-based diet.
More than 6 calorie intake currently over 97 per cent of our owna third of evening meals now contain no meat at all.
brand products meet the Governments 2017 maximum To meet this demand, we launched a range of plant-based targets for salt reduction.
This year alone, we removed products such as shroomdogs and pulled jackfruit, which 77 tonnes of fat, 37 tonnes of saturated fat, 24 tonnes of also help customers to achieve their 5 A Day.
sugar and 8 tonnes of salt from our Classic Ready Meal Active Kids range equivalent to over 1.1 billion calories.
By the time children leave primary school, one in three is overweight and one in five is obese.
Since 2005, as Industry collaboration part of our Active Kids scheme, we have invested in over 185 million of sports and cookery equipment and We are members of the Consumer Goods Forum Our Deliciously experiences to help children understand the importance Health and Wellness pillar and the Industry FreeFrom range of diet and exercise.
Looking ahead, we will focus on Grocery Distribution IGD, working on initiatives offers even more driving healthy behaviour all year round by helping kids to improve diet and nutrition worldwide.
This year, choice for customers stay active over the summer holidays.
We are trialling we have worked with the IGD on reformulation, with allergies and Active Kids summer camps which will take place in communicating nutrition information on pack and intolerances.
Our schools and offer children of all ages affordable and healthy eating in the workplace.
new wheat, gluten diverse activities in safe surroundings.
and milk-free hot In 2017, we signed up to The Food Foundations cross buns have initiative encouraging people to eat more been very popular.
Our seven pledges centre on promoting the benefits of vegetables to our customers and As a leading retailer of treadmills, wearable technology increasing the number of products that contain and kids bicycles, we want to help Britain achieve its fitness the one of your five-a-day message.
In the coming year, we will educate our colleagues ensure all our online main meal recipes include two as well as our customers about products from across our portions of vegetables eating an extra portion Group that can contribute to us leading healthier lives.
of vegetables and a little less meat would reduce 1 B ased on sales-weighted average.
the UKs diet related greenhouse gas emissions by 2 T he proportion of products in our customers baskets that are defined as healthier based on category specific criteria.
3 T otal sales volume of Sainsburys branded and own-brand products that contribute significantly to dietary intake.
4 W orld Economic Forum, Innovation with a Purpose Report 2018.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Strategic Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 21 Community Building on our 24-year partnership with The Royal investment British Legion, and with the help of our customers Making a positive and colleagues, we raised over 3 million last year to 35m support the Armed Forces community serving men difference to our generated and women, veterans, and their families.
for charities, community communities and good causes Sainsburys is a hugely important partner for us Related UN Sustainable Development Goals and extended its support this year by partnering with Procter and Gamble which donated 10 pence per pack on selected products and led a highprofile media campaign raising awareness of our work.
We are looking forward to working even more closely with Sainsburys in 2018 to celebrate Payroll giving Our long-term business success relies the centenary of the end of the First World War.
Named Best on resilient, thriving communities in Promotional Charles Byrne Partnership at the UK and internationally.
Director General of The Royal British Legion the Payroll Giving In the context of rising inequality, an ageing population Awards for the and deteriorating public health, we are committed second year in a Did you know?
to tackling the challenges our neighbours face and row, recognising that We are the lead partner with the Woodland Trust on the supporting social cohesion, economic prosperity more than 11,500 First World War Centenary Woods project, commemorating and inclusive growth.
We make a positive economic of our colleagues the heroes of World War One.
We have created four flagship contribution to the UK through the tax we pay as well passionately donate woods across the UK.
Find out more about our partnership as how much we pay our colleagues.
In 2017 18, we to causes close on page 22. paid 2.1 billion in tax.
to their hearts throughout the year.
Local, human connections In 2017 18, our colleagues and customers have helped The results of our Living Well Index highlighted how to generate over 35 million for charities, communities important community and human connection is to the and good causes 2016 17: 53 million.
With over 1,400 stores across the UK, we 2020 target of 400 million, we have raised 300 million.
have a long history of building strong partnerships and This includes all our corporate donations, volunteering, making a big impact in our local communities.
In 2017 18 fundraising, awareness-raising and investment in our colleagues and customers donated 2.8 million to community programmes such as Active Kids.
We had 91 per cent store participation in our programme, with a record 1.95 million votes received from colleagues, customers and communities 2016 17: Collaborating for greater impact 1.9 million choosing the charities they wanted to support.
Our longstanding national partnerships with The Royal British Legion and Comic Relief in addition to our Fair Development Fund partnership have Argos helped us engage our colleagues and customers in supporting good causes in the UK and overseas.
2017 18 was the third year of our partnership with Macmillan Cancer Support and the Irish Cancer Society.
Our colleagues have been raising money for Comic We pledged to raise 3 million over three years to help Relief since 1999 and have donated over 115 million fund vital nursing hours.
Argos colleagues have entered to support projects internationally as well as in into fundraising activities with great enthusiasm and we the UK.
In 2017, we donated 11.6 million and one are delighted to have exceeded that target and raised of the projects supported was Change Please, a 3.23 million in total.
social enterprise which has trained hundreds of people who have experienced homelessness to become baristas as well as providing them with housing and a bank account.
We also stock Change The entire Argos team are committed, passionate Pleases award-winning coffee in 375 supermarkets and an inspiration.
Their efforts will fund 115,575 nationwide with 100 per cent of the profits going Macmillan nursing hours and make a genuine towards reducing homelessness.
difference to the lives of people living with cancer.
Natasha Parker Head of Corporate Partnerships, Macmillan 22 Strategic Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 Sourcing Scaling up impact sustainably We joined the Consumer Goods Forum Sustainable Sourcing with Supply Chain Initiative SSCI to improve transparency, 95% comparability and harmonisation of third party audit integrity 1 timber and 98 per cent schemes across the industry.
We are sharing our work 2 palm oil used in our and experience with the SSCI to ensure confidence in products is sourced sourcing, reduce audit duplication, complexity and cost Related UN Sustainable Development Goals sustainably to an for all stakeholders and ultimately drive positive social independent standard and environmental impact on the ground.
2016 17: 93 per cent and 98 per cent respectively Industry collaboration Deforestation is a complex, global challenge and we believe collective industry action is the only way to tackle the root causes and drive change With over 12,000 Sainsburys branded at the speed and scale required.
In addition to our 2020 target that our own-brand products will products sourced from over 70 countries, not contribute to deforestation, we are working we have a vital role to play in supporting with the Consumer Goods Forum on its zero net our farmers, growers and suppliers deforestation commitment.
With soy production being a major driver in deforestation, we pledged our support for the Our approach is to work collaboratively to tackle climate Cerrado Manifesto in 2017 a multi-stakeholder change, reduce the environmental impact of our raw call to action to halt deforestation and native materials, advance respect for human rights across our vegetation loss in Brazils Cerrado.
We are also supply chain and improve the livelihoods of our farmers, members of the UK Roundtable for Sustainable growers and suppliers.
Soya and are currently working with our suppliers Sustainable fish and external partners to measure and map our Sourcing for the future 86% soy usage.
Under the umbrella of The Sainsburys Foundation wild caught seafood programme, we will strengthen our supply chains through and 100 per cent investments designed to improve the sustainability, farmed seafood Working with the Woodland Trust resilience, efficiency and competitiveness of suppliers sourced sustainably Not only are we focused on reducing deforestation, we and producers by addressing their social, economic and to an independent are also a big advocate of planting trees.
We have been environmental development.
standard working with the Woodland Trust since 2004 and have 2016 17: 79 per cent, We have committed to source all of our key raw materials raised over 7 million from the sale of eggs, chicken and 100 per cent respectively sustainably to an independent sustainability standard turkey among other products.
To help build stronger and more resilient supply the planting of three million trees as well as educating chains, we have worked with independent experts to children and advising our farmers on the benefits of develop a world-leading approach to Sustainability planting trees.
This also contributes to the Governments Standards.
This builds on our own experience of directly Clean Growth Strategy and its commitment to planting supporting farmers and growers both in the UK and 11 million trees.
In addition, we have benchmarked our Standards against over 100 existing assurance and certification standards such as those of the Rainforest Alliance and UTZ, ensuring they cover the full breadth of environmental, economic and social challenges that Animal health impact our farmers and growers.
and welfare We are currently piloting the prawn, tea, sugar cane No.
and floral Standards with our farmers all over the world UK retailer for RSPCA from Thailand to Kenya, and Belize to South Africa.
assured products A major component of the biofuel in the diesel we sell is This year alone we have worked with 100 suppliers, used cooking oil which has been recovered and processed farmers, growers and co-operative representatives, from what would otherwise be waste.
Biofuels help us to providing on-the-ground training.
reduce customer emissions by replacing fossil fuels with sustainably sourced feedstocks.
Our supplier, Greenergy, ensures traceable, deforestation-free supply chains.
We are empowering our farmers to build a better quality of life for themselves and their communities by providing them with bespoke advice, skills, resources and funding.
Judith Batchelar Director of Sainsburys Brand Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Strategic Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 23 Timber, cotton and leather Backing British Fairtrade 3 95 per cent of our timber and 61 per cent of our cotton In 2017 we celebrated ten years of our Sainsburys Dairy 300m comes from sustainable sources and we are on track Development Group SDDG, which includes over 260 worth of Fairtrade to reach 100 per cent by 2020.
We are working with the British farmers and provides at least 97 per cent of our products sold in 2017 18, Sustainable Clothing Action Plan SCAP and the Better fresh milk.
Together we have been able to improve herd making us the worlds Cotton Initiative BCI to improve sustainability in our health and efficiency, ensure a fair price for milk for largest retailer of cotton supply chain.
So far we have been able to reduce dairy farmers and reduce costs in our milk supply chain.
Fairtrade products our clothing carbon footprint by over 8,600 tCO e and On average, our farmers cows each produce an extra 2 3 save over 11 million m of water since 2012.
By 2020 1,000 litres of milk each year, compared to when the we will ensure that all leather used in our own-brand farms joined the SDDG.
products is certified to a recognised environmental We are proud of our long-term, open relationships with standard.
We promote the industry-leading Leather our British partners.
This year over 500 farmers, growers, Working Group standard throughout our leather suppliers and stakeholders attended our eighth annual supply chains and work with our suppliers to improve farming conference.
We are also involved in 11 research performance through enhanced monitoring, traceability projects, with a value of over 3 million, to improve and certification.
agricultural productivity and reduce the environmental impacts of British farming.
Treating animals well and keeping them healthy Healthy, well-managed animals are more likely to deliver better-tasting, higher-quality products for our customers.
We sell more RSPCA Assured labelled products than any other supermarket and we sell more than 50 per cent of all RSPCA Assured products sold in the UK.
Read more about our practices in our annual animal health and British welfare report on our corporate website.
100% Water stewardship Sustainable fish of our fresh chicken, We are proud to support Courtauld 2025s new Water eggs and milk is British With the worlds oceans facing ongoing threats from Ambition a collective action approach which aims overfishing and pollution, we are leading the way to improve the quality and availability of water in key in sourcing fish responsibly and supporting SDG 14, sourcing areas in the UK.
We have already started to Life Below Water.
In 2017, the Marine Stewardship assess water risk with our produce growers, and in the Council named us the best supermarket in the world UK have identified top catchment areas to focus on in for sustainable fish.
No matter how our fish is sourced, partnership with WWF and The Rivers Trust.
On a global either caught wild or farmed, we want to make sure it scale, we are also using our Sustainability Standards to comes from the most sustainable and well-managed collect data on water issues and identify hotspots, which fisheries and farms.
will support the SDGs which tackle water-related issues.
We are working with OceanMind, the not-for-profit Cutting edge technologies for supply chain division of the Satellite Applications Catapult, to monitor transparency and assurance vessels through satellite technology.
This can give We are part of the Fintech Taskforce alongside assurance of responsible and legal fishing practice five international companies and banks and four at the point of capture.
Fintech startups assessing how technology-driven The power of partnerships innovation in finance can support sustainable Empowering development.
The first project is testing a blockchain We are committed to trading partnerships based on women in India system virtual ledger which aims to reward open dialogue, transparency and respect.
Since 1994 Through the Fair Malawian tea farmers for using sustainable methods Development Fund, we have supported farmers and workers in some of the in partnership with by offering them easier access to finance.
most challenged value chains by paying a fair price for Comic Relief, we have their crop and a premium on top of this through the been breaking down Fairtrade programme.
The premium is used to invest barriers for women in social, environmental and economic development working in our grape Argos projects that improve the businesses supplying us as supply chain in India.
We have prioritised aligning ethical sourcing practices with Read more in our well as the wider farming communities.
Sainsburys, training over 150 colleagues and briefing over we generated a 4.3 million premium through the sale 1,000 of our own-brand suppliers in the UK and Asia on of our 100 per cent Fairtrade bananas alone, directly our approach to ethical sourcing.
Raw materials have also supporting our banana farmers.
been a focus: we now source all of our feather and down from certified sources and are working on our approach to cotton and timber.
As we progress with integration, we will review sustainability and ethical sourcing practices in our jewellery and packaging supply chains.
1 T imber data is provided a year in arrears.
2 9 8 per cent palm oil during the 2017 calendar year.
3 Cotton data is provided a year in arrears.
24 Strategic Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 Respect for our environment Related UN Sustainable Development Goals Cutting carbon Climate change and resource scarcity emissions are complex, global challenges which 14% affect every part of our business.
We are using aerofoil technology in our stores which, reduction in carbon inspired by Formula 1, prevents cold air from fridges emissions in 2017 18 To grow our business sustainably, we are cutting carbon, spilling out into aisles.
We will save 15 per cent on our maximising energy and water efficiency and keeping 2016 17: 8 per cent energy and customers will enjoy warmer aisles.
food waste at a minimum right across our value chain.
Cutting food waste Cutting carbon, maximising efficiency Transitioning to a circular economy and using materials We are committed to reducing our carbon emissions more effectively means we can reduce waste and costs.
and investing in low carbon technologies and achieved We are focused on keeping food waste at a minimum a 14 per cent reduction this year.
Since 2005, we have across our value chain.
We are increasing supply chain cut absolute carbon emissions by 24 per cent, working Reducing food efficiency, growing our network of charity food donation towards 30 per cent by 2020.
We have achieved a waste and partners and helping our customers reduce food waste in 50 per cent intensity reduction in carbon emissions fighting food their own homes UK households throw away 7.3 million since 2005, aiming for 65 per cent by 2020. poverty tonnes of food each year, accounting for 70 per cent of We recognise the risk that climate change poses to the UKs post-farm-gate total food waste.
our business and manage this by reducing carbon 73% emissions throughout our operations and supply chain.
stores have a food donation partner for To support the transition towards a low carbon future we unsold food, aiming are developing a science-based target in collaboration for 100 per cent by with The Carbon Trust and Imperial College London.
In 2017 18 we donated 1,866 tonnes We have been investing our 200 million corporate of food from our stores green loan in ongoing energy security and carbon 1 to charity, equivalent reduction initiatives such as installing solar panels on our to over 4.1 million roofs, switching to natural refrigerants and generating meals.
We also donated 2 197 tonnes from our green gas using combined heat and power CHP plants.
primary logistics We have also partnered with General Electric to install network to charity.
LED lighting in our stores, reducing our lighting energy 2016 17: 1,657 tonnes consumption by around 58 per cent for the stores included in the rollout a three per cent annual reduction in carbon emissions once the programme is completed.
We have invested 1 million in 30 communities across Currently, 17 per cent of our electricity comes from the UK to help our customers reduce food waste and save on-site renewables generation and renewable power money.
In Norfolk, our grant has supported the roll-out purchase agreements.
of seven new community fridges and helped get our Did you know?
pioneering educational school programme Fab Foods into We use cutting edge technology to minimise emissions eight new schools helping over 50,000 households tackle 3 from our logistics.
Working with partners, we were the food waste.
With one in five of people thinking that food first company in the world to trial refrigerated vehicles past its best before date is not good to eat, we launched a powered by liquefied natural gas rather than diesel.
campaign with Mumsnet to help householders distinguish We are also testing KERS kinetic energy recovery system between Use by and Best before.
technology, pioneered in the Formula 1 industry, on ten vehicles to understand if it can help us further reduce vehicle emissions, especially in urban areas.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Strategic Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 25 Improving our food waste reporting Water We have been refining our measurement process to Having achieved our 2020 target to reduce absolute further improve the accuracy of our reporting.
We are water consumption by 30 per cent compared to 2005 6 part of industry food waste groups and actively support one billion litres we are now focused on maintaining the Consumer Goods Forum in this area.
We are taking this, while continuing to grow our business.
In 2017 18, a farm-to-fork approach to help achieve SDG target 12.3. our water use was 2.3 billion litres.
We have achieved significant progress this year and Increasing global water scarcity is a risk for our business.
are now able to review data for unsold food in real time.
We are proactively mapping and managing this risk in We have aligned our terminology to the Food Loss and our supply chain see page 23.
Waste Accounting and Reporting Standard to promote Did you know?
In 2017 18, our food 4 To tackle the uncertainty that growers face in knowing not consumed was 38,304 tonnes, a reduction of how much water a crop needs, our More Crop Per Drop eight per cent year-on-year.
research project is trialling growing herbs with water The destinations of our food not consumed were 10,419 deficient irrigation, where the water supply is slightly tonnes redirected into animal feed and 27,884 to energy below that considered optimal.
We also donated 1,866 tonnes 5 Colleague engagement to charity from our stores and 197 tonnes from our primary logistics network.
The amount sent to anaerobic We continue our work to be the Greenest Grocer by digestion has declined nine per cent year-on-year, driven educating colleagues on how to grow our business while by continued operational efficiencies.
reducing our operational carbon emissions.
This year we have been engaging colleagues on our processes to minimise waste, encouraging stores to develop food Sustainable Industry collaboration on packaging donation partnerships and supporting them on what packaging We have been committed to reducing our packaging food they can donate.
for many years back in 2007 we launched a bag 35% designed by Anya Hindmarsh that said I am not reduction in packaging a plastic bag.
This quickly became a hot fashion since 2005, aiming for 6 50 per cent by 2020 accessory with a strong environmental message.
Our approach is to reduce the amount of packaging 2016 17: 33 per cent used, ensure it is recyclable and increase the amount of recycled material in it.
Our 2020 target is to reduce our packaging by 50 per cent compared to 2005 and we have achieved 35 per cent so far.
This includes an eight per cent reduction over the last five years.
To scale up our impact and meet the UN SDG target Water use 12.3, we are collaborating with the industry.
As a signatory to the Courtauld 2025 commitment to 30% cut food waste by 20 per cent by 2025, we work absolute reduction with the charity WRAP and the industry to reduce in water use in our Argos operations, achieving packaging and tackle food waste both around our We have integrated Argos into our Respect for Our our target of 30 per cent products and in the supply chain.
For example, we Environment value and we are extremely pleased reduction by 2020 are part of a project aiming to create a packaging that Argos has achieved zero waste to landfill this 2016 17: 31 per cent pigment, allowing black plastics to be more easily year.
Carbon emissions have reduced by 15 per cent, detected and recycled.
We are also signing up to a reduction of 27 per cent since 2005.
Looking forward, WRAPs UK Plastics Pact, an ambitious industry-wide we will roll out an LED lighting programme across framework to improve the consistency of recycling Argos stores and implement a new colleague energy infrastructure, simplify plastic packaging and engagement programme, based on Sainsburys incentivise the use of recycled material.
Overall, 83 per cent of the packaging on our ownbrand products is classed as widely recycled and 38 per cent is made of recycled content.
This is a fantastic achievement but we know there is still 1 A n ew methodology has been put in place to improve the accuracy of charity more we can do.
We will continue to work with our donations data.
This is effective from 2016 17 so numbers in this report are comparable.
peers, Government and customers to help increase 2 N ot included in our food not consumed total.
the sustainability of packaging in the UK.
4 I ncluding store and depot food not consumed.
5 A n ew methodology has been put in place during 2017 18 to improve the accuracy Jane Skelton of charity donations data.
The charity donations are not included in our food not consumed.
Head of Packaging 6 T his is 2016 17 data.
2017 18 figures will be available in Q2 in line with subsequent external reporting commitments.
The 33 per cent included as the previous years data is for 2015 16.
26 Strategic Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 A diverse and inclusive retailer We want to be the most inclusive retailer where every Great place single one of our colleagues can fulfil their potential and where all our customers feel welcome when they to work shop with us.
We believe diverse teams that reflect the communities we serve perform better.
Our Inclusion Steering Group, which consists of four Operating Board Sponsors, meets regularly to influence our strategy and govern progress.
Our 160 Inclusion Champions across the Related UN Sustainable Development Goals Group help to drive inclusion at a local level.
This year, in recognition of the important role they play, we brought these colleagues together to inspire, engage and up skill them to deliver activity in their part of our business.
We continue to hold a range of inclusion events across the A great place Our colleagues are the foundation of year and supported 29 Pride events in partnership with our to work LGBTA Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans and Allies networks.
our business, providing award-winning Gold accreditation Our Inclusion Week in 2017 covered the challenging topic of from Investors in People customer service and connecting us banter through our Beyond a Joke campaign, something maintained for the third that has been highlighted as a societal issue through the consecutive time to our communities.
We continue to provide great Creating an inclusive environment where over 185,000 mentoring opportunities to diverse colleagues through our colleagues can be the best they can be helps us to attract Womens Mentoring Programme Mentoring Matters and and retain the best talent and increase productivity.
through Empowers Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic BAME mentoring programme.
A place where colleagues love to work Through our involvement in the Disability Confident Nearly 96,000 colleagues took part in our Were Listening Business Leaders Group and scheme, we hope to survey and 72 per cent of our colleagues feel that encourage as many other employers as possible to feel Sainsburys is a great place to work.
This year we also confident in employing people with a disability.
We have introduced a new sustainable engagement measure worked hard to provide line managers with support to assess the strength of colleagues connection to Investing in materials and guidance that equips them to have effective Sainsburys over the long term.
We were pleased to see training and workplace adjustment conversations with colleagues who positive colleague engagement scores of 80 per cent, development have a disability or long-term health condition.
against a backdrop of major change within our business and the sector in general.
Were Listening equips our 713 leadership teams with the tools and insights to build This year, women made up 55 per cent of our workforce.
colleagues enrolled robust action plans which will support us in being a great You can read more about our Board diversity on page 55. or completed place to work.
This year we reported our gender pay gap, in line with the apprenticeships in 2017 Government guidelines.
To find out more and to understand We want to reward our colleagues for doing a great job what we are doing to support gender equality, please read for our customers every day.
We have proposed a market our report on our corporate website.
leading rate of pay for Sainsburys colleagues of 9.20 from September, along with revised terms and conditions Caring for our carers which will ensure contractual consistency and fairness.
As one of the first FTSE 100 companies with a Carers policy, we are committed to helping our colleagues balance their responsibilities at home and at work.
Lorna has a 21 year old son James who has cerebral palsy, and has worked at Sainsburys for the past five years.
I joined Sainsburys when James was 16, knowing the hours would fit in with my responsibilities Investing in the training and development to James.
When James was very poorly in Great of our colleagues Ormond Street Hospital, it was reassuring to know Apprenticeships give colleagues on-the-job skills and that the team supported me: swapping shifts, training and help us to secure a talent pipeline.
We have making it possible for me to spend as much time offered apprenticeships since 1974 and currently have 713 as needed with him.
I continue to feel I work in a colleagues enrolled on a range of programmes.
Since the place where I can be both a carer and a colleague, Apprenticeship Levy in May 2017, we have grown our offer and feel genuinely supported in both roles.
from five retail programmes to seven and introduced six programmes for store support centre colleagues.
In Lorna Newbury the coming year we plan to introduce a new Bakery and Brighton New England store Fish programme, along with programmes to support our colleagues in HR and Argos Retail.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Strategic Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 27 Human rights and modern slavery Ethical policies Our vision is to be the most trusted retailer where people The Company takes bribery extremely seriously and love to work and shop, which includes treating people is committed to ensuring compliance with laws and fairly wherever they are in our business and supply chains.
Colleagues are expected to abide by a set of clearly communicated formal policies, such as the This year we released our first Group Policy on Human Ethical Supplier Policy and the Conflicts of Interest Rights, which outlines our commitment to respect human Relationships at Work Policy.
rights and specifies how we do this in relation to our colleagues, our customers and our suppliers.
Although this Training in support of these policies is provided to is our first specific human rights policy, our commitment colleagues especially in the commercial divisions, is reflected in other longstanding policies, processes and firstly during their induction into the Company and partnerships on ethical trade and human resources.
Being an inclusive retailer 26,000 colleagues employed through YouCan since 2008 our scheme that provides jobs for people who might otherwise struggle to find employment.
We have identified slavery and human trafficking as a Argos salient human rights issue for our business and supply This year we have continued to review our ways of chains.
We have developed a new Modern Slavery Risk working across Sainsburys Argos to deliver a great Assessment Tool to identify risks in our value chains customer experience and realise financial synergies across the Group.
This, together with the support of Verit as part of integration.
We engaged all 28,000 colleagues and other stakeholders, will enable us to set a strategy on the Group strategy and values and have launched with tailored prevention and remediation activities.
Disability LOVE a Group-wide colleague recognition scheme, Confident Leader This year we increased our capacity building portfolio by which is aligned to our shared values.
Our Retail status developing a specific e-learning module which includes Academy programmes have been a huge success, awarded by Department practical guidance on identifying the signs of modern providing structured learning and development to for Work and Pensions slavery and human trafficking.
We also contributed to our talented store colleagues.
452 colleagues have for our work on disability industry guidance to address substandard living and participated in these programmes this year, with and inclusivity.
We are working conditions sometimes experienced by seasonal 38 per cent of them achieving promotion.
the largest retailer in the workers and have participated in a working group to UK to achieve this status.
Industry collaboration Stakeholder collaboration is key to ensuring that the people who make, grow or sell our products are not being exploited or exposed to infringements of their human rights.
We are founding members of the Ethical Trading Initiative and work closely with suppliers, government agencies, non-profit organisations, unions and others to maintain our Named as one high standards.
of the UKs Best Employers We have also committed to the Consumer Goods for Race Forums Forced Labour Priority Industry Principles.
by Business in the We recognise that forced labour, caused by excessive Community levels of worker indebtedness from high recruitment fees, is one of the most common forms of modern slavery within our sphere of influence.
We are actively working with our partners to implement our policy commitment.
Read our policy and second Modern Slavery Statement on our corporate website.
