14 Strategic Report Priority 2 Grow General Merchandise and Clothing and deliver synergies A key part of our strategy is to make it quick and convenient for customers to shop with us whenever and wherever they want to.
in womenswear and childrenswear, with year, bringing the total to around 280, ahead General Merchandise sales, opportunities for growth in menswear, which of our original schedule.
We are seeing strong including Argos, declined by now accounts for 15 per cent of clothing sales like-for-like sales, with an uplift in grocery 0.8 per cent and outperformed and is our fastest growing clothing category.
sales in supermarkets that have an Argos store.
Sales of clothing online have increased by Customers can pick up their Argos and 45 per cent.
We are now making the Tu General Merchandise performed strongly Tu clothing orders from 192 collection points ranges easily accessible to Argos customers in key areas such as Audio, Mobiles and in our supermarkets.
155 of these are in through the Argos website, available for Video Games.
supermarkets where customers can also home delivery or collection from over 1,000 collect eBay and DPD parcels.
We also have Argos and Sainsburys stores across the UK.
Offering high street style at supermarket 37 collection points in Sainsburys Local stores.
prices has made Tu clothing very popular In the 18 months since we acquired Argos with our customers.
Sales grew nearly We will deliver 160 million EBITDA synergies we have been rapidly integrating our two four per cent, outperforming the market, and by March 2019, six months ahead of plan.
Joint range planning has enabled Clothing now contributes close to 1 billion of A key part of our strategy is to make it quick us to rationalise our product offer and annual sales to the Group.
Over eight million and convenient for customers to shop with give customers better overall choice and customers regularly buy the range, making us whenever and wherever they want.
We have opened 191 Argos stores in us the sixth largest clothing retailer in the Argos website is the third most visited retail Sainsburys supermarkets and we expect to UK by volume.
We are strongly positioned website in the UK and online sales continue open around 90 more in the next financial Our strategy in action Argos stores in Sainsburys Menswear supermarkets Menswear is the fastest-growing In response to financial returns clothing category by volume and and great customer feedback, accounts for 15 per cent of our we are opening Argos stores in clothing sales.
We launched Tu our supermarkets faster than Premium and Tu Formal for men we originally anticipated.
We in October the first supermarket plan to open 90 this financial to offer premium ranges for men year, bringing the total to thus consolidating our position as around 280. a destination shop for great value, stylish clothing.
6 On track to deliver 160 million Clothing retailer by volume EBITDA synergies by March 2019, according to Kantar Worldpanel six months ahead of schedule Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Strategic Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 15 1 G eneral Merchandise grew ahead of the market BRC non-food to grow, with 60 per cent of Argos sales non-clothing market, consistently gaining share.
Clothing beat originating online, over 70 per cent of which the market Kantar Worldpanel, 52 weeks ending 18 March 2018.
are generated through mobile devices.
3 2 017 18 calculated including Argos in the base.
Food is our core business and growing Excluding Argos from the base, General Merchandise sales grew our General Merchandising and Clothing Fast Track is a key point of difference for us, 55.3 per cent.
4 2 017 18 calculated including Argos in the base.
and Financial Services businesses enabling us to leverage our unique Hub and Excluding Argos from the base, clothing sales grew 4.5 per cent.
is an important part of our strategy.
Spoke model to deliver Argos orders quickly We know that our customers value and conveniently.
greater choice and that there is a firm Customers have the choice of same day or correlation between increased loyalty next day Fast Track delivery or collection and spend across our whole offer when and this year, Fast Track delivery increased customers buy into these categories.
by 28 per cent and Fast Track collection Definition: Year-on-year growth of total by 45 per cent.
In November we opened sales, including VAT.
regional fulfilment centres in Reading and Birmingham.
