Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements e s l e e n o y n a n a h t r e t t e b Strategic Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 07 Our business strategy Our vision is to be the most trusted retailer where people love to work and shop.
Our goal is to make our customers lives easier every day by offering great quality and service at fair prices.
Our strategy Our strategy is designed to address a changing marketplace and to make it easy for our customers to shop with us whenever and wherever they choose.
Our priorities To deliver our strategy, we have prioritised Great four key areas of our business.
This will help Colleagues products to differentiate and develop our customer making the offer and to grow and create value for our and services shareholders.
Our four key priorities are: difference at fair prices Our values Priority 1 make us Further enhance our different differentiated food proposition See more on page 12 Priority 2 Grow General Merchandise and There for our Clothing and deliver synergies customers See more on page 14 Priority 3 Diversify and grow Sainsburys Bank See more on page 16 Priority 4 Continue cost savings and maintain balance sheet strength See more on page 17 What makes us different Our values We are a multi-product, multi-channel Our values underpin everything we do as a business with a strong, differentiated business and help us strengthen relationships food proposition and respected brands with all our stakeholders.
They enable us to in Sainsburys, Sainsburys Bank, Argos build trust, reduce operating costs, mitigate and Habitat.
risks and attract and retain talent.
We benefit from a structurally advantaged As a business with a global footprint, our store estate, world-class property assets, an values help us to drive lasting, positive efficient supply chain and a market-leading change in the UK and internationally.
digital presence with fast delivery networks.
See more on page 18 All this is underpinned by customer insights that enable us to adapt our business to customers changing lives.
