16 Strategic Report Priority 3 Diversify and grow Sainsburys Bank Our ATM estate grew by over five per cent to over 1,820 and we introduced 36 ATMs We have over 1.9 million active customers.
Over in high footfall Argos stores.
1 of every 11 81 per cent of insurance customers and 75 per cent of dispensed from a LINK ATM transaction is from Sainsburys Bank.
banking customers have, or are linked to, a Nectar card.
Travel Money grew 26 per cent in a competitive market.
This year we opened a further nine card sales.
The Argos Card saw a 12 per cent Travel Money bureaux, taking the total to 241 Sainsburys Bank profits increased increase in sales and can now be used in both across the estate.
As well as an in-store service by 11 per cent to 69 million, Sainsburys and Argos, providing greater choice in convenient locations across the UK, we also primarily due to the full-year and convenience for customers.
We launched offer an online, home delivery service.
consolidation impact of Argos our new, enhanced personal loan platform We expect the banking market to remain Financial Services.
and around 70 per cent of all new personal competitive and we will take a cautious lending goes to active Nectar card holders.
Good sales growth across the product range was approach to unsecured lending in favour of New Savings account growth is up 41 per cent offset by a reduction in margins in a competitive, a greater focus on growing our commission this year with growth in deposits up 21 per cent, unsecured lending market and a modest products and mortgage book.
Together with which includes 32 per cent growth in ISA and increase in bad debt charges, as expected.
the impact of new accounting standards Fixed Term deposits.
and the interest related to the external We have over 1.9 million active customers, capital we raised in November 2017, this will Since introducing our insurance broker panel an increase of eight per cent year-on-year.
impact Sainsburys Bank profits in the short model in February 2017, new policy sales in Car Over 81 per cent of insurance customers and term, but we are confident that this is the Insurance increased by 42 per cent and Home 75 per cent of banking customers have, or are right decision for the business and remain Insurance grew by 39 per cent.
By working with linked to, a Nectar card.
confident in the potential of the Bank to a broader base of underwriting partners and generate growth and healthy returns in the looking at our data we have been able to offer Credit Cards performed strongly, with medium term.
more quotes to more Sainsburys customers 40 per cent growth in new Sainsburys Bank and give better discounts.
Our strategy in action Sales growth Food is our core business and growing Mortgages our General Merchandise and Clothing Sainsburys Bank offers a range and Financial Services businesses of competitively priced mortgages is an important part of our strategy.
for homeowners across the UK We know that our customers value with flexible features that allow greater choice and that there is a firm overpayments, underpayments and correlation between increased loyalty payment holidays.
We also offer and spend across our whole offer when Sainsburys shoppers a unique loyalty customers buy into these categories.
We have received over 3,000 mortgage applications and lending is Definition: Year-on-year growth of total in excess of 275 million.
In March 2018, sales, including VAT.
we launched 95 per cent mortgages, helping first time buyers.
Bank % 2015 16 5.4 1 1 2 016 17 excludes Argos Financial Services.
2016 17 4.4 2 2 017 18 calculated including Argos Financial Services in the 275m base.
Excluding Argos Financial Services from the base, 2 2017 18 7.3 Mortgage lending Bank sales grew by 26.2 per cent.
