s l e G n e n n C a e h a o h r i e a n c C u e l d l a V M C l e o r t c h i h n a g n d L s i s e d o u e g l o i a 06 Strategic Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 Our business model Creates value for our shareholders, customers and colleagues, both now and in the future.
Supply chain We source products from over 70 countries, according to the ability of suppliers to meet our quality, safety and ethical standards.
We invest in British farming through 2,200 members of our farmer and grower Development Groups and we are involved in 11 research projects to improve agricultural productivity and reduce the environmental impact of British farming.
Logistics Seven days a week, we deliver fresh food, Brand Trust groceries, general merchandise and clothing Customer from suppliers around the world, via 33 Loyalty distribution centres, to our store and online customers, meeting their requirements for flexible, convenient shopping.
Argoss unique Hub and Spoke logistics network enables us to fulfil Fast Track Same Day home deliveries and store collections.
Channels We have over 2,200 Sainsburys supermarkets, convenience stores and Argos stores across the UK and Ireland and an established online capability.
Our popular Groceries Online app now accounts for around 20 per cent of food orders.
With this strong multi-channel, multiproduct proposition, customers can shop with us whenever and wherever they want.
Our values key Quality Service Our passion for quality extends to everything We employ over 185,000 colleagues who are A great place to work we sell food, general merchandise and the foundation of our business.
They make a Respect for our environment clothing and financial services.
We are real difference in the communities they serve, consistently ranked ahead of our peers on the offering customers great service day in, day Sourcing with integrity quality of our food and we regularly review out, in our stores, online and over the phone.
Living healthier lives and improve our own-brand product ranges.
Our committed, well-trained colleagues have helped us win The Grocer Gold Awards for both Making a positive difference Customer Service and Availability for the past to our community Value five years.
Offering great quality products and services at fair prices is part of our commitment to Choice help our customers live well for less.
Quality and price are both important in the value Through our Sainsburys, Argos and Habitat proposition and our regular lower prices brands, we are one of the UKs largest retailers, reassure customers that they can always offering over 90,000 branded and own-brand get good value at Sainsburys.
products across food, general merchandise and clothing and financial services.
