J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Sector review Revenue m Underlying operating pro t m 2018 2018 29.0 279.7 2017 2017 25.3 236.3 2016 2016 21.0 203.6 2015 2015 19.4 193.0 2014 2014 14.2 164.2 Return on capital employed % 2018 17.3 2017 16.5 2016 13.9 2015 14.8 2014 21.2 10 STRATEGIC REPORT J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Marine Support Our Marine Support businesses provide products, services and solutions to the global marine industry.
These are supplied to a range of end market sectors including marine, oil and gas, ports, construction and renewables.
Our principal businesses Operations End markets Locations Fendercare Marine products and services, ship-to-ship transfers, offshore Marine, oil and gas, renewables and defence UK, Singapore, Australia, UAE, Brazil, terminal services Nigeria, Ghana JF Marine Services Integrated marine services, including remotely operated vehicle Marine, oil and gas, renewables, tidal power UK, France ROV systems and diving services and communications JF Testing Services Products and services that measure and monitor structural Marine, oil and gas, renewables, civil and UK, UAE, Singapore, Malaysia stress, instrumentation and materials testing construction JF Subsea Excavation Massow excavation services Oil and gas and renewables UK, Mexico, Singapore Subtech Marine and diving services Oil and gas, marine and construction South Africa, Mozambique, UAE, Nigeria Market drivers Fendercare is the leading provider of pneumatic oating fenders monitor the structural integrity of infrastructure in the construction and other mooring equipment to the global marine industry.
The sectors serviced encompass new services commercial shipbuilding, ship refurbishment, defence, port shipbuilding, ship refurbishment and life extension, port developments and the oil and gas markets for project applications.
developments, and projects for the oil and gas market.
Fendercare is also the leading provider of ship-to-ship services It is also a leading provider of specialist testing and monitoring for the transfer of crude or re ned oil, lique ed natural gas or bulk services to the construction and maintenance sectors, and designs cargoes.
The demand for these services is driven by the volume and manufactures testing and monitoring equipment, supporting of oil trading between oil majors and independent traders and customers worldwide.
also by production where local port infrastructure is unable to The market drivers for JF Testing Services are new projects in the accommodate large tankers.
marine, oil and gas, infrastructure and renewables sectors, where JF Marine Services delivers an integrated service offering that our niche offering and innovative products and services provide a utilises the wide range of marine skills across the Group to provide competitive advantage.
added value to its customers.
Demand for its services is driven JF Subsea Excavation specialises in providing massow by the operation and maintenance activities in the marine, oil excavation tools and services to cover or uncover subsea pipelines and gas, renewables and communication sectors.
Demand for its services is driven by global cable and the specialist provision of ROV systems and diving personnel for pipeline projects primarily in the oil and gas, renewables and underwater surveys, inspections, construction and diver support.
JF Testing Services is the leading provider of strain gauges to the Subtech provides a range of marine services to the Middle Eastern marine industry, which are used in a range of applications such as and Africa region.
Demand for its services is driven by port mooring systems on ships and in ports as well as being used to construction, diving and marine projects.
11 STRATEGIC REPORT J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Specialist Technical Our Specialist Technical businesses supply diving equipment and services, submarine rescue vessels and throughlife rescue services and engineering solutions to the international defence market and UK nuclear decommissioning market.
The submarine rescue market is a small niche with a national navy either having its own capability or relying on other countries.
Other subsea services provided to the defence sector include diving equipment and special operation swimmer delivery vessels.
The Group also supplies saturation diving systems which are installed onto dive support vessels and support deep subsea diving activities.
James Fisher Nuclear JFN provides engineered solutions which operate in hazardous environments in the nuclear industry.
Our principal businesses Operations End markets Locations JFD Design, supply and servicing of diving and subsea equipment, Defence, commercial and defence diving, UK, Australia, Singapore, Sweden submarine rescue and special operations services hyperbaric and submarine rescue J F Nuclear Engineered solutions in remote handling, non-destructive testing Nuclear decommissioning UK, Germany and calibration services Market drivers JFD is the worlds leading supplier of saturation diving systems JFN provides engineered products and services to the nuclear and related diving equipment.
Its end markets are oil and gas and industry both in the operation of nuclear power plants and defence.
Saturation diving systems are both xed and portable.
Its products and services operate in hazardous Fixed systems are usually built into dive support vessels DSVs.
The business provides instrumentation, nonJFD provides the equipment and the follow-on consumables, destructive testing, calibration and digital radiography to the nuclear, support and maintenance to the DSV operator.
The construction aerospace and process industries.
The market drivers for JFN are the and replacement of DSVs drives new build saturation diving systems demand for its products, services and lifetime support from the UK which in turn drives ancillary service and product spend.
JFDs decommissioning industry, radiological calibration requirements and defence market is based on service, repair and on-going calibration projects within the aerospace, process and defence industries.
requirements, and on projects requiring specialist diving equipment.
JFD is also a leading provider of submarine rescue services.
It encompasses the ability to design, deliver and operate submarine rescue vehicles.
It has long-term service contracts with navies providing a very niche area of capability.
The driver is the tendering of defence projects for provision of the equipment, which can then lead to longer-term service contracts to operate the service.
We currently provide submarine rescue services to the UK, Singaporean and Australian navies.
The business also provides swimmer delivery vessels to the special operations markets.
This includes the design and engineering of specialist equipment, platform maintenance and modi cation, well testing support, subsea operations and maintenance services.
James Fisher is also established as a world leader in arti cial lift specialist completion technology and innovative accessory tools for electrical submersible pumps.
Our principal businesses Operations End markets Locations ScanTech AS Design and engineering of specialist equipment, platform Oil and gas Norway maintenance and modi cation, well testing support and subsea operations Scantech Offshore Provides products and services to well testing companies Oil and gas UK, UAE, Brazil, Australia, Malaysia RMSpumptools Arti cial lift specialist completion technology and innovative Oil and gas UK, UAE accessory tools for electrical submersible pumps Fisher Offshore Provides range of lifting equipment and services to the Oil and gas, marine UK, Malaysia marine, offshore and subsea industries Market drivers ScanTech AS is Norways leading provider of ATEX ATmospheres RMSpumptools is a world leader in arti cial lift specialist EXplosives products and support services to the energy sector.
completion technology and innovative accessory tools for Its products and services are supplied to the Norwegian oil and electrical submersible pumps.
RMSpumptools supplies products gas market and are used for platform maintenance, well testing to the global downhole oil and gas market which improve the or speci c projects.
Equipment is designed and certi ed to the productivity of wells utilising electrical submersible pumps.
The driver for the business is the operation Fisher Offshore provides winches, hoists, cutting tools, marine and maintenance spend on offshore rigs in the Norwegian sector.
cranes and subsea hydraulic equipment to the oil and gas and Scantech Offshore is a leading provider of air compressors, steam marine sectors.
Its market driver is maintenance, inspection and generators, heat suppression equipment and quali ed personnel repair demand and subsea projects.
for the well testing market worldwide.
It rents equipment to large multinational oil service companies, along with quali ed personnel to operate the equipment.
The driver for the business is the operation and maintenance spend on offshore rigs around the world.
15 STRATEGIC REPORT J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Tankships Our Tankships division operates a fleet of product and chemical tankers which trade along the UK and northern European coastline carrying petrol, diesel, gasoil, kerosene and easy chemicals biofuels.
The division performs nearly 2,000 port calls each year carrying fuel from re neries and terminals to major coastal storage facilities.
The division also operates a port in Plymouth, UK.
Our principal businesses Operations End markets Locations JF Everard Delivery of clean petroleum products around the Distribution of clean petroleum products UK European coastline Cattedown Wharves Port operations Wet and dry product distribution UK Market drivers James Fisher Everard JFE distributes clean petroleum products Shipping dramatically reduces our customers carbon footprint and easy chemicals under contracts with oil majors from re neries compared to other modes of transportation.
Shippings CO2 and terminals to storage facilities around the European coast, and to emissions are half that produced by road freight, and just one full islands.
It operates a fleet of double-hulled product chemical tankers ship keeps more than 150 trucks off the roads.
with capacity ranging from 3,000mt to 13,000mt.
The business The division operates Cattedown Wharves, a port in Plymouth which driver is the level of consumption of clean products petrol, diesel, provides berthing and marine services to the oil majors which own gasoil and kerosene and easy chemical biofuels in the UK, Ireland tank farms in Plymouth.
It also handles dry cargoes such as animal and northern Europe.
feed being imported into the South West and clay being exported JFE has undertaken 37,435 voyages since the year 2000, carrying from the region.
The primary driver for the business is the level of in excess of 81.
This has been achieved consumption of clean oil products within the South West region of whilst maintaining an excellent safety record.
