J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Board of Directors Chairman Executive Directors Malcolm Paul Nick Henry Stuart Kilpatrick Fergus Graham 1 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Of cer Group Finance Director Director, Marine Support Nominations Committee Division Appointment: Malcolm was Appointment: Nick joined the Appointment: Stuart joined Appointment: Fergus joined appointed to the Board in Group in February 2003 and the Group in July 2010 and the Group in January 2017 February 2011 and was was appointed Chief Executive was appointed to the Board and was appointed to the appointed Chairman in Of cer in December 2004. as Group Finance Director in Board as Executive Director May2018.
December 2010. with responsibility for the Key strengths and experience: Marine Support division in Key strengths and experience: Key strengths and experience: Clear strategic mindset.
Extensive business Strong financial and Strong leadership skills.
Key strengths and experience: leadership experience.
Nick worked for 20 years for Operational and Long-term track record of Broad experience as P&O Containers and P&O commercial experience.
finance director with Ports, of which 10 years international and diverse Considerable knowledge Malcolm is a fellow of were in senior management listed companies.
of international business the Institute of Chartered positions based in Singapore, development.
Accountants in England and Hong Kong, Australia, Stuart is a member of Wales and was a founder and Netherlands and the Indian the Institute of Chartered Fergus worked for 19 years former Finance Director of WSP Sub-Continent.
Nicks Accountants of England and for fide La Rue plc, with 7 years Group plc between 1987 and experience encompasses a Wales and quali ed with in general management roles.
Prior to that Malcolm wide range of commercial and BDO Binder Hamlyn.
He Fergus experience includes was a principal at the corporate operational roles, including was formerly Group Finance a wide range of commercial finance boutique Financial fleet management and Director of Empresaria Group and operational roles working Decisions and an equity partner information technology.
plc, and he previously held with commercial, government, at Longcrofts, Chartered senior finance roles with financial institutions and External appointments: Accountants.
Vodafone Group plc, Charles technology clients across Member of the Supervisory Baynes plc and Elementis the world, as well as leading External appointments: Board of the UK Chamber Group plc.
acquisitions from initiation Chairman of Anthesis of Shipping: Non-Executive through to integration.
Consulting Group, a private Director of Britannias Gold External appointments: None.
1 1 Malcolm P Malcolm Paul b aul be ecame Chairman a came Chairman af ft ter the conclusion o er the conclusion of the A f the AGM in May 2018, when Charles Rice st GM in May 2018, when Charles Rice sto oo od down as Chairman.
A copy of C f Charles harles biography is a biography is av vailable in the Annual R ailable in the Annual Rep epor ort and Accoun t and Accounts 2017 ts 2017 36 J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Non-Executive Directors Aedamar Comiskey Justin Atkinson David Moorhouse CBE Michael Salter Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Senior Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director # and Chairman of the Audit Chairman of the Remuneration # Committee # Committee # Appointment: David was Appointment: Aedamar was Appointment: Justin was Appointment: Michael was appointed to the Board appointed to the Board in appointed to the Board in appointed to the Board in in August 2013 and was November 2014 and was February 2018 and was August 2013. appointed Senior Nonappointed chairman of the appointed chairman of the Key strengths and experience: Executive Director in June Remuneration Committee in Audit Committee in May 2018.
He will stand down from May 2018.
Key strengths and experience: and strategic delivery the Board on 28 February Signi cant operational and Key strengths and experience: experience through 2019. financial experience through a number of senior Extensive global business his previous and current roles.
Key strengths and experience: management roles.
Substantial commercial, Substantial experience on In-depth knowledge of In-depth knowledge of financial and operational boards of listed companies legal and governance oil and gas and marine experience.
in both executive and nonissues for large listed industries.
Michael was formerly Chief Justin was formerly Chief the oil and gas and marine Aedamar is the Global Head Operating Of cer at Abbot Executive Of cer of Keller Group industries.
of Corporate and a member Group plc and earlier in his plc between April 2004 and David was formerly Executive of the Executive Committee at career, CEO of Smedvig May 2015, having previously Chairman of Lloyds Register Linklaters LLP, where she has Limited and General Manager held the position of Group and earlier in his career, CEO been a partner since 2001. of Bawden Drilling UK Ltd. Finance Director and Chief of John Brown plc, a Director Aedamar was previously the External appointments: None.
Justin was a of Trafalgar House plc and Senior Board Member on the financial manager at Reuters plc, Executive Vice President rms Partnership Board, its and trained and quali ed as a of Kvaerner where he had governance body.
Aedamar chartered accountant at Deloitte particular responsibility for specialises in international Haskins & Sells, Scotland now their engineering and process and domestic mergers and part of PwC.
acquisitions, joint ventures and External appointments: Senior fundraisings, and is the lead External appointments: NonIndependent Non-Executive relationship partner for many Executive Director of OAO Director of Kier Group plc: of the rms FTSE 350 clients.
Sovcom ot: Life member Senior Independent Director, of the UKs Foundation for External appointments: None.
Chair of the Audit Committee Science and Technology: and Chairman-elect of Forterra Chairman of Braemar Shipping plc: Non-Executive Director and Services Plc.
Chair of the Audit Committee of Sirius Real Estate Ltd and a member of the Audit Committee of the National Trust.
Audit Committee # Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee 37 STRA GOVERNANCE TEGIC REPORT
