J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Strategy The Groups strategy is to grow its business organically by Our focus on operational excellence requires that our businesses: leveraging its existing marine skill base in areas of specialist are cash-generative: expertise to a global market and through investment in have operating margins in excess of 10%: and people, working capital and equipment.
This is supported provide returns on capital employed in excess of 15%.
by selective acquisitions to broaden the product and service range or geographical coverage.
James Fisher has a range of Bolt-on acquisitions broaden the range of products and services that we provide.
Our acquisition strategy is focused on niche  businesses which are market leaders in their speci c operational niche.
Our businesses operate in demanding businesses with a strong entrepreneurial culture which t well with our operating style and growth strategy.
As a cashenvironments where strong marine service and specialist engineering skills are valued and rewarded.
We seek to provide generative Group with a strong balance sheet, businesses are usually acquired using existing cash or borrowing resources.
solutions to our customers in the less mature and fast-growing markets where they value trusted and quality suppliers.
Our niche The businesses acquired have a good track record and typically need additional resources for their next growth phase.
Where an operations are integrated into a wider service offering to a diverse range of end markets.
acquisition bolts on to existing businesses, we seek to optimise shared back of ce functions, purchasing opportunities and crossselling within the Group.
To deliver the Groups strategy we have four strategic purposes, which are aligned with our key stakeholders: Shareholders: to Communities: to be a Employees: to bring Customers: to develop grow the return to good member of the out and develop the and deliver solutions to shareholders: community: potential of our people: our customers: Deliver long-term growth Consider sustainability Ensure the safety of all Develop our products, in underlying earnings in our decision-making employees service and geographical per share, dividends process offering in line with Develop individual and and return on capital customer needs Support the communities organisational excellence employed around us Respond rapidly to Support new ideas and Grow organically by changing customer Minimise any adverse innovation leveraging existing requirements impact from our specialist marine skill operations Provide good value and base to a global market a high level of service to Expand our footprint and customers capabilities through bolton acquisitions For more information on stakeholder engagement, see the Sustainability report on page 26.
9 SS TRA TRA TEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPOR T T
