J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Directors report The Directors submit their report together with the audited the on-going trading of the businesses, the Directors have financial statements of the Group for the year ended reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources 31December 2018. to continue to operate for a period considered to be at least 12 months from the date of this report.
Accordingly, the Directors The Strategic report, which includes our Sustainability report consider it appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern on page 26, Board of Directors biographies on page s 36 and basis of accounting in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
37, the Corporate governance report on page 38, the Audit Committee report on page 45, the Nominations Committee Results and dividends report on page50 and the Directors Remuneration report on page 52 all form part of the Directors report.
The Directors The Groups pro t after tax for the financial year was 45.3m 2017 restated: 39.4m.
The results are shown fully in the report and Strategic report comprise the management reports and the Directors report ful ls the requirements of the Corporate consolidated financial statements on pages 77 to 120, and discussed in the Financial review on pages 18 to 20.
Governance Statement for the purposes of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 21.3p per share 2017: 19.3p making a total dividend of 31.6p per share for We have chosen, in accordance with the Act, to include certain information in our Strategic report or financial statements that the year 2017: 28.7p.
Subject to shareholders approval at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 10 May 2019 to ordinary would otherwise be required to be disclosed in the Directors report.
This is as follows: shareholders who are on the register at the close of business on 5April 2019.
Subject matter Location Page Post balance sheet events Important events since the financial Strategic report 6 On 8 January 2019 the Group acquired the entire share capital year end of Martek Holdings Limited Martek, for an initial net cash Likely future developments in the Strategic report 3 consideration of 9.0m, with potential further consideration of up business to 1.0m subject to a pro t target for the year ending 28 February Research and development Sustainability report 32 2020.
Employee involvement Sustainability report 29 On 8 January 2019 we announced that the Group had acquired Greenhouse gas emissions Sustainability report 31 60% of the share capital of Murjan Al-Sharq MSMC, for an initial Use of financial instruments Note 26 102 cash consideration of 4.1m, with potential further consideration of up to 4.5m subject to a pro t target for the year ending 31December 2019.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely Share capital to affect its future development, the financial position of the Details of the share capital of the Company and the shares held Group and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties by the Companys Employee Share Trust are set out in note 27 on are set out in the Strategic report on pages 22 to 25.
The rights and obligations attaching to the shares are Groups primary sources of funding are bilateral revolving credit set out in the Companys Articles of Association Articles.
Copies facilities with a core group of banks, which totalled 225m at of the Articles may be obtained from the Group General Counsel 31 December 2018 2017: 225m.
Compliance with banking and Company Secretary, and are available for inspection at the covenants is tested half yearly for the ratio of net debt: earnings Companys registered of ce during normal business hours.
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation Ebitda and As at 31 December 2018, 50,263,911 ordinary shares of 25p interest cover.
No breaches in covenants occurred during the year.
each have been issued, are fully paid up and are listed on the The Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements London StockExchange.
through operating cash ows, with borrowings in place to fund acquisitions and capital expenditure.
The Group had 92.4m 2017: 71.8m of undrawn committed facilities as at 31 December 2018.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonable changes in trading performance, con rm that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current banking facilities.
The Group uses cash ow forecasts derived from budgets, forecasts and medium-term planning to identify headroom under the covenant tests.
After making enquiries, and having evaluated 67 GOVERNANCE J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Directors report continued Substantial shareholders Directors con ict of interest Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Financial Under the Companies Act 2006, a director must avoid a situation Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure Guidance and Transparency where a direct or indirect con ict of interest may occur.
The Board Rules DTRs is published on a Regulatory Information Service has adopted established procedures to address the management and on the Companys website.
As at 31 December 2018, the of any potential and actual con icts of interest.
A review of following information has been received, in accordance with con icts which have been authorised has been undertaken by the DTR5, from holders of noti able interests in the Companys Board, which concluded that any con icts had been appropriately issued share capital.
authorised, no circumstances existed which would necessitate that any prior authorisation be revoked or amended, and the Ordinary authorisation process continued to operate effectively.
shares Nature held % of holding Additional information for shareholders The Articles may only be amended by a special resolution at a Rowland Hart Jackson 8,824,413 17.56 Direct general meeting of the shareholders.
Schroders plc 4,970,246 9.88 Indirect No political donations were made during the year.
Details of Therapia Investments Ltd 3,732,2217.43 Direct the Groups involvement in charitable initiatives in set out on Standard Life Aberdeen plc 3,178,455 6.32 Indirect page s33 and 35.
Montanaro Asset Management 1,855,000 3.68 Direct Details of Group subsidiaries can be found on pages 121 to 123.
Limited Trustee of the Sir John Fisher Foundation Signi cant agreements change of control The Company is a guarantor of all of the Groups bilateral bank Purchase of own shares facilities which upon a change of control could be withdrawn.
At the 2018 AGM, the Company was given authority to purchase The Singapore Submarine Rescue Service Agreement made between up to 2,510,027 of its ordinary shares until the date of its next James Fisher Singapore Pte Ltd. and First Response Marine Pte Ltd. AGM.
No purchases were made during the year and up to the date dated 17 October 2008 may terminate upon a change of control of of this report by the Company.
the Company or James Fisher Singapore Pte Ltd.
The rules of the Companys LTIP, ESOS and Sharesave schemes Directors set out the consequences of a change of control on the rights of The biographies of the current Board of Directors are set out on participants under those schemes.
Participants are generally able pages 3 6 and 3 7.
Changes in the composition of the Board are to exercise their options on a change of control, provided that the provided in more detail in the Nominations Committee report on relevant performance conditions have been satis ed.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of of ce or Powers of Directors employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy The powers of the Directors are determined by the Companys or otherwise that arise in the event of a change of control of Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and in certain circumstances theCompany.
including in relation to the issuing or buying back by the Company of its shares the authority given by the Company Information required by UK listing rule 9.8.
The Directors will be seeking to renew the There are no disclosures to be made under listing rule 9.8.
4. authorities granted to them in prior years at the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors are authorised to issue and allot ordinary Disclosure of information to the Auditor shares, to disapply statutory pre-emption rights and to make Each Director in of ce at the date of approval of this Directors market purchases of the Companys shares.
Any shares report con rms that: purchased may be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Directors and of cers liability insurance information of which the Companys auditors is unaware: and The Company maintains an appropriate level of directors and the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have of cers liability insurance.
The Directors and of cers of the taken as a director to make him herself aware of any relevant Company and its subsidiaries are indemni ed against liability to audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor third parties and, to the extent permitted by section 236 of the is aware of that information.
Companies Act 2006, the Directors may be granted indemnity by the Company pursuant to the Companys Articles.
68 J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and Directors responsibility statement integrity of the corporate and financial information included The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the and Accounts and the Group and parent Company financial preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements of the annual financial report in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as Each of the Directors con rms that to the best of his or her adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU and knowledge: applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements on the same basis.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and pro t or statements unless they are satis ed that they give a true and loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent Company consolidation taken as a whole: and and of their pro t or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial statements, the Directors the Strategic report and Directors report includes a fair are required to: review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included select suitable accounting policies and then apply them in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a consistently: description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they make judgements and estimates that are reasonable, relevant face.
and reliable: The Directors consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken state whether they have been prepared in accordance with as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides IFRSs as adopted by the EU: the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups assess the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as position and performance, business model and strategy.
a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors going concern: and use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are suf cient to show and explain the parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic report, Directors report, N P Henry S C Kilpatrick Directors Remuneration report and corporate governance Chief Executive Of cer Group Finance Director statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
