J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Corporate governance report continued employee, Fergus Graham already had a strong insight into the Induction and training business but was briefed on Board and Committee procedures.
In 2018 there were a number of new appointments and changes In my new capacity as Chairman, I have written to some of our in role.
Following his appointment to the Board, Justin Atkinson larger shareholders.
On-going training and development for was given a detailed induction to the Groups business which Directors is available as appropriate and is reviewed and agreed included brie ngs on the Groups strategy and business model with the Chairman annually.
The Board is con dent that all its and the Boards activities over the last year.
Induction materials members have the knowledge, ability and experience to perform included recent Board and Committee papers and minutes of the functions required of a director of a listed company.
meetings, the articles of association, matters reserved for the The Non-Executive Directors regularly visit major business Board and Committee terms of reference.
Justin visited sites of centres of the Group in order to enhance their knowledge some of the Groups larger businesses as part of his induction, including in relation to the services and products offered, which including JFD, JF Nuclear, Fendercare and JF Marine Services in turn acts to strengthen their contribution to Board debate.
JFMS, and held meetings with senior management from key In 2018, visits included JFMS and Fendercare at their UK areas of the business.
This gave him insight into their businesses headquarters, and the Non-Executive Directors also received and challenges.
The Group General Counsel and Company presentations from management on key strategic plans, including Secretary briefed Justin on core Group policies and on Board relating to individual businesses and markets, as well as from the and Committee procedures.
To prepare for his role as Chair Group Human Resources Director.
of the Audit Committee Justin also met with the external and internal auditors and the Group Finance Director.
As an existing Topic Key activities and Risk management Key priorities discussions in 2018 framework for 2019 Strategy Reviewed and approved the corporate strategy.
Financial risk Approve the corporate strategy Reviewed and approved a number of acquisitions.
Project delivery and keep under review.
Reviewed and approved major capital investments.
Consider acquisitions as identi ed Reviewed financial and nonfinancial key performance and determine appropriate course indicators KPIs.
Considered and approved the Groups dividend policy.
Keep financial and nonfinancial KPIs under review.
Keep the Groups dividend policy under review.
Risk and risk Carried out a robust assessment of principal key risks, Project delivery Review key risks and ensure that management monitored and reviewed the internal controls process, and Operating in the Group continues to develop assessed the Group risk pro le see the Principal Risks emerging markets and embed best practice for risk section starting on page 22 for more detail.
Reviewed the potential impact of the EU referendum to the Continue to monitor compliance business.
with the key Group policies.
Monitored compliance with key Group policies.
40 STRATEGIC REPORT J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Topic Key activities and Risk management Key priorities discussions in 2018 framework for 2019 Governance Continued to focus on the composition, balance and Recruitment and Ensure that the Company effectiveness of the Board, in particular with the retention of key continues to develop and embed appointment of Malcolm Paul as Chairman, David staff best practice in responsible Moorhouse as Senior Independent Director, Justin Atkinson business behaviour.
Maintain and enhance the Groups Reviewed the key operational roles and identi ed gaps in culture and values and key policies experience needed to deliver the strategy.
Reinforced compliance with Code of Ethics, a document Continue to strengthen internal which sets out the Groups culture and values, all in controls and reporting.
accordance with the principles of good corporate governance.
Further understanding and Drafted and consulted on the remuneration policy which planning actions in response to was presented to shareholders for approval at the AGM in new regulations over the period.
2018. Review the initial Engaged with our individual shareholders at the AGM.
recommendations from the Engaged with institutional shareholders, investors and other designated Non-Executive Director stakeholders throughout the year.
Separate Non-Executive Director sessions held with the Chairman to discuss leadership and other Board matters.
Reviewed and approved the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board agreed that, taken as a whole, the 2017 Annual Report was fair, balanced and understandable.
Considered the impact of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 and, in particular, reviewed workforce engagement methods.
Organisational Monitored health and safety performance across the Group Health safety and Recruit a new Chief Executive.
capacity and reviewed the lessons learned to keep our employees environment Continue to monitor senior and others affected by our operations safe.
Regular Board Contractual risk executive talent management and updates received on actions improving health and safety.
Recruitment and development plans to provide Reviewed the governance framework and continued training retention of key succession for all key positions.
and awareness drives for key policies.
staff Continue to enhance the diversity Supported by the Nominations Committee, monitored across the Group.
senior executive talent management and development plans Continue to hold meetings with with succession planning for all key positions in mind.
people in the senior talent pipeline to further improve information ow.
Board Continued to focus on the composition, balance and Recruitment and Enhance the Boards strategic development effectiveness of the Board.
Reviewed Board composition retention of key understanding of key markets as and discussed and acted on the recommendations of the staff the Group continues to grow.
Use Board visits to promote Undertook an external evaluation of the Board, its understanding of markets and Committees and individual Directors.
Following the the business development evaluation an action plan was developed.
Annual evaluation of Board performance to be led internally.
41 GOVERNANCE J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Corporate governance report continued Audit Remuneration Nominations Board and Committee meetings attendance Board Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings during 2018 6 3 2 4 Executive Directors Nick Henry 6 N A N A N A Stuart Kilpatrick 6 N A N A N A Fergus Graham 6 N A N A N A Non-Executive Directors Malcolm Paul 6 3 N A 4 Aedamar Comiskey 6 3 2 4 David Moorhouse 6 3 2 4 1 Michael Salter 4 21 2 2 Justin Atkinson 5 31 3 Former directors: Charles Rice 3 1 2 1.
Michael Salter was unable to attend the meetings in January and February 2018 due to travel restrictions following an operation.
Justin Atkinson was appointed on 1 February 2018.
Charles Rice ceased to be a Director on 3 May 2018.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, the Chairman ensures conducted internally.
The Chairmans performance was reviewed by that all Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information on the other Non-Executive Directors led by the Senior Independent all relevant matters in advance of the Board meetings, including Non-Executive Director and taking into account the views of the comprehensive financial and business reports covering the Executive Directors.
The performance of the Executive Directors Groups principal activities.
All Directors received papers for all was reviewed by the Non-Executive Directors with the Chairman meetings and had the opportunity to comment in advance of in attendance.
The Chairman and the Executive Directors reviewed meetings they were unable to attend.
the performance of each of the other Non-Executive Directors.
The Board considers that each Director continues to contribute Internal Board evaluation effectively and to demonstrate commitment to the role.
At the end of each year, the Board undertakes an annual External Board evaluation evaluation of its own performance and that of the Remuneration, Nominations and Audit Committees and of each individual In 2018, the Board determined that, in addition to the internal Director against the framework of Board effectiveness produced evaluation, it would also undertake an externally facilitated by the FRC.
evaluation, it being three years since the last externally facilitated evaluation.
The Nominations Committee sought proposals from a The 2018 performance evaluations were designed to assist the number of rms and elected to engage Independent Audit Limited Board in identifying strengths and weaknesses and areas for IA a specialist consultancy which has no other business or further improving performance and required each Director to connection to the Group or individual Directors to conduct the complete in con dence a detailed questionnaire relating to key evaluation.
Having been provided with a comprehensive brie ng aspects of Board performance, and performance of the Boards by the Chairman and Group General Counsel and Company principal Committees.
The review included an analysis of the Secretary, IA conducted an evaluation process from September Boards and Committees performance in key areas including 2018 to January 2019, involving: corporate governance, structure and procedures, strategy, and effectiveness, risk management and control and communications access to all Board and Committee papers and minutes with shareholders and other stakeholders.
The results of the presented in 2018, to enhance I A s understanding of how the evaluation were collated by the Group General Counsel and Board and its Committees operate.
Company Secretary and reported to the Board via the Chairman attendance and observation at the Board and Audit with recommendations for further consideration and action as Committee meetings in October 2018. appropriate.
individual interviews with each Director and the Group The 2018 review concluded that the Board functions well as a General Counsel and Company Secretary, for which an unit and provides a good balance of support and challenge to interview script was developed to ensure consistency, management.
with bespoke questions to allow for additional information The annual review of individual Directors performance was re ecting function, role, tenure and experience.
42 STRATEGIC REPORT J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 IA found that the Board and Committees operated well as a and best practice.
The appointment and removal of the Group cohesive and committed team, and with dedication demonstrated General Counsel and Company Secretary is a matter requiring by all Directors.
Their report identi ed certain challenges Board approval.
facing the Board looking ahead, including managing a period of transition in the composition of the Board, focusing on the longFinancial and business reporting term strategy and ensuring an effective pipeline for executive The Board considers that the Annual Report and Accounts succession.
An action plan has been put in place to address these taken as a whole present a fair, balanced and understandable challenges.
assessment of the Group and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, Diversity and inclusivity business model and strategy.
More information about how this As a Board, we are highly supportive of the initiatives we have in assessment was made is set out in the Audit Committee report on place to promote diversity and inclusivity beyond our board room and page 4 6. throughout our business.
We will achieve this aspiration by recruiting, The going concern assessment set out in the Directors report on retaining and developing diverse and talented people and creating an page 6 7: the viability statement is set out in the principal risks inclusive environment where everyone can be the best they can be.
section of the Strategic report on page s 8 and 9: and the Strategic Our gender diversity information can be found on page 34. report on pages 1 to 35 sets out an explanation of the Companys We recognise that diverse teams perform better and acknowledge business model and the strategy for delivering the Companys that having a diverse Board is important.
diversity on the Board goes beyond gender and includes a Risk management and internal controls variation in skills, experience and background.
The Committee believes we have a good balance of diversity amongst our NonThe Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent Executive Directors, with several having extensive experience of of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic engineering, technology and other highly relevant skills derived objectives and for ensuring that the Company maintains from serving in a range of major executive and non-executive sound risk management and internal control procedures.
More positions throughout their careers.
We will continue to appoint on information in relation to those principal risks, the Groups merit whilst working hard to broaden the diversity of our talent approach to mitigating them, and the risk management and pool, taking on board the recommendations of the Hamptoninternal control procedures within the Group are set out in the Alexander review and the McGregorSmith review to improve Strategic report on pages 22 to 25. gender and ethnicity balance respectively in the leadership of On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee monitors the FTSE companies.
Where possible, we use search rms who have Groups risk management and internal control process and signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search reviews its effectiveness on an on-going basis.
This is part of Firms which includes recommendations on gender diversity on an established process, in accordance with the Code and the appointments to boards and best practice for search processes.
Financial Reporting Councils FRC associated Guidance on Risk During 2018 the Board established a Board diversity policy Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business which can be found on our website.
This sets out the Boards Reporting, for the identi cation, evaluation and management commitment to diversity in its own composition and the wider of the signi cant risks facing the Group, which operates and workforce, and sets targets for Board composition looking ahead.
is reviewed continually throughout the year.
The Groups internal control systems are designed to provide the Board with Following the appointment of Dr Inken Braunschmidt and the retirement of David Moorhouse female representation on the reasonable assurance as to the effective and ef cient operation of the Group and to ensure the quality of internal and external Board will equate to 25% of the Board.
The percentage of women amongst our senior management is 15%.
In the light of this, the reporting and compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.
However, there are inherent limitations in any system of internal Committee discussed approaches to address this in both the shorter and longer-term.
control and accordingly even the most effective system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance.
Support As part of its internal control procedures, the Group maintains Should Directors judge it necessary to seek independent legal policies and processes for whistleblowing, anti-bribery and advice about the performance of their duties with the Company, corruption and to uphold its zero-tolerance approach to any form they are entitled to do so at the Companys expense.
More information in relation to those policies also have access to the advice and services of the Group General are included in the principal risks and uncertainties section of the Counsel and Company Secretary.
Strategic report on pages 22 to 25.
The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary is The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the overall responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and governance matters and for ensuring that Board procedures are risk management procedures, and of the principal risks facing followed, and applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
the Group, including those that would threaten its business The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary also advises model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
This included the Directors on any important changes in legislation, regulation a process of self-certi cation by the management teams of each 43 GOVERNANCE J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Corporate governance report continued trading business in which they were asked to con rm that their businesses have complied with Group policies and procedures.
In addition, it involved reviewing the results of the work of the Groups internal audit function and the risk and management processes identi ed above.
Relations with shareholders and other stakeholders The Company recognises the value of regular contact and communications with all of its stakeholders, including its shareholders, customers, suppliers, employees and the communities who have been identi ed as being affected by the Groups activities.
Details in relation to the Companys stakeholder engagement, including speci c engagement with its shareholders, is set out in more detail in the section on stakeholder engagement on page 27.
