J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Sustainability report continued Customers and suppliers Our customers and suppliers are extremely important to us.
We have followed a customer-led strategy with regards to expansion into international markets, and we are proud to be a trusted partner of many major corporations, government agencies and other customers around the world.
We appreciate that every customer has different needs and expectations and we have developed long-lasting relationships through active engagement with customers and suppliers over many years to help customers nd the product and service solutions they need.
We are committed to ensuring that legal compliance, respect for human rights and transparent business ethics are cemented both up and down our supply chain.
2018 achievements: Strong organic growth in areas consistent with Group strategy.
Establishment of cross-divisional working groups based on fide ned geographical and or customer categories, with representatives from numerous businesses around the Group, as well as key account managers for some of the Groups larger clients which take services from multiple James Fisher businesses.
The first phase of these initiatives have been welcomed by our customers.
Dedicated procurement manager appointments to develop working relationships with those businesses supply chains, ensure quality and consistency of approach with the Groups ethics and requirements.
2019 goals: To continue improvements allowing us to deliver coordinated solutions and a consistent communication channel to our customers.
To support on-going supplier engagement initiatives to provide cost-savings and tendering enhancements, to embed Group standards and policies within new relationships with suppliers and to drive support for our sustainability initiatives through our supply chain.
Innovation and technology The entrepreneurial culture of the Group and the decentralised business model allow for product and service innovation to move fast in response to changes in the market and the competitive environment.
Group businesses look to engage with customers in a way that allows them to identify and help solve customer needs.
Engagement with employees and suppliers allows the business to solve those customer needs through innovation.
2018 achievements: Appointment of a Group Digital Director, a new position for James Fisher, to lead a new initiative to bring coordination to the way the Group businesses approach the collation of data and the software presentation of data for the bene t of customers.
JFD partnered with the US Navy on the research, development, production and marketing of a highly innovative diver navigation device.
Available for both military and non-military application, this allows navigation technology to be projected on to diving mask and offers hands-free guidance in poor visibility for divers.
JFMS partnered with the University of Exeter and the University of Strathclyde to develop new software solutions enabling energy companies to manage the crew transfer process in a way that maximises safety and minimises costs.
JF NDT has developed digital X-Ray capability to test components in a way that increases ef ciency and quality of its service, meets customer requirements including Boeing and Airbus and reduces the environmental impact of the services by reducing waste and eliminating reliance on rare materials.
JFMS has been picked to work with marine energy developer, Minesto on the installation of the first of an innovative new type of tidal turbine for its new site in north Wales.
2019 goals: To continue to increase investment and support for innovation around the Group aimed at supporting customers and product ef ciency.
32 J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Communit ies The Groups businesses are spread out all over the UK and internationally.
Product and service procurement is site-speci c which means many of our businesses are able to procure products and services locally to support the local supply chain, and sustain local jobs.
Each business encourages and supports its employees to engage with local community projects that they care about and to make a positive impact on their local communities.
2018 achievements: Alongside its on-going long-term ship-to-ship project in Togo, Fendercare has partnered with the charity Future Stars on its  programme that offers weekly sports coaching sessions to underprivileged children.
Fendercares involvement has helped to develop the charitys existing project, including funding coaching and physical education sessions.
As part of the national STEM initiative Greenpower Education, James Fisher Offshore worked closely with a school in Aberdeenshire to help inspire young people considering a future in the marine and offshore industry by supporting them in the building and racing of an electronic car.
Our businesses in the region provided headline sponsorship for the 2018 East Anglian Air Ambulance Only the Brave charity mud race, in which many employees from a number of Group businesses took part.
Fendercare Marine Ghana have installed two manual boreholes in the Mpohor district of Ghana to ensure a long-term supply of potable water for the local farming communities and accessible drinking water for the local community.
2019 goals: To increase awareness of the contribution made by our employees and our companies to the community and good causes.
To develop a formal policy on CSR to outline our commitment to being a socially responsible business, both internally and externally.
33 SS TRA TRA TEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPOR T T
