Governance The Board Executive Directors Peter Cowgill Brian Small Executive Chairman and Chairman of the Chief Financial Officer Nomination Committee Aged 61 Aged 65 Brian was appointed Chief Financial Officer Peter was appointed Executive Chairman in March in January 2004.
He was previously Finance Director of the appointment he was Operations Finance Group until his resignation in June 2001.
He is the Director at Intercare Group Plc and has also Non-Executive Chairman of United Carpets Plc and been Finance Director of a number of other a Non-Executive Director of Better Bathrooms UK companies.
He qualified as an accountant Limited.
Peter was appointed as the Non-Executive with Price Waterhouse in 1981.
Chairman of Quiz Plc in July 2017.
Non-Executive Directors Andrew Leslie Martin Davies Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Audit Remuneration Committee and Member of the Audit Committee and Member of the Nomination and and Nomination Committees Remuneration Committees Aged 71 Aged 58 Andrew was appointed to the Board in May 2010.
Martin was appointed to the Board in October He has over 40 years of experience in the retail, 2012.
Martin also holds the position of Chairman footwear and apparel sectors.
He was an Executive of Sentric Music Limited.
He was previously Group Board Director of Pentland Brands Plc, from which Chief Executive of Holidaybreak Plc from 2010 until he retired in 2008.
Andrew also held a number its sale to Cox and Kings Limited in 2011.
He joined of senior positions with British Shoe Corporation, the Board of Holidaybreak Plc in 2007 when it The Burton Group Plc and Timpson Shoes Limited.
acquired PGL where he had been Chief Executive.
He left Holidaybreak Plc in 2012.
Previously, he has had roles at Allied Breweries, Kingfisher and Woolworths.
Heather Jackson Andy Rubin Non-Executive Director, Member of the Audit, Non-Executive Director Nomination and Remuneration Committees Aged 53 Aged 52 Heather was appointed to the Board in May Andy was appointed to the Board in February 2015.
Heather has extensive experience in IT 2016.
Andy is Chairman of Pentland Brands, and change management.
Heather is currently a Director of Pentland Group Plc and the Managing Director at Actinista 2016 Limited and European Vice-President of the World a Non-Executive Director of Ikano Bank AB.
Her Federation of the Sporting Goods Industry.
former roles have included CIO and COO of HBOS Plc and other director level roles with Capital One, Boots the Chemist and George at Asda.
