Strategic Report Property and Stores Review Sports Fashion JD The retail property strategy for the core JD fascia is Australia We opened five JD stores in the year of consistent across all of our territories.
JD is a world which two are in malls in the suburbs of Sydney and class retail fascia and by continually investing in our two are in malls in Melbourne.
The openings in the year multichannel proposition we will ensure that the stores included one store in Parramatta which was transferred retain their dynamic appeal and further elevate the from the Glue fascia.
We anticipate further openings in consumer experience.
International expansion of the JD fascia remains a clear Size?
strategic focus: This has been a year of consolidation for the Size?
fascia with a net increase of one store.
There was no change in Europe: There have been new store openings in most of the number of international stores with two openings and our existing territories and during the period we also one closure in the UK portfolio.
converted the 12 stores in Portugal previously trading as The Athletes Foot to JD.
Very recently, we also Chausport opened our first store in Finland at the Itis Centre in Five stores have opened in the year and one store closed Helsinki.
We expect to maintain the current momentum with Chausports focus continuing to be the smaller on store openings for JD in mainland Europe into the regional towns and centres which will not conflict with JDs new financial year with approximately one new store expansion.
We would not expect a significant expansion in opening per week on average.
the Chausport portfolio at this time.
Asia & Australia: We have opened a further four stores Sprinter in Malaysia including our first stores outside of Kuala There was a net increase of eight stores in the period with Lumpur.
We have also opened our first stores in nine new stores offset by one store transferring to JD.
The Australia with five stores trading at the period end.
Very nine openings include four in Catalonia and one in Galicia recently, we opened our first store in Seoul, South Korea as Sprinter continues to expand beyond its traditional following the conversion of one of the Hot-T stores heartlands.
The average retail footprint of the stores which were acquired in September 2017.
We would opened in the year was 6,400 sq.
ft. which is consistent anticipate further new stores in all of these territories with the openings in recent years and represents the most in the new financial year together with our first stores effective trading space for the Sprinter core offer.
Sport Zone We are confident that our increasing international reach Immediately prior to the period end, we significantly and the consistency of our premium proposition across enhanced our presence in Iberia with the acquisition of our territories is recognised by the major international 138 stores trading as Sport Zone with 91 stores in Portugal, landlords and property agents.
26 in Spain and 21 in the Canary Islands.
The operational management for the 26 stores in Spain has now been The major property developments in each area were: transferred to the Sprinter team and, although the stores in Spain are currently still trading as Sport Zone, we intend UK & Republic of Ireland 36 new stores were opened in to undertake some trial conversions later in the year to the period with 21 stores closed.
The openings included assess whether this drives a better performance.
However, 14 relocations in towns or malls in the UK to a more there are no plans to re-fascia any of the stores in Portugal appropriately spaced store or a position of greater and Canary Islands as the Sport Zone name has significant footfall.
The openings also included two temporary resonance with consumers here.
These stores will also stay stores in Liverpool which we traded whilst our principal under the operational control of the Sonae team, who are store in the Liverpool One centre was extended with the our partners across Iberia, for the foreseeable future.
new store now having a retail footprint of approximately 20,000 sq.
Ensuring that we have sufficient space Perry Sport and Aktiesport to present our full offer in major markets remains a Our focus has been to consolidate the Perry Sport and key strategy.
In addition to extending our principal Aktiesport store portfolios down to a sustainable size store in Liverpool, we have also consolidated our offer and use those stores which were not part of our longer in Manchesters Arndale Centre into one new larger term plans to trade through the excess and disjointed store which has a retail footprint of approximately stock from the acquisition in the prior year.
ft. is substantially complete with 63 stores closed in the year.
The business is now more appropriately positioned for Europe JD continues to develop momentum in Europe future development and we will make limited investments with a net increase of 56 stores.
A total of 59 stores in the future where these are appropriate.
were opened in the year of which 15 were in France, 15 in Spain and 14 in Italy.
In addition, one store in Glue and Superglue Spain also transferred from Sprinter.
Four stores were The Glue store in Parramatta was converted to JD in closed in the year of which three were relocations into the period.
We are pleased with the performance post larger space.
conversion and we would anticipate converting further stores in the new financial year.
We are also looking at Asia JDs presence in Malaysia has been enhanced options on other underperforming Glue stores and would through the opening of four further new stores including anticipate some closures during the year.
Johor and Penang which are our first stores outside of Kuala Lumpur.
Very recently, we have started to fit out a store in the Orchard Mall in Singapore which will be our first store in the country when it opens later in the year.
60 Strategic Report Property and Stores Review Sports Fashion continued Outdoor Hot-T Blacks, Millets and Ultimate Outdoors In September, we acquired an initial 15% of the Hot-T Subsequent to our acquisition of the business in January retail business from Shoemarker Inc.
Subsequent to the 2012, we have actively sought to keep our approach financial year end, this investment has increased to 50%.
as flexible as possible both in terms of the lease At the time of our initial investment, Hot-T had 23 stores conditions that we operate under and the fascia which in the major cities of South Korea with a further store, at we trade to ensure that we can react quickly if market Incheon Square, opening subsequently.
It is our current conditions change: intention to convert all of these stores to JD with our initial focus being the stores in Seoul.
The store at Gangnam Lease conditions: Where possible we continue to seek has already opened with conversion works at three other flexible mutual break clauses with landlords.
Fascias: We continually review which is the optimal fascia in any particular location taking into Fashion Fascias consideration consumer demographics, category performance and competitor activity.
Scotts and Tessuti During the period we merged the Scotts and Tessuti retail A policy of flexibility means that the store portfolio, businesses.
We believe that these two fascias offer the full particularly with regards to Blacks and Millets, continues range of Fashion brands between them and as there is to evolve: some commonality in the offer then the overall efficiency of the stock management could be enhanced through a Blacks: Two new stores were opened in the period merger of the operational management.
Ten stores were with two stores also closed.
A further two stores were opened and ten stores closed in the period across the two converted to the Millets fascia.
fascias which includes five stores which were relocated.
We will continue to support investment in our Fashion fascias Millets: The Millets store portfolio has seen further where it is justified and where there is certainty on the considerable change during the year with five new availability of third party brands in a particular location.
stores opened and seven stores closed in the year.
Three stores were also transferred to Millets in the year Kids Cavern including the two conversions of former Blacks stores.
Immediately prior to the period end, we enhanced our Junior Fashion offering with the acquisition of three stores trading Ultimate Outdoors: There has been no change to the as Kids Cavern in Liverpool.
Ultimate Outdoors store portfolio in the year.
We intend trialling the conversion of at least one Ultimate Outdoors Cloggs store to Go Outdoors in the year to assess if this drives an We have recently announced the closure of our Cloggs enhanced performance.
Whilst the business principally traded online, it also had three small stores in York, Tiso Newcastle and Shrewsbury which have now closed.
The underperforming stores in Innerleithen Alpine Bikes and Stirling Tiso were closed in the year.
Tiso will be opening a new store in Aviemore later in the year.
Go Outdoors Go Outdoors opened two new stores in the year at Ipswich and Tonbridge which were committed prior to our acquisition of the business in November 2016.
Whilst the Go Outdoors store portfolio continues to operate under its separate management, the approach to decision making on properties is now consistent with that of other Group fascias including rigorous financial analysis pre-commitment.
For a complete table of store numbers see page 37.
Peter Cowgill Executive Chairman 16 April 2018 61
