Strategic Report Our Strategy Introduction Stores The Groups principal JD fascia has long been established We are engaged in omnichannel retail and we continue as a leading retailer of branded and own brand sports to invest considerable time and financial resources in fashion apparel and footwear in the UK and Ireland.
expanding and refurbishing our retail property portfolio.
The JD fascia is also now firmly established in mainland Increasingly, developments in the Sports Fashion fascias Europe and Asia Pacific with new stores being added are focused overseas so that the Group increases its store there as quickly as we can find the right locations and multichannel consumer reach and its brand influence available.
We are highly encouraged by the positive globally.
We believe that the combination of a largely progress that we have made internationally and we exclusive product offering, presented in a well fitted store expect to expand the number of countries in which the with world class standards of retail theatre, are major JD fascia is physically present over the next twelve drivers of footfall to our stores.
months including making an entry to the USA through our proposed acquisition of The Finish Line Inc. Building The movements in store numbers and square footage at the global reach of our JD fascia not only gives us the start and end of the period are documented in the significant potential for growth but it also cements the Where We Are section on page 36. strong supplier relationships required to constantly bring in new and exclusive products and to market them collaboratively.
Multichannel We will sustain the market position of the JD fascia In the UK, we have again seen significant growth in online through ongoing investment in the retail store portfolio, sales, principally driven by our continued investment and development and nurture of global branded supplier strengthening of our mobile and apps offer.
Our digital relationships, and the opening of new branded supplier and social media channels continue to be important accounts which we can develop and exploit to ensure our destinations for our customers and there continues to be overall product range remains uniquely appealing and our growth in sales from our instore digital devices kiosks, stores remain unique highly differentiated destinations.
web tills and iPads, both through increased adoption of existing devices by customers and through the roll Our core business strength is branded retail and our out of additional options.
These enable customers to customers are either sports fashion or outdoor oriented.
order products from the website but pay in cash, access Where we use own brands we will seek to present extended ranges not available in the store and access our them as complementary to third party brands giving us full warehouse inventory.
additionality in ranging and price architecture.
We seek to build very strong market positions and we maintain and The continuing international growth in physical store defend them by constantly adding to our brand roster space is complemented by ongoing investment in our and endeavouring to be the partner of choice to as many international multichannel capability with a significantly brands as possible with as much exclusive product as expanded multicurrency website estate.
The Board considers that continuing supply from are creating an industry leading retail business with the Nike and adidas, being the main suppliers of third party best of physical and digital retail combined to give a branded sporting products, to the Groups core sports compelling proposition and enabling our consumers fashion retail operation is essential to the business of to shop seamlessly across all channels.
We believe this the Group.
multichannel capability is a key differentiator for us.
Overseas, JD now has a local language and local currency Any new business which we invest in will have relevance to multichannel offer in Australia, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, our core strength and all businesses in the Group need to France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Malaysia, the Netherlands, be capable of enhanced profitability in the medium term.
Our ultimate objective is to deliver long term sustainable earnings growth to enhance total shareholder returns In 2018 we will continue our focus on optimising our digital TSR through share price performance and dividends, channels profitably, improving the customer experience, whilst retaining our financial capability to invest in the enhancing our multichannel proposition, exploiting growth and the sustainability of our propositions.
Recent group synergies and rolling out our multichannel TSR performance is shown in the graph within the offer internationally.
Multichannel sales represented 16% 2017: 13% of total In working towards our objectives we aim to act always fascia sales in the core JD fascia across the core markets in a responsible and ethical manner with all our of the UK and Republic of Ireland, excluding kiosk sales.
stakeholders including suppliers, employees and, of course, our customers.
43 Strategic Report Our Strategy Brexit The UK is due to leave the EU in March 2019.
It is expected that there will be a subsequent transitional period until 31 December 2020.
Beyond that date, the risk and impact of Brexit along with the mitigating activities that are being considered by the Group are detailed further in the Principal Risks section on page 50.
Infrastructure and Resources Our most important resources are our people.
We are a large equal opportunities employer and we are particularly proud of our training resources.
We provide direct employment and career development to thousands of people, including large numbers of recent school leavers and graduates.
We believe retention of our best staff is crucial to the success of our business as it preserves the DNA of each business.
Details of the significant investments we continue to make in logistics are included in the Executive Chairmans Statement on page 39 and the Working Capital and Cash section of the Financial Review on page 54.
53 week 52 week period ended period ended 3 February 2018 28 January 2017 Number of items processed by Kingsway Distribution Centre 79.62m 66.40m We recognise the importance of protecting our environment and are committed to carrying out all our activities with due consideration for their environmental impact, particularly with regard to ensuring efficient use of energy and other resources and materials, minimising waste by recycling wherever possible and ensuring compliance with relevant legislation and codes of best practice.
See also our Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 62 to 76.
The risks faced by the Group and our mitigation plans are reported separately on pages 46 to 52.
Financial Key Performance Indicators 2018 2017 % Note m m Change Revenue 3.161.4 2,378.7 33% Gross profit % 48.4% 48.9% Operating profit 295.9 239.8 23% Operating profit before exceptional items 308.8 246.2 25% Profit before tax and exceptional items 307.4 244.8 26% Profit before tax 294.5 238.4 24% Basic earnings per ordinary share 23.83p 18.38p Adjusted earnings per ordinary share 10 25.15p 19.04p Total dividend payable per ordinary share 1.63p 1.55p Net cash at end of period a 28 309.7 213.6 a Net cash consists of cash and cash equivalents together with interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
On behalf of the Board Peter Cowgill Executive Chairman 16 April 2018 44
