Governance Corporate Governance Report Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee currently comprises three Key features of the Groups system of internal control and independent Non-Executive Directors: Andrew Leslie, risk management are: Martin Davies and Heather Jackson.
Andrew Leslie is the chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Identification and monitoring of the business risks facing the Group, with major risks identified and reported to The Committees principal duties are to determine: the Audit Committee and the Board including via brief monthly updates, more in depth quarterly updates and overall Group remuneration policy: an annual risk report preparation and review process.
remuneration packages for Executive Directors and Detailed appraisal and authorisation procedures for senior management: capital investment, which is documented in the Matters Reserved for the Board and the Groups Contract the terms of Executive Director service contracts as Authorisation Policy.
may be required from time to time: and Prompt preparation of comprehensive monthly the terms of any performance-related and or long management accounts providing relevant, reliable and term incentive schemes operated by the Group and up-to-date information.
These allow for comparison awards thereunder.
with budget and previous years results.
Significant variances from approved budgets are investigated The Committee met twice during the year.
attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings are set out in the table on page 86.
Preparation of comprehensive annual profit and cash flow budgets allowing management to monitor business Further details about Directors remuneration are set out activities and major risks and the progress towards in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 92 to 103. financial objectives in the short and medium term.
Monitoring of store procedures and the reporting and Nomination Committee investigation of suspected fraudulent activities.
The Nomination Committee currently comprises Peter Reconciliation and checking of all cash and stock Cowgill, the Executive Chairman, and three independent balances and investigation of any material differences.
Non-Executive Directors, Andrew Leslie, Martin Davies and Heather Jackson.
The Executive Chairman is the chair In addition, the Audit Committee receives detailed reports of the Nominations Committee.
from the external auditor in relation to the financial statements and the Groups system of internal controls.
The Committees principal duties are to consider the size, structure and composition of the Board, ensure The Group has a formal whistleblowing policy in place appropriate succession plans are in place for the Board and which provides details of how employees can raise senior management and, where necessary, consider new concerns in relation to the Groups activities or the appointments to the Board and senior management.
The actions of any employee of the Group on a confidential Nominations Committee did not formally meet during the basis.
Information about whistleblowing channels is made financial year, however, the matters delegated to the remit available to all store and head office employees and of the Nominations Committee including Board structure, these have been reviewed in detail during the financial succession planning and the performance of the Board year in order to ensure that there is an acceptable and and the senior management were considered informally appropriate channel to report concerns relating to modern by the members of the Committee on an ad hoc basis at slavery, along with any other areas of concern held by any appropriate times during the year.
From time to time, the employee of the Group.
full Board performs some of the duties of the Nomination Committee, as was the case during the last financial year.
It is the Groups policy to conduct all of its business in an ethical manner.
The Group takes a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption, amongst its employees, suppliers Internal Control and any associated parties acting on the Groups behalf.
The Group has a detailed Anti-Bribery and Corruption There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and Policy and is committed to acting professionally, fairly and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This with integrity in all its business dealings and relationships process has been in place for the year under review.
and to implementing effective systems to counter bribery, which involves conducting an appropriate audit process at The Board, in conjunction with the Audit Committee, suitable intervals.
has full responsibility for the Groups system of internal controls and monitoring their effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The Board has established a well-defined organisational structure with clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility, delegated authority to executive management and a comprehensive financial reporting process.
88 Governance Corporate Governance Report Internal Control continued Compliance with the Code The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups The Directors consider that, during the year under review system of internal controls and believes this to be and to the date of this report, the Company complied with effective.
In establishing the system of internal control the the Code except in relation to the following: Directors have regard to the materiality of relevant risks, the likelihood of a loss being incurred and costs of control.
Code provision E. 2.3 One of the Non-Executive It follows, therefore, that the system of internal control can Directors was unavoidably unable to attend the only provide a reasonable, and not absolute, assurance Groups AGM held in the financial year and so not all against the risk of material misstatement or loss.
The integration of recently acquired businesses into the This report was approved by the Board and signed on its Groups system of internal controls is achieved as quickly behalf by: as possible.
Shareholder Relations The Executive Directors maintain an active dialogue with the Companys major shareholders to enhance Brian Small understanding of their respective objectives, holding Chief Financial Officer conference calls and attending meetings and investor 16 April 2018 roadshows on a regular basis.
The Executive Chairman and the Chief Financial Officer each provide feedback to the Board on issues raised by major shareholders.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which have not been resolved through dialogue with the Executive Directors, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Major shareholders may meet with the Non-Executive Directors upon request.
External brokers reports on the Group are circulated to the Board for consideration.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors attend results presentations and analyst and institutional investor meetings whenever possible.
Shareholders are invited to attend the Groups AGM and to ask questions during the meeting and to meet with those Directors in attendance after the formal proceedings have ended, should they desire.
