Governance Directors Report Directors Report Share Capital The Directors Report is required to be produced by law.
As at 3 February 2018, the Companys issued share capital Pages 80 to 82 inclusive together with the sections of was 2,433,083 comprising 973,233,160 ordinary shares the Annual Report incorporated into these pages by of 0.25p each.
reference constitute a Directors Report that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with applicable law.
The Directors Report also includes certain disclosures that Shareholder and Voting Rights the Company is required to make by the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules Save as provided in the Companys Articles of Association, and Listing Rules.
all members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
On a show of hands at a general meeting, every member Fair, Balanced and Understandable present in person or by proxy shall have one vote and, on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy shall The Board considers that the Annual Report and Accounts, have one vote for every ordinary share they hold.
Subject taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable to relevant statutory provisions and the Companys and provides the information necessary for shareholders Articles of Association, holders of ordinary shares are to assess the Companys position and performance, entitled to a dividend where declared or paid out of profits business model and strategy.
A summary of the Directors available for such purposes.
Details of the interim and final responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and dividends proposed are provided in the Dividends and Financial Statements is set out on page 107.
Earnings Per Share section of the Executive Chairmans Statement on page 39.
Principal Activity Restrictions on Transfer of Shares The principal activity of the Group is the retail of multibranded sports fashionwear and outdoor clothing The restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company and equipment.
are as follows: In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, a review of The Board may, in its absolute discretion, refuse to the business providing a comprehensive analysis of the register any transfer of shares which are not fully paid main trends and factors likely to affect the development, up but not so as to prevent dealings in listed shares performance and position of the business, including an from taking place, or which is in favour of more than assessment of relevant environmental, employee, social, four persons jointly or which is in relation to more than community and human rights issues, together with the one class of share.
Groups Key Performance Indicators and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business Certain restrictions may, from time to time, be is detailed in the Strategic Report on pages 43 to 76. imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider These elements, along with the Companys commitment trading laws.
to good corporate governance, as set out in the Corporate Governance Report, are critical to the integrity of the Restrictions apply pursuant to the Listing Rules business and maintaining good relationships with all key LR and the Market Abuse Regulation MAR of the stakeholders of the Company.
The Company has in place a share dealing policy which includes processes The Corporate Governance Report pages 85 to 89 is which must be followed to ensure that any transfer of incorporated by reference into, and is deemed to form shares activity is conducted in compliance with MAR part of, this report.
5R 2 and the LR and that all Directors and certain Company and DTR 4.1.
8, this Directors Report and the Strategic employees obtain prior approval before dealing in the Report on pages 43 to 76 comprise the Companys Companys shares.
The Company is not aware of any arrangement between its Details of the Groups use of financial instruments, shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer together with information on policies and exposure to of shares and or voting rights.
interest rate, foreign currency, credit and liquidity risks, can be found in Note 19 to the financial statements.
The information included in Note 19 is incorporated into the Directors Report and is deemed to form part of this Directors Report.
80 Governance Directors Report Substantial Interests in Share Capital Appointment and Replacement of Directors As at 3 February 2018, the Company has been advised of The Companys Articles of Association provide that the the following significant holdings of voting rights in its Company may by ordinary resolution at general meeting ordinary share capital pursuant to the Disclosure Guidance appoint any person to act as a Director, provided that and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority where such person has not been recommended by the DTRs : Board notice is given by a member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting of the intention to appoint such a person and that the Company receives, among other Number of % of ordinary ordinary information, confirmation of that persons willingness to shares voting share act as Director.
The Articles also empower the Board to rights held capital appoint as a Director any person who is willing to act as Pentland Group Plc 559,274,440 57.47 such.
The maximum possible number of Directors under Aberdeen Standard Investments 64,414,948 6.62 the Articles is 20.
Fidelity Management and Research LLC 43,267,531 4.45 In addition to the powers of removal conferred by statute, the Company may by ordinary resolution remove any The Company has not been notified of any significant Director before the expiration of his or her period of office.
changes in interests pursuant to the DTRs between The Articles also set out the circumstances in which a 3 February 2018 and the date of this report.
The Articles broadly require that at each AGM one-third Relationship Agreement of eligible Directors shall retire from office by rotation and may stand for re-election and that any Director who was In accordance with LR 9.2.
2 AD R 1, the Company has appointed by the Board after the previous AGM must retire entered into a written and legally binding relationship from office and may stand for election by the shareholders.
agreement with its controlling shareholder, Pentland Group Additionally, any other Director who has not been elected Plc.
The Company has complied with the undertakings or re-elected at one of the previous two AGMs must also included in the relationship agreement during the retire from office and may stand for re-election.
So far as the Company is aware, the undertakings in the agreement have also been complied Notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles, the with by both Pentland Group Plc and its associates during Board has determined that all the Directors will stand the period under review.
for re-election at the 2018 AGM in accordance with the best practice recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Directors Details of all persons who were Directors during the 53 Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association week period including their roles and brief biographical details are set out on page 79.
The Directors are responsible The Companys Articles of Association may only be for the management of the business of the Company and, amended by a special resolution at a general meeting subject to law and the Companys Articles of Association of shareholders.
Articles, the Directors may exercise all of the powers of the Company and may delegate their power and discretion to committees.
Change of Control Significant Agreements There are no agreements between the Company and its In the event of a change of control of the Company, Directors or employees providing for compensation for the Company and the lenders of the 215 million bank loss of office or employment whether through resignation, syndicated facility shall enter into an agreement to purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because determine how to continue the facility.
If no agreement of a takeover bid.
is reached within 20 business days of the date of change of control, the lenders may, by giving not less than 10 business days notice to the Company, cancel the facility Directors Interests and declare all outstanding loans, together with accrued interest and all other amounts accrued immediately due Details of Directors interests and those of their connected and payable.
persons in the share capital of the Company are set out on page 97.
This information is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference and is deemed to form a part of it.
The number of Directors at any one point in time shall not be less than two.
81 Governance Directors Report Employees Auditor The Group communicates with its employees through team As set out on page 91, the Audit Committee has briefs and via the Companys intranet and notice boards.
recommended that KPMG be re-appointed as auditor for Views of employees are sought on matters of common the financial year 2018 2019 KPMG LLP have indicated concern via one to one meetings with management, staff their willingness to continue in office as auditor of the forums and other employee committees.
Priority is given to Company.
A resolution proposing their re-appointment ensuring that employees are aware of all significant matters will be proposed to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
affecting the Groups performance and of significant organisational changes.
Disclosure of Information to the Auditor A key factor in the Groups employee remuneration strategy is encouraging the involvement of all employees Each person who is a Director at the date of approval of in the Companys performance.
Full details of the Groups this report confirms that: remuneration strategy are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 92 to 103.
So far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is The Group is committed to promoting equal opportunities unaware: and in employment regardless of employees or potential employees gender, marital status, sexual orientation, Each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to age, race, religion, ethnic or social origin or disability.
have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of Recruitment, promotion and the availability of training any relevant audit information and to establish that the at all areas within the Group are based on the suitability Companys auditor is aware of that information.
and merit of any applicant for the job and full and fair consideration is always given to disabled persons in such circumstances.
Annual General Meeting Should an employee become disabled during his or The Companys AGM will be held at 1pm on 28 June her employment by the Group, every effort is made to 2018 at Edinburgh House, Hollinsbrook Way, Pilsworth, continue the employment, development and training of Bury, Lancashire, BL9 8RR.
The notice of this years the employee in question within their existing capacity AGM is included in a separate circular to shareholders wherever practicable, or failing that, in an alternative and will be sent out at least 20 working days before the suitable capacity.
This notice will be available to view under the Investor Relations section of the Companys website, www.
Post Balance Sheet Events Details of post balance sheet events are provided in Note By order of the Board 30 of the financial statements.
Political Donations and Expenditure Neither the Company nor any or its subsidiaries has made any political donation or incurred any political expenditure during the period under review.
Brian Small Chief Financial Officer 16 April 2018 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Details of the Groups greenhouse gas emissions are shown in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report report on page 69.
This information is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference and is deemed to form part of it.
