Overview Who We Are We remain committed to giving consumers a digitally integrated multibrand experience where the product offering retains a high degree of exclusivity.
14 15 Overview Who We Are Established in 1981 with a single store in the North West of England, JD Sports Fashion Plc is a leading international multichannel retailer of sports, fashion and outdoor brands.
27 Overview Who We Are JD is a specialist multiple retailer of fashionable Established in 2000, Size?
specialises in supplying the branded and own brand sports and casual wear finest products from the best brands in footwear, apparel combining globally recognised brands such as and accessories.
Initially set up to trial edgier product Nike, adidas and The North Face with strong own collections before introducing them to the mass market brand labels such as Pink Soda, Supply & Demand through the JD fascia, the Size?
offer has since grown to and The Duffer of St George.
JD continues to invest include its own roster of highly sought-after worldwide in brand relationships with new ranges introduced exclusive product releases.
Outside of the UK and in the period from Sik Silk, Tommy Hilfiger and Calvin Republic of Ireland, Size?
now has stores in Denmark, Klein with further brand partnerships under constant France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and Spain.
JD is an industry leading retail business with the best of physical and digital retail combined to give a compelling proposition which enables its consumers to shop seamlessly across all channels.
The JD fascia continues to expand its store and Footpatrol is Londons best-known destination sneaker multichannel consumer reach and brand influence store, with a history in supplying the most exclusive globally.
JDs acknowledged strength in its core footwear.
It has been at the heart of supplying the UK and Republic of Ireland markets are increasingly sneaker fraternity with the most desirable footwear, being complemented with significant international apparel and accessories.
Specialising in new and classic progression, instore and online, in Europe and, sneakers, limited editions, Japanese exclusives and rare increasingly, in markets further afield including deadstock, Footpatrol is based in the heart of Soho on Malaysia, Australia and, very recently, South Korea.
28 Overview Who We Are Chausport operates throughout France retailing Sprinter is one of the leading sports retailers in Spain through a network of 79 stores and a website, leading selling footwear, apparel, accessories and equipment international footwear brands such as adidas, Nike and for a wide range of sports as well as lifestyle casual wear Timberland together with brands more specific to the and childrenswear.
Their offer includes both international local market such as Le Coq Sportif.
sports brands and successful own brands.
Sport Zone is a well-established and leading multibranded sports retailer in Portugal, with a presence in mainland Spain and the Canary Islands.
With 138 stores in Iberia, Sport Zone offers a multisport product range with a wide apparel, footwear, accessories and equipment offering.
29 Overview Who We Are Next Athleisure operates in Australia under the Glue JD Gyms offers seriously stylish, seriously affordable, and Superglue retail fascias and Trend Imports wholesale award-winning gym membership across thirteen prime fascia.
Glue and Superglue stores offer cutting-edge locations.
JD Gyms plays host to a bespoke mix of the streetwear and youth fashion from aspirational brands industrys leading fitness equipment, alongside our such as Nike, adidas, Stussy and Deus.
Trend Imports unique JD Burn areas, providing a wide range of exciting specialises in sales, production, distribution, retail and fitness classes.
Our friendly expert support and advice marketing offering a diverse range of highly sought after will allow you to maximise your potential.
international and local brands including Kappa, Ivy Park, Superga, Nude Lucy and Article No.
1 to a vast network of major department stores, multi-national and independent retailers.
Sports Unlimited Retail operates in the Netherlands under the Perry Sport and Aktiesport fascias.
Aktiesport is the largest sports retail business in the Netherlands with a sharp focus on selling football and lifestyle goods from various brands such as Nike, adidas, Under Armour and FILA.
Perry Sport is a sports and adventure retailer with a focus on functional sports, sports lifestyle and adventure simultaneously.
30 Overview Who We Are Scotts retails fashion and sport led brands with Tessutis vision is to become the first choice retailer for authority to older, more affluent male consumers branded premium menswear fashion in the UK.
With 36 largely beyond school age, stocking brands such as stores and a trading website, Tessuti offers customers a Lacoste, Fred Perry, Pretty Green and Paul & Shark.
strong mix of relevant fashion brands including Boss, Polo Ralph Lauren, Canada Goose and Stone Island.
31 Overview Who We Are Mainline Menswear is an online niche retailer With three stores and a trading website, Kids of premium branded mens apparel and Cavern offers award winning childrenswear footwear, stocking brands such as Armani, featuring brands such as Armani, Moncler, Hugo Boss and Ralph Lauren.
Gucci, Fendi and many more.
Established over 25 years ago, the Nicholas Deakins business continues to combine innovative yet practical designs with quality manufacture to produce aspirational collections of casual and formal designer footwear.
32 Overview Who We Are Kukri Sports is an international sportswear Focus are involved in the design, sourcing and manufacturer supplying bespoke teamwear to distribution of footwear and apparel both for own many leading schools, colleges and universities.
brand and licensed brands, such as Ellesse, Certified, In addition, Kukri is sole kit supplier to a number Henleys, Peter Werth, and Starter, for both Group of high profile professional teams and was once and external customers.
again the official kit supplier to Team England for the 2018 Commonwealth Games.
Source Lab is a football license business in the Getthelabel.
com is an online business which UK working with some of the biggest and best offers customers significant savings on branded fashion and footwear.
known names in world football, designing, sourcing and distributing mono branded apparel as well as supplying club retail operations.
Source Lab has an impressive license portfolio which includes Chelsea, Arsenal, Manchester City, Real Madrid and Barcelona.
33 Overview Who We Are Trading from 100 stores, Millets supply a more Blacks is a long established retailer of casual outdoor customer who seeks value for specialist outdoor apparel, footwear and money, providing for a wide range of recreational equipment.
Trading online and from 57 stores, activities with an emphasis on exclusive brands, Blacks primarily stock more technical products such as Peter Storm and Eurohike.
from premium brands such as Berghaus and The North Face helping Outdoor participants, from weekend family users to more avid explorers, reach their goals, no matter how high.
Tiso is Scotlands leading adventure sports retailer specialising in outdoor, mountain, skiing and cycling.
Their reputation for quality has been established over 56 years.
The Tiso group is based in Scotland, but includes the iconic George Fisher store in the English Lake District.
34 Overview Who We Are GO focuses on innovation and value, helping Ultimate Outdoors is the ultimate destination people to step into the outdoors whether its for the outdoor consumer offering high quality to go walking, camping, cycling or fishing.
and technical product from the biggest names From unique product areas to strong exclusive in outdoors at the best prices.
brands such as Hi-Gear, North Ridge and Freedom Trail, GO is constantly looking for fresh ideas to keep things fun.
35 Overview Where We Are The Group has almost 1,500 stores across a number of retail fascias and is proud of the fact that it always provides its customers with the latest products from the very best brands.
The Group embraces the latest online and instore digital technology providing it with a truly multichannel, international platform for future growth.
