John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OUR INTEGRATED APPROACH Our purpose is to create value for all our stakeholders by investing in, developing and managing infrastructure projects, including renewable energy, which respond to public needs, foster sustainable growth and improve the lives of communities around the world.
OUR MARKETS OUR BUSINESS MODEL Infrastructure can be defined as the physical We aim to invest in new greenfield infrastructure projects which, post assets and systems that support a country, state construction, produce long-term predictable cash flows that meet our rate or community.
Infrastructure assets typically of return targets.
support services such as transportation, utilities Our business model, has two key areas of activity: and communications and also cater to social needs such as housing, health and education.
PPP projects Typically a consortium enters into a long-term PRIMARY ASSET concession contract with a public sector body to INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT design, build, finance and operate maintain an infrastructure asset in accordance with agreed service standards.
Reinvestment in Sale of operational assets Operational greenfield projects and yield from projects Assets Renewable energy projects Involve electricity generation assets which Primary Investment produce green energy and can benefit from We source, originate, bid for and win greenfield infrastructure projects, fixed-price offtake agreements, including typically as part of a consortium in the case of PPP projects.
Our Primary power purchase agreements.
Investment portfolio comprises interests in infrastructure projects which are in the construction phase.
The value of investments in our Primary Investment portfolio should grow progressively with a reasonable degree of predictability as the underlying assets move through the construction phase and their risk correspondingly reduces.
Once the projects reach the operational stage, the investments move to our Secondary Investment portfolio.
Other Opportunities in other infrastructure asset Asset Management classes that might fit our business model.
We actively manage our own Primary and Secondary Investment portfolios.
Our asset management activities focus on management and reduction of project risk, especially during the construction phase, together with enhancement of project cash flows.
Operational assets can be held to maturity or sold to secondary market investors who target a lower rate of return consistent with the reduction in risk.
Proceeds from realisations are redeployed into new investments.
12 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 MEASURING OUR PERFORMANCE STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES MANAGING OUR RISKS Consistent with our purpose, our To deliver our strategy, we have set Effective management of the strategy focuses on NAV per share ourselves the two core objectives below, principal risks identified below is growth and dividends as key measures while maintaining the discipline and essential to the successful delivery for shareholders.
analysis required to mitigate and manage of the Groups objectives.
the delivery, revenue and operational risk associated with investments in greenfield infrastructure projects.
NAV per share growth Governmental policy Macroeconomic factors 15.0% Liquidity in the secondary market increase in NAV per share in 2018 Financial resources 15.8% Pensions Growth in primary investment compound annual growth, including Future investment activity dividends, since IPO in 2015 volumes new investment capital committed to greenfield infrastructure Valuation projects over the medium term.
Counterparty risk Dividends Major incident Total 9.5p dividend per share for 2018, Future returns from investments 6.5% Taxation increase from 2017 Personnel Management and enhancement of our investment portfolio, with a clear focus on active management See the Principal Risks and Risk during construction, accompanied Management section for details of by realisations of investments which, how the Group manages and mitigates combined with our corporate banking these risks.
facilities and operational cash flows, enable us to finance new investment commitments.
13 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
