John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 ASSET MANAGEMENT Asset Management teams operate in each of our core regions, working alongside their Primary Investment colleagues.
Asset Management activities comprise Investment Management Services IMS and Project Management Services PMS.
Investment Management Services IMS New Royal Adelaide Hospital valuation 50 million 75 million Our Asset Management teams actively manage each asset in The hospital has been successfully treating patients since it the Groups investment portfolio from the time we first secure opened in September 2017.
As previously reported, the project the investment, through the construction stage and in the company and the South Australian government are in operational stage.
Our objective is to deliver the base case discussions about the application of the abatement regime returns on our investments as a minimum and additionally to resulting from under-performance of the facilities management enhance those returns through active asset management.
In addition, arbitration proceedings are ongoing with regard to legacy issues arising from the An important part of achieving this objective is managing each construction phase.
The project company is working with all asset through the construction stage, fide-risking the investment other parties to achieve negotiated commercial settlements.
John Laing employs certain staff who are solely dedicated to projects in construction, as well as I-4 Ultimate, Florida valuation 25 million 50 million provides directors to the boards of project companies, allowing As previously reported, this availability-based road project is us to make an active contribution.
approximately eight months behind the contract schedule.
Settlement negotiations are currently taking place between the Since the projects we invest in are principally large and Florida Department of Transport, the project company and the sophisticated infrastructure assets, issues and delays can occur.
construction joint venture to address, inter alia, claims submitted Our position as a purely equity investor enables us to be well by the construction joint venture in respect of the delays.
placed to manage the various parties when issues arise and help achieve a resolution.
New Generation Rollingstock, Queensland valuation 25 million An update on significant projects, primarily those under 50 million construction, or in the early stages of operation, that our teams The number of accepted trains is now 46, out of a total of 75, have been closely involved in during the year is set out below: with the final train due for delivery in Q4 2019.
The project company has recently agreed an amendment deed with the State IEP Phase 2 valuation 275 million of Queensland which, inter alia, provides for a re-baselined train The first trains for the East Coast mainline, which have a similar delivery schedule as well as for the cost and programme for design to the trains for IEP Phase 1, are scheduled to be undertaking various retrofitting and rectification issues required accepted into service in Q1 2019.
This follows certain system on the trains.
modifications to be addressed by both the contractor and In all instances, the impact of construction delays and a Network Rail.
judgement as to the potential outcome of ongoing issues are Denver Eagle P3 valuation 75 million 100 million taken into account when the portfolio valuation is prepared.
As previously reported, both the A line and the B line have Transfers from the Primary Investment portfolio been operating successfully since 2016 and are achieving 97% During the year, seven investments completed construction on-time performance.
Final certification of the overall project and transferred from the Primary Investment portfolio to the is subject to approvals from both state and federal transport Secondary Investment portfolio as the underlying projects moved regulators for the third line, the G line.
Delays associated with into the operational stage.
the legal and regulatory regime have led to certain claims by the project company and these are currently the subject of Cramlington Biomass, UK 44.7% interest discussion or dispute between the parties involved, including This 28 MW Combined Heat and Power biomass plant in the public sector client.
In trying to resolve these issues, the Cramlington, England, generates enough electricity to power project companys focus is on achieving regulatory approval 52,000 homes for a year.
It is also expected to reduce greenhouse for the G line, which would then lead to final certification and gas emissions by approximately 56,000 CO equivalent tonnes trigger commencement of full service revenue.
2 annually, the equivalent of taking 25,000 cars off the road during Sydney Light Rail valuation 50 million 75 million its lifetime.
As stated in our June 2018 results announcement, the contract St Martin Wind Farm, France 100% interest programme is running behind schedule c. 15 months, though Located in St-Martin-LArs, in Western France, this project remains within the overall long-stop date.
The delay is comprises five Senvion MM92 turbines and has a total capacity principally attributable to below ground utility equipment not of 10.25 MW.
Operations commenced in June 2018 and the wind identified before construction commenced and a number of farm benefits from a 15 year feed-in-tariff arrangement.
modifications to the project scope.
Negotiations are well progressed between the public sector client, the principal Cypress Creek solar farms 100% interest contractor and the project company with a view to resolving The five US solar farms in which the Group invested in 2018 various commercial claims and disputes between the parties.
Fox Creek, Brantley, IS54, IS67 and Buckleberry all commenced operations in Q4 2018.
The solar farms have a total capacity of 258.5 MW.
22 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Investment realisations External IMS During the year, three realisations were agreed and completed Our IMS also include advisory services provided by JLCM to for gross proceeds of 296.1 million.
JLCM has two separate dedicated fund management teams whose senior staff are authorised and Our remaining 15% investment in IEP Phase 1 was sold to regulated by the FCA.
a third party in May 2018 for 232.0 million, in excess of the valuation at 31 December 2017: As reported in the Chief Executive Officers Review, the IAA between Jura and JLCM is due to terminate in mid-October Our investment in Lambeth Social Housing was sold to JLIF 2019.
Following that, one of the two First Offer Agreements in May 2018 for 9.5 million: and between Jura and JLCM, which covers certain rail assets, will remain in place.
The sale of our investment in Manchester Waste TPS Co to an existing co-shareholder was agreed in November 2018 JLCM remains committed to the ongoing services provided to and completed in late December 2018 for proceeds of JLEN.
The JLCM team provides management services to JLENs 54.6 million.
portfolio as well as sources new investments for and arranges capital raisings by the fund.
It operates behind information With regard to the sales of our investments in Lambeth Social barriers in view of the market sensitive nature of its activities Housing and Manchester Waste TPS Co, prices were in line with and to ensure the separation of buy-side and sell-side teams the most recent portfolio valuation.
if John Laing is selling investments to the fund.
The fund has a Total right of first offer over certain investments should they be Realisations agreed Shareholding Purchaser million offered for sale by the Group.
The fund maintains an independent IEP Phase 1 15% Third party 232.0 board of directors and is independently owned.
Lambeth Social Housing 50% JLIF 9.5 Fee income from external IMS grew from 16.7 million in 2017 to Manchester Waste TPS Co 37.43% Third party 54.6 18.2 million in 2018, but will reduce from mid-October 2019 onwards, together with certain related costs.
Total 296.1 Project Management Services PMS The Groups asset management teams also provide PMS, largely During 2018, the Company also sold its investment in A mobil of a financial or administrative nature, to project companies in Services GmbH, a small joint venture services company which John Laing, Jura or JLEN are investors.
These services associated with the A1 Germany road project, for proceeds of are provided under Management Services Agreements MSAs.
The Group earned revenues of 6.0 million from the provision of In late December 2018, we agreed the sales of both our 95.3% PMS during 2018 2017 6.1 million.
shareholding in the Rocksprings wind farm in Texas and our 92.5% shareholding in the Sterling wind farm in New Mexico.
The Groups PMS activities are principally focused on MSAs The sales are also subject to governmental and financing relating to projects outside the UK.
At 31 December 2018, the partner consents and are expected to complete in the first half Group held 24 MSAs 31 December 2017 24 MSAs.
Investment realisations 296.1 million 23 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
