John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Executive Directors DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY Non-executive Directors Will Samuel N Olivier Brousse N Patrick OD Bourke Andrea Abt A&R R N Dr Jeremy Beeton A&R R N Toby Hiscock A&R R N David Rough A&R R N Anne Wade R N Clare Underwood Group Company Secretary Board tenure Board diversity 1.
Committee membership N Nomination Committee A&R Audit & Risk Committee R Remuneration Committee Committee Chair 56 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Will Samuel BSc, BA, FCA Olivier Brousse EP, ENPC Patrick OD Bourke MA, ACA Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director Will joined John Laing as a Non-executive Director in Olivier joined John Laing in March 2014 as Chief Patrick will retire and step down as a Director December 2017 and became Chairman in May 2018.
Patrick joined John Laing in 2011 as Group Finance Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Director.
Extensive commercial, capital markets, Extensive senior managerial and operational investments and regulatory expertise experience across a number of businesses Skills and Experience Broad business and governance experience Significant international infrastructure experience Extensive listed company experience and financial from executive and non-executive positions spanning transport, rail, water, waste and energy experience at board level previously held From 2008 to 2014, Olivier served as Chief Executive Significant international experience in infrastructure, Will is an experienced Chairman having previously Officer and then Executive Chairman of Saur SAS in particularly in the electricity and energy sectors been Chairman of TSB Bank plc, which he took France.
Prior to this he was Deputy Chief Executive From 2000 to 2006, he was Group Finance Director through IPO after its fide-merger from Lloyds Bank of Veolia Transport Group, responsible for the French of Viridian Group PLC, the Northern Ireland based plc.
He was also Chairman of Howdens Joinery and US businesses, Chief Executive Officer of Veolia energy group, becoming Group Chief Executive in Group, Chairman of Ecclesiastical Insurance Group Transportation Inc, based in Washington and Chief 2007 after Viridian was taken private.
Previously, plc, Chairman of H P Bulmer plc, Deputy Chairman Executive Officer of Connex Trains, based in London.
he was Group Treasurer for Powergen plc where he of Inchcape plc, Senior Advisor to Lazard & Co Ltd He was also Chief of Staff to the Chairman and CEO had formerly been responsible for mergers and and Senior Advisor to the Prudential Regulation of Compagnie Gnrale des Eaux and Commercial acquisitions.
He also spent nine years in investment Authority formerly the Financial Services Authority, Director of Unic Systems.
banking with Barclays fide Zoete Wedd and Hill Samuel.
a director of Schroders plc, Co-Chief Executive Olivier holds engineering degrees from cole Patrick graduated from Cambridge University and Officer at Schroder Salomon Smith Barney a division Polytechnique and cole Nationale des Ponts et qualified as a chartered accountant with Peat of Citigroup Inc, a Non-executive Director of the Chausses.
In 2016, he was awarded the Lgion Marwick now KPMG.
Edinburgh Investment Trust plc and a Trustee and dHonneur by the French President Franois Honorary Treasurer of International Alert.
Hollande and in 2008 the Ordre National du Mrite Current External Appointments Will is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered by the French Transport Minister.
Non-executive Director of Affinity Water Limited.
Accountants in England and Wales and has a Current External Appointments First-Class Honours Degree in Chemistry from Non-executive Director of 1001 Fontaines, a not for Durham University and a Degree in Mathematics profit organisation.
Current External Appointments Chairman of Tilney Group Limited Andrea Abt MBA Dr Jeremy Beeton CB, BSc, CEng, FICE Toby Hiscock MA Oxon, FCA Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director, Chair of Audit & Risk Committee Andrea joined John Laing in May 2018 as a Jeremy joined John Laing in December 2014 as a Non-executive Director.
Toby joined John Laing in June 2009 as a Non-executive Director.
Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Extensive background in a variety of roles, Extensive international experience in project Skills and Experience including sales, finance, procurement and and programme management over complex Extensive experience as a finance professional logistics with specialised knowledge of the multi-site, multiple project operations portfolios and extensive listed company and accounting European market for and within government, public companies and experience private companies Significant experience of a broader range of Significant experience of a broader range of industries through non-executive roles Significant non-executive experience across a industries through non-executive roles range of sectors Andrea joined Siemens in 1997 and held various Toby was the Chief Financial Officer and an Executive leadership roles, including Head of Supply Chain and Jeremy was an Advisory Board member of Director of Henderson Group plc from 2003 until Chief Procurement Officer for Infrastructure & Cities  until October 2018 and an 2009, and was responsible for all aspects of financial from 2011 to 2014.
Since leaving Siemens, Andrea independent Non-executive Director of SSE plc until stewardship of the Henderson Group.
Before has concentrated on non-executive Director roles.
He was previously Director General of the Henderson, he was a senior manager at Midland She was previously a Non-executive Director of London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games from Bank Group in London and from 1981 to 1988 worked Brammer plc.
Prior to this, he was a Principal for Binder Hamlyn.
Vice President with Bechtel, responsible for their Andrea has an MBA from Rotman School of Toby is a Chartered Accountant and a graduate of worldwide civil operations.
He has lived and worked Management University of Toronto.
extensively in the Middle East and Asia Pacific.
Current External Appointments Current External Appointments He was awarded CB in the 2013 New Year Honours Non-executive Director of SIG plc and Petrofac Ltd and holds an honorary Doctorate of Engineering Non-executive Director of a number of private and a Member of the Supervisory Board of entities and a consultant to a number of public and from Napier University.
He is also a Fellow of the Gerresheimer AG.
Current External Appointments Chairman of WYG plc and Merseylink Limited, an independent Non-executive Director of OPG Power Ventures Plc and on the governing Court of Strathclyde University.
David Rough BSc Hons Anne Wade BA, MSc Clare Underwood, BSc, ACA Senior Independent Director, Chair of Independent Non-executive Director, Group Company Secretary Nomination Committee Chair of Remuneration Committee Clare joined John Laing in September 2018 as Group Company Secretary.
Previously, she was David joined John Laing in December 2014 as a Anne joined John Laing in December 2014 as a Head of London and Group Company Secretary for Non-executive Director.
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc, having been Skills and Experience Skills and Experience appointed as Company Secretary post the demerger Extensive knowledge of the financial services Extensive experience in investment and asset of Cable & Wireless plc in 2010.
Prior to that she sector, predominantly in the investment management, particularly in infrastructure related was the Company Secretary of the Cable & Wireless management business investments, social finance and impact investment Communications Operating Board and Project Director for the Cable & Wireless demerger.
She Significant experience of a broader range of Significant non-executive experience across a was also the Head of Tax for Energis.
Clare is a industries through non-executive roles range of sectors Chartered Accountant having qualified at David joined Legal and General in 1988 and became From 1995 to 2012, Anne was Senior Vice President .
In 1991, he was appointed and Director of Capital International, responsible to the group board as Group Director Investments for  investments.
Anne was responsible for the groups investment operations.
previously a Non-executive Director and member of He retired from the business in 2002.
He has also the Governance and Strategy Committee of Holcim, served as chairman of the Association of British based in Switzerland.
Insurers Investment Committee and been a Anne has a BA from Harvard and an MSc from the non-executive and senior independent director on a London School of Economics.
number of boards, including Land Securities, London Current External Appointments Metal Exchange, Friends Provident and Xstrata.
Director and member of the Audit Committee of Current External Appointments Summit Materials Inc in the US, Director of the Chair of the Board and Nomination Committee of Heron Foundation in New York and of Big Society Brown Shipley & Co Ltd and Non-executive Director Capital Ltd in London.
She is also a Partner of of Hansteen Holdings plc.
57 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
