John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with the 2016 Code, the Directors have assessed The Directors assessment has been undertaken using a the viability of the Group over the three year period to detailed financial model, which the Group uses consistently 31 December 2021, taking into account the Groups current both for forecasting purposes and to monitor compliance with position and the principal risks set out on pages 41 to 46. the covenants in its corporate banking facilities.
Key outputs The assessment carried out supports the Directors statements from this model are reviewed at monthly treasury meetings and both on viability, as set out below, and also in respect of going by the Groups Executive Committee, Audit & Risk Committee concern, as set out in the Financial Review section.
Where appropriate, the model has been subjected to robust sensitivity analysis to stress test the resilience of The Company has a strong risk management culture, supported the Groups forecasts to severe but plausible scenarios.
by a Management Risk Committee and an Internal Audit These included: function, which helps to ensure that key risks to the business are identified, assessed and monitored appropriately.
i a scenario under which the Group is unable to make further investment realisations over an extended time period and The Directors selected a period of three years for their accordingly materially reduces new investment activity as assessment because this is the longest timescale over which well as its costs: and the Group has visibility over the future investment opportunities ii a scenario where the Group experiences a combination which make up its pipeline.
This is consistent with the Groups business model and is also the key period of focus in the Groups of a significant write down in one or more of its largest investments, a six month delay in forecast investment budget and planning process.
The Groups future prospects are addressed in the Chief Executive Officers review on pages 6 to 11. realisations and material strengthening of Sterling versus the currencies the Group invests in.
The particular factors and or assumptions the Directors considered in making their assessment were as follows: Based on the above assessment, the Directors have formed a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue The Group makes primarily long-term investments which its operations and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the are not publicly traded.
The minimum holding period for next three years from 31 December 2018. an investment typically extends beyond the construction period for the underlying asset and some assets may be held to maturity: New investments in greenfield projects are funded through a combination of cash flow from existing assets, the Groups corporate banking facilities and realisations of investments in operational projects.
Realisations are dependent on continuing demand in a currently active secondary market: Availability of debt finance continues at Group level through the corporate banking facilities and at project level through non-recourse project finance facilities specific to each project: in July 2018, the Group entered into new 650 million corporate banking facilities, 500 million of which matures in July 2023: The Group is exposed to potential increases in pension cash contributions as well as volatility in the JLPF pension deficit reported as part of NAV, principally because of movements in the main assumptions discount rate, inflation rate and life expectancy which impact the value of pension liabilities.
The next triennial actuarial valuation of JLPF is due as at 31 March 2019: and The value of the Groups investment portfolio is dependent on a number of key assumptions including: discount rates derived from the secondary market: macroeconomic factors such as exchange rates, taxation rates, inflation and deposit rates: the construction stage and operational performance of underlying assets: forecast project cash flows: volumes where project revenue is linked to project usage : and forward energy prices and energy yields.
