John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements of John Laing Group plc the Company together with its subsidiary undertakings the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The Directors Report and the Strategic Report, which includes the trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the business and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties of the Group which can be found on pages 6 to 55 and is incorporated by reference, collectively comprise the management report as required under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules the DTR DTR4.1.
Additional Disclosures In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules, the information to be included in the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts, where applicable, under Listing Rule 9.8.
4, is set out in this Directors report.
The information required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4R is disclosed on the following pages: Disclosure Page Long-term incentive schemes 70-87 Unaudited Financial Information 156-158 Contracts of significance 91 Shareholder waiver of dividends 88 Shareholder waiver of future dividends 88 Disclosures relating to capitalised interest, waiver of emoluments or of future emoluments by a Director, non-pro-rata allotments for cash issuer or major subsidiaries, parent participation in placing by a listed company, provision of services by a controlling shareholder or agreements with controlling shareholders do not apply to the Company.
Principal Activities John Laing is an originator, active investor and manager of international infrastructure projects.
John Laing Group plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales with company number 05975300.
A list of the Companys investments at 31 December 2018 can be found in note 13 to the Company financial statements on page 148 of this Annual Report.
The principal activity of the Company is to act as the holding company of the Group.
The Directors are not aware, at the date of this report, of any major changes in the Groups activities in the coming year.
Results and Dividends The Groups results for the year ended 31 December 2018 are set out in the Group Income Statement on page 100.
The Group profit before tax for the year ended 31 December 2018 was 296.6 million 2017 126.0 million.
The Company-only profit after tax for the year was 293.9 million see page 138 2017 139.4 million.
The Board proposes, subject to the approval of shareholders at the AGM to be held on 9 May 2019, that a base dividend of 3.6 pence per ordinary share, plus a special dividend of 4.1 pence per ordinary share, totalling a final dividend of 7.7 pence per ordinary share be paid on 17 May 2019 to shareholders whose names are on the register of members at the close of business on 23 April 2019.
Further information on the final dividend can be found on page 102.
This payment, together with the interim dividend of 1.8 pence per ordinary share paid on 26 October 2018, makes a total for the year of 9.5 pence per share.
Sanne Fiduciary Services Limited, trustee of the John Laing Group Employee Benefit Trust, has waived its entitlement to dividends.
Performance Monitoring The delivery of the Groups strategic objectives is monitored by the Board through Key Performance Indicators KPIs, set out in the Summary Financial Information section, and regular periodic review of various aspects of the Groups operations.
The Group considers that the KPIs listed on page 2 are appropriate measures to assess the delivery of the Groups strategy.
88 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Board of Directors The following were Directors of the Company during the year ended 31 December 2018 and at the date of this Report: Will Samuel Phil Nolan resigned 10 May 2018 Olivier Brousse Patrick OD Bourke retiring and stepping down from the Board on 9 May 2019 Andrea Abt appointed 10 May 2018 Jeremy Beeton Toby Hiscock David Rough Anne Wade In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code guidelines, all those persons holding office as a Director of the Company on 31 December 2018 will retire and offer themselves for re-election at the 2019 Annual General Meeting, except for Patrick OD Bourke who will be retiring, for Andrea Abt, who was appointed on 10 May 2018, and for Luciana Germinario who will be appointed on 25 April 2019.
Luciana will be appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer Designate on 25 April 2019 and will succeed Patrick OD Bourke upon his retirement on 9 May 2019.
Luciana has extensive financial experience at senior managerial level and significant experience in the investment and digital industrial sectors.
She was previously Chief Financial Officer for Eight Roads, the principal investment division of Fidelity International Limited, with responsibility for the finance function, the real estate investment business and technology.
Prior to this, she held a number of finance roles within General Electric and its worldwide subsidiaries covering industries such as healthcare, energy, media, plastic and financial services.
Luciana holds an Honours Capital Markets degree from Bocconi University and an Executive MBA from the International Institute for Management Development.
Andrea and Luciana will both stand for election for the first time at the 2019 AGM.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan and Deferred Share Bonus Plan may cause unvested awards granted to Directors and employees to vest on a takeover.
Appointment and Removal of a Director Subject to applicable law, a Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of shareholders in a general meeting following nomination by the Board or a member entitled to vote at such meeting or following retirement by rotation if the Director chooses to seek re-election at a general meeting.
In addition, the Directors may appoint a Director to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director, provided that the individual retires at the next AGM: if he or she is to continue, he or she offers himself or herself for election.
A Director may be removed by the Company in certain circumstances set out in the Companys Articles of Association or by an ordinary resolution of the Company.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 the Act and any directions given by the Company by special resolution and any relevant statues and regulations, the business of the Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Specific powers relating to the allotment and issuance of ordinary shares and the ability of the Company to purchase its own securities are also included within the Articles, and such authorities are submitted for approval by shareholders at the AGM each year.
The Company has not utilised its authority to make market purchases of shares granted at the 2018 AGM but, in line with market practice, will be seeking to renew such authority at this years AGM.
Directors Interests The Directors interests in, and options over, ordinary shares in the Company are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Since the year end, there have been no changes to such interests.
In line with the requirements of the Act, Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they have, or may have, interests that conflict with those of the Company unless that conflict is first authorised by the Board.
The Company has in place procedures for managing conflicts of interest as noted in the Corporate Governance report on page 59.
The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions to allow the Directors to authorise potential conflicts of interest, so that if approved, Directors will not be in breach of their duty under company law.
Directors Indemnities The Company has purchased and maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of Directors and Officers liabilities.
The Directors and Group Company Secretary of the Company and the directors of the Companys subsidiaries have the benefit of a third party indemnity provision, as defined by section 236 of the Act, pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association.
89 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Share Capital and Shareholder Voting Rights Details of the Companys issued share capital and the rights attached to the shares, together with details of movements in the issued share capital during the year, are shown in note 22 to the Group financial statements on pages 134 and 135 of this Annual Report.
All ordinary shares, including those acquired through Company share schemes, rank equally with no special rights.
There are no known arrangements that may restrict the transfer of shares or voting rights.
All shareholders are entitled to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, appoint proxies, receive any dividends, exercise voting rights and transfer shares without restriction.
On a show of hands at a general meeting every member present in person shall have one vote, and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
Significant Shareholders Notifications of the following major voting interests in the Companys ordinary share capital notifiable in accordance with Rule 5 of the FCAs DTR or section 793 of the Act had been received by the Company up to 31 December 2018 and 4 March 2019, being the last practicable date.
The information provided below was correct at the date of the notification.
These holdings may have changed since the Company was last notified.
However notification of any change is not required until the next notifiable threshold is crossed.
% of issued % of issued Notifications received by 31 December 2018 share capital 4 March 2019 share capital Standard Life Aberdeen plc 72,615,779 14.80 73,864,748 15.05 BlackRock, Inc. 31,366,785 6.41 31,366,785 6.41 Baillie Gifford & Co 24,734,900 5.04 24,734,900 5.04 Kames Capital Plc 14,747,579 3.00 14,747,579 3.00 Norges Bank 14,728,606 3.00 14,728,606 3.00 The Company did not receive any notifications during the period between 31 December 2018 and 4 March 2019 except from Standard Life Aberdeen plc.
The processes by which the Company seeks to understand the views of its major shareholders are described on page 63.
Articles of Association In accordance with the Act, the Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders in a general meeting.
Transactions with Related Parties During the period, the Company did not enter into any material transactions with any related parties.
Political Donations The Group made no political donations during 2018 2017: nil.
It remains the Companys policy not to make political donations.
However, the application of the relevant provisions of the Act is potentially very broad in nature and, as it did last year, the Board will be seeking shareholder authority to make political donations up to a defined limit to ensure that the Group does not inadvertently breach these provisions as a result of the breadth of its business activities, although the Board has no intention of using this authority.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Greenhouse gas emissions are detailed in the Strategic Report on pages 54 to 55.
Branches The Company and its subsidiaries have established branches in certain of the countries in which the Group operates.
Auditor The Companys auditor is Deloitte LLP the External Auditor.
A resolution proposing the reappointment of Deloitte LLP is included in the Notice of Meeting and will be put to shareholders at the 2019 AGM.
Statement of Disclosure of Information to the External Auditor In accordance with Section 418 2 of the Act, each Director in office at the date the Directors Report is approved confirms that: as far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys External Auditor is unaware: and the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys External Auditor is aware of that information.
Key Events and Future Developments The key events during the year and the development of the business of the John Laing group of companies are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 55.
The Strategic Report includes the Financial Review on pages 32 to 39, the viability statement on page 40 and the principal risks facing the Group on pages 41 to 46.
90 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Research and Development Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any research or development activities.
Financial Instruments The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies and its exposure to the following risks market, credit, price, liquidity and capital are detailed in note 18 to the Group financial statements.
Post Balance Sheet Events Post balance sheet events are detailed in note 28 to the Group financial statements.
Material Contracts The Groups 650 million committed corporate banking facilities dated 25 July 2018, currently comprise 500 million committed until 25 July 2023 and 150 million until 25 January 2021 and include a change of control clause.
In the event of a change of control occurring, it would be expected that new financing arrangements to fund outstanding utilisations would need to be made by the incoming owners.
The Groups 475 million committed corporate banking facilities dated 19 January 2015, as amended and restated on 21 June 2016 and 6 October 2017, which were cancelled on 25 July 2018, had also included a change of control clause.
Separately, the Groups 50 million liquidity facilities, originally due to mature in March 2018, but extended to February 2019 and then cancelled on 25 July 2018, had contained change of control provisions similar to the main facilities.
Employees The Group seeks to ensure employee commitment to its objectives in a number of ways.
Strategic changes are communicated directly to all employees and resultant queries are handled by the relevant business heads or Executive Committee members as appropriate.
Regular team briefings at local level provide employees with information about the performance of, and initiatives in, their part of the business.
A wide range of information is also communicated across the Groups intranet.
The framework within which decisions about people are made is set out in the Groups personnel policies which are available to all employees.
It is part of those policies to employ and train disabled people whenever their skills and qualifications allow and when suitable vacancies arise.
If existing employees become disabled, every effort is made to find them appropriate work and training is provided if necessary.
Further details relating to the employees of the Group including details of certain of the Groups employment policies can be found on pages 47 to 50 of the Corporate Responsibility section of this Annual Report.
The Directors Report, the Strategic Report, the Corporate Governance Report and the Directors Remuneration Report were approved by the Board on 4 March 2019.
Governance Arrangements Information regarding the Companys governance arrangements is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 58 to 63.
These pages are incorporated by reference into the Directors Report.
On behalf of the Board Clare Underwood GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY 4 MARCH 2019 91 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
