Directors Report for the year ended 31st March 2018 Directors Directors interests in the Share capital companys shares The names of the directors who held office Capital structure during the year are set out on page 92.
The interests of persons who were directors As at 31st March 2018, the issued share The biographies of all the directors of the company and of their connected capital of the company was 193,533,430 serving at the date of this annual report are 49 persons at 31st March 2018 in the issued ordinary shares of 110 53 pence each shown on pages 84 and 85. shares of the company or in related excluding treasury shares and 5,407,176 derivatives or other financial instruments, treasury shares.
There were no purchases, which have been notified to the company in Indemnification of directors sales or transfers of treasury shares during accordance with the Market Abuse the year.
Details of indemnities granted in favour Regulation, are set out in the Remuneration of each director of the company and each Report on page 126.
The Remuneration director of the companys subsidiaries, which Share allotments Report also sets out details of any changes in were in force during the year and which There were no share allotments during those interests between 31st March 2018 remain in force as at the date of approval the year.
and 30th May 2018. of this annual report, can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 94.
Purchase by the company Directors interests in contracts of its own shares Other than service contracts, no director had Appointment and replacement At the 2017 AGM shareholders authorised the any interest in any material contract with any of directors company to make market purchases of up to group company at any time during the year.
49 The rules about the appointment and 19,353,343 ordinary shares of 110 53 pence There were no contracts of significance replacement of directors are contained in our each, representing 10% of the issued share as defined in the Financial Conduct Articles of Association, which are available capital of the company excluding treasury Authoritys Listing Rules during the year on our website.
Any shares so purchased by the to which any group undertaking was a party company may be cancelled or held as treasury directors may be appointed by a and in which a director of the company is or shares.
This authority will cease at the date of was materially interested.
resolution of the members or a the 2018 AGM.
resolution of the directors: and During the year and up until the date of Dividends if appointed by the directors, the newly approval of this annual report, the company appointed director must retire at the The interim dividend of 21.75 pence per did not make any purchases of its own shares next Annual General Meeting AGM share 2017: 20.5 pence was paid in or propose to, or enter into any options or and is not taken into account in February 2018.
The directors recommend contracts to, purchase its own shares either determining the directors who are a final dividend of 58.25 pence per share through the market or by an offer made to all to retire by rotation at the meeting.
in respect of the year 2017: 54.5 pence, shareholders or otherwise, nor did the At least one third of the board must making a total for the year of 80.0 pence company acquire any of its own shares other retire by rotation at each AGM.
per share 2017: 75.0 pence, payable than by purchase.
on 7th August 2018 to shareholders on The Articles of Association may only be the register at the close of business on amended by a special resolution at a general Rights and obligations 8th June 2018. meeting of the company.
attaching to shares Other than as referred to under Notwithstanding the provisions of The rights and obligations attaching to the Employee share schemes on page 132, the Articles of Association, the board has ordinary shares in Johnson Matthey are set during the year there were no arrangements agreed that all directors will seek election or out in the Articles of Association.
under which a shareholder has waived or re-election at each AGM in accordance with As at 31st March 2018 and as at the agreed to waive any dividends nor any the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016. date of approval of this annual report, except agreement by a shareholder to waive as referred to below, there were no future dividends.
com investors  on the transfer of ordinary shares governance in the company, no limitations on the holding Dividend payments and DRIP of securities and no requirements to obtain Dividends can be paid directly into the approval of the company, or of other Powers of the directors shareholders bank accounts.
A Dividend holders of securities in the company, for a Reinvestment Plan is also available.
The powers of the directors are determined by allows shareholders to purchase additional The directors may, in certain the Articles of Association, UK legislation shares in Johnson Matthey with their circumstances, refuse to register the transfer including the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 dividend payment.
Further information of a share in certificated form which is not Act and any directions given by the company and a mandate can be obtained from fully paid up, where the instrument of in general meeting.
our registrar, Equiniti, whose details are transfer does not comply with the The directors have been authorised by set out on page 207 and on our website.
requirements of the companys Articles of the companys Articles of Association to issue Association, or if entitled under the and allot ordinary shares and to make market Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. purchases of its own shares.
These powers are referred to shareholders for renewal at each AGM.
Further information is set out under Purchase by the company of its own shares opposite.
131 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Also as at 31st March 2018 and as at the date Listing of the companys shares Employee share schemes of approval of this annual report: Johnson Mattheys shares have a Premium At 31st March 2018, 4,460 current and no person held securities in the Listing on the London Stock Exchange and former employees were shareholders in the company carrying any special rights trade as part of the FTSE 100 index under the company through the groups employee with regard to control of the company: symbol JMAT.
Through these schemes, current and former employees held there were no restrictions on voting 2,599,390 ordinary shares 1.34% of American Depositary Receipt rights including any limitations on issued share capital, excluding treasury voting rights of holders of a given programme shares as at 31st March 2018.
Also as at percentage or number of votes or Johnson Matthey has a sponsored Level 1 31st March 2018, 1,807,792 ordinary shares deadlines for exercising voting rights American Depositary Receipt ADR had been awarded but had not yet vested except that a shareholder has no right programme which BNY Mellon administers under the companys long term incentive to vote in respect of a share unless all and for which it acts as Depositary.
Each plan to 1,269 current and former employees.
sums due in respect of that share are ADR represents two ordinary shares of Shares acquired by employees through fully paid: the company.
The ADRs trade on the US the companys employee share schemes rank there were no arrangements by which, over-the-counter market under the symbol equally with the other shares in issue and with the companys cooperation, JMPLY.
When dividends are paid to have no special rights.
Voting rights in respect financial rights carried by shares in the shareholders, the Depositary converts such of shares held through the companys company are held by a person other dividends into US dollars, net of fees and employee share schemes are not exercisable than the holder of the shares: and expenses, and distributes the net amount to directly by employees.
Contact details for BNY Mellon can direct the trustee of the schemes to there were no agreements known to the are set out on page 207. company between holders of securities exercise voting rights on their behalf.
The trustee of the companys employee share that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
ownership trust ESOT has waived its right to dividends on shares held by the ESOT which have not yet vested unconditionally Nominees, financial assistance and liens to employees.
During the year: no shares in the company were acquired by the companys nominee, or by a Interests in voting rights person with financial assistance from The following information has been disclosed to the company under the FCAs Disclosure and the company, in either case where the Transparency Rules DTR 5 in respect of notifiable interests in the voting rights in the company has a beneficial interest in the companys issued share capital: shares and no person acquired shares Total % of total in the company in any previous financial 1 2 Nature of holding voting rights voting rights year in its capacity as the companys nominee or with financial assistance As at 31st March 2018: from the company : and Ameriprise Financial Inc.
Direct 84,408 0.04% the company did not obtain or hold a Indirect 9,727,409 5.03% lien or other charge over its own shares.
Indirect 20,181,149 9.85% Financial Instrument CFD 209,763 0.10% Allotment of securities for cash and placing of equity securities Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited Indirect 10,829,249 5.60% During the year the company has not allotted, 1 Total voting rights attaching to the issued ordinary share capital of the company excluding treasury shares at the time of nor has any major subsidiary undertaking of disclosure to the company.
the company broadly an undertaking that 2 % of total voting rights at the date of disclosure to the company.
represents at least 25% of the groups aggregate gross assets or profit allotted, equity securities for cash.
During the year the Other than as stated above, as far as the company is aware, there is no person with a significant company has not participated in any placing direct or indirect holding of securities in the company.
The information provided above was of equity securities.
correct at the date of notication.
However, it should be noted that these holdings are likely to have changed since the company was notied.
Notication of any change is not required until the next notiable threshold is crossed.
132 The rules of the companys employee Employment of disabled persons Contracts with controlling share schemes set out the consequences Information on the companys policy shareholders of a change of control of the company on applied during the year relating to the During the year there were no contracts of participants rights under the schemes.
recruitment, employment, training, significance as defined in the FCAs Listing Generally such rights will vest and become career development and promotion of Rules between any group undertaking and a exercisable on a change of control subject disabled employees.
controlling shareholder and no contracts for to the satisfaction of relevant performance Page 53 the provision of services to any group conditions.
As at 31st March 2018 and as at undertaking by a controlling shareholder.
the date of approval of this annual report, Research and development activities there were no other agreements between An indication of the activities of the Change of control the company or any subsidiary and its or group in the field of research and their directors or employees providing for As at 31st March 2018 and as at the date of development.
compensation for loss of office or approval of this annual report, there were no employment whether through resignation, significant agreements to which the Pages 25 to 31 purported redundancy or otherwise that company or any subsidiary was or is a party occurs because of a takeover bid.
that take effect, alter or terminate on a Likely future developments change of control of the company, whether An indication on likely future Branches following a takeover bid or otherwise.
However, the company and its The company and its subsidiaries have Pages 12 and 65 to 69 subsidiaries were, as at 31st March 2018 and established branches in a number of as at the date of approval of this annual different countries in which they operate.
report, party to a number of commercial Greenhouse gas emissions agreements that may allow the Disclosures relating to greenhouse Political donations and counterparties to alter or terminate the gas emissions.
expenditure agreements on a change of control of the Pages 39, 40 and 45 company following a takeover bid.
Other It is the groups policy not to make political than the matters referred to below, these are donations or to incur political expenditure.
Use of financial instruments not deemed by the company to be significant During the year, there were no political Information on the groups financial risk in terms of their potential effect on the group donations made to any EU or non-EU management objectives and policies, as a whole.
political party, EU or non-EU political its exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk, The group has a number of loan notes organisation or to any EU or non-EU interest rate risk and foreign currency and borrowing facilities which may require independent election candidate.
During the risk and its use of financial instruments.
prepayment of principal and payment of year, no EU or non-EU political expenditure accrued interest and breakage costs if there is was incurred.
Pages 174 to 180 change of control of the company.
The group has also entered into a series of financial Information set out in the instruments to hedge its currency, interest Strategic Report rate and metal price exposures which provide In accordance with section 414C 11 of the for termination or alteration if a change of 2006 Act, the directors have chosen to set control of the company materially weakens out in the Strategic Report the following the creditworthiness of the group.
information required to be included in the The Executive Directors service Directors Report: contracts each contain a provision to the effect that if the contract is terminated by the Employee involvement company within one year after a change of A description of the action taken by the control of the company, the company will pay company during the year relating to to the director as liquidated damages an employee involvement.
amount equivalent to one years gross base Pages 52 to 57 salary and other contractual benefits less the period of any notice given by the company to the director.
133 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Disclosures required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4R Disclosures required by the FCAs Listing Rule 9.8.
4R, can be found on the following pages: Sub-section of Information required Listing Rule 9.8.
Publication of unaudited financial information 2 Not applicable 3.
Details of long term incentive schemes established to specifically recruit or retain a director 4 Not applicable 4.
Waiver of emoluments by a director 5 6 Not applicable 5.
Allotments of equity securities for cash 7 8 Page 132 6.
Participation in a placing of equity securities 9 Not applicable 7.
Contracts of significance 10 Not applicable 8.
Contracts for the provisions of services by a controlling shareholder 11 Not applicable 9. Dividend waiver 12 13 Pages 131 to 132 10.
Agreements with controlling shareholder 14 Not applicable Important events since 31st March 2018 There have been no important events affecting the company or any subsidiary since 31st March 2018.
2018 Annual General Meeting Our 2018 AGM will be held at 11.00 am on Thursday 26th July 2018 at The Institute of Civil Engineering, One Great George Street, Westminster, London SW1P 3AA.
The notice of the 2018 AGM, together with an explanation of the resolutions to be considered at the meeting, is set out in a separate circular to shareholders.
This circular is published on our website.
Auditor and disclosure of information KPMG LLP will sign the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts and then retire as external auditors.
Following a comprehensive tender, described in full on pages 108 and 109,  LLP will be recommended for appointment as the companys external auditors at the AGM on 26th July 2018.
So far as each person serving as a director of the company is aware, at the date this Directors Report was approved by the board there is no relevant audit information that is, information needed by the auditor in connection with preparing its report of which the companys auditor is unaware.
Each such director confirms that he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditor is aware of that information.
Management report The Strategic Report and the Directors Report together include the management report for the purposes of the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
The Directors Report was approved by the board on 30th May 2018 and is signed on its behalf by: Simon Farrant Company Secretary 134
