Strategic report Our business model Inputs Core capabilities Project, engineering and technical capability throughout the asset life cycle and across broad industrial markets Performance driven and innovative solutions Asset Solutions AS Specialist Technical Environment & Infrastructure Solutions STS Talented, flexible Capital projects Solutions E&IS and motivated Focused on new capital We provide a range of investments where there is workforce specialist services including: We plan, design and engineer either no existing infrastructure infrastructure and tackle Automation & control or a significant upgrade is Read more on page 32 complex environmental planned to an existing site.
Our services We add value from concept Subsea & export systems range from assessments to start-up through our and planning through Clean energy solutions management, commissioning Operating structure project management, and project services.
Nuclear services optimised for construction management Minerals processing and monitoring.
sustainability, agility Operations solutions and future growth Focused on supporting Read more on pages 16-17 Read more on pages 18-19 infrastructure that is already Read more on page 3 in place.
Our services ensure safety, increase production, improve efficiency, reduce cost and extend asset life.
Flexible commercial model with a measured Read more on pages 12-15 risk appetite Broad sector capabilities Efficient capital structure and allocation Oil & gas Power & Environment & Minerals Automation industrial infrastructure processing Our vision Underpinned by our culture We are a diverse global business providing a huge range of services Inspire with ingenuity, across different sectors.
But common to everything we do are our values, which set out a simple, clear expectation to deliver a high partner with agility, standard of service with the right behaviours.
create new possibilities... To find out more about our vision and values visit: www.
com values 04 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Creating value through Value our differentiated model outputs Our differentiators: For investors Strong shareholder returns and progressive dividend policy Unrivalled capability & technical knowledge Reduced cyclicality through broad industry exposure Across our markets we have an extensive range of services and can deliver at every stage of the life cycle of our customers assets.
Total Dividend We provide solutions to some of the worlds most complex projects and draw on our extensive expertise and know-how to bring new perspectives to the challenges that these projects present.
35.0 cents per share For employees Execution excellence Rewarding careers and focus on retention We have a long track record of consistently delivering safe and best in class projects.
Our know-how differentiates us and we maintain Employees this by recruiting and retaining industry leading talent.
c 60,000 Read more on page 32 Technology enabled We design and deploy leading edge technology that creates For customers efficient and sustainable solutions for our customers.
Delivery of predictable project outcomes Global reach with balanced portfolio of long term partner relationships with customers Commercial discipline & versatility Leading technical services and $ smarter, more sustainable solutions We employ an asset light, flexible model allowing us to respond quickly to changes in market conditions.
Our contracting structures Track record on industry leading are predominantly reimbursable although we offer a range of projects contracting structures to align with customer needs within our measured risk appetite.
For communities Platform for sustainable growth Significant contribution to local employment and communities Our broad end market exposure means we are less exposed to volatility in individual markets and are aligned to global energy Employee fundraising matched and industrial transitions.
We have a good balance of exposure to opex and capex spending providing through-cycle stability.
We are strongly cash generative allowing for a prudent long term capital 300,000 structure.
Read more on page 36 Our values Our behaviours Listen up Team up Care Lift others up Don't give up Commitment Stand up Speak up Courage John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 05
