Science World class science and technology is at our core.
We have world class scientists and we use our world class expertise to solve complex problems for our customers, drive growth for JM and help make the world cleaner and healthier.
In a world which is becoming increasingly challenging, our expertise in science and our ability to scale it up, is a competitive advantage.
That competitive advantage enables us to build close collaborative relationships with current and future customers.
25 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report We apply our science and technology expertise in high margin, technology driven growth markets.
We choose markets where the combination of our broad expertise and our customer focus gives us leadership.
We then sustain our leadership positions through a virtuous circle of investment in research and development.
But it is not just about these We focus on the complex and Our science and technology is our scientific capabilities alone.
And we dont compete on source of competitive advantage competitive advantage is in combining price we win based on our technology.
We invest in it and in our talent.
Our skill knowledge of the fundamental science Our scientific capabilities give us the and knowledge are acknowledged across and technology, with commercial and opportunities to drive growth.
the academic and commercial scientific scalable solutions, potentially customised community and amongst our customers.
for each and every customer.
This We have nine core areas of world combination allows us to outperform class scientific capability, developed over in our target markets and creates high many years.
Together they give us the barriers to entry.
ability to provide fundamental insights about materials, their design and then the control of their activity through chemical and functional manipulation.
World class science capabilities Cleverly applied Value for JM Characterisation Material design Provision of Chemical synthesis and modelling and engineering customised solutions Solutions for customers Development of Surface chemistry Product formulation Process optimisation new and next and coatings generation products Pgm chemistry Catalysis and Scale up of complex Electrochemistry and metallurgy advanced materials manufacturing 26 eLNO: solving complex problems for the automotive battery market Last September, we announced our investment in automotive battery materials and Enabling people to breathe the new cathode material eLNO.
cleaner air is close to our We developed this material through a truly collaborative programme, from nine heart and evident in many of our locations across the UK, Germany and North America, applying our knowledge of base current markets and products.
metal chemistry, formulation and testing, modelling and electrochemistry across the materials supply chain.
Our relationship with the automotive industry, and understanding As alternative powertrains, such their requirements for energy density, power, lifetime and security of supply for materials, as battery powered vehicles, have focused our effort on the key enablers for this technology.
Our innovation delivers become more mainstream and a step change in energy density that, in the end, improves both performance and cost governments legislate to support to drive mass electric vehicle adoption across vehicle platforms.
their adoption, our researchers are More than a materials manufacturer, we are committed to using our core competencies to understand electrode structure and applications testing to further at the forefront of technological drive up energy density of our cathode materials.
Together, our knowledge of materials advances and development of engineering, coatings science and electrochemistry span all aspects important to materials providing customers battery material performance.
with the performance and This deep appreciation of how the cathode material operates and the structure and function of the materials at an atomic scale means we can model and predict consumers with the confidence how changes to the material affect performance.
Combined with applications testing required of battery powered we understand how our materials perform under different operating conditions which vehicles.
Adoption of battery enables us to deliver the materials performance, lifetime and safety specifications powered vehicles will have a required by our customers.
We use this expertise to optimise our materials for different automotive customers positive impact on cleaner air, and platforms.
Working with our teams on formulation, scale up, applications testing, and thats important to us.
and manufacturing means we can translate these insights into a deliverable product.
In 2016, the battery market represented 50% of the global cobalt demand, compared to 36% of the global lithium demand.
With the recent increase in cobalt prices, our ability to thrift cobalt, much like we'five done in platinum group metals in autocatalysts for well over 40 years, is a key market differentiator for JM.
27 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Our broad science capabilities enable That's why, alongside the work we do Innovating to realise value us to design new materials.
Our deep within JM, we're building external Innovation is realising value from expertise in characterisation and partnerships with activities like our knowledge.
We do this by identifying a modelling underpins everything.
We use AgTech pilot programme with Cranfield customer need and understanding the this capability to understand processes University.
Earlier this year, we sought value that can be delivered through and chemistry at atomic level.
Then, by applications from entrepreneurs, applying our science.
This could be a combining it with our access to world class start-ups or businesses especially working new technology in a new area or a next capabilities in computational modelling, in certain specific agricultural areas.
generation product developed through we can predict how materials and Three companies were chosen and given refining and optimising.
We focus on catalysts will behave, deliver results faster an opportunity to develop their product solutions for cleaner air, improving and supply better performing, longer or idea within an intense programme of peoples health and the most efficient lasting, more cost effective products.
collaboration and scientific and use of our planets natural resources.
Our strength comes from the Opening innovation with a new interrelationship of our world class Investing in the ares of highest approach to collaboration science capabilities and the value they potential growth deliver when applied to a solution to a We believe that collaboration and diversity customers complex, difficult problem.
are central to effective innovation.
Science lies at the heart of our company.
We do not innovate in isolation and Bringing in new skills, fresh thinking and We invested 193 million in R&D in it's our strength of understanding across different perspectives is crucial.
If you 2017 18, including 18 million of the value chain that accelerates our can combine and apply that breadth of capitalised R&D, which represents 5% progress.
We work closely with universities knowledge and knowhow, you can create of sales.
Our spend was 4% lower than around the world to supplement our exponential value.
last year, although our output was knowledge.
We also sponsor students Among the many industry verticals maintained, as we invested with greater through their PhDs which allows us to in which we operate, the agricultural discipline and efficiency into areas of access a stream of talented young sector is familiar to us.
We bring our higher potential return.
scientists and engineers at the forefront world leading catalytic science to the To ensure our R&D investment of scientific discovery.
manufacture of fertilisers and other is accelerating revenue growth We are proud of our science and agrochemical intermediates.
Now we opportunities as effectively as possible, technology.
Success comes from are exploring ways to use our broader we apply a high level of rigour to manage combining our core capabilities with capabilities, from formulations and and prioritise our R&D programmes.
smart manufacturing to develop new coatings to advanced manufacturing Delivery of our vision for a cleaner, products and processes.
This approach is techniques, to help develop new healthier world requires an innovation important from initial R&D right through opportunities and address critical market strategy to prioritise and manage our to customer support and collaboration.
challenges in the agriculture market.
By looking at There is no monopoly on great ideas.
our strategic aims as an organisation, we can map the technologies, areas of expertise and investment we need.
R&D employees Distribution of R&D expenditure Gross R&D expenditure million % Central Research Central Research 201 210 10 20% 16% 193 188 170 175 8 152 Clean Air Clean Air New 41% 41% 140 Markets New 6 9% Markets 105 11% 4 70 Health Health 2 35 13% 6% 0 0 Ecient Ecient 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Natural Resources Natural Resources 22% 21% R&D expenditure sales 28 The commercial and technical leadership The project portfolio is underpinned The research we undertake covers teams work closely to ensure objectives by a robust New Product Introduction development of the next generation are aligned.
NPI process, and is reviewed to ensure of products in close liaison with our We apply active R&D portfolio it will deliver our growth ambitions from customers, through to supporting the management with stage gating the next generation of products, to advancement of our underpinning processes and a cross cutting approach step-out technology.
Having this visibility capabilities and fundamental research for discovering new innovations and of our R&D investments means we can to keep us at the forefront of our fields.
This ensures make sure the balance of projects is right Externally, we partner with other we're creating new sources of growth to meet our strategic growth plans.
organisations in funded programmes through innovation and aligning our The majority of our 1,450 science supported by the UK, EU and USA, giving investments to drive higher returns.
and technology employees are based us access to a wider talent pool of This requires a strong relationship in our businesses, developing products exceptional scientists, and allowing us between R&D and new business and processes for our customers.
They to explore new opportunities through development to drive opportunity are supported with fundamental science collaboration whilst sharing risk.
assessment in new technologies and new from our corporate research facilities in markets, in line with our group strategy.
the UK, USA and South Africa as detailed Our Chief Technology Officer ensures on the map below.
Together we that we have the right expertise and collaborate to deliver world class science the right oversight to investigate the that our businesses can convert to opportunities in our businesses and customer solutions.
Savannah, USA Billingham, UK Sonning, UK Pretoria, South Africa Zeolite design and Manufacturing science Catalysts and materials Computational modelling manufacturing support centre Advanced materials Materials design Analytical chemistry Zeolite powder R&D characterisation Reactor engineering Refining 29 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Applying our science to new areas Through accessing our breadth of science capabilities and collaboration with our Platinum group metal pgm customer, Avon Protection, a novel pgm catalyst on a specially designed support was chemistry is an area of deep and developed.
Begun as a project funded by Anglo Platinum, our scientists screened a longstanding expertise for JM wide range of established and innovative materials for ambient temperature CO and we look for new areas where oxidation to find the best catalyst for use under these challenging conditions.
Our analytical experts were called in to extensively characterise the catalyst to our experience can bring benefit.
evaluate its behaviour under different conditions.
This enabled our scientists to One such example is an escape understand the interactions between the pgm and the support and then optimise the hood used by first responders pgm concentration whilst maintaining activity for CO reduction, which led to reduce costs.
to protect them from carbon For manufacture and scale up, our pgm and materials experts collaborated with monoxide CO poisoning.
The their JM colleagues with expertise in process optimisation and powder forming to meet the customers requirements.
The outcome was a route to scale up and manufacture problem with conventional established in line with customer specifications and expected customer demand.
solutions was that the catalyst Using our catalysts, Avon Protection were able to develop the award winning Avon for removing the CO gas was Protection NH15 Combo Escape Hood, a stable and lightweight hood which provides deactivated by components in portable protection from chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear CBRN poisoning.
In addition, and uniquely in such a small and lightweight device, it provides the carbon adsorbent used in protection from CO poisoning.
To date, JM has provided enough catalyst for 40,000 respiratory protection devices, providing reassurance to emergency personnel who find themselves in dangerous situations daily.
Thanks to JMs catalyst, these front-line people have at least 15 minutes of breathable air, providing time to get themselves to safety.
30 In collaboration with BP we combined expertise in catalyst development, catalyst Clever science is not all we do.
manufacture, plant design, process development, process design and modelling to At JM we develop technology develop an optimised Fischer Tropsch catalyst with a unique reaction enhancement solutions to complex problems device which we call a CAN inserted into a multi tubular fixed bed reactor.
The reactor which involve engineering and was designed to carefully manage heat transfer and pressure drop.
The catalyst particle size was optimised to give excellent activity and selectivity without compromising the design of processes and reactors.
Being able to do this alongside This work took many years to come to fruition, but has resulted in a system that our knowledge of materials and delivers three times the productivity of a conventional multi tubular fixed bed reactor.
reactions means we can gather the This reduces capital expenditure by half and reduces ongoing plant operating costs.
insight needed to make innovative This also makes the technology more attractive and economical from small scale suitable for MSW based projects, to world scale natural gas based projects.
We applied this approach We are proud to have been double award winners with our partner BP, landing the to the development of a new Research Project Award and the Oil and Gas Award at the prestigious IChemE Awards reactor for Fischer Tropsch in November 2017. technology to economically produce We are now progressing to build commercial size units and to licence the technology from small to large units worldwide.
sustainable fuels from feedstock sources such as renewable biomass, municipal solid waste MSW and ared associated natural gas.
Chemical reactors: innovation by design 31 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
