Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Ecient Natural Resources Year ended 31st March 2018 2017 1 restated % change, million million % change constant rates Sales Catalyst Technologies 564 542 4 3 Pgm Services 253 234 8 9 Advanced Glass Technologies 82 85 -4 -6 Diagnostic Services 57 58 -2 -2 Total sales 956 919 4 4 Underlying operating profit 158 163 -3 -4 Margin 16.5% 17.7% Margin excl.
PRMB 16.5% 17.2% Return on invested capital ROIC 12.0% 13.4% 1 Restated to reflect a change in group structure.
Good sales growth with efficiencies driving margin improvement in the second half Sales growth driven by strong demand for catalyst refills and growth in Pgm Platinum group metal Services partly offset by the expected significant decline in licensing income.
Excluding the US post-retirement medical benefit plan credit in the prior period, operating profit declined 2% and margin was only 0.7 percentage points lower at 16.5% despite the significant decline in licensing experienced in the year.
We are starting to see the benefits of actions we have taken, including restructuring, destocking and product rationalisation, to improve the quality of the business.
Catalyst Technologies Growth was led by high single Sales of chemical products also digit sales growth in refill catalysts and grew strongly, supported by growth in Sales in our Catalyst Technologies additives.
Sales of refill catalysts to our Clean Air Sector, which uses pgm business, which licenses technology ammonia plants were strong, with materials in its catalyst products.
Sales of and manufactures speciality catalysts customers having delayed turnarounds industrial products containing pgms were and additives for the chemicals and oil in 2016 17.
Additives sales also grew down in the year as the business focused and gas industry, grew 3%.
Excluding strongly, mainly driven by deteriorating on rationalising its product portfolio.
licensing, the business grew strongly, feed quality which resulted in increased outperforming its markets in aggregate.
demand for environmental additives Advanced Glass Technologies As expected we saw a significant to remove SOx oxides of sulphur decline in licensing income.
Licensing Sales in our Advanced Glass Technologies impurities.
Sales of refill catalysts to activity remained subdued with limited business, which primarily provides black methanol and hydrogen plants were new plant builds, especially for the obscuration enamels and silver paste for lower due to the cyclicality of our technologies we license.
We do not automotive glass applications, declined customers orders.
anticipate any further decline in the despite a slight increase in global car business and whilst we see some early production.
The decline was principally Pgm Services signs of improved activity in certain due to destocking in the supply chain in markets e. g. methanol, we do not Sales in Pgm Services increased 9%.
China following a build-up of inventory expect a material recovery in licensing Our Pgm Refining and Recycling business at the end of the 2016 calendar year.
benefited from higher pgm prices with Sales of catalyst first fills were stable, average palladium and rhodium prices Diagnostic Services supported in the second half by the up 39% and 79% respectively, while Sales in Diagnostic Services were broadly increased activity in methanol driven platinum prices decreased 6%, compared flat as increased activity in the global by increased industry capacity coming to 2016 17.
Volumes were up, supported reservoir market, leading to higher sales on stream.
by good demand for refining of of our tracer technologies, was offset by autocatalyst scrap in North America, lower equipment sales.
driven in part by higher metal prices.
Our precious metal management activities benefited from the volatility in the precious metal prices over the year.
