Switzerland Zurich Canada Chasing the Sun Candiac UK For 24 hours, we followed the sun.
Annan, Belasis, Brimsdown, Sites from Melbourne in Australia to Cambridge, Chilton, City Office, Clitheroe, Edinburgh, San Diego, USA marked JMs bicentennial Milton Keynes, Paddington, year in a way that reflected the local Royston, Sonning, Stockton, culture at their site and the diversity Swindon, Teesdale across the company.
We captured events in a live 24 hour broadcast whilst employees shared their experiences with each other through photos, videos and social media posts.
The Netherlands Maastricht Our vision was at the heart of the celebrations, with many sites planting trees to mirror our commitment to a cleaner, healthier world.
US Italy Albuquerque, Alpharetta, Audubon, Turin Chicago, Detroit, Devens, Devon, Downingtown, Merrillville, Newark, North Andover, Ravenna, Riverside, San Diego, San Jose, Savannah, Smithfield, Tennessee, Wayne, West Deptford, West Whiteland Germany Redwitz, Moosburg Mexico Queretaro Argentina Pilar Celebrating 200 years of inspiring science th 2017 was Johnson Mattheys 200 anniversary: an impressive milestone worthy of a unique celebration.
It was an opportunity to engage and involve our people in our rich heritage, our strategy for growth and mark our commitment to making the world a cleaner and healthier place.
th th On 19th July 2017, the 200 day of our 200 year, employees from our sites across the globe came together as one JM.
56 Sweden Finland Russia Gothenburg, Perstorp Kotka, Turku Krasnoyarsk China Beijing, Changzhou, Yantai, Poland Shanghai, Zhangjiagang Gliwice South Korea Jangan Macedonia Skopje Japan Kitsuregawa Israel Tefen Thailand Bangkok India Manesar, Gurgaon, Vadodara, Taloja South Africa Malaysia Australia th Watch our 200 anniversary video Germiston Kuala Lumpur, Nilai Melbourne Recognising JM and its people 2017 was full of memorable events.
We published a book of our history, opened the market at the London Stock Exchange and shared historical memorabilia at our Annual General Meeting.
We closed the year by honouring perhaps the most important part of JM: the achievements of our people.
The JM200 Awards celebrated the incredible efforts and th successes of our employees and were a fitting way to close our 200 anniversary year.
57 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
