Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report How we create value Sustainable business f What we use Knowhow and intellectual capital JMs competitive advantage is its science and technology.
We use our industry leading capabilities across our sectors.
We own patents covering our science, technology and processes.
Financial We invest for growth using equity from our shareholders, raised debt and cash flow delivered by our sectors.
Customer relationships We draw on our deep relationships with customers to understand Science how best to apply our science to solve their problems.
Natural resources We source raw materials responsibly and use them as efficiently as possible.
We also recycle platinum group metals pgms.
Manufacturing operations We have a global network of manufacturing plants, application Operations centres and laboratories.
People Our 14,000 people bring the talent, expertise and innovative thinking needed to drive growth and efficiency in JM.
Customers We create sustained value and growth through the effective use of our resources and our relationships.
We act in line with our core values which, together with our sustainable business goals, drive us towards our vision for a cleaner, healthier world.
How we use it Science Customers Our science has been established over many years.
Our science directs where we play.
We apply it in We invest in it and in our scientific talent.
Our skill and technology driven markets and generate high margins knowledge is acknowledged across the scientific from it.
Our customers are mostly other industrial companies, We have a set of nine core science capabilities see page 26 operating in the transport, energy, chemicals and which we use across JM.
They provide us with fundamental healthcare segments.
insights about materials, their design and then the control of We work closely with them to develop solutions which their activity through chemical and functional manipulation.
enable them to bring their products to market faster, Our competitive advantage is in combining knowledge improve the performance of their products and reduce of the fundamental science with commercial and their environmental impact.
scalable solutions, potentially customised for each and We provide them with functional components that help every customer.
them create more sustainable products and solutions.
This combination enables us to outperform in our target We also provide specialist services such as the refining markets, and creates high barriers to entry.
and recycling of pgms and process technology used to design chemical plants.
Our customers choose us because of our technology.
Collaboration and strong relationships with our customers Pages 25 to 31 are crucial in providing a high quality tailored service.
Together, we put our inspiring science to work to enhance life.
18 Pages 32 to 37 ramework The value we create How we measure value Outcomes Key performance indicators Pages 22 to 24 For society Operational carbon footprint Cleaner, healthier world Positive impact of JMs products For shareholders and other stakeholders Sales growth Attractive returns Underlying operating profit Taxes paid to authorities margin growth Underlying earnings per share ROIC Average working capital excluding precious metals People For our people Health and safety Strong culture Employee engagement Employment and opportunities For our company Technology leadership through Cash to reinvest in our science, R&D investment infrastructure and people Operations People We continue to improve our global standards and systems Everyone in JM plays their part in taking ideas from the to enable us to operate every aspect of our business lab to full scale commercial success.
efficiently: from strategy to supply chain, from innovation We hire the best people with the right skills and support to IT.
them in an innovative culture that encourages them to Our global manufacturing operations create highly develop and grow.
specified physical products for our customers.
We are driven by values which means we always keep We manufacture efficiently and responsibly to drive each other safe, work with clear intentions and respect, economic and environmental performance and have and do the right thing for our people and our planet.
programmes in place to optimise our manufacturing assets.
They are supporting us as we are evolving to take We invest in our manufacturing capacity to meet decisions more quickly, to be more open-minded to new customers future demand and have the ability to flex possibilities, to share more and stay confident through our cost base if our markets slow.
We demand high returns from our investments, with Our values provide the strong foundation from which a target of at least 20%, which drives continued we are creating a cleaner, healthier world.
Our people are motivated by working for a company that is making a difference and this is an important Pages 38 to 47 differentiator in attracting and retaining the very best.
Pages 48 to 59 19 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
