Our vision is for a world thats cleaner and healthier: today and for future generations Johnson Matthey As a global leader in sustainable technologies we apply our cutting edge science to create solutions with our customers that make a real difference to the world around us.
Delivering solutions Creating solutions today: for the future: Catalysts that prevent 40 tonnes of pollutants entering Class leading battery materials technology our air every minute to enable zero emission vehicles Active pharmaceutical ingredients that relieve symptoms for millions of people each year Recycling technologies that conserve millions of tonnes of platinum group metals every year Our strategy will deliver sustained growth Cutting edge science and technology is our competitive advantage.
Delivery of our strategy requires us to: Invest in our science and technology in order to: Maintain and build our leadership in high growth markets by solving complex problems for our customers.
Operate our business efficiently, safely and sustainably.
Develop and grow our great people.
The outcome is sustained value over the long term, characterised by: Strong return on invested capital of 20% Attractive earnings mid to high single digit growth in underlying earnings per share A progressive dividend for our shareholders And a cleaner, healthier world for everyone.
We have five values: Protecting Innovating Acting with Working Owning people and and integrity together what we do the planet improving They guide how we do things in JM and shape the right culture to achieve our strategy.
2017 18 was a good year for JM We delivered what we said we would.
We built foundations for future growth.
Investing in our science Gross R&D spend 193m Delighting our customers 1 2 3 Revenue up 17% to Sales up 7% to Underlying operating profit at 14,122m 3,846m 525m 1 3 Sales excluding precious metals.
At constant rates see note 2 on page 61.
2 At constant rates see note 2 on page 61.
Running our business better 4 5 Average working capital days Free cash ow of Carbon footprint 000 tonnes CO equivalent 2 62 136m 445 4 5 Excluding precious metals.
Supporting our people Lost time injury and illness rate Employee engagement at 61% Creating value for our shareholders Attractive return on Underlying earnings Progressive dividend 6 invested capital per share at up 7% to 16.4% 208.4p 80.0p 6 For definition see note 31g on page 181.
Building a sustainable business for the future A new sustainable business framework to 2025 Aligned to our brand, vision and strategy Driving sustainable business practices throughout JMs value chain Comprising six new goals He alth and Ou r Low carbon Res ponsible Sustainable Community safety people operations sourcing products engagement 1 2 3 4 5 6
