Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Board of Directors From left to right Tim Stevenson, OBE Chairman Robert MacLeod Chief Executive Anna Manz Chief Financial Officer Appointed to board: March 2011 Appointed to board: June 2009 Appointed to board: October 2016 Experience Experience Experience Tim was appointed Chairman in July 2011.
He was Robert was appointed Chief Executive in June 2014.
Anna joined Johnson Matthey as Chief Financial Chairman of The Morgan Crucible Company plc He joined Johnson Matthey as Group Finance Ocer in October 2016.
Previously she was Group from December 2006 to July 2012 and Chairman Director in 2009.
Previously he was Group Finance Strategy Director and a member of the Executive of Travis Perkins plc from November 2001 to May Director of WS Atkins plc and a Non-Executive Committee at Diageo plc.
Tim has also sat on a number of other boards Director at Aggreko plc.
He is a Chartered Diageo, Anna held a series of senior roles, including including National Express plc, Partnerships UK Accountant with a degree in Chemical Engineering.
Finance Director Spirits North America, Group and Tribal PLC and was Chief Executive at Burmah Treasurer and Finance Director Asia Pacic.
Anna is Other current appointments Castrol plc from 1998 to 2000.
He is a qualied a qualied management accountant with a degree Non-Executive Director at RELX PLC, RELX NV and barrister and is Lord Lieutenant of Oxfordshire.
Other current appointments Other current appointments International experience Director of the Emmott Foundation Limited.
Non-Executive Director at ITV plc.
UK, US Committees International experience Sector experience Remuneration, Nomination Chairman China, India, Ireland, Kenya, Korea, Nigeria, Chemicals, Oil and Gas, Professional Services Singapore, UK, US International experience Spain, UK Sector experience Manufacturing, Media Sector experience Chemicals, Manufacturing, Oil and Gas, Retail Alan Ferguson Senior Independent Director Odile Desforges Non-Executive Director Patrick Thomas Chairman Designate Appointed to board: January 2011 Appointed to board: July 2013 To be appointed to the board: June 2018 Experience Experience Patrick Thomas will join the board as Chairman Alan was appointed a Non-Executive Director in Odile's automotive industry experience began Designate on 1st June 2018 and will succeed January 2011 and as Senior Independent Director with the French Government's Transport Research Tim Stevenson as Chairman at the close of the in July 2014.
Previously he was Chief Financial Institute and developed with Renault SA and AB 2018 Annual General Meeting on 26th July 2018.
Ocer and a Director of Lonmin Plc.
She has held senior positions in purchasing, Experience he was Group Finance Director of The BOC Group.
product planning, development and engineering, Between 2015 and May 2018 Patrick was Chief Before joining BOC, he worked for Inchcape plc including as Chairman and Chief Executive Ocer of Executive Ocer and Chairman of the Board of for 22 years and was Group Finance Director from the Renault-Nissan Purchasing Organization RNPO Management of Covestro AG.
He is a Chartered Accountant and and most recently, until 2012, as Executive Vice sits on the Business Policy Panel of the Institute of President, Engineering and Quality at Renault.
and 2015 he was Chief Executive Ocer of its predecessor, Bayer MaterialScience, prior to Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
She was appointed a Knight of the French Legion its demerger from Bayer AG.
Other current appointments Other Current Appointments Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Other current appointments Non-Executive Director of Akzo Nobel N. V. Committee at Croda International Plc and Marshall Non-Executive Director of Safran SA, Dassault Motor Holdings plc.
He is also Senior Independent Systmes, Imerys and Faurecia.
Committees Director at both these companies.
Remuneration, Nomination Chairman Designate Committees Committees Audit, Remuneration, Nomination International experience Audit Chairman, Remuneration, Nomination International experience Belgium, Germany, UK International experience France, Japan, Sweden, UK Sector experience South Africa, UK Chemicals, Manufacturing, Oil and Gas, Sector experience Pharmaceuticals, Technology Sector experience Aerospace, Automotive, Defence, Manufacturing, Automotive, Chemicals, Metals and Mining Technology 84 From left to right Jane Griffiths Non-Executive Director John OHiggins Non-Executive Director Appointed to board: January 2017 Appointed to board: November 2017 Experience Experience Jane is currently Global Head of Actelion a Janssen John is currently Chief Executive of Spectris plc, pharmaceutical company of Johnson & Johnson a position he has held since January 2006.
Since joining J&J in 1982 Jane's roles have to this he worked for Honeywell in a number of included international and aliate strategic management roles, including as president of marketing, sales management, product automation and control solutions, Asia Pacic.
management, general management and clinical He began his career as a design engineer at research.
Jane is Director and Chair of the J&J Daimler-Benz in Stuttgart.
Between 2010 and Corporate Citizenship Trust in EMEA, a sponsor of 2015, John was a Non-Executive Director of the J&J Women's Leadership Initiative.
Exide Technologies, Inc. Other current appointments Other current appointments Director of Johnson & Johnson Innovation Limited.
Trustee of The Wincott Foundation.
Simon Farrant General Counsel and Company Secretary Committees Committees Joined Johnson Matthey: 1994 Audit, Remuneration, Nomination Audit, Remuneration, Nomination Experience International experience International experience Appointed Company Secretary in 1999 and Group Africa, Middle East, UK Belgium, China, Germany, UK, US Legal Director in 2007.
He is a Solicitor and Sector experience Sector experience Attorney and Counselor-at-Law State of New York.
Pharmaceuticals Automotive, Energy, Manufacturing, Oil and Gas, Technology Chris Mottershead Non-Executive Director John Walker Sector Chief Executive, Clean Air At the date of approval of this annual report, Appointed to board: January 2015 Appointed to board: October 2013 the Board of Directors of Johnson Matthey is as detailed here.
Experience Experience Chris is Senior Vice President of Quality, Strategy John joined Johnson Matthey in 1984 and was Colin Matthews retired as a Non-Executive Director and Innovation at Kings College London and appointed Division Director, Emission Control with eect from 15th November 2017.
Director of King's College London Business Limited.
Technologies in 2009 after holding a series of Prior to joining Kings College in 2009, Chris had positions within the division in the US, Asia and a 30 year career at BP, most recently as Global Europe.
He was appointed Executive Director, Advisor on Energy Security and Climate Change.
Emission Control Technologies Division in October Board diversity Before this, he was Technology Vice President for 2013 division subsequently renamed Clean Air BPs Global Gas, Power and Renewables businesses.
Gender He is a Chartered Engineer and Fellow of the Royal International experience Society of Arts.
Australia, China, France, Germany, India, Japan, Male Female Other current appointments Malaysia, UK, US 67% 33% Non-Executive Director of The Carbon Trust and Sector experience Carbon Trust Investments Limited.
Automotive, Chemicals Board tenure Committees Audit, Remuneration Chairman, Nomination International experience 610 years 03 years 3 3 UK, US Sector experience Energy, Oil and Gas 3 36 years 85 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
