Operating profit ROIC Outlook As expected, operating profit and Return on invested capital declined In 2018 19, we expect slight sales margin declined.
Excluding the 1.4 percentage points to 12.0% growth and we will continue to improve US post-retirement medical benefit plan impacted by higher precious metal the quality of our business as we focus credit in the prior period, margin was working capital especially through the our resources on areas of higher future down by 0.7 percentage points.
This was driven by increased growth.
Operating profit will grow ahead with our strategy, we made significant precious metal prices and reduced of sales.
In addition, we will also benefit progress in improving the efficiency and liquidity in these markets.
from 7 million of cost savings in relation quality of our business.
This came with to the restructuring programme started some additional costs in the period, in 2017 18. principally in relation to destocking.
Additionally, as expected, licensing income was significantly down.
These more than offset the benefit of higher precious metal prices, transactional foreign exchange and the delivery of the expected cost savings.
Health Year ended 31st March 2018 2017 1 restated % change, million million % change constant rates Sales Generics 173 174 1 Innovators 74 62 19 20 Total sales 247 236 5 6 Underlying operating profit 44 52 -14 -13 Margin 18.0% 21.9% Margin excl.
PRMB 18.0% 20.9% Return on invested capital ROIC 8.4% 10.5% 1 Restated to reflect a change in group structure.
Good sales growth but operating profit impacted by inefficiencies in manufacturing Sales growth driven by active pharmaceutical ingredients APIs for innovators and non-controlled generics, but partly offset by lower sales of controlled generic APIs.
Excluding the US post-retirement medical benefit plan credit in the prior period, operating profit declined 9% and margin was 2.9 percentage points lower at 18.0% as the benefits of improved pricing and increased profit shares were more than offset by higher manufacturing costs.
As we build our platform for break out growth, we started to optimise our manufacturing footprint, including developing our new plant in Annan, UK, and announcing the closure of our Riverside, US plant.
This optimisation has associated costs in the short term including higher operating costs in Annan and inventory write downs as we drive efficiency across sites.
Non-controlled APIs grew strongly, Generics Innovators driven primarily by an increased profit In our Generics business, where we Sales in our Innovators business grew share contribution from dofetilide, develop and manufacture generic APIs strongly.
This was mainly driven by which was launched by our customer for a variety of treatments, sales were flat improved pricing and volumes of APIs in June 2016.
This remained the only with a mixed performance in the business.
for branded drugs in commercial true generic on the market throughout Sales of controlled APIs were down.
We continue to invest in 2017 18 but two competitors have now Our speciality opiate sales grew strongly growing our innovator product pipeline received US Food and Drug Administration led by customer orders ahead of an utilising our chemistry strengths to FDA approval and are expected to launch anticipated product launch.
However, this develop complex APIs for our customers.
This will impact was offset by lower sales in relation to our sales and operating profit in 2018 19.
ADHD APIs in the US and to bulk opiates We invested 16 million in the year in Europe.
Our sales of ADHD APIs were on our new API product pipeline.
This impacted by the end of a profit share development of a broader, deeper product agreement during the year along with portfolio continued in line with our plans to increased competition in the US market scale the business with three submissions which continued from the second half for regulatory approval within the year.
67 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
