Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Delivering our strategy progress and priorities Strategy Strategic outcome Progress in 2017 18 Priorities for 2018 19 Sustained Market share On track to move to circa 65% share of Light Duty Continue to enhance efficiency through gains.
procurement and automation in order to deliver growth in broadly stable operating margin in 2018 19.
Clean Air Increased efficiency of manufacturing footprint Expanded, and processes.
Continued capital investment to deliver against enhanced customer needs.
capacity to Secured majority of expected platform wins in China meet growing and approved new plant to meet demand.
Secure new business wins in Light Duty Europe and demand.
Growth ahead Managed the business more efficiently through: Continue to grow sales ahead of market.
Market of market and leading Simplifying product and customer portfolio.
Leverage efficiency actions to deliver enhanced enhanced growth in Improved working capital management.
Ecient In addition, delivered cost savings from restructuring Natural programme.
Resources Break out Be development Jason Apter appointed Sector Chief Executive in Deliver value from manufacturing footprint growth in partner of choice March 2018. optimisation.
Health for innovator Continue to mature our generics pipeline.
R&D investment in new generic API product pipeline and generic on track.
and deliver 100 million additional operating profit by 2025.
Break out Focus on next Stepped up R&D investment to continue eLNOs Progress technology development and growth in generation high technology leadership.
infrastructure build out in order to commence sales New Markets energy density Further testing of eLNO by customers with continued of product for A cycle testing with customers.
materials Building out infrastructure: Deliver leading Approved plans to build demonstration scale plant product to gain in the UK and first customer application centre.
share of next Design underway of first commercial plant, located generation high in Europe and due to start production in 2021 22. energy density battery electric vehicle market.
Relentless Deliver 12 million of cost savings from our restructuring Deliver additional 13 million restructuring savings focus on 60 million programme in 2017 18. to benefit 2018 19. operational savings through Continued focus on efficiency through: Deliver savings from procurement.
Accelerated roll out of global procurement function.
Roll out first and second waves of IT core systems.
Continued investment in core IT systems upgrade.
Improved average non-precious metal working capital days to 62 days 2016 17: 69 days.
Science and Sustain Increased visibility across our R&D portfolio and Further targeting of investments to high growth technology market leading polarised investment process.
Developed eLNO market leading battery material product.
Sustainability Developed and launched new sustainable business Make progress towards achieving sustainable business Sustainable leadership.
framework and six goals to 2025. goals throughout our businesses globally see pages 16 business and 17.
Peer group Continued emphasis on behavioural health and safety Shape culture through: Investing in leading health programmes although health and safety performance our people Continued emphasis on health and safety, including and safety was flat.
and creating process safety, to drive improved performance.
the right Engaged employees in strategy and priorities.
Roll out new values culture Engaged and Refreshed values.
and behaviours and carry out second global enabled opinion survey.
