Governance Directors' report European Union.
The Company financial Each of the directors, whose names and The directors submit their statements are prepared in accordance functions are listed on pages 48 and report together with the with FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure 49, confirms that, to the best of their audited financial statements Framework.
The Group and Company knowledge: financial statements are required by law of the Group for the year The Group financial statements, which to give a true and fair view of the state have been prepared in accordance ended 31 December 2018. of affairs of the Company and the Group with IFRS as issued by the IASB and and of the profit or loss of the Group for as adopted by the EU, give a true The Group consolidated income that period.
statement for the year is set out on and fair view of the assets, liabilities, In preparing those financial statements, financial position and profit or loss of page 86.
In respect of the year ended 31 December 2018 an interim dividend the directors are required to: the Group, and of 11.3 cents per share was paid on 27 Select suitable accounting policies and The strategic report and directors September 2018 and the directors have then apply them consistently report includes a fair review of the proposed a final dividend of 23.7 cents development and performance of the Make judgements and estimates that per share to be paid on 16 May 2019. business and the position of the Group, are reasonable and prudent The full year dividend will therefore be together with a description of the Assess the Group and parent significant risks and uncertainties that 35.0 cents per share.
Companys ability to continue as a it faces.
going concern, disclosing, as applicable, Further reading matters related to going concern So far as the directors are aware, there Information relevant to and forming is no relevant audit information of which Use the going concern basis of the Companys auditors are unaware.
part of the report of the directors is to accounting unless they either intend be found in the following sections of the to liquidate the Group or the parent Relevant information is defined as annual report: Company or to cease operations, or information needed by the Companys have no realistic alternative but to do so auditors in connection with preparing Pages State that the Group financial their report.
Each director has taken all statements comply with IFRSs as the steps that he ought to have taken as Statement of Directors 46 responsibilities issued by the IASB and as adopted by a director in order to make himself aware the European Union, subject to any of any relevant audit information and to Fair, balanced and understandable 47 material departures disclosed and establish that the Companys auditors Going concern 42 explained in the financial statements are aware of that information.
Viability statement 42 The directors are responsible for keeping Risk management & internal control 47 Governance Code compliance proper accounting records that disclose Board of Directors and biographies 48-49 with reasonable accuracy at any time the The Board remains fully committed to Principal activities & business review 02-23 financial position of the Company and maintaining high standards of corporate Principal risks and uncertainties 39-42 the Group and to enable them to ensure governance and believes that this is key Acquisitions & divestments 134-136 that the financial statements and the to overall performance and integrity, Directors Remuneration Report comply consistent with our shared values.
Subsidiaries & joint ventures 145-158 with the Companies Act 2006 and, as Corporate governance 50-59 The Board also believes that good regards the Group financial statements, corporate governance extends beyond Employment policies 32-35 Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are regulatory compliance and consistently Health, safety, security & ethics 25-27 responsible for such internal control as monitors developments in best practice, they determine is necessary to enable the Environment 28-31 including guidance published by investor preparation of financial statements that Substantial shareholders 51 groups.
are free from material misstatement, Share capital 130 whether due to fraud or error, and have This section of the annual report explains Directors interests in 71 general responsibility for taking such how the Group has applied the main options over ordinary shares steps as are reasonably open to them to principles of Leadership, Effectiveness, Directors interests in ordinary shares 70 safeguard the assets of the Group and Accountability, Remuneration and to prevent and detect fraud and other Relations with shareholders outlined irregularities.
in the UK Corporate Governance Code Statement of directors issued in April 2016 the Governance Under applicable law and regulations, responsibilities Code which applies to the year ended the directors are also responsible for The directors are responsible for preparing 31 December 2018.
A copy of the preparing a Strategic Report, Directors the annual report, the Directors Governance Code is available at Report, Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Report and the financial www.
The directors consider and Corporate Governance Statement statements of the Group and John Wood that the Group has, throughout 2018, that complies with that law and those Group PLC the Company in accordance fully complied with the provisions of the regulations.
with applicable law and regulations.
The Board recognises The directors are responsible for the that the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Company law requires the directors maintenance and integrity of the Code comes into effect for financial to prepare financial statements for Companys website.
Legislation in periods beginning on or after 1 January each financial year.
The directors have the United Kingdom governing the 2019 and will be applicable for the year prepared the Group financial statements preparation and dissemination of ended 31 December 2019 onwards.
in accordance with International Financial financial statements may differ from Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by legislation in other jurisdictions.
the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and as adopted by the 46 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements As a result of these ongoing procedures Information and communication Fair, balanced and understandable the Boards assessment was that the The Group has a comprehensive system The Board considers that the annual overall internal control environment was for reporting performance to the Board.
report and accounts, taken as a whole, operating effectively, with some areas This includes monthly and quarterly is fair, balanced and understandable for improvement noted.
The quarterly reports include and provides the information necessary a detailed financial review against for shareholders to assess the Groups budgets and latest forecasts.
The ELT Internal control structure position, performance, business model also receives detailed monthly financial and strategy.
The Group has a clear organisational reports and meets on a monthly basis to structure for the control and monitoring In reaching this assessment, the Board discuss financial performance and other of its businesses, including defined lines was assisted by the Chair and the Chair operational matters.
In addition, each BU of responsibility through the organisation of the Audit Committee who engaged holds Quarterly Review Meetings QRMs up to board level and delegations of directly with company management and Quarterly Project & Risk Review authority in place.
The Group has issued during the planning, drafting and Meetings, both of which involve the Chief policies which define the standards of review stages of the annual report and Executive and the CFO.
business conduct and include Accounting: were provided with draft materials for Contract Risk Management and review and comment as the document Statutory disclosures Review: Health, Safety, Security and progressed.
This facilitated a good Environment: and Business Ethics.
4R level of understanding of the process Group Business Ethics helpline, operated of compilation and assurance over Disclosures in relation to listing rule LR by an independent third party, is in place 9.8.
4R where applicable are included in the information contained within the to enable staff and third parties to raise note 21 to the financial statements in annual report.
The Board subsequently concerns in confidence about possible relation to Long Term Incentive Plans.
considered the annual report and noncompliance with the Groups accounts as a whole and discussed the Business Ethics Policy.
Political donations reports tone, balance, and language at Neither the Company nor any of its the March 2019 Board meeting.
For more information on Business Ethics subsidiaries made any politial donations see page 27 or incurred any political expenditure Risk management during the year.
and internal control Ongoing monitoring of internal control systems The Board has overall responsibility Indemnity of officers The Board has agreed certain reporting for the Groups systems of internal Under Article 135 of the Articles, the procedures to monitor key risk areas control and risk management which is Company may indemnify any Director on an ongoing basis, including safety, fundamental to the achievement of the or former director against any liability, legal and financial matters.
The Audit Groups strategic objectives.
subject to the provisions of the Companies Committee has been delegated the Acts.
Under the authority conferred by responsibility to review the effectiveness Article 135, the Company has granted Risk management of the financial and IT internal control The Board has established an ongoing indemnities to the Directors of the systems implemented by management.
The indemnities do not apply process for identifying, evaluating and The Safety, Assurance and Business to any claim which arises out of fraud, managing the principal risks faced by Ethics Committee has been delegated default, negligence or breach of fiduciary the Group that has been in place for the responsibility for the effectiveness of duty or trust by the indemnified person.
year under review and up to the date the Groups safety policies and systems In addition, the Company may purchase of approval of this annual report.
The and has responsibility for ethical and and maintain for any Director or other process is regularly reviewed by the Board compliance issues.
officer, insurance against any liability.
The and is in accordance with the April 2016 Company maintains appropriate insurance edition of the Governance Code.
The The Board and its committees are cover against legal action brought against Group, for the purposes of applying the assisted by the internal audit function, its Directors and officers and the Directors Code, comprises John Wood Group PLC the HSSEA function including ethics & 1 and officers of its subsidiaries.
A new Group risk compliance and, where appropriate, the management standard was developed to external auditors.
Where the internal or codify existing risk management practice Approval of the Directors' report external auditors identify any significant and to drive consistency across the Group.
deficiencies in the financial or IT internal The strategic report set out on pages 01 For further details on these changes and control systems, a plan of action is to 42 and the Directors' report set out on on the principal risks and uncertainties agreed to remedy these and progress pages 46-47 were approved by the Board faced by the Group along with associated against them is tracked and reported on 14 March 2019 and have been signed mitigations, monitoring and assurance with updates provided to the Audit by the Company Secretary on behalf of please refer to pages 39 to 41.
Any system of internal control is designed The Audit Committee receives regular to manage rather than eliminate the risk updates concerning ongoing audits.
of failure to achieve business objectives Details of audit updates received by the and can only provide reasonable and not Committee in 2018 are set out on page 58. absolute assurance against material The Chairs of the Audit and Safety, Martin McIntyre misstatement or loss.
Assurance and Business Ethics Company Secretary The key elements of the ongoing Committees report regularly to the procedures, which the directors have Board on their discussions.
Footnotes established to review the effectiveness 1.
Subsidiaries are those entities which are under of the system of internal control on an Group management and control as detailed in annual basis, are listed below.
note 37 to the Financial Statements.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47
