Governance Board of Directors Chair Executive directors N Ian Marchant Robin Watson David Kemp Chair Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Key experience: Public company boards, Appointed: 2013 Appointed: 2015 power sector, finance and public capital Group Chief Executive since January 2016.
Group Chief Financial Officer CFO markets, government and regulation He was formerly Chief Operating Officer since May 2015, previously CFO of Wood from April 2015, CEO of Wood Group PSN Group PSN having joined Wood Group Appointed: 2006 and Managing Director of Wood Group in 2013.
Prior to joining Wood Group, Chair since 2014.
Ian is currently PSN in the UK, having joined Wood Group David served in executive roles at Trap Independent Chair of Thames Water: in 2010.
Prior to joining Wood Group, Oil Group, Technip, Simmons & Company Chairman of Nova, the tidal energy Robin served in a variety of leadership and International and Hess Corporation, company: non-executive director of Aggreko management positions with Petrofac and working across Finance, M&A and plc and Honorary President of the Royal Mobil.
He is actively engaged with various Operations.
He is a member of SCDI North Zoological Society of Scotland.
He was industry and Governmental representative East and of the Institute of Chartered previously Chief Executive of SSE plc, a bodies, including the Scottish Business Accountants of Scotland and is also a leading UK energy utility company: Chair Board, a cross-industry advisory group to director and governor of Albyn School.
of Infinis Energy plc and President of the the UK Government.
Robin was previously Energy Institute.
a board member of Oil & Gas UK and work group co-chair on the Step Change in Safety Leadership Team.
Non-executive directors A N S N S A N R Linda Adamany Thomas Botts Jann Brown Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Key experience: Public company boards, Key experience: International oil & gas Key experience: International oil & gas, international oil & gas, petrochemicals including North America, Europe, South public company boards, finance and public America, Middle East and downstream capital markets Appointed: 2017 Linda is currently a non-executive director Appointed: 2013 Appointed: 2014 of Jefferies Financial Group Inc, and Coeur Thomas is a non-executive director of EnPro Jann is currently Managing Director and Mining Inc and is a non-executive board Industries, is co-chair of the Governors CFO of SOCO International plc.
She spent member of BlackRock Institutional Trust Task Force at the University of Wyoming, her career in the accounting profession Company.
She was previously a nona director of the University of Wyoming before moving into the oil industry, latterly executive director of Amec Foster Wheeler Foundation and is a long-standing member as Managing Director and CFO of Cairn plc.
Prior to that she worked for BP for 27 of the Society of Petroleum Engineers.
She is a past-president of the years in the UK and US during which time was formerly with Shell for 35 years, latterly Institute of Chartered Accountants of she held various roles in refining & marketing, as global head of Shells manufacturing Scotland ICAS and Audit Committee exploration & production and petrochemicals business.
Chair of Troy Income and Growth Trust and including Chief Executive of BP Shipping of the Scottish Ballet.
and Group Vice President and Commercial Director of BP Refining & Marketing.
48 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Non-executive directors A N S A N S Key to Committee membership A Audit N Nomination R Remuneration S Safety, Assurance & Business Ethics Chair Jacqui Ferguson Roy Franklin Non-executive Director Senior Independent Director Previous directors Key experience: Technology sector Key experience: Public company boards, specialising in cloud security, international oil & gas, mergers and Ian McHoul telecommunications, financial services, travel acquisitions Appointed: 2017 and transportation, energy and government Appointed: 2017 Non-executive director and member Appointed: 2016 Roy is currently chairman of Premier Oil of the Nomination Committee.
Jacqui is currently a non-executive director plc and deputy chairman of Equinor ASA.
Resigned April 2018. of Tesco Bank and Croda International plc.
He is also a member of the advisory board She is a Trustee of Engineering UK, a not for of Kerogen Capital LLC and Chairman Richard Howson profit organisation focused on developing of privately-held companies Cuadrilla engineering and technology skills in the UK Resources Ltd and Energean Israel Ltd.
He Appointed: 2016 and a member of the Scottish First Ministers spent 18 years at BP, latterly as Head of Non-executive director and member Advisory Board for Women and Girls.
She M&A, BP Exploration, after which he was of the Safety, Assurance & Business was previously Senior Vice President and Group MD of Clyde Petroleum and then Ethics and Nomination Committees.
General Manager of Hewlett Packard CEO of Paladin Resources until 2005.
Enterprise Services in the UK and Ireland and has served on a number of international Middle East, Mediterranean and Africa and energy boards in non-executive roles prior to this she held a number of senior roles including Amec Foster Wheeler plc.
within the technology sector in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia and North America.
N R A N R Mary Shafer-Malicki Jeremy Wilson Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Key experience: Public company boards, Key experience: Public company boards, international oil & gas including Europe, finance and public capital markets Asia and Africa Appointed: 2011 Appointed: 2012 Jeremy is a non-executive director of Tullow Mary is currently a non-executive director Oil plc.
He is Chair of The Lakeland Climbing of McDermott International Inc, an Centre and Lead Trustee of The Lakeland independent director of QEP Resources Climbing Foundation.
He spent his career Inc and is a former non-executive director at J. P. Morgan, which he joined in 1987, until of Ausenco Limited.
She is a member retiring in October 2013.
He held a series of of industry councils at Oklahoma State senior level positions there including Head University and the University of Wyoming.
of the European Mergers and Acquisitions Mary worked for Amoco and BP for 26 Group, global co-head of the Natural years, latterly as Senior Vice President Resources and Diversified Industrials Group and CEO for BP Angola, with previous and latterly Vice Chair of the Energy Group appointments in Vietnam, Aberdeen, and was involved in a number of major oil & Holland and the US, principally in gas mergers over the years.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49
