Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Customers Collaboration and strong relationships with our customers are crucial in Sustainable business goals providing a high quality tailored service.
Together, we put our inspiring Sustainable science to work to enhance life.
products We work closely with them, applying our science and technology to 5 develop solutions which enable them to bring their products to market faster, improve the performance of their products and reduce their environmental impact.
This creates value for them: and it creates value for JM through high margin products from which we generate strong returns.
Our Commercial Excellence programme page 35, launched in 2017 18, is a key enabler of our strategy.
Through it we will deliver an enhanced experience all round for our customers and at the same time, create more value for JM.
In serving our customers, we also contribute to making the world a cleaner, healthier place.
Through our new sustainable business goal 5, we are quantifying the positive impact our products and services have and aim to double that between now and 2025.
32 Putting our inspiring science to work for our customers The markets we serve are directed by our science and are driven by our technology.
As a result, we create leading technology positions, often in niche global sub-markets that form part of larger markets.
The markets we serve aggregate into four main global economic segments, each crucial to the development of prosperity and wellbeing.
They are: Transport principally automotive, with some marine and aerospace.
Energy fuels and electricity generation.
Chemicals including agrochemicals, food and beverage.
Healthcare both pharmaceuticals and medical.
Beyond these we also think about the critical raw materials and commodities used in these spaces.
Segment trends and dynamics Transport 1 The automotive industry continues to grow.
Light duty vehicle LDV production reached almost 95 million units in 2017 18 and is 1 expected to pass 100 million units in the early 2020s 2.4% compound annual growth CAGR.
Asia is fuelling this expansion, with Europe and America growing at a more subdued pace.
Heavy duty vehicle HDV production was 3.3 million units in 1 2017 18.
This remains a cyclical market with growth in Asia underpinning current expansion.
Whilst vehicle production is a growth driver for JM, next generation, tighter emission control legislation in the European, North American and Asian markets is an additional, more significant opportunity for us.
Beyond current evolution pathways, the emergence of new powertrain technologies, innovative vehicle ownership and access models, along with a rising degree of connectedness and automation, is transforming the mobility landscape.
Analysts expect a move away from pure internal combustion engine ICE vehicles over time, with hybrid, battery electric and or fuel cell vehicles becoming more common.
This transition is not expected to be quick, with most market evolution studies showing a gradual uptake of alternative powertrains in LDVs through the 2020s.
The transition for HDVs is expected to be more gradual.
Alternative powertrains are also starting to appear in other forms of transport e. g. trains and industrial applications e. g. fork-lift trucks.
For JM, this means expanding our offering, applying our science to develop solutions to enable and deal with the expected uptick in demand and a potential shift into new applications.
Energy 2 Fossil fuels remain the dominant global energy source today 85% of primary energy, but the rise of renewables, the drive for energy efficiency, along with the possibility of cost effective energy storage is changing that dynamic.
Most analysts expect natural 2 gas to become the fastest growing fossil fuel 1.5% CAGR for piped gas and 3.0% CAGR for liquefied natural gas, with the share of coal and oil in the worlds energy mix falling.
This implies growth in renewables and other low carbon fuels including nuclear.
For JM, this evolution touches our applications in the stationary energy space across several other products and services.
We remain focused on this market as it will also potentially inform us about changes in the interconnected transport and chemicals markets.
Chemicals 2 Oil demand is predicted to grow by around 0.7% between 2015 and 2035, with production rising from 96 million barrels per day 2 2 mmbbls d to 106mmbbls d in 2035.
Growth in natural gas is expected to be stronger, rising at around 1.6%.
This would take 2 gas demand from 336 billion cubic feet per day Bcf d in 2015 to around 462 Bcf d in 2035.
Downstream products have benefited from these low input prices, but those advantages are beginning to pass and the perception about overcapacity low utilisation rates remain.
Petrochemical end markets are expected to grow over the coming 3 years with compound annual growth rates of between 2% fertilisers and 7% engineered polymers.
New capacity additions in the US gas price advantage, Middle East and Asia are expected over the coming years.
Associated pricing changes linked to demand shifts may also impact the chemicals markets in which we play e. g. methanol, ammonia.
These evolutions impact the profitable pathways and catalytic transformation routes that we try to serve.
As a business, we will continue to target the highest growth and most profitable segments to ensure that critical raw materials are used and transformed in the most efficient manner possible.
com en global corporate energy-economics energy-outlook.
33 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Healthcare The global population continues to rise with people living to an older age.
To service this trend, a range of interventions are being requested.
Additional medications are required to keep people healthy for longer, additional pressure is put on scarce food and water resources, more devices are being used to improve quality of life.
However, the pressure to deliver these interventions at a low cost is growing.
The global pharmaceuticals market is expected to grow at 6% per annum, from $650 billion today to more than $820 billion 4 5 by 2020 and with growth in that market outstripping global GDP growth of 3% per annum over the period.
The largest markets remain the US and Europe, which together account for about two thirds of the global market.
The market for generic pharmaceuticals accounts for about one third of the total pharma market today and is forecast to experience equivalent or higher 4 growth rates than the pharma industry overall ranging from 5 to 9% between forecasts.
JM will continue to focus on how we can serve this growing market through our differentiated science and technology, helping to deliver the products that our growing population requires.
Critical raw materials Within the evolving market dynamics described above, commodity prices will play an important role.
We already see the commodity cycle starting to turn with higher metal prices seen during the 2017 calendar year.
Oil prices are starting to rise moving beyond $70 per barrel for the first time since late 2014, while gas prices, especially in North America have remained subdued at around $3 mmbtu US Henry Hub.
Beyond these traditional commodities we are also seeing upward pressure on the key inputs to battery cathode materials e. g. lithium in 2017, cobalt and nickel more recently.
These prices and their movements will impact decisions about how our key end markets evolve and which technologies pathways come to dominate over time.
JM will continue to focus on the most efficient use and transformation of critical raw materials and we will position our business including our refining expertise to respond and react to these trends.
The breadth of JM is a source of strength The four economic segments we serve are undergoing major change: change that is driven and enabled by technology.
We apply our scientific skills, via our sectors, into markets within these segments to create new products and services that improve lives, improve efficiency and reduce environmental impact.
AgrochemEnergy generation Food and Glass Automotive Oil and gas Chemicals icals and Major and storage beverage fertilisers markets served Other industrial Pharmaceutical and medical by JM Global Transport Energy Chemicals Healthcare economic sectors Clean Air Health JMs New Markets New Markets Battery Materials sectors Efficient Natural Resources Our Clean Air Sector abates It also has our platinum group This breadth is a source of strength for JM.
emissions from the transport, metal recycling business.
The markets and segments we serve are energy and chemicals segments.
amongst the most important in the world Our Health Sector draws on core economy, are universal and supported Our Efficient Natural Resources capabilities in complex chemistry, by strong macro drivers.
Maintaining this Sector has businesses supplying manufacturing and scale up to broad market exposure and managing products and processes that create solutions for niche areas the balance of our business across these conserve scarce resources, enabling within the pharmaceutical industry.
segments of the world economy is part the manufacture of chemicals, Our New Markets Sector applies our of our strategy.
fertilisers, fuels and glass using less science into emerging opportunities energy and fewer raw materials.
34 The four segments are complementary.
Across these offerings, our customers, We have started work to establish Many of the customers we serve operate in the most part, value the performance a consistent measure of customer in two adjacent segments: for example, of our technology in their applications.
satisfaction across JM so that we can fuel companies also have chemical The performance of our products delivers enhance the experience our customers operations: chemical companies different advantages to our customers by: have when buying from us.
programme is on track to deliver benefits Translating directly into the We bring market, technical and regulatory over the coming year.
insights from each segment and apply it Enhancing the reliability of their to the adjacent segments.
These insights Measuring our impact beyond production.
customer value Increasing their efficiency.
The value we create for our customers What we sell and how we work Enabling them to reduce the overall drives growth in our business and returns cost of their product.
with our customers for our shareholders.
But our products and services have a much broader Maximising this performance advantage Across all our markets, we have two positive impact, making our air cleaner, through codevelopment is the basis of fundamental customer offerings.
improving peoples health and conserving the way we work with our customers.
Functional components that our the worlds natural resources.
We want This collaborative development requires customers incorporate into the that positive contribution to grow.
strong, long term relationships based products they manufacture.
These As part of our new sustainable on mutual commitment, risk sharing components are fundamental to business framework we have set a goal and trust.
the performance of our customers to double the positive contribution of our In addition to performance, product.
Examples are: electrode products by 2025.
This, our sustainable customers also come to JM for additional tips for cardiac oblation, emission business goal 5, has two streams by sources of value: speed and efficiency in control catalysts for engines, active which we will track our progress.
development, reliability, responsiveness pharmaceutical ingredients for pain The first shows our global impact by in problem solving, security and flexibility.
treatment, protective coatings for measuring the absolute and percentage of We work with our customers across automotive glass, cathode materials JMs sales that have a direct contribution a range of markets, understanding the for batteries.
to the UN Sustainable Development needs of each sector and customer.
For these types of product, most Goals.
The percentage measure is a key This approach gives us a business that is of what we sell we have developed performance indicator for the group as balanced and robust.
Through serving and formulated specifically for an detailed on page 23. broad markets, the opportunities to individual customers application, The second relates to JMs vision for apply our science and technology are in collaboration with our customer.
Our goal is greater and our contribution to a cleaner, to at least double: 2.
Process technologies that our healthier world is increased.
customers use to enhance the 1.
The tonnes of pollutants oxides efficiency, economics and Driving commercial excellence of nitrogen, carbon monoxide, sustainability of their manufacturing hydrocarbons, particulate matter We have distinctive scientific and processes.
In these cases, our removed by our products, thereby technical capabilities which we translate technology is used to make the making the world cleaner.
into solutions for our customers.
It is customers product rather than 2.
The number of lives impacted by important that, together with providing being part of the finished product.
our pharmaceutical products, them high quality products and service, We develop manufacturing thereby making the world healthier.
we capture our fair share of the value processes, including the catalysts we create for customers.
that enable them, both for 3.
The quantity of greenhouse gases Our Commercial Excellence customer-proprietary products removed or reduced CO equivalent 2 programme is focused on doing just e. g. pharmaceutical actives by our products, thereby taking that.
It is a key enabler of our strategy and for chemicals and fuels climate action.
The overall e. g. methanol, ethylene glycol.
Our baseline measures are outlined objective of the programme is to deliver For processes we develop ourselves, on page 17. value by building the commercial we either licence to our customers We are excited to introduce our capability across JM: enhancing our or operate them ourselves in our sustainable business goal 5.
It will be ability to make value based data driven own facilities.
When we develop a positive driver for our business decisions: measuring and responding to processes for customer-proprietary performance and, crucially, provides a customer satisfaction: improving our sales products we work under contract tangible measure of progress towards and marketing processes and leveraging development agreements.
our vision for a cleaner, healthier world.
Our Pgm Refining and Recycling The programme has made good early business uses a JM-developed and progress.
We are investing in growing operated process.
We provide a our people and our commercial function.
service for our customers including We will be launching our commercial other JM businesses where we academy this coming year to support the transform their materials to produce development of our commercial people high value product.
We are also improving the consistency of our data analytics to inform our commercial decisions.
35 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
