Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Treasury policies, going concern and viability The directors have determined that Treasury policies and financial Viability a three year period to 31st March 2021 risk management In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of is an appropriate period over which to the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016, Group Treasury is a centralised function assess the groups viability.
As part of the directors have assessed the viability within Johnson Matthey based in the UK our long term planning, the group also of the company over a longer period and US.
The role of Group Treasury is to prepares forecasts for longer periods than than the 15 months covered by the secure funding for the group, manage three years, but there is inevitably more Going Concern statement.
financial risks and provide treasury services uncertainty associated with longer time During the year, the board has to the groups operating businesses.
We have therefore chosen a carried out a robust assessment of the Group Treasury is run as a service centre three year horizon since this period is principal risks affecting the company, rather than a profit centre.
The group also aligned with our normal and well particularly those which could threaten does not undertake any speculative established business planning process the business model.
These risks and the trading activity in financial instruments.
which includes preparing and reviewing actions taken to mitigate them are a three year plan each year.
described in the section on risks and Funding and liquidity risk In making the assessment, we uncertainties.
To reach the viability have considered a number of severe but The groups policy on funding capacity is statement conclusion we have plausible stress scenarios linked to the to ensure that we always have sufficient undertaken the following process: groups principal risks.
We have analysed long term funding and committed bank The Audit Committee annually the impact of the following three facilities in place to meet foreseeable reviews the risk management process hypothetical stress scenarios plus all peak borrowing requirements.
to ensure its continuing effectiveness.
of them occurring at the same time.
At 31st March 2018 the group had cash and deposits of 329 million and A rolling programme is in place of Scenario 1: Business performance risks.
510 million of undrawn committed deep dive reviews of principal risks.
Under this scenario we evaluated the bank facilities available to meet future In each one, the board receives a possible impact from a faster than funding requirements.
The group also presentation on the risk and expected uptake of electric vehicles and has a number of uncommitted facilities, mitigations from the GMC risk owner.
the failure to grow existing businesses including overdrafts and metal lease and to launch new products.
Twice a year, a presentation is lines, at its disposal.
The maturity dates made to the board from the Group Scenario 2: Execution risks.
This includes of the groups debt and committed Assurance and Risk Director, poor management of capital projects, borrowing facilities as at 31st March 2018 explaining the process followed by significant production losses due to are illustrated in the chart on page 75. management to identify, assess downtime at a major site and the inability Of the committed bank facilities, and manage risks throughout the to improve certain businesses or sites.
155 million has a final maturity date business.
At this time all of our within the 15 months to 30th June 2019 Scenario 3: External and macroeconomic principal risks are considered along risks.
This scenario assesses the impact the going concern period.
53 million with the linkages between them.
of these committed bank facilities were from a hard Brexit, cyber and IP related Throughout the year, a number of risks and from adverse events and refinanced in May 2018 for a further two deep dives into specific risk areas years with a long term relationship bank.
were conducted by the Corporate All of our stress tests were derived Assurance and Risk team, the results Going concern through discussions with senior of which were presented to and management and the board after The directors have assessed the future discussed by the board.
considering our principal risks and funding requirements of the group and The groups prospects are assessed through uncertainties.
the company and compared it to the level the annual strategic and business planning Our evaluation took account of the of long term debt and committed bank processes.
This process includes a review groups current financing arrangements facilities for the 15 months from the of assumptions made and the ongoing and assumes that existing debt and balance sheet date.
The assessment assessment of annual and longer term borrowing facilities can be refinanced as included a sensitivity analysis on the key plans, including appraisal of the group they mature, but we have also considered factors which could affect future cash strategy and significant capital investment the potential capacity for additional flow and funding requirements.
Reviews are led by the Group funding should this be required.
Our stress undertaken this work, the directors are of Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer testing showed that certain combinations the opinion that the group has adequate in conjunction with Sector Chief Executives.
of these hypothetical scenarios would resources to fund its operations and so In addition, the board participates fully increase JMs funding requirements determine that it is appropriate to prepare in the annual process by reviewing sector substantially and risk breaching a key the accounts on a going concern basis.
During financial covenant, requiring additional these reviews, the groups current position funding and potentially mitigating and its prospects over the forthcoming actions in order to maintain sufficient years are reviewed which allows headroom against the covenant limit.
reaffirmation of the group strategy.
74 However, we are satisfied that the The group uses forward exchange Credit risk mitigating actions and our capacity for contracts to hedge foreign exchange The group is exposed to credit risk on additional financing will allow JM to exposures arising on forecast receipts its commercial and treasury activities.
effectively respond to the negative and payments in foreign currencies.
In both cases counterparties are assessed impact from a combination of these Details of the contracts outstanding against the appropriate credit ratings, stress scenarios.
on 31st March 2018 are shown on trading experience and market position.
We have also undertaken a reverse pages 175 and 176. Credit limits are then defined and stress test in order to identify what exposures monitored against these additional or alternative scenarios and Interest rate risk limits.
In treasury and precious metal circumstances would threaten our management, these exposures include At 31st March 2018 the group had net current financing arrangements.
the mark to market of outstanding borrowings of 679 million of which Based on the results of our transactions and potential settlement risks.
99% was at fixed rates with an average assessment, the directors have a interest rate of 3.1%.
The remaining 1% reasonable expectation that the company of the groups net borrowings was funded Pages 76 to 81: Our principal risks will be able to continue in operation and on a floating rate basis.
A 1% change meet its liabilities as they fall due over a in all interest rates would have an period of at least three years.
immaterial impact on underlying profit before tax.
Foreign currency risk Johnson Mattheys operations are located Precious metal prices in over 30 countries, providing global Fluctuations in precious metal prices coverage.
A significant amount of profit have an impact on Johnson Mattheys is earned outside the UK.
In order to financial results.
Our policy for all protect the groups sterling balance manufacturing businesses is to limit sheet and reduce cash flow risk, the this exposure by hedging against future group has financed a significant price changes where such hedging can portion of its investment in the US be done at acceptable cost.
The group and Europe by borrowing US dollars does not take material exposures on and euros respectively.
the group uses foreign currency A proportion of the groups precious swaps to hedge a portion of its assets.
metal inventories are unhedged due to the ongoing risk over security of supply.
Maturity profile of debt facilities At 31st March 2018 exchange rates million 1,600 1,400 1,200 1,000 800 Net debt at 31st March 2018 600 400 200 0 March March March March March March March March March March March 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 Private placement notes KfW loans EIB loans Committed bank facilities 75 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
