Group Management Committee GMC From left to right Matthew Harwood, Chief Strategy and Corporate Jane Toogood, Sector Chief Executive, Jason Apter, Sector Chief Executive, Health Development Officer Efficient Natural Resources Joined the GMC: March 2018 Joined the GMC: August 2017 Joined the GMC: March 2016 Jason joined JM in March of this year to lead Matthew joined JM in August 2017.
Prior to JM he Jane joined JM from Borealis in March 2016 the Health Sector.
Bringing experience from was at Petrofac.
Matthew leads the groups strategic and leads the Ecient Natural Resources Sector, the healthcare and life science industry from planning and corporate development activities and directing the strategy to deliver market leading MilliporeSigma, Jason leads the strategy to deliver works with the Sector Chief Executives to develop growth.
Jane also chairs the Brexit working group.
complex chemistry solutions for our customers.
the strategy for our sectors.
Robert MacLeod, Chief Executive Simon Farrant, General Counsel and Alan Nelson, Chief Technology Officer and Joined the GMC and the board: June 2009 Company Secretary Sector Chief Executive, New Markets Joined the GMC: July 2007 Having joined JM as Group Finance Director Joined the GMC: June 2015 in 2009, Robert has been leading JM since Simon joined JM in 1994 as Senior Legal Adviser Alan joined JM in June 2015 as Chief Technology June 2014 when he became Chief Executive.
and became Company Secretary in 2001.
Simon Ocer and now also leads our Battery Materials heads up our company secretarial and legal activities, business and the rest of our New Markets Sector.
including on ethics and compliance.
He also acts Previously with The Dow Chemical Company, Anna Manz, Chief Financial Officer as secretary to the board and its committees.
he leads our innovation portfolio, directs global Joined the GMC and the board: October 2016 research eorts and leads the implementation Anna joined JM as Chief Financial Ocer in of business plans into new markets.
He is also John Walker, Sector Chief Executive, Clean Air October 2016 to lead the groups finance activities, responsible for our sustainable business framework.
Joined the GMC and board: October 2013 risks and controls.
Joining from Diageo, Anna also leads our eorts to drive excellence and eciency John joined JM in 1984 and has led our Clean Air across JMs business.
Sector since 2009 after heading up its Asian Annette Kelleher, Chief HR Officer business for many years.
John also has board level Joined the GMC: May 2013 responsibility for environment, health and safety.
Annette is our Chief HR Ocer, leading the groups people strategy.
Joining from Pilkington Glass in May 2013, Annette is responsible for the programmes to build talent and capabilities across JM in line with our group strategy.
13 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
