Governance Letter from the Chair of the Board Dear shareholder In 2018 Robin and his executive leadership team were successful in delivering against a clear set of operational and financial objectives around the integration of Amec Foster Wheeler, growth, synergy delivery, deleveraging and dividends.
The Board devoted considerable time to supporting and challenging the executive leadership team throughout the AFW acquisition process in 2017.
In 2018, the Boards focus was primarily on integration which progressed well under the sponsorship of Thomas Botts at the Board level.
Integration is now largely complete, with no interruption to business continuity or safety performance.
Overall, the pace of integration has been a key enabler of synergy delivery ahead of schedule.
Now in the post-integration phase, the Board will continue to receive quarterly reports on progress of the integration PLUS programme.
"Ian Marchant Chair The Board continues to recognise risk management as an essential element of good corporate governance: improving ""In 2018 the Boards focus was primarily on decision making and enhancing outcomes integration, having devoted considerable and accountability."
During the year, the Board discussed the adoption of a new time to supporting and challenging the risk management standard to be applied across the entire business.
The purpose executive leadership team throughout the of this standard is to ensure the Group AFW acquisition in 2017.
Integration is now makes informed decisions with respect to the activities that it undertakes by largely complete, with no interruption to appropriately considering risks and business continuity or safety performance opportunities and assuring material risks to the Group are being managed and members of the Board have undertaken appropriately and in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
"employee engagement activities to reinforce In 2018, our focus on safety helped to their understanding of Woods corporate ensure the safe delivery of the AFW culture. """
integration and an improved safety performance in the business overall.
The Safety, Assurance and Business Ethics Committee continued monitoring compliance with the administrative agreement entered into in respect of events in the Gulf of Mexico in prior years.
The Committee also focused on monitoring the ongoing investigations into the historical use of agents.
The Committee also provided oversight around the integration of ethics and compliance programmes of the legacy businesses resulting in a new Code of Conduct which was rolled out in August.
44 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Nomination Committee focused During the year, the Audit Committee Members of the Board participated in on the effectiveness and independence focused on the Groups application of the global Listening Group Network of the Board in 2018.
The appointment accounting policies and on the areas calls for the first time, giving them of a number of former AFW directors of judgement and estimation as well the opportunity to gather the views on completion of the AFW transaction as adoption of IFRS 15 Revenue form of our workforce and strengthen the helped to ensure diversity in terms of contracts with customers.
The primary employee voice in the boardroom.
background, experience and thought areas of judgement and estimation The process also provided a good leadership as well as maintaining a considered by the committee included reinforcement of the Boards minimum of one third of our board being finalisation of the accounting for the understanding of Woods corporate female.
Two non-executive directors AFW transaction, impairment reviews, culture.
We participated in the resigned during the year: Richard tax balances, significant fixed price or Workforce Disclosure Initiative for the Howson in January and Ian McHoul in lump sum contracts and provisions.
first time, giving us the opportunity April 2018.
Jann Brown has indicated her KPMG were appointed as auditor at the to build greater understanding with intention to resign as a director and as 2017 AGM for the financial year ending our investors and improve policies and Chair of the Audit Committee.
After a full audit practices on a range of workforce been non-executive director and Chair tender process, the Committee decided related topics.
of the Audit Committee since May 2014. that KPMGs proposal demonstrated the In 2019 we will undertake the review She is resigning due to commitments greatest understanding of the Groups of our remuneration policy and will to other executive responsibilities.
The culture and strategy, industry knowledge proactively engage with key investors Board intends to appoint an additional and proposed an innovative and effective to ensure alignment to shareholder non-executive director to replace Jann audit approach which would provide a value creation, simplification of our as Chair of the Audit Committee and high level of challenge to management.
remuneration framework and support has commenced a process to identify The Board participated in a Board for any proposals.
Jann will remain evaluation process externally facilitated as a director and Chair of the Audit Your Board recognises the excellent by Lintstock.
The output from that Committee until her successor has been work of Robin, David and the Executive process was reviewed at the March appointed, which is expected to be within Leadership Team in delivering the 2019 Board meeting with certain the next six months.
Linda Adamany integration of AFW and overseeing recommendations for improvement has also given notice of her intention to Woods return to growth in 2018. noted, which the Board is considering.
resign, for personal reasons, as a director Looking ahead, I feel confident that the with effect from 1 May 2019.
Linda was During the year, the Board also considered Board ensures the appropriate skills for appointed as a director of Wood in the impact of changes to incoming effective decision making in the long October 2017, following the acquisition regulations impacting governance.
term best interests of Wood.
Prior to that, she had been a The 2018 UK Corporate Governance Ian Marchant director of AFW since October 2012.
In Code the Code and The Companies Chair line with its previously-stated intention Miscellaneous Reporting Regulations to reduce the size of the Board following 2018 the Regulations come into effect the AFW acquisition, the Board does for financial years beginning on or after 1 not intend to appoint a replacement January 2019.
There is a degree of overlap for Linda.
The Board and I would like between the governance principles to thank both Jann and Linda for their set out by the Code and the disclosure dedication to Wood.
They have provided requirements of the Regulations invaluable support to Wood at a time of around areas such as employee and significant development.
broader stakeholder engagement and remuneration.
The Board intends to fully The UK Corporate Governance Code comply with the requirements of both for published by the FRC in July 2018 the 2019 annual report.
states that the Chair should not remain in post beyond nine years from the The Remuneration Committee has date of their first appointment to the continued to pay close attention to the Board other than for a limited time to executive remuneration environment facilitate succession planning and the including changes to the corporate development of a diverse board.
I was governance code ensuring we consider first appointed to the Board in 2006 and the impact for Wood, whilst continuing to as such I have indicated to the Board make remuneration decisions that reflect that it is my intention to resign as a the needs of the business and which director within the next 12 months.
To remain in line with our remuneration ensure an orderly transition, I will remain principles.
In 2018 we enhanced our as a director and Chair of the Board until engagement activities with leadership a successor is appointed.
A process to and the wider workforce to ensure our identify a successor is underway.
people policies, practices and processes are fair and support diversity and equality.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45
