"Strategic report Governance Financial statements Chair's statement ""2018 was a year of significant progress for Wood with the two companies being brought together to create one leading business in project, engineering and technical services delivery."
"The Board is confident that as an integrated business Wood has a strong operational platform capable of delivering growth from a sustainable cash generative model. """
Ian Marchant Chair 2018 was a year of significant progress for Wood that Wood remains committed to its progressive dividend policy included the important milestone of the first anniversary which takes into account future cashflows and earnings.
of the completion of the AFW transaction.
Under Robins This is a key foundation of the Wood investment case which leadership, the two companies have been brought together has been sustained through the challenging conditions in to create one leading business in project, engineering and our core markets through the downturn.
There is no change technical services delivery, accelerating the Wood Group to the policy going forward.
The Board has recommended a strategy to broaden its service, sector and end market final dividend of 23.7 cents per share, which makes a total portfolio.
distribution for the year of 35.0 cents, representing an increase of 2% on the total distribution for 2017. Dividend At the start of the year a clear set of financial and cover is strong at 1.6 times.
operational objectives were established for Wood and Robin, together with his leadership team, have been focused on Looking ahead, there is a very positive medium term outlook delivering against them.
Integration and cost and revenue for Woods broader end markets.
The Board is confident that synergy delivery formed an important part of these Wood is well placed to deliver good longer term growth both objectives.
With support from the Board integration has organically and by a return to acquisition led growth that progressed at pace with the process completed in October.
aligns with our long term preferred capital structure.
This clear focus has allowed the business to access cost Ian Marchant synergies ahead of schedule and to capitalise on its broader Chair capability set to realise significant revenue synergies and demonstrate the strength of the combined business.
Wood returned to growth in 2018 with good momentum in trading and a significant impact from cost synergy delivery.
Results benefitted from relatively favourable conditions in the wide range of energy and industrial end markets Wood now operates in, despite a slower sector recovery in oil and gas.
The quality of earnings is demonstrated by Woods cash generation performance in 2018 which has contributed to a reduction in net debt of $450m since completion and progress towards our deleveraging target.
The Board is confident that as an integrated business Wood has a strong operational platform capable of delivering growth from a sustainable cash generative model.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 07
