Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Operating profit ROIC Outlook Operating profit, excluding the US Return on invested capital declined In 2018 19, sales in our Health Sector are post-retirement medical benefit plan 2.1 percentage points to 8.4% driven expected to be broadly stable.
However, credit in the prior period, was down 9% by the lower operating profit.
operating profit will be down, particularly and margin declined 2.9 percentage in the first half.
Several API products with points.
Improved pricing and increased high margin or profit sharing agreements profit shares benefited margin.
However, move into decline in 2018 19, reflecting these were more than offset by additional normal product lifecycles of generics, costs as we optimise our manufacturing while launches of new API products only footprint, including higher operating have a small contribution in the year.
costs associated with our plant in Annan, The optimisation of our manufacturing UK coming on stream and inventory footprint partly mitigates this decline, write downs as we drive efficiency as it will generate a small net benefit in across sites.
2018 19 and a significant benefit once Annan is fully operational in 2020 21.
New Markets Year ended 31st March 2018 2017 1 restated % change, million million % change constant rates Sales Alternative Powertrain 156 160 -2 -7 Medical Device Components 74 69 8 8 Life Science Technologies 45 48 -7 -8 Other 37 31 18 19 Total sales 312 308 1 -2 Underlying operating profit 17 12 37 34 Margin 5.3% 4.0% Margin excl.
PRMB 5.3% 3.3% Return on invested capital ROIC 8.1% 6.2% 1 Restated to reflect a change in group structure.
Lower LFP sales led to a small sales decline: significant progress in developing eLNO Significant decline of lithium iron phosphate LFP battery materials was partially offset by strong growth in fuel cells and Medical Device Components.
Excluding the US post-retirement medical benefit plan credit in the prior period, operating profit grew by 60% reflecting comparison against a 5 million impairment charge in the second half of last year.
Significant progress in developing eLNO and our strategy to commercialise this market leading next generation product.
68 Alternative Powertrain Operating profit Our Alternative Powertrain business Operating profit grew by 34%, helped provides battery materials for automotive by comparison against a 5 million applications, battery systems for a range impairment charge last year.
Excluding of applications and fuel cell technologies.
this, operating profit was flat as strong Sales were down 7% as the growth in medical device components decline in LFP battery material sales and improved profitability in fuel cells more than offset significant growth was offset by the decline in LFP sales and in fuel cell products.
As expected, the by increased development costs for our business grew sales in the second half eLNO battery material.
following stronger orders for battery system products.
ROIC Sales of our LFP battery materials Return on invested capital increased to continue to be subdued as the number of 8.1% reflecting the improvement in platforms we serve is significantly lower operating profit.
This primarily reflects changes in electric vehicle tax Outlook incentives in China which has led to increased substitution of LFP by high New Markets is expected to deliver sales energy materials.
While a recovery in our and operating profit growth in 2018 19 LFP sales is expected in the medium term, led by continued growth in fuel cells and led by demand for our next generation Medical Device Components and a LFP for a range of higher value hybrid stronger year for battery systems.
applications, we do not see a recovery in the near term given the current competitive landscape and price points.
We continue to make significant progress in the development of our ultra-high energy density battery material, eLNO, as discussed on pages 8 and 10.
Sales of fuel cell products grew by over 50% in the year, helped by increased volumes to stationary applications for existing and new customers.
Sales of battery system products were flat following a strong second half as expected.
Medical Device Components Our Medical Device Components business leverages our science and technology to develop products found in devices used in medical procedures.
Sales growth was strong across product areas, including for example, components for cochlear implants to aid hearing.
Growth was driven by customer growth as demand for our products across the world continues to expand.
Life Science Technologies Our Life Science Technologies business provides advanced catalysts to the pharmaceutical and agricultural chemicals markets.
As expected, sales were lower in the period reflecting lower sales to two large customers.
69 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
