Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Long term view Technologies for clean transportation JM brings insight as the powertrain evolves Automotive powertrain technology Understanding our customers and their value chains has seen many developments in Johnson Matthey brings deep insight into how these market trends translate into the 50 years that Johnson Matthey performance requirements for all our automotive powertrain-enabling products and the technical support our customers need.
We work from market needs, through system has been involved in, shaped performance requirements and into the design of materials at the atomic scale.
We can largely by societal requirements then scale our science from the lab, through vehicle testing, to production processes for cleaner vehicles.
The coming for millions of engines a year which itself requires intimate understanding of our decades will see even bigger customers preferences and their ways of working.
A key JM strength is our relationship with vehicle manufacturers, built on 50 years changes.
JM is in a uniquely of collaboration at all stages of technology development from design, through powerful position to understand application, scale up, testing and into mass production.
We understand how they work, these changes and to grow our their time cycles and their technology needs.
business further by providing new Our relationships up the supply chain are equally important.
Securing and technologies to enable them.
managing reliable, ethical supplies of metals and other raw materials will be just as important for batteries as it is for our emission control catalyst and fuel cell businesses.
Our insights into these new The automotive supply chain is highly integrated, but is evolving, with more emphasis demands are broad and deep.
on lifetime stewardship and circular supply chains.
JM has the experience and structures for this way of working from our precious metal businesses, including We understand the big trends in recycling emission control catalysts.
regulations, in driver expectations, As the supply chain evolves, we stay aware of who is making the critical decisions in the strategies of vehicle and on what basis.
Decisions on required performance standards, technology selection, manufacturers and in the supplier selection and system optimisation are made between different functions within companies and between companies and different stages in the supply chain.
We maintain capabilities of the new technologies a broad set of contacts in order to participate fully in this decision making process.
These trends determine the An all options approach to technology demand for our technologies.
As we plan for success in future powertrain markets, the experience that JM applies to technology road mapping is very broad.
We supply all the transport applications currently using internal combustion engines, everything from scooters to the largest container ships.
Thus, we know the performance demands and design cycles for the full range of land and water based transport.
We combine this with our practical experience of all the options for clean energy storage and powertrains, across combustion engines, batteries and fuel cells.
We believe that over time, everything will become electrified but in different ways, at different speeds and to different degrees.
Internal combustion engines will remain important in all transport sectors for decades, increasingly in hybrid systems, and fuel cells will come in too particularly for heavy and long haul vehicles.
The world will need all options and all options represent opportunities for JM.
This all options view shapes our strategic planning process.
It determines the portfolio of technologies and businesses that we develop.
It determines the way that we use our understanding of the various alternative technologies to develop and market the technologies.
It determines the flexibility we maintain in resource planning to place bets on the most promising technologies and retain the options we need to maintain our strong position in the market regardless of the shape of future demand.
For the future, we see cities as JM has fuel processing expertise Following policy and increasingly important in driving and our process catalyst technology is regulation and shaping demand for clean important for making the hydrogen that vehicles.
In most parts of the world, removes sulphur from fuel.
By combining In looking at where JMs scientific and manufacturing capabilities can create city authorities are responsible for the views we gain from the fuels value ensuring air quality.
To meet legal chain with our vehicles knowledge, most value as powertrain technologies evolve, a vital perspective for us is requirements and the expectations we understand the full impact of their citizens, they are increasingly environmental, economic, consumer regulations.
Standards are set for new vehicles and limits on pollutant emissions offering incentives for cleaner of all the potential technical solutions.
vehicles and applying penalties or JM has technology for the manufacture have been the primary driver for JM.
They will be in the future, too, but other even bans to dirtier ones.
Weve been of synthetic fuels, bio fuels, gaseous fuels working with cities for decades to and, particularly importantly, hydrogen.
regulatory and policy areas are becoming equally important.
There are four aspects improve their air quality, retrofitting Uniquely, we have technology for all the emissions control to buses and major manufacturing paths for hydrogen.
of policy that we follow and interpret: supporting Low Emission Zones.
Being able to see the whole system, 1.
Although our catalyst technology well to wheel, we can assess costs and has enabled a 100-fold reduction in Knowing where the greatest air quality trade-offs and we can see how these emissions from vehicles since the problems are, where the political will to translate into the potential demand for 1970s, many cities around the world solve them is strongest and what the our technologies.
still suffer from poor air quality practical technologies are to address the caused in part by vehicle exhaust problems efficiently, enables JM to see gases.
Therefore, new vehicle where the next market demand will be.
Future mobility models emissions regulations will continue Finally, we make sure that we pay to tighten and will be a significant Total cost of attention to the way that vehicles will be driver of demand for our products.
used in the future because this will affect ownership is key The most important trend for the the way they are bought and the way they future is not the further reduction We assess the regulatory landscape but are designed.
Cars bought to be used in of the headline emissions limits, we are careful not to lose sight of what fleets of shared vehicles may be designed although this will continue, but in technology can be practically and with the same considerations that now the shift to testing and compliance profitably incorporated in a vehicle and apply to commercial vehicles cost per regimes that better reflect emissions what the people who buy the vehicles mile, durability, availability up-time.
These new tests most value.
The market is constrained by It is important that we understand which require higher system performance two simple and related principles: people aspects of our very successful heavy duty across a wider range of conditions cant buy it if the manufacturers arent business we will need to apply to light and as a result, demand more offering it and manufacturers cant sell it duty.
Autonomy will be an enabler of JM technology.
Consequently, we shared mobility and will also lead to a believe that the total cost of ownership 2.
In recent years, regulations on the change in drive cycles and vehicle design, will continue to be the primary criterion so autonomous vehicles will have different efficiency of new vehicles, as in vehicle purchases.
As such, we assess measured by CO emissions, have power requirements.
Connectivity, as 2 the effect of each new technology on the well as being an enabler of vehicle become an equally important factor cost of developing, manufacturing, fuelling in powertrain design.
More efficient autonomy, provides new opportunities and maintaining each class of vehicle.
for monitoring and regulating vehicles engines demand more efficient When it comes to zero emission emissions control for example, and their emissions in use.
In turn, this vehicles, we consider a third constraint: is likely to promote the adoption of more exhaust gas temperatures are lower people wont buy it if they cant recharge on more fuel efficient vehicles, so low emission technologies.
As such, we are monitoring Our automotive facing businesses the catalysts need to work at these and participating in projects to develop lower temperatures.
Hybrid have been designed from inception to infrastructure for charging battery anticipate and respond to change.
Change powertrains place new demands on electric vehicles and for refuelling fuel the after-treatment system.
Electric brings continuous demand for new cell electric vehicles.
technology, and it is in the development vehicle investment and introduction is being driven by fleet CO limits, and application of new technology that 2 JM creates value.
creating new demand for battery Seeing the whole system, materials and fuel cells.
We cannot accurately predict the from well to wheel rate of growth in electric drivetrains but 3.
As well as the regulations on new Our market view on transport trends we foresee a period of fundamental vehicles, the market is shaped by is not confined to vehicle technology.
transformation in the automotive market.
incentives for drivers to buy low or JM has fuels related businesses and It brings opportunities for us to advance zero emission vehicles.
These have an our business and our vision for a cleaner, be financial, in the form of purchase important part to play in reducing healthier world.
And JM is embracing it, grants or preferential tax rates.
emissions from transport and, at the knowing that we are uniquely well placed In some countries, drivers of low same time, give a perspective on the to understand and deliver the technologies emission vehicles are granted perks environmental impact of transport that the market will require.
such as access to bus lanes.
These greatly strengthens the view we have on incentives shape demand in local vehicle technology.
markets and can be important in the early adoption of new technologies.
37 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
