C H A I R S S T A T E M E N T Returns to investors in US equities for the year to 31st December 2018 were muted.
The S&P 500 Index on a total return basis fell 4.4% for US investors.
Sterling weakness over the year had the effect of converting this negative dollar performance into a small but positive return of 1.3% for UK investors.
Over the year, your Company underperformed its benchmark on a net asset value cum-income, with debt at fair value NAV per share basis, returning 0.6%.
The discount of the share price to NAV calculated using the cum-income net asset value, with debt at fair widened marginally, from 4.3% to 5.2%, producing a total return to shareholders for the year of 0.2%.
Dr Kevin Carter Chair Performance Attribution The Companys objective is to achieve capital growth from North American investments through outperformance of the Companys benchmark, which is the S&P 500 Index with both NAV and benchmark measured in sterling total return terms and net of the effects of withholding tax.
As can be seen from the attribution report detailed in the Investment Managers Report on page 16, the Companys large cap portfolio detracted from relative returns.
The small cap allocation neither added nor detracted from returns.
Gearing added to returns, with a more active approach to tactical gearing levels by the Company bearing fruit.
It is disappointing that the large cap strategy has again underperformed, notably in the second half of year which was a period of heightened volatility in which returns on the S&P index swung by some 20% from high to low.
It is interesting to observe that while the relative returns for the year are disappointing, your Companys returns are above the median performing fund in our peer group demonstrating the challenge of generating outperformance in the US equity market.
Review of Large Cap Investment Process In recent years, the Companys large cap investment process has undergone a process of evolution.
As I referred to in my Chairmans statement last year, this included a reduction in the number of holdings in the large cap portfolio and reducing the size of the portfolio tail, resulting in a higher-conviction portfolio.
In the latter stages of the year under review the Board was informed by the Manager that it believed that the current large cap investment strategy did not, in their view, represent the best of the US equity investment strategies they had available and they suggested a number of alternative strategies that might represent a replacement.
As a result your Board has undertaken a review of the options available for the large cap portfolio, which represents the vast majority of your Companys asset base.
This wide-ranging review aimed to identify an investment strategy that offers attractive prospects for the Company, maintaining its core US exposure, which is important to existing shareholders, while offering the potential to generate returns that will prove attractive to new and existing investors alike.
This review has seen your Board undertake a substantial exercise involving detailed reviews and discussions with the Manager of a range of strategies and additional due diligence visits to their investment teams in New York at which the Board questioned a broad range of investment professionals from junior analysts to the senior investment managers.
The Board has also taken advice in the course of this review.
I would like to thank my fellow Board members for their time, careful enquiry and diligence throughout this process.
The Proposed New Investment Process and Investment Policy Subject to shareholders approving the new Investment Policy at the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held on 2nd May 2019 AGM, it is proposed that the large cap component of your Company will in the future adopt a higher conviction approach combining the best ideas from the Managers value and growth investment teams.
S T R A T E G I C R E P O R T | 5 C H A I R S S T A T E M E N T This strategy, described by the Manager as Equity Focus with over $2.3 billion under management, uses an unconstrained bottom-up approach to build a portfolio of high quality companies across the value and growth spectrum.
For value companies, the Manager seeks businesses with durable franchises, shareholder-friendly management and strong free cash flows.
From among growth companies, the portfolio will include companies with a large addressable market, a sustainable competitive advantage and a proven record of delivering their business plans.
This investment approach would see the large cap element of your Companys asset base invested in a portfolio typically of some 30 to 40 stocks.
The value and growth components of the portfolio would be approximately equal, with a maximum tilt in either direction of 60:40.
New Management Team The co-lead managers of the new focused approach to large cap equity investment will be Jonathan Simon and Tim Parton.
Jonathan Simon is a Managing Director in the Managers US Equity Group and currently manages a number of the US funds that follow a value mandate as well as being co-lead manager of the Managers Equity Focus strategy.
He has been an employee of the Manager since 1980 and holds an MA in mathematics from Oxford University.
Tim Parton is also a Managing Director in the US Equity Group: he manages a number of growth strategies including the Growth Advantage Fund and, since 28th February 2017, has been a co-manager of the Managers Equity Focus strategy alongside Jonathan.
Tim holds a B. Sc in economics and accounting from the University of Bristol and is a member of the New York Society of Security Analysts and a CFA charterholder.
They have, respectively, over 38 and 32 years of investment management experience and are supported by a local team of over 35 research analysts with specific sector research responsibilities who are responsible for the idea generation and ongoing monitoring of companies within their sphere of expertise.
The Proposed Investment Process in Detail The proposed investment approach can be summarised as follows: Source the best ideas from the Value Bottom-up fundamental process Value and Growth research High quality durable franchises Concentrated portfolio typically teams of 30-40 stocks Management teams with the Run proprietary quantitative ability to execute Position sizes determined by screens on Russell 1000 Value conviction levels Trading at a discount to fair and Growth index constituents value Quality of business Company meetings Growth Risk reward Industry conferences Size the market opportunity Diversification impact on portfolio Analyse competitive dynamics Maximum single stock exposure Validate investment thesis of 8% 6 | J P M O R G A N A M E R I C A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 8 C H A I R S S T A T E M E N T Value Ideas Value stocks within the portfolio are selected from an initial universe of companies with a market capitalisation in excess of $1 billion and a P E ratio of below 20, which currently includes approximately 700 stocks.
After identifying companies that exhibit these basic investment credentials, the process moves to in-house research analysing the market in which a company operates, its franchise and competitive positioning, financial and operational results, and importantly, the quality of its management and its behaviour towards shareholders.
Potential investments are assessed over a two or three year time horizon with attention focusing on those companies which the Manager expects to be substantially re-rated over that timeframe.
Overlying this process is a rigorous analysis of valuation that frames the price the Manager is willing to pay for an investment, and quantifies the potential upside and the price at which the Manager would be prepared to sell.
Growth Ideas Growth stocks are sourced from a universe of over 800 securities which are screened for a number of factors including earnings revisions, stock price momentum and valuation measures including P E ratio and Price Free Cash Flow.
Systematic screening results in a universe of some 150 stocks which are subjected to detailed analysis and face-to-face meetings with management by the investment managers and sector analysts teams.
This analysis is designed to identify companies deemed capable of achieving growth that exceeds market expectations and includes a detailed review of characteristics including an assessment of the industrys competitive dynamics, the attractiveness and resilience of the companys business model, the strength and track record of management and the companys financial strength.
Portfolio Construction Responsibility for portfolio construction and risk management rests with the investment managers who construct a concentrated core portfolio from the highest ranking growth and value stocks.
Each investment manager selects securities based on their disciplined process and investment style with position sizes based on the strength of conviction and the allocation between the value and growth portions is managed within a maximum tilt in either direction of 60:40.
The value and growth portions may include securities from all sectors, but will tend to own the majority of positions with sectors traditionally tied to their respective investment styles, for example financial services for value and technology for growth.
The investment managers will also ensure that the portfolio is managed within the investment guidelines and with an eye to broader measures of investment risk including active monies, style tilts and tracking error.
The table below shows a number of quantitative aspects of the proposed new strategy compared with the current large cap strategy as at 31st December 2018.
Current Large Cap Strategy Proposed Large Cap Strategy Typical Holdings Range 60100 30-40 Maximum single stock exposure 8% 8% Expected Tracking Error Range 2-5% 36% Active Share 68% 79% 3 year realised tracking error 3.09% 4.32% Number of holdings 60 40 Largest Absolute Sector Weight Information technology 20.8% Financials 17.4% Largest Absolute Stock Position Apple 5.7% Microsoft 5.4% Source: JPMorgan Asset Management Wilshire.
S T R A T E G I C R E P O R T | 7 C H A I R S S T A T E M E N T Sector Allocations as at 31st December 2018: Proposed Strategy Compared with Current Large Cap Allocation The sector allocation as at 31st December 2018 for the Equity Focus strategy is shown in the chart below and compared against the current large cap portfolio allocation and the Benchmark: 25 Equity Focus Current Large Cap Benchmark Index 20 15 10 5 0 Source: JPMorgan Asset Management Standard & Poors Results The Manager has been operating the proposed investment process since 31st July 2011 in respect of other funds it manages.
Over this period it has generated the following results in sterling and before fees which are compared with the Companys current large cap strategy calculated on the same basis and the S&P 500 Index: Annualised Performance to 31st December 2018 One Year Three Years Five Years Since % % % Inception % Equity Focus strategy 2.35 15.18 14.40 16.34 Current Large Cap strategy 0.20 13.31 13.50 15.02 S&P 500 Total Return 1.56 14.71 14.35 15.57 Source: JPMorgan Asset Management, Wilshire.
Strategy performance is calculated in accordance with GIPS standards where segregated mandate portfolios and or pooled funds managed in accordance with the strategy are grouped into a composite.
As at 28th February 2019, being two years since Jonathan Simon and Tim Parton began co-managing the investment strategy, their performance record, again in sterling and before fees, is as follows: Annualised Performance to 28th February 2019 Two Years % Equity Focus strategy 8.58 Current Large Cap strategy 6.26 S&P 500 Index 7.09 Source: JPMorgan Asset Management, Wilshire.
8 | J P M O R G A N A M E R I C A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 8 Financials Information technology Consumer Discretionary Health Care Industrials Materials Communications Service Energy Real Estate Utilities Consumer Staples Allocation % C H A I R S S T A T E M E N T Individual calendar year performance for the proposed new strategy is shown below.
This is again calculated in sterling and is shown before fees and against the S&P 500 Index.
Excess returns are calculated on an arithmetic basis.
Strategy performance is calculated in accordance with GIPS standards, where segregated mandate portfolios and or pooled funds, as relevant, managed in accordance with the strategy are grouped into a composite.
Continued use of Smaller Companies Portfolio and Gearing The Companys current flexibility to invest a component of its asset base in a portfolio of small cap equities managed by Eytan Shapiro will be unchanged, as will the ability to use gearing to enhance returns in accordance with the current investment policy.
In recent years, the Board has worked with the Manager to develop a more formal framework, incorporating quantitative and qualitative measures that guide both the allocation to small cap stocks and gearing levels.
As the attribution table for the current on page 16 and previous financial year makes clear, these tools have demonstrated an ability to enhance returns and will continue to play a part in the management of the Companys assets.
The Board looks forward to working with the Manager to further refine and enhance these tools in the future.
Garrett Fish A change of investment process marks the end of Garrett Fishs involvement in managing the Companys portfolio.
He is moving on to other responsibilities within J. P. Morgan that have necessitated his departure.
Garrett has been the lead investment manager of the Companys assets for over 15 years during which time his dedication to obtaining the best possible returns for shareholders, promoting the Company to current and potential investors and assisting the Board of Directors in their fiduciary obligations has been unwavering.
I am sure that shareholders will join the Board in thanking Garrett for his long-standing commitment to the Company and we wish him well for the future.
Fee Arrangements Alongside the proposed changes in investment process, your Board has negotiated an amendment to the current fees paid to the Manager.
As I mentioned in last years Annual Report, the Company is keen to retain its competitive cost position against rival investment funds, including passive and actively managed open and closed-ended funds.
The introduction of MIFID II in the year, which requires wealth managers and other investment platform providers to disclose look through costs to their underlying investors, has reinforced the need to offer simple and value-for-money fees.
Removal of Performance Fee In order to simplify the Companys fee offering, the Company is removing the performance fee element of the fee, backdated to 1st January 2019.
Although performance fees may provide some incentive to fund managers they are often seen as an unnecessary complication by potential investors.
This move is in line with shifts we have seen across the investment trust sector in recent years, where performance fee arrangements which were once commonplace are now increasingly rare.
S T R A T E G I C R E P O R T | 9 C H A I R S S T A T E M E N T Management Fee Your Board is also pleased to announce that the Manager has agreed to waive its management fee for a period of nine months commencing on 1st June 2019, which represents an amount approximately commensurate to the underperformance arising from the historic performance fee arrangements.
Thereafter, the management fee will resume, charged at the current rate of 0.35% on the first 500 million of net assets: 0.30% on net assets above 500 million and up to 1 billion: and 0.25% on any net assets above 1 billion.
The Manager will also bear the costs associated with the reorganisation of the portfolio to the proposed new investment strategy.
The Board believes this package of fee simplification and a short-term fee waiver should be welcomed by shareholders.
Based on the current asset base of the Company, this will result in a saving to shareholders of some 2.42 million calculated as at 20th March 2019 over this nine month period.
Shareholder Approval for Changes to the Investment Policy To effect the above change of investment process, some amendments will be required to the Companys Investment Policy, for which the Board is required to seek shareholder approval, since they are considered material in nature.
The change will result in the number of investments in the large cap portfolio reducing from the current 60-100 stocks to a portfolio that typically will comprise 3040 holdings.
We are also taking the opportunity to recommend a simplification of the constraints in place around the small cap allocation which will see a change to the range of allocation to small cap from 1-9.5% to 010%.
No other material amendments to the Companys Investment Policy are required, and the Companys Investment Objective remains unchanged.
The changes detailed above will be put to shareholders at the Companys AGM to be held on Thursday 2nd May 2019 and are set out in Resolution number 14.
The proposed new Investment Policy is set out in full in the Appendix on page 85 of this Annual Report.
The amendments to the Investment Policy, if approved, will take effect from 1st June 2019.
The Board recommends shareholders vote in favour of this resolution.
If shareholder approval is not obtained at the AGM, the Company will continue to comply with its current investment process and Investment Policy.
Board Review of the Manager As in prior years, the Board visited the Managers offices in New York where it held meetings with Garrett Fish and the manager of the smaller companies portfolio, Eytan Shapiro.
The Board further met with J. P. Morgans senior management and a number of external speakers, including the British Consul General in New York, who provided considered views and analysis on the economic and political outlook for the US.
As mentioned above, the Board also spent additional time in New York reviewing the Companys large cap strategy.
Alongside the management of the portfolio, the Manager provides other services to the Company, including accounting, company secretarial and marketing services.
These have been formally assessed through the annual manager evaluation process.
The Board concluded that it was generally satisfied with J. P. Morgans performance.
Thus, taking all factors into account, the Board concluded that the ongoing appointment of the Manager is in the continuing interests of shareholders.
Should shareholders approve the change in Investment Policy, the performance of this new large cap investment approach will be pivotal to the Boards assessment of the future appointment of the Manager.
1 0 | J P M O R G A N A M E R I C A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 8 C H A I R S S T A T E M E N T Gearing Management The use of gearing to enhance returns is a key differentiating feature of investment trusts.
As gearing can introduce risk as well as enhancing returns, the Board maintains strong oversight of the Companys gearing policy and the source and use of leverage.
For the first five months of the year the Companys gearing remained within the Boards strategic level of 10%, plus or minus 2%.
In June the Companys 50,000,000 6.875% debenture matured and was repaid.
At the same time an assessment of market conditions warranted a move in the tactical level of gearing to 5%, plus or minus 2%.
In October, this tactical gearing was again amended in the light of market conditions, to a gearing level of 0%, plus or minus 2%, where it currently remains.
It is encouraging to see that these decisions contributed to the positive contribution to performance from gearing over the course of the year.
While the Company is currently ungeared, it remains fully invested in US equities and the Board believes that the judicious application of gearing remains a significant tool to enhance shareholder returns.
The Company continues to review the appropriate gearing level on a regular basis using a variety of qualitative and quantitative tools and is exploring a range of potential gearing sources to ensure it has the necessary facilities in place when higher levels of gearing are deemed appropriate.
Ongoing Charges Ratio OCR This year the Company saw a full years benefit of the lower fees negotiated in 2017, with the result that the OCR has dropped from 0.55%, which was already the lowest in the Companys sector, to 0.38%, a significant reduction and a demonstration of your Boards commitment to obtaining the best value for money from its service providers.
We will continue to focus actively on the cost base of the Company across all of its functions.
In line with recent years, we repeat the table below illustrating the movements in the capital base of the Company, showing the returns generated from our investing activities and the effect of costs, dividends and buy-backs.
By combining items found in the revenue statement and items charged to capital, we believe it provides a clear summary of your Companys affairs for the year.
The Companys biggest cost remains the management fees at 3.2 million 2017: 4.6 million.
No performance fee was payable.
The Companys NAV total return underperformed the total return of the S&P 500 Index resulting in an addition of 776,121 to the negative performance fee balance of 1,603,204 at the start of the year.
Under the current terms of the Management Agreement the total amount of 2,379,325 is carried forward and offset against future outperformance.
Full details of the mechanics of the performance fee payments are detailed on page 32.
As highlighted above, investors have the opportunity to vote at the forthcoming AGM on a change of Investment Policy.
If approved, the Companys management fees will be simplified through the elimination of the performance fee and the base management fee charged by the Manager will be waived for a period of nine months.
On a pro-forma basis, using the 2018 asset base and other costs, this cut will result in an estimated OCR for the 2019 financial year of 0.20% and for the 2020 financial year of 0.33%.
Your Company will continue to keep fees actively under review in an effort to maintain its current competitive OCR.
S T R A T E G I C R E P O R T | 1 1 C H A I R S S T A T E M E N T 2018 2017 Percentage Percentage of opening of opening 000s net assets 000s net assets Net assets at start of year 980,430 100.00 985,216 100.00 Decrease increase in net assets during the year from investing 4,886 0.50 97,960 9.94 Brokerage fees commissions and other dealing charges 164 0.02 226 0.02 Net investment performance 975,380 99.48 1,082,950 109.92 Income received from investing net of withholding tax 18,722 1.91 16,594 1.68 Interest received 452 0.05 177 0.02 Dividends paid to shareholders 12,862 1.31 12,065 1.22 Interest paid on borrowings 3,242 0.33 4,545 0.46 Currency gains on hedge 532 0.05 2,809 0.29 Currency losses gains on USD loans 3,471 0.35 4,684 0.48 Management fee 3,191 0.33 4,644 0.47 Directors fees 172 0.02 173 0.02 Other costs of the Company 465 0.05 480 0.05 Repurchase of shares into Treasury 52,507 5.36 104,877 10.65 Net assets at end of year 919,176 93.75 980,430 99.52 Share Price and Premium Discount Throughout the year, the Companys shares have traded at a discount to the NAV.
Consistent with our statements made in previous years, the Board is committed to buy-back shares when they stand at anything more than a small discount.
As a result, the Company has continued with its buy back policy, repurchasing 12,605,163 shares into Treasury, at a cost of 52.5 million, representing 5.5% of the Companys issued share capital at the beginning of 2018.
Whilst this is approximately one half of the amount spent on buy-backs in the previous year it does not represent any reduction in the Boards commitment to buy-back shares, but rather reflects the balance of supply and demand for the Companys shares in the period.
These shares were purchased at an average discount to NAV, measured using a cum-income, debt at fair value measure of 5.1%, producing a modest accretion to the NAV for continuing shareholders.
The Company will again be asking shareholders to approve the repurchase of up to 14.99% of the Companys shares at the AGM.
We will also be seeking shareholder permission to issue shares, where Directors are confident of sustainable market demand.
The authority, if approved, will allow the Company to sell up to 10% of its issued share capital from Treasury.
The Company will only sell shares at a price in excess of the estimated NAV including income with the value of the debt deducted at market price.
1 2 | J P M O R G A N A M E R I C A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 8 C H A I R S S T A T E M E N T Dividends The Company paid an interim dividend in respect of the 2018 financial year of 2.5p on 5th October 2018.
Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM, a final dividend of 4.0p will be paid on 14th May 2019 to shareholders on the register on 12th April 2019, making a total of 6.5p per share, compared with last years total of 5.5p per share, representing an increase of 18.2%.
After the payment of the proposed final dividend, we will have a balance in the revenue reserves of 21.0 million equivalent to 9.6p per share 2017: 7.7p or 1.5 times 2017: 1.5 times the current dividend.
The Companys objective is to achieve capital growth from North American investments.
Although capital growth is the primary aim of the Company, the Board is aware that dividend receipts are an important element of shareholder returns.
As your Company invests in North American equities, the dividends received from our portfolio are affected by changes in the dividends paid by American companies and the dollar sterling exchange rate, both of which can contribute to volatility in the Companys ability to pay dividends.
Through the prudent retention of an element of net income on a year by year basis, your Company has built a healthy revenue reserve which we hope will be able to support dividend payments when corporate pay outs are less healthy in the short term, or if there are other short term fluctuations in the revenue account.
If shareholders vote to adopt the new Investment Policy, the Board estimates there will be a material reduction in ongoing revenue per share generated by the portfolio.
The Board will consider the best way to manage this outcome in conjunction with an assessment of the use of existing retained revenue reserves.
The Board The Board has procedures in place to ensure that the Company complies fully with the AIC Code on Corporate Governance and the UK Corporate Governance Code, where applicable.
The Board further acknowledges the new UK Corporate Governance Codes and is taking steps to ensure compliance.
The results of this years Board evaluation process confirmed that all Directors possessed the experience and attributes to support a recommendation to shareholders that they retire and seek re-appointment at the Companys forthcoming AGM.
Directors fees have not been increased this year.
With effect from 1st January 2019, the Board established a new Committee, a Management Engagement Committee MEC.
Although the duties of the MEC were previously completed by the Board as a whole, the Committee was established to bring the Company into line with corporate governance best practice.
The key duties of the MEC will be to evaluate the Managers performance and review the fee arrangements of the Manager, and ultimately to recommend to the Board the continuing appointment of the Manager or otherwise.
For full details of the MECs duties, its terms of reference can be found on the Companys website.
The Board has decided to increase the size of its compliment from five to six, and during the course of the year will be initiating a process to appoint an additional director.
Shareholders will be kept informed when an appointment is concluded.
AGM and Shareholder Contact This years AGM is the Companys 103rd and it will be held on Thursday, 2nd May 2019 at 2.30 p. m. at 60 Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP.
As in previous years, in addition to the formal part of the meeting, there will be a presentation from Garrett Fish, who will answer questions on the portfolio and performance over the past year.
There will also be a presentation from Fiona Harris, one of the Managers investment specialists who will further describe the proposed large cap investment strategy before shareholders have an opportunity to vote on its adoption.
After the meeting there will also be an opportunity to meet the Board, Garrett, Fiona and other representatives of the Manager.
I look forward to welcoming as many shareholders as possible to this meeting.
Throughout the year and in addition to the opportunity to hear S T R A T E G I C R E P O R T | 1 3 C H A I R S S T A T E M E N T from shareholders at the AGM, I very much encourage shareholders to get in touch to share their views.
I can be contacted through our Company Secretary, whose details can be found on page 91.
Outlook The UK EU Brexit process continues to grind on at the time of writing.
The impact of the final outcome on Brexit will likely affect the Company principally through the sterling dollar exchange rate, and its translation effect on capital and revenue from US dollars to sterling.
It is not the Boards policy to anticipate or attempt to hedge these effects.
Beyond noting this effect, no advance special Brexit preparations are deemed necessary.
Last year I suggested that it would be prudent to expect occasional bouts of market volatility in 2018.
In the event, following four hikes in interest rates by the US Federal Reserve during the year, in combination with other factors affecting market sentiment, this proved to be the case, most notably in the final quarter of the year.
2019 has begun with a significant upward retracement of those declines.
Meanwhile, the US economy has continued to show positive growth, on the way to becoming the longest expansion on record, assisting continuing positive company profit performance.
The Manager has moved the portfolio to a more defensive positioning consistent with the risks which result from a late cycle expansion environment.
That said, the Federal Reserve appears to have become more comfortable with the level of current interest rates, suggesting less reason for unforeseen rises in 2019.
The absence of upward inflation pressures will have assisted them in this view.
Nevertheless, the age and extent of the present market increase since 2009 does need to be respected and will warrant further caution in 2019.
The Board is hopeful the intended change in Investment Policy to a more concentrated stock picking style of portfolio construction will assist in navigating whatever conditions the markets produce during the year.
The joint lead investment managers between them have certainly managed through a wide variety of market conditions during their respective careers.
This should be a matter of some comfort to shareholders in the present environment.
