I N V E S T M E N T O B J E C T I V E, P O L I C I E S A N D G U I D E L I N E S The aim of the Strategic Report is to provide shareholders with The Board reviews a range of risk indicators to assess whether the the ability to assess how the Directors have performed their duty level of risk taken by the Manager is consistent with the to promote the success of the Company during the year under achievement of the investment objective.
Investment Limits and Restrictions Objective of the Company all at time of investment The Companys objective is to provide shareholders with capital The Company will not normally invest more than 8% of its growth from North American investments.
It aims to outperform gross assets in any one individual stock.
a benchmark, which is the S&P 500 Index, with net dividends The Company will normally limit its five largest investments to reinvested, expressed in sterling terms.
40% of its gross assets 31st December 2018: 21.4%.
Structure of the Company The Company will not invest more than 10% of its gross assets in liquidity funds in normal market conditions 31st December JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc is an investment trust 2018: 1.4%.
and has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
In seeking to achieve this objective, the Company employs JPMorgan The Company will not invest more than 10% of gross assets in Funds Limited JPMF or the Manager which, in turn, delegates companies that themselves may invest more than 15% of portfolio management to JPMorgan Asset Management JPMAM gross assets in listed closed-ended funds 31st December which further delegates to JPMorgan Asset Management, Inc. to 2018: nil.
manage the Companys assets actively.
The Board has determined The Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross assets an investment policy and related guidelines and limits, as in other listed closed-ended funds 31st December 2018: Nil.
The Company is subject to UK and European legislation and regulations including UK company law, The Company will use gearing when appropriate to increase UK Financial Reporting Standards, the UK Listing, Prospectus, potential returns to shareholders.
The Companys gearing Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, the Market Abuse policy is to operate within a range of 5% net cash to 20% Regulation, taxation law and the Companys own Articles of geared in normal market conditions.
Within this range, the Association.
The Companys underlying investments are also Board reviews and sets a strategic gearing level, which is currently 10% 31st December 2017: 10%.
The Manager is subject to some US regulations.
accountable for managing the gearing around a tactical The Company is an investment company within the meaning of gearing level, taking account of shorter term potential market Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and has been approved risks and returns.
The current tactical level is 0%, plus or by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust for the minus 2%.
purposes of Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax The Company only hedges its currency risk in respect of the Act 2010.
As a result the Company is not liable for taxation on full value of the sterling debenture.
The debenture matured in capital gains.
The Directors have no reason to believe that June 2018. approval will not continue to be retained.
The Company is not a close company for taxation purposes.
Compliance with the Boards investment restrictions and guidelines is monitored by JPMF and is reported to the Board on Investment Policies and Risk Management a monthly basis.
In order to achieve its investment objectives and to seek to The Board is seeking approval from shareholders at the manage risk, the Company mainly invests in a diversified portfolio forthcoming Annual General Meeting to make certain changes to of quoted companies including, when appropriate, exposure to the Companys Investment Policy.
Please refer to the Chairs smaller capitalisation stocks.
The Company currently has separate Statement for more detail on the rationale for the changes and to portfolios dedicated to larger capitalisation and smaller the Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 82 to 85 for capitalisation companies.
The number of investments in the larger details of the actual changes to be considered by shareholders.
capitalisation portfolio will normally range between 60-100 stocks representing between 91.5-99% of the Companys equity Performance portfolio.
The number of investments in the smaller capitalisation In the year ended 31st December 2018, the Company produced portfolio will normally range between 100-120 stocks a total return to shareholders of0.2% and a total return on net representing between 1-9.5% of the Companys equity portfolio.
This compares with the total return on the The Company may invest in pooled funds to achieve its aims.
Companys benchmark in sterling terms of 1.3%.
At 31st December 2018, the value of the Companys investment S T R A T E G I C R E P O R T | 2 5
