D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T The Directors present their Annual Report and the Audited financial statements to this information requiring disclosure.
Any Financial Statements for the year ended 31st December 2018. information requiring immediate disclosure pursuant to the AIFMD will be disclosed to the London Stock Exchange through a primary information provider.
Management of the Company The Companys leverage and JPMFs remuneration disclosures are The Manager and Company Secretary is JPMorgan Funds Limited set out on pages 79 and 80.
JPMF, a company authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
JPMF is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank which, through other subsidiaries, also Management and Performance Fees provides marketing, banking and dealing services to the The management fee was charged at a rate of 0.5% per annum, Company.
Custodian services are provided by a JPMorgan Chase paid quarterly in arrears, on the Companys total assets less Bank subsidiary, via a contract with the Companys depositary.
With effect from The Manager is employed under a contract which can be 1st October 2017, the management fee is charged on a tiered terminated on six months notice, without penalty.
If the Company basis as follows: wishes to terminate the contract on shorter notice, the balance of 0.35% on the first 500 million of net assets: remuneration is payable by way of compensation.
0.30% on net assets above 500 million and up to 1 billion: The Board conducts a formal evaluation of the Manager on an and annual basis.
The evaluation includes consideration of the 0.25% on any net assets above 1 billion.
investment strategy and the process of the Manager, performance against the benchmark and a relevant peer group The basic management fee is calculated and paid quarterly in over the long term and the support the Company receives from arrears.
Investments in funds on which the Manager or any of its the Manager.
As a result of the evaluation process, the Board associated companies earn a management fee are excluded from confirms that it is satisfied that the continuing appointment of the the calculation and therefore attract no further fee.
In addition, Manager is in the interest of shareholders as a whole.
a performance fee may be payable.
The Companys investment in the JPMorgan US Dollar Liquidity Fund is not subject to The Alternative Investment Fund Managers a management fee and therefore not excluded from the Directive AIFMD calculation.
JPMF is the Companys alternative investment fund manager The performance fee is calculated at the rate of 10% of the AIFM.
JPMF has been approved as an AIFM by the FCA.
For the difference between the cum-income debt at par net asset value purposes of the AIFMD the Company is an alternative investment total return and the total return of the S&P 500 Index, expressed fund AIF.
The performance fee due in respect of any single year is divided into equal parts payable over three years.
JPMF has delegated responsibility for the day to day management of the Companys portfolio to JPMorgan Asset Management Any negative fee resulting from underperformance is deducted UK Limited JPMAM which further delegates the management from any unpaid fees brought forward from prior years with any to JPMorgan Asset Management, Inc..
The Company has remaining amount of the negative fee carried forward to be appointed Bank of New York Mellon International Limited BNY absorbed in future years.
BNY has appointed JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A.
The performance fee paid in any one year will not exceed 0.25% as the Companys custodian.
BNY remains responsible for the of the cum-income debt at par net asset value at the Companys oversight of the custody of the Companys assets and for latest year end, with any unpaid excess being carried forward monitoring its cash flows.
The AIFMD requires certain information to be made available to In the year ended 31st December 2018 the Companys investors in AIFs before they invest and requires that material cum-income debt at par net asset value total return changes to this information be disclosed in the annual report of underperformed the total return of the S&P 500 Index, each AIF.
An Investor Disclosure Document, which sets out expressed in sterling terms, by 0.8 percentage points.
This information on the Companys investment strategy and policies, resulted in a negative performance fee calculation of 776,121. leverage, risk, liquidity, administration, management, fees, This amount when added to the 1,603,204 performance fee conflicts of interest and other shareholder information is available offset brought forward from 2017 leaves a negative balance of on the Companys website at www.
There have 2,379,325. been no material changes other than those reflected in these 3 2 | J P M O R G A N A M E R I C A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 8 D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T If the Resolution to approve the amendments to the Companys Independent Auditor Investment Policy, required to permit a change of investment Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as process, is passed, the performance fee element of the Managers auditor to the Company and a resolution proposing its fees will be removed with effect on 1st January 2019.
Please refer reappointment and authorising the Directors to determine its to page 9 of the Chairs Statement for full details.
remuneration for the ensuing year will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Directors The Directors of the Company who held office at the end of the Capital Structure and Voting Rights year are detailed on page 31.
In accordance with corporate Capital Structure governance best practice, all Directors will retire by rotation at The Companys capital structure is summarised on the inside the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will cover of this report.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee, having considered their qualifications, Voting Rights in the Companys shares performance and contribution to the Board and its committees, Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the date confirms that each Director continues to be effective and of this report are given in note 16 to the Notice of Annual General demonstrates commitment to the role and the Board Meeting on page 84. recommends to shareholders that they be reappointed.
For Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights further details on the experience and skills of each Director At the date of this report, the following had declared a notifiable please refer to page 31. interest in the Companys voting rights: Number of Director Indemnification and Insurance Shareholders voting rights % As permitted by the Articles of Association, the Directors have the Brewin Dolphin Limited 32,671,108 15.0 benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party Quilter Cheviot Investment Management 21,519,267 9.9 indemnity, as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 13,090,213 6.0 The indemnities were in place during the year and as at the date of this report.
Rathbone Brothers PLC 10,908,292 5.0 Charles Stanley 9,078,808 4.2 During the year an insurance policy has been maintained by the Company which indemnifies the Directors of the Company against The Company is also aware that approximately 3.7% of the certain liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
There is no Companys total voting rights are held by individuals through cover against fraudulent or dishonest actions.
savings products managed by JPMAM, registered in the name of Chase Nominees Limited.
If those voting rights are not exercised Disclosure of information to Auditor by the beneficial holders, in accordance with the terms and In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the conditions of the savings products, under certain circumstances Company at the time when this report was approved: the Manager has the right to exercise those voting rights.
That right is subject to certain limits and restrictions and falls away at a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant the conclusion of the relevant general meeting.
audit information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of Directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and powers b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that they ought to issue or repurchase the Companys shares are contained in the to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves Articles of Association of the Company and the Companies aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to Act 2006. establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in the Company: no special rights with regard to control attached to The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in securities: no agreements between holders of securities regarding accordance with the provision of S418 2 of the Companies their transfer known to the Company: no agreements which the Act 2006.
Company is party to that affect its control following a takeover D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T | 3 3
