B O A R D O F D I R E C T O R S Dr Kevin Carter Sir Alan Collins Chair of the Risk Committee and Senior Independent Director Director since 2014.
Last reappointed to the Board: 2018.
Currently Chairman and Director of Murray International Trust PLC, a Director of Lowland Investment Company plc, Newton Investment Sir Alan had a successful career in the British Diplomatic Service Management Limited, and Aspect Capital Limited, Chairman of the where he held a number of Ambassador and High Commissioner Investment Committee and a trustee director of the BBC Pension appointments and was until August 2011 the Consul General Scheme.
He is also a trustee director of Universities Superannuation New York and the Director General for Trade and Investment USA.
Scheme Limited and Chairman of its Investment Committee.
Dr Carter He was also the managing director in United Kingdom Trade and is a CFA charter holder and has a doctorate awarded in mathematical Investment responsible for the business legacy from the London statistics with a research subject in financial economics.
2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games, having been part of the team that won the bid to bring the Olympics to London.
He is now Shared appointments with other Directors: None a non-executive Director of ICICI Bank UK plc.
He is also an advisor to a number of other limited companies, including St. Jamess Place Asia Advisory Board, and a member of the Advisory Council of the London Philharmonic Orchestra.
Shared directorships with other Directors: None.
Simon Bragg Chair of the Audit Committee A Director since 2012.
Mr Bragg is Chief Executive of JSB Energy Partners Limited, non-executive Director of Intralink Limited and Lasumo Holdings Robert Talbut Limited.
Having qualified as a Chartered Accountant at KPMG, A Director since 2017.
Mr Bragg previously worked at Hoare Govett, Cargill, HSBC, Last reappointed to the Board: 2018.
Mr Bragg has a B. Sc in chemistry from Remuneration: 29,500.
Imperial College, London, and is a Fellow of Goodenough College.
Mr Talbut was, until 2014, the Chief Investment Officer of Royal Shared directorships with other Directors: None.
London Asset Management and has over 30 years of financial services experience.
He has represented the asset management industry through the chairmanship of both the ABI Investment Committee and the Asset Management Committee of the Investment Association.
He has also been a member of the Audit & Assurance Council of the Financial Reporting Council and the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Authority Advisory Panel.
He is currently a non-executive director of Schroder UK Mid Cap Fund plc, Shires Income plc, EFG Asset Management UK Limited and Pacific Assets Trust plc.
He is also an independent investment expert on the British Airways Pension Fund investment committee.
Nadia Manzoor Shared directorships with other Directors: None.
Ms Manzoor is a Partner, Head of Business Development and Member of the Audit Committee.
General Counsel for S. W. Mitchell Capital, a specialist European equities investment management house.
Ms Manzoor commenced Member of the Risk Committee.
her career as a corporate lawyer at Slaughter & May in 2009.
All Directors are considered independent by the Board and are During this time she worked in London, Hong Kong and also spent six months seconded to a FTSE 100 client.
Ms Manzoor is a law members of the Nomination & Remuneration and Risk scholar of Downing College, Cambridge University.
