I N V E S T M E N T M A N A G E R S R E P O R T Market Review: a challenging year The year started off with a short-lived uptick in volatility, partially driven by concerns over rising interest rates, the potential impact of trade conflicts and the long-term implications of the sweeping US tax reforms that were signed into law at the end of 2017.
Day-to-day price movements saw a significant departure from levels seen in 2017.
In the first quarter of 2018, the S&P 500 saw six trading days with 2% moves, compared to 2017 in which there were no days with that level of price change.
Our benchmark index, the S&P 500 Index, ended 2018 up 1.3% in sterling terms, after a challenging fourth Garrett Fish quarter which started with a rout in US and global stocks in October and was characterised by heightened Investment Manager market swings throughout the period.
The S&P 500 is divided into eleven sectors and only three of these ended the year in positive territory, namely Healthcare, Utilities, and Consumer Discretionary.
The weakest performers were the Energy, Communication Services and Materials sectors.
Large cap stocks greatly outperformed small cap stocks and growth outperformed value.
The market sell-off in the fourth quarter of 2018 was painful but widely expected.
Global markets were finally unable to withstand the increasingly difficult economic and geopolitical headwinds at play and stock prices fell in response, arguably to more reasonable levels.
This theory is backed up when we look at the value of the S&P 500 based on the predicted earnings per share of its constituent stocks, and as measured by the Forward Price to Earnings P E ratio.
On this basis, the S&P 500 ended 2018 below its 25-year average.
Whilst this may indicate deteriorating sentiment towards these companies prospective growth potential, for us it also enhances the potential of finding quality, attractively priced companies.
The overall economic environment had been strong over the course of the first half of the year.
Economic growth remained stable and monthly data on retail sales, homebuilding, durable goods and other economic indicators all delivered healthy figures.
The second half of the year also started strongly as earnings growth was driven by record margins, with most companies exceeding earnings and revenue estimates for the second quarter.
Robust corporate profits partially tempered the effects of a flattening yield curve often seen when slower economic growth or interest rate hikes are anticipated and rising trade uncertainty over the course of the third quarter.
The last three months of the year, however, witnessed a significant drawdown, as referenced above.
But, despite weaker equity returns, the US economy continued to flex its muscles, with yet another strong quarter of earnings growth.
We are optimistic that generally positive commentary from company management teams should potentially limit equity downside risk.
Economic indicators still continue to remain mainly positive, with the exception of the yield curve.
The Federal Reserve increased rates four times in 2018 and while an inverted yield curve has often been interpreted as an indicator for recessions, there is, as yet, little indication that this risk will materialise.
While reassured by good signs such as consumer and small business confidence remaining at high levels, wages rising across income levels, and December same store retail sales being robust, we remain mindful of the pressure that rising rates, tariffs, and the partial government shutdown could put on stocks.
Overall Asset Allocation and Performance: defensive positioning The Companys net asset value rose by 0.6% in total return terms in 2018.
This return was below the S&P 500 Index, which rose 1.3% in sterling terms.
The investment management team is responsible for managing the allocation between the large and the small cap portfolios, together with the levels of cash and gearing.
In 2018, the Companys gearing decreased from 9% at the beginning of the year to 1% at year end.
The level of gearing has been adjusted at regular intervals within the gearing guidelines laid down by the Board.
With the market only rising just over 1% last year, the cost of the debt was greater than the market return.
Despite this potential drag on returns, the reduction in debt levels in two tranches means we were still able to generate a positive performance from gearing during the year as gearing was reduced following periods of positive market returns and before the worst of the late 2018 sell-off.
S T R A T E G I C R E P O R T | 1 5 I N V E S T M E N T M A N A G E R S R E P O R T The weighting in the small cap portfolio started 2018 at 4.9% and we reduced it to 1% by the end of the year.
Our allocation tool led us to trim from our small cap allocation during the year as this sector of the market became a less attractive investment on valuation grounds.
Furthermore, we slightly reduced our number of holdings in the large cap portfolio to optimise the performance in this area by focusing on our core portfolio.
We believe that our ability to move between the two segments enhances returns to shareholders over the long term and also helps to balance our overall risk.
As detailed in the table below our large cap portfolio modestly detracted for the year, while our smaller companies portfolio was flat.
PERFORMANCE ATTRIBUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2018 % % Contributions to total returns Net asset value total return in sterling terms 0.6 Benchmark total return in sterling terms 1.3 Excess return 0.7 Contributions to total returns Large cap portfolio 1.0 Allocation effect Selection effect 1.0 Small cap portfolio Allocation and selection effect Gearing including change in the fair value of the debenture 0.8 Cost of debt 0.3 Currency hedge 0.1 Share issuance buy back 0.3 Management fee expenses 0.4 Total 0.7 Source: JPMAM and Morningstar.
All figures are on a total return basis.
Performance attribution analyses how the Company achieved its recorded performance relative to its benchmark index.
A glossary of terms and APMs is provided on pages 86 to 88.
JPMorgan, and its predecessor First Standard & Poors company, computerised Formation of NYSE Floor Great Depression 500 Index becomes Manager trading network Nasdaq exchange the Company opened Stock Market Crash introduced of the Company for stocks opened 1881 1881 1903 1929 1957 1966 1969 1971 1 6 | J P M O R G A N A M E R I C A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 8 I N V E S T M E N T M A N A G E R S R E P O R T Large Companies Portfolio: identifying quality and value Our investment methodology continued to focus on investing in high quality, reasonably valued companies.
When constructing our portfolio, we have used the core tenets of behavioural finance to narrow our investment universe.
This theory indicates that, on average, high quality and fast growing, cheap stocks with good news-flow outperform lower quality, slow growing, and expensive stocks with bad news-flow.
Taking this approach, we rank the stocks in our universe to uncover those companies that are high quality, are attractively valued and also exhibiting improving sentiment momentum.
We then undertake fundamental research to validate the rankings, leading us to invest in quality companies that exhibit the requisite characteristics.
2018 was not a supportive investment environment for our strategy, unlike 2017 when the Company outperformed the S&P 500 Index.
The large companies portfolio posted a positive return but underperformed the benchmark over the year.
This underperformance was mainly driven by unrewarded stock selection within the Financials, Consumer Discretionary and Healthcare sectors.
Within Financials, our overweight position in insurer AIG was among the largest detractors in the sector.
Shares of AIG detracted due to pre-tax catastrophe losses from Typhoons Jebi and Trami in Japan, along with Hurricane Florence in the US and revisions to previous losses for California mudslides in the US.
These losses were substantially higher than AIGs market exposure would otherwise have suggested.
Within the Consumer Discretionary sector, our underweight position in Amazon hurt relative returns over the period.
The stock demonstrated its resilience and significantly outperformed the market, as its increased focus on profit led to earnings growth, boosting investor confidence.
Amazon has leadership positions in e-commerce and cloud computing, as well as a flourishing, high margin advertising business and long-term profit potential from international markets.
Among individual names, not owning Pfizer in the Healthcare sector also weighed on performance.
Pfizer delivered solid financial performance in 2018 and developed a new commercial structure that is expected deliver higher revenue growth and drive its future success.
On the other hand, the portfolio benefitted from strong stock selection in the Communication Services and Energy sectors.
Within Communications Services, our overweight in Walt Disney was among the top contributors.
The stock outperformed on the back of excitement over its forthcoming streaming service, Disney, which should be launching in 2019.
Disneys acquisition of Twenty First Century Fox also added to its strong films and content base.
Going forward, we believe Disney has the best collection of traditional media assets and the greatest scale, which gives it a high probability of success in the growing streaming market.
Furthermore, within the Energy sector, our overweight position in the multinational ConocoPhillips and our lack of exposure to Schlumberger both proved beneficial.
ConocoPhillips strategy of prioritising debt reduction and capital efficiency over growth resonated well with investors while more growth-focused names underperformed.
As for Schlumberger, a less favourable outlook for project backlogs was compounded by unfavourable contract terms and weakening pricing, which the company and other service peers were forced to accept in order to maintain utilisation rates.
Black Monday Apple becomes President Trumps Garrett Fish Stock Market biggest Company Tax Cut and appointed as Crash Tech crash Fund Manager Credit crisis in US history Reform Bill passed 1 2018 1987 2001 2002 2008 2012 2017 S T R A T E G I C R E P O R T | 1 7 I N V E S T M E N T M A N A G E R S R E P O R T Among individual names, our overweight in the Information Technology giant Microsoft was among the largest contributors.
The stock consistently outperformed the Index.
The companys cloud computing business, consisting of Office 365 and Azure, is taking advantage of companies shifting their workloads to the cloud, in order to drive up productivity and revenue growth.
We continue to be positive on Microsoft as we believe it is well positioned to benefit from the continued transition to cloud computing, which has huge momentum.
Our overweight holding in health insurance company Humana also proved particularly beneficial.
The company reported positive earnings results throughout the year which led the stock to trade higher.
In terms of portfolio positioning, we added to our Consumer Staples and Energy sectors, while trimming Consumer Discretionary, Healthcare and Materials.
Consumer Staples remains the largest overweight followed by Energy and Financials.
On the other hand, we retain our underweight in the Industrials, Real Estate and Materials sectors, as we are less excited about their long-term growth prospects as well as unappealing valuation levels relative to other sectors.
Smaller Companies Portfolio: stock selection beneficial Over the year, the smaller companies portfolio generated a positive return, which was in-line with the S&P 500.
Our stock selection in the Technology sector proved particularly beneficial as our Software & Communications positions outperformed, followed by the Materials & Processing sectors.
Healthcare was also a source of strength.
Within Technology, several names emerged among the top contributors, including telecommunications supplier Ciena.
Shares rose throughout the year, due to a combination of improving fundamentals and an attractive valuation.
The company is benefitting from the tailwinds of increasing metropolitan networking demand and the start of fifth generation 5G mobile networks spending.
On the other hand, our stock selection in the Financial Services and Consumer Discretionary sectors hurt performance.
Within Consumer Discretionary, our overweight in the optical retailer National Vision detracted despite posting strong sales comparisons as the market focused on a lacklustre outlook and modestly lower margins.
A number of positive fundamental developments came in the fourth quarter including a significantly expanded contact lens distribution relationship with Walmart and improved terms on a long term purchasing contract with their lens supplier.
Outlook We continue to focus on the fundamentals of the US economy and of company earnings.
While continued earnings growth and strength in economic indicators should provide support to the equity market, we are monitoring possible economic risks that could represent headwinds for US stocks.
In particular, we continue to watch closely the trade politics narrative, slowing global economic growth, and the implications of rising interest rates, all of which have the potential to add to volatility.
We anticipate that the market climate will remain testing for some time.
However, we have shifted the Trusts portfolio to a more defensive positioning, having reduced both gearing and our small cap exposure.
We are more aware of heightened risks in the market since we are much more likely to be at the end of the economic market cycle than at the beginning.
Ours is a large, actively managed investment trust, with a proven long-term record of finding the most attractive stocks from the worlds largest stock market, even when market conditions have challenged us.
Periodic volatility may continue to shake market sentiment, but we trust that investors will be reassured by the performance we have delivered over time.
Above all, we remain confident that we have the resources, experience and insight to allow our investors to capitalise on Americas future growth.
As locally based specialist investors in New York, we believe we are ideally placed to offer dynamic access to this ever-evolving market.
1 8 | J P M O R G A N A M E R I C A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 8 I N V E S T M E N T M A N A G E R S R E P O R T Proposed Change of Investment Process As set out in the Chairmans statement, the Company is proposing a change in the investment strategy followed by the large cap component of the portfolio.
This new strategy represents a continuation of the trend towards a more focused portfolio we have put in place in recent years.
If approved by shareholders this would see the Company invest in a more concentrated portfolio of stocks representing the best of the Managers growth and value investment ideas co-managed by my colleagues Jonathan Simon and Tim Parton who bring a long track record of identifying attractive opportunities in both the value and growth sectors of the market.
The Company will also benefit from the substantial research and portfolio management resources supporting the lead managers.
Other aspects of the Companys investment approach, including the allocation to small cap equities and the use of gearing, both of which have a track record of adding value to shareholders, will remain unchanged.
This change will also mark the end of my involvement in the management of the Companys portfolio after over 15 years as a named manager.
I would like to thank the Board for their guidance and support over these years and thank the many shareholders I have been fortunate to meet in my time with the Company for their engagement and informed questions.
I wish the Board and shareholders well for the future and have every faith that the new strategy will prove an attractive investment proposition.
Garrett Fish Investment Manager 22nd March 2019 S T R A T E G I C R E P O R T | 1 9
