Emerging Markets AR p27-35 11 10 2018 12:22 Page 29 D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T The Directors present their report and the audited financial disclosure.
Any information requiring immediate disclosure statements for the year ended 30th June 2018. pursuant to the AIFMD will be disclosed to the London Stock Exchange through a primary information provider.
Management of the Company The Companys leverage and JPMFs remuneration disclosures are set out on pages 72 and 73.
The Manager and Company Secretary is JPMorgan Funds Limited JPMF, a company authorised and regulated by the FCA.
The active management of the Companys assets is delegated by JPMF Management Fee to an affiliate, JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited The management fee is charged at the rate of 1.0% per annum JPMAM.
The Manager is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan of the Companys total assets less current liabilities up to Chase Bank which, through other subsidiaries, also provides 800 million and at the rate of 0.75% thereafter.
The fee is marketing, banking, dealing and custodian services to the calculated and paid monthly in arrears.
JPMAM earns a fee are excluded from the calculation and The Manager is employed under a contract which can be therefore attract no additional management fee.
terminated on one years notice, without penalty, unless notice is given as a result of poor investment performance, in which case Directors the contract can be terminated on six months notice, without Alan Saunders retired from the Board on 24th November 2017. penalty.
If the Company wishes to terminate the contract on The Directors of the Company who held office at the end of the shorter notice, the balance of remuneration is payable by way of year are detailed on page 28. compensation.
Details of Directors beneficial shareholdings in the Company may The Board, through the Management Engagement Committee, be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 38. conducts a formal evaluation of the Manager on an annual basis.
No changes have been reported to the Directors shareholdings The evaluation includes consideration of the investment strategy since the year end.
and the process of the Manager, performance against the benchmark and a relevant peer group over the long term and the In accordance with corporate governance best practice, all support the Company receives from JPMF.
The Company has Directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting consistently outperformed its benchmark index over the long and, with the exception of Anatole Kaletsky who will stand down term and as a result of the evaluation process, the Board confirms from the Board, being eligible, will offer themselves for that it is satisfied that the continuing appointment of the Manager reappointment.
The Nomination Committee, having considered is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
their qualifications, performance and contribution to the Board and its committees, confirms that each Director continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role and the The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Board recommends to shareholders that they be reappointed.
Directive AIFMD JPMF is the Companys alternative investment fund manager Director Indemnification and Insurance AIFM.
It is approved as an AIFM by the FCA.
For the purposes of As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, the the AIFMD the Company is an alternative investment fund AIF.
Directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying JPMF has delegated responsibility for the day to day management third party indemnity, as defined by Section 234 of the Companies of the Companys portfolio to JPMAM.
The indemnities were in place during the year and as at appointed Bank of New York Mellon International Limited BNY the date of this report.
BNY has appointed JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. as the Companys custodian.
BNY is responsible for the oversight An insurance policy is maintained by the Company which of the custody of the Companys assets and for monitoring its indemnifies the Directors of the Company against certain cash flows.
liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
There is no cover against fraudulent or dishonest actions.
The AIFMD requires certain information to be made available to investors in AIFs before they invest and requires that material changes to this information be disclosed in the annual report of Disclosure of information to Auditors each AIF.
An Investor Disclosure Document, which sets out In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the information on the Companys investment strategy and policies, Company at the time when this report was approved: leverage, risk, liquidity, administration, management, fees, conflicts of interest and other shareholder information is available a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant on the Companys website at www.
co. uk audit information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of There have been no material changes other than those reflected which the Companys Auditors are unaware, and in these financial statements to this information requiring D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T | 2 9 Emerging Markets AR p27-35 11 10 2018 12:22 Page 30 D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he or she certain circumstances JPMorgan Asset Management has the right ought to have taken as a Director in order to make him or to exercise those voting rights.
That right is subject to certain herself aware of any relevant audit information and to limits and restrictions and falls away at the conclusion of the establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that relevant general meeting.
The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in Directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and powers accordance with the provision of Section 418 of the Companies to issue or repurchase the Companys shares are contained in Act 2006. the Articles of Association of the Company and the Companies Act 2006.
Independent Auditors There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in the Company: no special rights with regard to control attached to  LLP have expressed their willingness to securities: no agreements between holders of securities regarding continue in office as Auditors to the Company and a resolution their transfer known to the Company: no agreements which the proposing their reappointment and authorising the Directors to Company is party to that affect its control following a takeover determine their remuneration for the ensuing year will be put to bid: and no agreements between the Company and its Directors shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
concerning compensation for loss of office.
Companies Act 2006 Requirements Listing Rule 9.8.
4R The following disclosures are made in accordance with the Listing Rule 9.8.
4R requires the Company to include certain Companies Act 2006. information in the identifiable section of the Annual Report or across reference table indicating where the information is set out.
Capital Structure The Directors confirm that there are no disclosures to be made in The Companys capital structure is summarised on the inside front this report.
Annual General Meeting Voting Rights in the Companys shares NOTE: THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the date IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the of this report are given in note 16 to the Notice of Annual General action you should take, you should seek your own personal Meeting on page 77. financial advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other financial advisor authorised under the Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
At the year end, the following had declared a notifiable interest in Resolutions relating to the following items of special business will the Companys voting rights: be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM : Shareholders Ordinary shares % The Directors recommend that the Company continues in existence as an investment trust for a further three year period.
City of London Investment Management Company 23,646,031 19.1 i Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory pre-emption rights resolutions 10 and 11 Lazard Asset Management LLC 18,859,690 15.3 Wells Capital Management 6,968,032 5.2 The Directors will seek renewal of the authority at the AGM to issue up to 6,180,767 new ordinary shares for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,545,192 such amount being Since the year end the following notifications have been received: equivalent to 5% of the present issued ordinary share capital Lazard Asset Management LLC 18,541,606 15.0 excluding Treasury shares as at the last practicable date before Rathbone Investment Management 6,204,292 5.0 the publication of this document.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company in 2019 unless renewed at The Company is also aware that approximately 2.8% of the a prior general meeting.
Companys total voting rights are held by individuals through It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new shares savings products managed by JPMorgan Asset Management and or to sell Treasury shares to investors when the Directors registered in the name of Chase Nominees Limited.
If those voting consider that it is in the best interests of shareholders to do so.
rights are not exercised by the beneficial holders, in accordance As issues are only made at prices greater than the net asset value with the terms and conditions of the savings products, under the NAV, they increase the NAV per share and spread the 3 0 | J P M O R G A N E M E R G I N G M A R K E T S I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 8 D
