Emerging Markets AR p27-35 11 10 2018 12:22 Page 32 D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T Board Composition Meetings and Committees The Board, chaired by Sarah Arkle, consists of five non-executive The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to Directors, all of whom are regarded by the Board as independent committees.
All Directors are members of the committees, with of the Companys Manager, including the Chairman.
The Directors the exception of the Chairman who attends the Audit Committee have a breadth of investment knowledge, business and financial by invitation.
skills and experience relevant to the Companys business and The table below details the number of Board and Committee brief biographical details of each Director are set out on page 28. meetings attended by each Director.
During the year, there were A review of Board composition and balance is included as part of five Board meetings, two Audit Committee meetings, the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of which a Management Engagement Committee meeting, a Nomination may be found below.
The Senior Independent Director leads the Committee meeting and a Remuneration Committee meeting.
evaluation of the performance of the Chairman and is available to Management Audit Engagement Remuneration Nomination shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved Board Committee Committee Committee Committee through discussion with the Chairman.
Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Director Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended The Boards policy on diversity, including gender, is to take 1 Sarah Arkle 52 1 1 1 account of the benefits of this during the appointment process.
Anatole Kaletsky 52 1 1 1 Richard Laing 52 1 1 1 The Board remains committed to appointing the most appropriate Ruary Neill5 2 1 1 1 candidate and therefore no targets have been set against which Andrew Page 52 1 1 1 2,3 3 to report.
Alan Saunders 31 11 1 1 Ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee on 24th November 2017.
Mrs Arkle now attends by invitation.
Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual General Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of Association, it is Board Committees required that they be appointed by shareholders.
Thereafter, a Directors appointment is subject to the performance evaluation Nomination Committee carried out each year and the approval of shareholders at each The Nomination Committee, chaired by Sarah Arkle, consists of all annual general meeting, in accordance with corporate of the Directors and meets at least annually to ensure that the governance best practice.
The Board does not believe that length Board has an appropriate balance of skills and experience to of service in itself necessarily disqualifies a Director from seeking carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and propose suitable reappointment but, when making a recommendation, the Board candidates for appointment when necessary.
The appointment takes into account the ongoing requirements of the UK Corporate process takes account of the benefits of diversity, including Governance Code, including the need to refresh the Board and its gender.
The Committee conducts an annual performance evaluation of the The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out Board, its committees and individual Directors to ensure that all in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are available for Directors have devoted sufficient time and contributed adequately inspection on request at the Companys registered office and at to the work of the Board and its Committees.
The evaluation of the Annual General Meeting.
the Board considers the balance of experience, skills, independence, corporate knowledge, its diversity, including A schedule of interests for each Director is maintained by the gender, and how it works together.
The evaluation of individual Company and reviewed at every Board meeting.
New interests Directors is led by the Chairman.
The Senior Independent Director are considered carefully, taking into account the circumstances leads the evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
The surrounding them and, if considered appropriate, are approved.
evaluations are facilitated by Lintstock, an independent third party.
Induction and Training Remuneration Committee On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary provide all The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Sarah Arkle, comprises Directors with induction training.
Thereafter, regular briefings are all of the Directors and meets annually to review the levels of provided on changes in law and regulatory requirements that remuneration of the Chairman, the Chairman of the Audit affect the Company and the Directors.
Directors are encouraged Committee and other Directors.
This takes into account the level to attend industry and other seminars covering issues and of fees paid to the directors of the Companys peers and within developments relevant to investment trust companies.
Regular the investment trust industry generally to ensure that high quality reviews of the Directors training needs are carried out by the individuals are attracted and retained.
Recommendations are Chairman by means of the evaluation process described below.
made to the Board as and when appropriate.
