Emerging Markets AR p27-35 11 10 2018 12:22 Page 28 B O A R D O F D I R E C T O R S Sarah Arkle Chairman of the Board and of the Nomination Andrew Page Committee and Remuneration Committee A Director since January 2015.
Last reappointed to the Board: 2017.
Chairman of Northgate plc, senior independent director of Carpetright plc and Non-executive director of Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust plc, Janus a director of The Schroder UK Mid Cap Fund plc.
He was senior independent Henderson Group plc and a member of the finance committee of the Royal director at Arena Leisure plc from 2008 until 2012.
He retired as chief Commission for the Exhibition of 1851.
She was previously a member of the executive of The Restaurant Group plc TRG in September 2014 after Newnham College Cambridge Investment Committee, an advisor to the South thirteen years with TRG.
Prior to joining TRG, he held a number of senior Yorkshire Pension Fund and was Chief Investment Officer of Threadneedle positions in the leisure and hospitality industry including senior vice president Asset Management where she held a number of other senior positions.
Andrew trained and qualified as a chartered Connections with Manager: None.
accountant with KPMG following which he was a corporate financier with Shared directorships with other Directors: None.
Shareholding in Company: 6,000 Ordinary shares.
Shared directorships with other Directors: None.
Shareholding in Company: 5,000 Ordinary shares.
Anatole Kaletsky Senior Independent Director A Director since September 2003.
Chief Economist of Gavekal Dragonomics, a Hong Kong based company which Last reappointed to the Board: 2017. provides economic analysis and asset management services to financial Remuneration: 28,500. institutions around the world and a board member of the Open Society Foundations.
Formerly Editor at Large at The Times of London.
Economic Chairman of The Investment Committee, Great Ormond Street Childrens commentator for Reuters and the New York Times.
Charity and a member of The Advisory Council, The SOAS China Institute, Connections with Manager: None.
Previously worked in investment banking, managing the multi asset sales business at UBS Investment Bank and working closely with Shared directorships with other Directors: None.
chief investment officers and senior asset managers on strategic and tactical Shareholding in Company: 10,000 Ordinary shares.
Prior to this he spent a number of years working in the Asian equity markets for UBS Investment Bank and Schroder Securities.
Richard Laing Chairman of the Audit Committee A Director since January 2015.
Non-executive director of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc, Miro Forestry, Leeds Castle Foundation, 3i Infrastructure plc, Tritax Big Box REIT plc and a trustee of Plan International UK.
Previously a trustee of The Overseas Development Institute, finance director of DeLa Rue plc and from 2000 until 2012 worked for CDC Group plc where he was finance director and latterly chief executive officer.
Formerly a non-executive director of London Metal Exchange, Aureos Capital, Madagascar Oil Limited and Emerging Markets Private Equity Association, where he was chairman of the Advisory Council.
Member of the Audit Committee Connections with Manager: None.
Member of the Nomination Committee Shared directorships with other Directors: None.
Member of the Remuneration Committee Shareholding in Company: 6,000 Ordinary shares.
