qxp 12 10 2018 09:24 Page 8 I N V E S T M E N T M A N A G E RS R E P O R T Key Objectives As you can see from the frontispiece of this report, our ultimate objective is to grow the value of the Companys portfolio over time.
Our aims as investors are simple: Find good businesses Dont pay stupid prices for them Keep them for as long as possible Austin Forey Investment Manager What does a good business look like?
It has to have a strong competitive position which can be maintained or grown in the future: it has to be able to convert that, now or in the future, into good economic returns: and it has to be well governed and managed in the best interests of shareholders.
You might think that this all seems obvious: but finding a company which has good economics, duration and governance is not as easy as it sounds.
Its a price which means you cant make a return on your purchase, even if the business does what you expected, because you paid for everything up front.
Ideally I want a margin of safety in my purchase price: but I much prefer to own a great business at a reasonable price, than to buy a bad one on the cheap.
When I look at your Companys portfolio, I see a collection of strong companies at a reasonable overall valuation, not a bunch of distressed assets at a deeply discounted price.
What does as long as possible mean?
Its ultimately a function of how durable a companys competitive advantages are.
We have a good number of investments which have been in the portfolio for over a decade, in companies whose competitive advantages have been continually reinforced.
We go into investments with an open-ended mind-set, prepared to own them as long as they keep delivering.
There are three reasons why we try to think long term: the first is that the effects of compounding become more powerful with time, and eventually become overwhelming: the second is that lower rates of turnover in the portfolio just mean lower costs for running the portfolio.
The third is that its not what most people do: the natural instinct to sell winners is strong: we want to let them keep winning, which means being patient and being prepared to give companies time.
Our Approach Keep it simple.
The world is full of distractions, information is over-abundant, and yet cutting through the noise to what makes a difference is essential.
When we look at a potential investment, we have two questions in mind: is this a business we would like to own?
and do we want to own it at this price?
All other questions are just ways of defining these issues more narrowly.
The way we do things has to be consistent with our objectives.
The way we take decisions is dictated by our time horizon.
Those interested in long term outcomes, as we are, naturally put more importance on understanding how companies will create intrinsic value quality and duration than on trying to make precise valuation judgements.
We try to think about company-specific issues, especially competitive positioning, rather than worrying too much about short-term macro-economic conditions.
And we try to keep our decision hierarchy clear in our minds after weve bought a stock, as well as before.
Of all the things we try to do, this is perhaps the most difficult.
Much of the financial industry has a vested interest in activity, and many investors feel the need to act, and go looking for decisions to take.
I want the market to bring me opportunities that are too good to ignore, and if it doesnt, I dont want to take decisions for the sake of it: Im happy to leave the portfolio alone instead.
But resisting the noise, and the constant entreaties of others to change the portfolio, requires effort and clarity of purpose.
Being patient always risks a charge of inertia: sometimes investments deteriorate and we dont see it coming.
But the best investments the Company has made have all come from having the patience to stay invested for really long periods: these are the investments that really make a difference.
Investing Responsibly We need to invest your money responsibly.
And show how we go about doing this.
Its no longer enough to think only about investment returns: people want to see that we are acting in a responsible way when we invest their money, which means having regard to the environmental and social conduct of the companies we invest in, as well as their standards of governance.
It almost goes without saying that such considerations are consistent with the way we think about stocks.
Again, this is a matter of investment time horizon and the way it informs our decision hierarchy.
If youre out to make a fast buck, you wont worry much about risks that may materialise far in the future.
If, though, you start out intending to hold stocks for years, you will naturally think about risk factors which might irreparably damage a companys value, even if they may only play out over the very long term.
Let me give you an example: your Company does not invest in coal-fired power stations.
Coal remains an important fuel in many countries, but can we really say with confidence, given what we know about the environmental impact of burning coal, the direction of government policies in many countries, and the falling cost of alternative and renewable energy sources, that coal will remain a valuable fuel in the really long term?
Its precisely because we think about corporate duration that we naturally stay away from industries where the direction of public policy and social norms is most likely to have an adverse impact.
How do we assess these issues?
Over the last few years a whole industry has grown up around the monitoring of environmental, social and governance factors in investment, though without any common standards for corporate reporting, this remains an area where judgements are not straightforward.
We subscribe to a number of external vendors in this area, who can be useful providers of information.
But we dont want to outsource our judgements.
For those, we prefer to use our internal resources, and we ask our analysts to address a series of questions covering environmental, social and governance issues about every company we research, and to think about the future, not just what has happened in the past.
Is this all words and good intentions, or does it actually make a difference?
To take one issue, for which we do use external data, consider the question of carbon intensity in other words, what the carbon footprint of the companies held in the portfolio is, and how it looks when set in a wider context.
The following analysis is produced by MSCI, and shows that the carbon produced for every pound invested via this Company is roughly one fifteenth of what it would be if that same pound were invested in a passive fund or ETF which replicated the MSCI Emerging Markets index.
Active investment can produce sharply differentiated outcomes in this kind of area, as long as you try.
qxp 11 10 2018 12:22 Page 10 I N V E S T M E N T M A N A G E RS R E P O R T MSCI CARBON ESG FOOTPRINT CALCULATOR Carbon Emissions Carbon Intensity tons CO2e $M invested tons CO2e $M sales JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust 21.0 47.0 Coverage by Portfolio Weight 90.7 90.7 MSCI EM Index 311.6 407.4 Coverage by Portfolio Weight 99.9 99.8 What is my portfolios What is my portfolios Aim Purpose normalised carbon footprint exposure to carbon per million dollars invested?
Source: MSCI, J. P. Morgan Asset Management.
Table as of 30th June 2018 based on data from MSCI as at that date.
MSCI EM MSCI Emerging Markets Index.
Coverage refers to percentage of index or portfolio covered by data.
Finally, shareholders should know that we try to engage with the companies we invest in, not only to explore areas of potential concern or disagreement, but also to promote and encourage good practices.
I have always argued that owning shares is an activity in its own right, involving ongoing dialogue with a company about how its doing, not just in a financial sense, but in the overall way it conducts its business.
This dialogue doesnt get any weaker just because we have been invested for a long time.
In fact the opposite is more likely to be true: the longer our tenure as shareholders on behalf of our clients, the more openly we tend to express our views, and the more likely they are to be listened to.
To take a single example of this, in the case of HDFC, one of the Companys leading investments for many years, we specifically raised questions during the last year about succession planning and the composition of the board.
This was not because we have any complaints at all about how the company has been governed or managed: rather, we wanted to understand what steps are being taken to make ensure that the outcomes achieved in the past have the best chance of being repeated in the years ahead: the companys responses were encouraging, and showed that they took such matters as seriously as we would have expected.
Ive never thought of this kind of engagement as being distinct from the activity of investment management: its just a natural part of what we do.
Review of the Year As your Chairman has noted in her comments, this was not a bad year for emerging markets, though it was not an exceptional one either: single digit returns were the order of the day.
Your Companys share price and net asset value per share both narrowly outpaced the reference benchmark, rising 7% and 8.3% respectively.
But the year was a lot more eventful than these numbers suggest.
To begin with, markets rose consistently, making 2017 one of the least volatile years on record for emerging market equities, a state of affairs that proved neither typical nor sustainable.
After peaking in late January this year, markets surrendered the majority of their gains by the time your Companys financial year ended in June: and they have continued to weaken since then.
The causes of this recent weakness are not hard to identify.
Last summer, the dollar was weakening, and American rhetoric on trade and tariffs seemed just talk.
But in 2018, with the Federal Reserve shrinking its balance sheet and hence the supply of dollars at the same time as it started raising interest rates, the dollar began to strengthen again.
For countries on the other side of this trend, it presents a dilemma: do you accept that inflationary pressures will increase as everything which is priced in dollars oil, metals, semiconductor chips, iPhones becomes more expensive in your own currency?
Or do you start raising interest rates to stave off that inflation, even if it slows your economy?
A number of emerging markets chose the latter course, with the inevitable result that economic momentum is slowing, corporate profit growth is lower, and currencies have weakened anyway.
qxp 11 10 2018 12:23 Page 11 I N V E S T M E N T M A N A G E RS R E P O R T PERFORMANCE ATTRIBUTION YEAR ENDED 30TH JUNE 2018 % % Contributions to total returns Benchmark return 6.5 Asset allocation 2.6 Stock selection 1.4 Currency effect 1.1 Cash 0.1 Investment Manager contribution 2.8 Portfolio return 9.3 Management fee and expenses 1.0 Share buybacks Return on net assets 8.3 Return to shareholders 7.0 Source: JPMAM Morningstar.
All figures are on a total return basis.
Performance attribution analyses how the Company achieved its recorded performance relative to its benchmark.
A glossary of terms and alternative performance measures is provided on pages 78 and 79.
That was the first headwind.
The second and third ones both stemmed from a change in US economic policy: America First turned out not to be just an election slogan.
The imposition of sanctions in a more direct and aggressive way, first on Russia and more recently on Turkey shows an America more willing to throw its political weight around: the example of a Chinese producer of telecom equipment, also sanctioned by the US, provides a reminder that America retains a special ability to render businesses anywhere unviable, if it wants to.
If you tell a company like this that it cannot use American software or clear dollars through the global banking system, its hard for the company to continue operating: in that case, the US relented slightly, but the lesson is clear, and for those countries on the receiving end, the effect on their stock markets has been equally clear, and negative.
If sanctions have been the second headwind for some markets, American trade policy has been the third, and China has been the principal target.
Its not worth going into the justifications or otherwise of tariffs and trade wars here: but its not good news for stocks, and the declines in some parts of the Chinese equity market in particular have certainly come partly as a response to this shift in American trade policy.
None of the above, then, has been good news for emerging markets: but these are mostly cyclical and temporary concerns.
I worry much more about how the companies the Company owns are doing, and there the news looks rather better to me.
Many of your Companys leading investments continue to perform well, demonstrating continued profit growth while also investing to widen their competitive moats.
In such circumstances Im happy to do very little to the portfolio: my only change during the year to the ten largest investments shown on page 17 was to add to the holding in Alibaba, Chinas e-commerce giant, as its valuation declined recently.
Overall, turnover in the portfolio was below 10% of total assets, which I think demonstrates the point made above about keeping the running costs of the portfolio low.
qxp 11 10 2018 12:23 Page 12 I N V E S T M E N T M A N A G E RS R E P O R T But if transaction activity was restrained, this does not mean that nothing at all changed from an investment perspective.
Partly as a result of the transactions we did make, and partly because of the way stocks performed, the importance of both China and of technology stocks has increased, and the number of holdings continues to decrease.
A lot of the portfolio is now concentrated in three broad areas: financial companies: technology companies, and consumer companies, though within these sectors your Company owns a range of different businesses.
I see this focus as entirely consistent with the objectives set out above: the key to success in all three of these areas of commercial endeavour rests on intangible assets knowledge, information and skill rather than with fixed assets, plant and machinery and so on.
In the financial sector, balance sheets remain very important, of course.
But a look at any long term charts of bank stocks shows that just because an industry offers services which can be copied and commoditised, it does not follow that all outcomes are the same.
Risk management and judgement remain critical skills: without them, failure awaits at the next crisis.
To these essential qualities, I think we can now add technology and software.
The way banking services are delivered has changed enormously everywhere in the world, as customers expect to be served online or through an app, rather than by phone or in the branch.
Firms which navigate this changing landscape prosper: those which dont suffer a loss of competitiveness, probably irreparably.
You might think that in the consumer area, products have a reassuringly immutable nature: has beer really changed as a product in the last century?
But the way that consumer companies create that most valuable of all things, a brand, certainly has.
The ability to understand consumers preferences and emotional responses to products has been altered by the ability to capture far more data than ever before, and to reach consumers with minutely targeted advertising through social media and other digital channels.
Brands which retain and increase their relevance to the consumer remain intrinsically valuable: those which fail to do so will disappear.
As for technology, its easy to look at the rise of huge internet businesses to understand how software and data can create large and very valuable businesses: but just as interesting, in my opinion, is the way that technology is allowing the things which create intangible value software, systems, data, insights, design to be separated from the physical assets employed in the provision of services or products to the customer.
Your Company has several sorts of investments in technology, from the worlds leading producer of semiconductor chips Taiwan Semiconductor to firms which provide software services like Tata Consultancy and EPAM, to large internet services companies like Alibaba and Tencent, which can be seen as the Chinese equivalents of Amazon and Facebook.
But there are many more investments which can to some extent be thought of as technology companies because their real competitive advantage, and hence their value, derives from the way they use information and technology as a key competence to operate their business.
Nowhere is this more true today than in China.
If theres one country which I spend more time on than any other, its China.
I was last in mainland China in May this year, when I travelled with colleagues to Shenzhen, Hangzhou and Shanghai, and I cant remember a trip which had a bigger impact on my views.
From one who has long been sceptical about Chinese equities, this may seem surprising.
I used to think that a serious financial crisis might trigger reforms and end the dominance of state-owned firms, turning China into a market where corporate skill could drive outcomes, and that what emerged would be a stock-pickers heaven.
There hasnt been a crisis, and the state companies are still there, but the private sector is out of the bag and winning anyway, especially in service industries, and especially in the deployment of technology.
Four things in particular struck me during this last visit: The first is the level of entrepreneurial activity, allied to a sense of ambition and confidence The second is the impact of technology The third is the rapid development of service industries The fourth is the evolution of business models and the consequences for equity returns These are all interlinked.
In the first place, the rate of entrepreneurial activity in China outstrips most other emerging markets put together.
It seems to me that conditions are now more favourable than before, as several factors combine.
A generation of Chinese has now studied, worked and lived abroad, and perhaps therefore has a more globalised perspective.
Meanwhile, rapid economic growth has taken the country to a point at which service industries and consumption become increasingly important for the economy.
This is happening at the same time that technological innovation, especially due to the adoption of smart phones and the ability to capture and analyse huge amounts of data, is changing the landscape in many industries and allowing new companies to emerge rapidly, sometimes at a large scale.
Maybe its not surprising, given this combination of circumstances, that entrepreneurial activity is so abundant.
Its easy and hardly original to expound on the consequences of technological innovation not all of which are necessarily positive : but its striking to see the effects it is having in China.
Many companies have grown up during the smartphone era, and built their business models as well as their technology platforms on mobile data.
They dont have legacy systems still being run on creaky mainframe computers, or have to worry about how their mobile app can be stitched on to their core business applications: its all the same thing.
In some industries, its not an exaggeration to say that China leads the world: digital payments is a good example.
Its hard to grasp how technology is being used until you see it for yourself: try to pay for a meal in a restaurant with a credit card, and you are likely to be embarrassed: digital payments from mobile wallets are now the norm.
The scale of this is staggering: recent research suggest that the value of mobile payments handled by the two leading internet firms in China last year was greater than all payments processed by Visa and Mastercard worldwide.
As a result of this growth, cities like Hangzhou, where Alibaba and its associated company Ant Financial are based, and Shenzhen, where Tencent and Ping An are headquartered, have become serious hubs for technology, including artificial intelligence.
But even in more ordinary aspects of life running hotels, cleaning blocks of flats, providing education, visiting the doctor companies are doing things in new and different ways through the application of technology.
These examples are all in service industries, and the growth of consumption and of service industries should be good news for us as investors of your Companys assets.
Ive never been a fan of very capital-intensive businesses.
Return on capital is not a bad way to think about the rate at which companies create intrinsic value, and if you have a huge denominator because your business needs to deploy huge amounts of capital, then the return is unlikely to be high.
But when your business depends on knowledge, intellectual property or technology, the actual money spent to create value can be much smaller, and the return on capital higher.
qxp 11 10 2018 12:23 Page 14 I N V E S T M E N T M A N A G E RS R E P O R T What does all this mean for the portfolio?
In a market where I used to struggle to find businesses I really liked, now there are appealing possibilities, and really its just a question of being patient enough to find a good entry point.
On our travels, we saw several Chinese companies whose underlying returns are very high, sometimes masked by the accumulation of significant cash balances.
This is often being achieved precisely by isolating the intellectual property value developed by a company from the assets employed in the business in the same way that companies like Nike or Apple outsource production and manufacturing while retaining the value of their expertise in software, design or marketing.
In the long run, the ability to create these kinds of business models should be very interesting for investors.
If we can find companies successfully doing this in China, and buy their shares at sensible valuations, we can certainly have more money invested in that country.
China remains, then, the most important market that we look at, and the one where we are most likely to make changes to todays portfolio.
Last Words Sometimes its easy to get negative about the prospects for equities, including those in emerging markets.
The world has spent a decade recovering from the financial crisis and in the developed world we are well advanced in the economic cycle.
Politics is less predictable than it has been for a long time, and even what passed for geo-political certainties seem less reliable than before.
Some emerging markets are facing challenges.
But hasnt it always been like this?
There are always risks to worry about, but equity investors need, I think, to retain a degree of optimism.
Some of the longest-held positions in your Companys portfolio have continued to compound in value through electoral cycles, economic cycles, the swings of currency markets and stock markets, surviving and prospering regardless.
Real life doesnt go in a straight line: but look back on the last couple of decades, and there has still been real progress, and real wealth created: I see no reason to think that the future will be any different.
Austin Forey Investment Manager 11th October 2018 1 4 | J P M O R G A N E M E R G I N G M A R K E T S I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 8 S
