The Board has adopted corporate governance Board Committees best practice and all Directors stand for annual reappointment.
Nomination and Remuneration Committee The Chairman will meet with each Director before the Director is proposed for reappointment, and subject to the performance The Nomination and Remuneration Committee, chaired by evaluation carried out each year, the Board will agree whether it Andrew Fleming, which consists of the entire Board, meets at is appropriate for the Director to seek an additional term.
The least annually to ensure that the Board has an appropriate Board does not believe that length of service in itself necessarily balance of skills and experience to carry out its fiduciary duties disqualifies a Director from seeking reappointment but, when and to select and propose suitable candidates for appointment making a recommendation, the Board will take into account the when necessary.
The appointment process takes account of the ongoing requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, benefits of diversity, including gender.
A variety of sources, including the need to refresh the Board and its Committees.
Any including the use of independent external recruitment Directors with more than nine years service are required to consultants, may be used to ensure that a wide range of submit themselves annually for reappointment.
The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out The Committee conducts an annual performance evaluation of the in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are available for Board, its Committees and individual Directors to ensure that all inspection on request at the Companys registered office and at Directors have devoted sufficient time and contributed adequately the Annual General Meeting.
to the work of the Board and its Committees.
The evaluation of the Board considers the balance of experience, skills, Induction and Training independence, corporate knowledge, its diversity, including gender, and how it works together.
On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary provide all Questionnaires, drawn up by the Board, with the assistance of the Directors with induction training.
Thereafter, regular briefings are Manager and a firm of independent consultants, are completed by provided on changes in law and regulatory requirements that each Director.
The responses are then collated and discussed by affect the Company and Directors.
Directors are encouraged to the Committee.
The evaluation of individual Directors is led by the attend industry and other seminars covering issues and Chairman who also meets with each Director.
The Audit developments relevant to investment trust companies.
Regular Committee Chairman leads the evaluation of the Chairmans reviews of the Directors training needs are carried out by the performance.
Chairman by means of the evaluation process described below.
The Committee also reviews Directors fees and makes Meetings and Committees recommendations to the Board as and when appropriate in relation to remuneration policy.
This review forms only a minimal The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to part of discussions and therefore it is felt to be appropriate for Committees.
Details of membership of these Committees are Andrew Fleming to act as Chairman of the Committee.
shown with Directors profiles on page 24.
Management Engagement Committee The table below details the number of formal Board and Committee meetings attended by each Director.
During the year The membership of the Management Engagement Committee under review there were five scheduled Board meetings, in consists of all the Directors and is chaired by Andrew Fleming.
addition to a meeting devoted to strategy, two Audit Committee The Committee meets at least once a year to review the terms meetings, one meeting of the Management Engagement of the Management Agreement between the Company and the Committee, and one meeting of the Nomination and Manager, to review the performance of the Manager, to review Remuneration Committee.
These meetings were supplemented by the notice period that the Board has with the Manager and to additional adhoc meetings held to cover procedural matters and make recommendations to the Board on the continued formal approvals.
In addition there is regular contact between the appointment of the Manager following these reviews.
Directors and the Manager and Company Secretary throughout Audit Committee the year.
The report of the Audit Committee is set out on page 33.
Meetings Attended Terms of Reference Nomination and Management Audit Remuneration Engagement The Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee Director Board Committee Committee Committee and Management Engagement Committee have written terms of Stephen Cohen5 2 1 1 reference which define clearly their respective responsibilities, Andrew Fleming 52 1 1 Sir Stephen Gomersall 52 1 1 copies of which are available on the Companys website and for George Olcott5 2 1 1 inspection on request at the Companys registered office and at Christopher Samuel 52 1 1 the Companys Annual General Meeting.
