qxp 12 11 2018 15:21 Page 22 L O N G T E R M V I A B I L I T Y Change of Corporate Control of the Manager physical security of JPMorgans data centres, security of its networks and security of its trading applications, are tested by The Board holds regular meetings with senior representatives independent auditors and reported every six months against of the Manager in order to obtain assurance that the Manager the AAF Standard.
continues to demonstrate a high degree of commitment to its asset management and investment trust business.
Financial Accounting, Legal and Regulatory The financial risks faced by the Company include market price risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Further details are disclosed In order to qualify as an investment trust, the Company must in note 22 on pages 60 to 66. comply with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Section 1158.
Details of the Companys approval are given under Management of the Company on page 25.
Were the Long Term Viability Company to breach Section 1158, it may lose investment trust The Company is an investment trust with an objective of achieving status and, as a consequence, gains within the Companys long term capital growth.
Taking account of the Companys portfolio would be subject to Capital Gains Tax.
The current position, the principal risks that it faces and their Section 1158 qualification criteria are continually monitored potential impact on its future development and prospects, the by the Manager and the results reported to the Board each Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company, to the month.
The Company must also comply with the provisions of extent that they are able to do so, over the next five years.
They the Companies Act 2006 and, since its shares are listed on the have made that assessment by considering those principal risks, London Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules, Market the Companys investment objective and strategy, the investment Abuse Regulation MAR, Disclosure Guidance and capabilities of the Manager and the current outlook for the Transparency Rules DTRs and, as an investment trust, the Japanese economy and equity market.
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD.
In determining the appropriate period of assessment the A breach of the Companies Act could result in the Company Directors had regard to their view that, given the Companys and or the Directors being fined or the subject of criminal objective of achieving capital growth, shareholders should proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules or DTRs could consider the Company as a long term investment proposition.
This result in the Companys shares being suspended from listing is consistent with advice provided by independent financial which in turn would breach Section 1158.
The Board relies on advisers and wealth managers, that investors should consider the services of its Company Secretary, the Manager and its investing in equities for a minimum of five years.
Accordingly, the professional advisers to ensure compliance with the Directors consider five years to be an appropriate time horizon to Companies Act 2006, the UKLA Listing Rules, DTRs, MAR and assess the Companys viability.
Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation, on the assumption that the principal risks identified above, including Details of the Companys compliance with Corporate Investment Underperformance, are managed or mitigated Governance best practice, including information on relations effectively, that the Company will be able to continue in operation with shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five year period of Statement on pages 29 to 32. assessment.
Operational Disruption to, or failure of, the Managers accounting, dealing or payments systems or the Depositary or Custodians records By order of the Board may prevent accurate reporting and monitoring of the Faith Pengelly, Companys financial position.
Details of how the Board for and on behalf of monitors the services provided by JPMF and its associates and JPMorgan Funds Limited, the key elements designed to provide effective risk Secretary management and internal control are included within the Risk 12th November 2018 Management and Internal Controls section of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 29 and 32.
Cyber Crime The threat of cyber attack, in all guises, is regarded as at least as important as more traditional physical threats to business continuity and security.
The Company benefits directly and or indirectly from all elements of JPMorgans Cyber Security programme.
The information technology controls around 2 2 | J P M O R G A N J A P A N E S E I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 8
