D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T The Directors present their annual report and the financial by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust for the statements for the year ended 30th September 2018. purposes of Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
As a result the Company is not liable for taxation on capital gains.
The Directors have no reason to believe that Management of the Company approval will not continue to be retained.
The Company is not The Manager and Company Secretary to the Company is a close company for taxation purposes.
JPMorgan Funds Limited JPMF, a company authorised and regulated by the FCA.
The Manager is a wholly-owned subsidiary The Alternative Investment Fund Managers of JPMorgan Chase Bank which, through other subsidiaries, also Directive AIFMD provides marketing, banking, dealing and custodian services to the Company.
JPMF is the Companys alternative investment fund manager AIFM.
It is approved as an AIFM by the FCA.
For the purposes of In seeking to achieve its objectives, the Company employs JPMF the AIFMD the Company is an alternative investment fund AIF.
which delegates portfolio management to JPMorgan Asset JPMF has delegated certain responsibilities as set out under Management UK Limited JPMAM, a firm regulated by the FCA, Management of the Company above.
with the day to day investment management activity conducted in Tokyo by JPMorgan Asset Management Japan Limited, a fellow The Company has appointed BNY Mellon Trust and Depositary investment management subsidiary and an affiliate of JPMorgan UK Limited BNY as its depositary.
BNY has appointed Chase Bank.
JPMF is employed under a contract which can be JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. as the Companys custodian, BNY is terminated on six months notice without penalty.
If the Company responsible for the oversight of the custody of the Companys wishes to terminate the contract on shorter notice, the balance of assets and for monitoring its cash flows.
With effect from 1st June remuneration is payable by way of compensation.
2018 the legal equity of the depositary changed to Bank of New York Mellon International Limited, by a deed of novation.
The current Management Agreement was entered into with effect from 1st July 2014 following the implementation of a number of The AIFMD requires certain information to be made available to changes required by the Alternative Investment Fund Managers investors in AIFs before they invest and requires that material Directive.
changes to this information be disclosed in the annual report of each AIF.
An Investor Disclosure Document, which sets out The Board has appointed a Management Engagement Committee information on the Companys investment strategy and policies, which conducts a formal evaluation of the performance of, and leverage, risk, liquidity, administration, management, fees, contractual relationship with, the Manager on an annual basis.
conflicts of interest and other shareholder information are Part of this evaluation includes a consideration of the available on the Companys website at www.
co. uk management fees and whether the service received is value for money for shareholders.
There have been no material changes other than those reflected in these financial statements to this information requiring The Management Engagement Committee has thoroughly disclosure.
Any information requiring immediate disclosure reviewed the performance of the Manager in the course of the pursuant to the AIFMD will be disclosed to the London Stock year.
The review covered the performance of the Manager, its Exchange through a primary information provider.
management processes, investment style, resources and risk controls and the quality of support that the Company receives As an authorised AIFM, JPMF will make the requisite disclosures from the Manager including the marketing support provided.
on remuneration levels and policies to the FCA at the appropriate As part of this process, the Board visits Japan each year.
Board is of the opinion that the continuing appointment of the Manager is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
Management Fee Such a review is carried out on an annual basis.
The fixed basic annual management fee is a sliding scale based on The Company is subject to UK and European legislation and the Companys net assets.
The management fee is charged regulations including UK company law, UK Financial Reporting monthly in arrears.
Standards, the UK Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, Market Abuse Regulation, taxation law and Net assets Fee level the Companys own Articles of Association.
First 465 million under management 0.65% The Company is an investment company within the meaning of 465 million to 930 million under management 0.485% Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and has been approved Over 930 million under management 0.40% D I R E C T O R S R E V I E W | 2 5 D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T The management fee includes a contribution towards the The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in Managers general marketing and client administration costs.
accordance with the provisions of Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006.
If the Company invests in funds managed or advised by the Manager, or any of its associated companies, those investments Independent Auditors are excluded from the calculation of the fixed basic annual management fee.
Further to a review of audit services in 2013,  LLP were appointed Auditors of the Directors Company with effect from the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
 LLP have expressed their willingness to The Directors of the Company who held office at the end of the continue in office as the Auditors and a resolution to reappoint year are detailed on page 24.
Details of their beneficial  LLP and authorise the Directors to shareholdings may be found in the Directors Remuneration determine their remuneration for the ensuing year, will be Report on page 36. proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Andrew Fleming will retire as a Director of the Company at the Annual General Meeting.
All continuing Directors will retire at the Share Capital Structure and Voting Rights Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being As at 30th September 2018, the Companys issued share capital eligible, will offer themselves for reappointment by shareholders.
comprised 161,248,078 2017: 161,248,078 ordinary shares of The Nomination and Remuneration Committee, having considered 25p each.
There were no shares held in Treasury.
the Directors qualifications, performance and contribution to the The Company has the authority to repurchase shares in the Board and its Committees, confirms that each Director continues market for cancellation or to be held in Treasury and to issue to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role and the new shares for cash on behalf of the Company.
During the year Board recommends to shareholders that those standing for the Company did not repurchase any ordinary shares 2017: nil.
No shares have been repurchased for cancellation or into Treasury since the year end.
The Company did not issue any new Director Indemnification and Insurance shares during the year.
As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, each Resolutions to renew the authorities to issue new shares or Director has the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying reissue shares from Treasury, and to repurchase shares for third party indemnity, as defined by Section 234 of the Companies cancellation or to be held in Treasury will be put to shareholders Act 2006.
The indemnities were in place during the year and as at at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
It should be noted the date of this report.
that the Board would only reissue shares from Treasury at An insurance policy is maintained by the Company which a premium to NAV.
The full text of these resolutions is set out in indemnifies the Directors of the Company against certain the Notice of Meeting on pages 74 to 75. liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
There is no Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the date cover against fraudulent or dishonest actions.
of this report are given in note 16 to the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page76.
Disclosure of information to the Auditors There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the the Company: no special rights with regard to control attached to Company at the time when this report was approved: securities: no agreements between holders of securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: no agreements to which the a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant Company is party that affect its control following a takeover bid: audit information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of and no agreements between the Company and its Directors which the Companys Auditors are unaware, and concerning compensation for loss of office.
b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
2 6 | J P M O R G A N J A P A N E S E I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 8 D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights Employees, Social, Environmental, Community and Human Rights At the year end, the following had declared a notifiable interest in the Companys voting rights: The Company is managed by JPMF, has no employees and all of its Directors are non-executive.
There are therefore no Number of Shareholders voting rights % disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The Board notes 1 the policy statements of JPMorgan Asset Management UK Lazard Asset Management 31,443,372 19.5 Limited JPMAM in respect of Social, Community, Environmental Wells Capital Management 17,079,604 10.6 and Human Rights issues, which are shown in italics below.
1607 Capital Partners 14,209,555 8.8 JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially responsible 1 Indirect holding.
Although our priority at all times is the best economic interests of our clients, we recognise that, increasingly, As at 1st October 2018 Lazard Asset Management had a notifiable non-financial issues such as social and environmental factors have interest in 16.9% of the voting rights of the Company.
No further the potential to impact the share price, as well as the reputation of changes have been notified since the year end to the date of this companies.
Specialists within JPMAMs environmental, social and report.
governance ESG team are tasked with assessing how companies The Company is also aware that as at 30th September 2018, deal with and report on social and environmental risks and issues approximately 2.2% of the Companys total voting rights were specific to their industry.
held by individuals through the savings products managed by JPMAM is also a signatory to the United Nations Principles of JPMorgan Asset Management and registered in the name of Responsible Investment, which commits participants to Chase Nominees Limited as at the year end.
If those voting rights six principles, with the aim of incorporating ESG criteria into their are not exercised by the beneficial holders, in accordance with processes when making stock selection decisions and promoting the terms and conditions of the savings products, under certain ESG disclosure.
Our detailed approach to how we implement the circumstances, JPMorgan Asset Management has the right to principles is available on request.
That right is subject to certain limits and restrictions and falls away at the conclusion of the relevant The Manager has implemented a policy which seeks to restrict general meeting.
investments in securities issued by companies that have been identified by an independent third party provider as being The rules concerning the appointment, reappointment and involved in the manufacture, production or supply of cluster replacement of Directors, amendment of the Companys Articles munitions, depleted uranium ammunition and armour and or of Association and powers to issue or buy back the Companys anti-personnel mines.
Shareholders can obtain further details on shares are contained in the Articles of Association of the Company the policy by contacting the Manager.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Listing Rule 9.8.
4R The Company is managed by JPMF with portfolio management Listing Rule 9.8.
4R requires the Company to include certain delegated to JPMAM.
It has no employees and all of its Directors information in a single identifiable section of the Annual Report or are non-executive, the day to day activities being carried out by cross reference table indicating where the information is set out.
There are therefore no disclosures to be made in The Directors confirm that there are no disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The Company itself has no premises, this report.
consumes no electricity, gas or diesel fuel and consequently does not have a measurable carbon footprint.
JPMAM is a signatory to Board Diversity the Carbon Disclosure Project and JPMorgan Chase is a signatory The Boards policy on diversity, including gender, is to take to the Equator Principles on managing social and environmental account of the benefits of these during the appointment process.
However, the Board remains committed to appointing the most appropriate candidate, regardless of gender or other forms of The Modern Slavery Act 2015 the MSA diversity, whilst noting the regulatory guidance on gender.
The MSA requires companies to prepare a slavery and human At 30th September 2018, there were five male Directors and no trafficking statement for each financial year of the organisation.
female Directors on the Board.
However, as set out on page 27, As the Company has no employees and does not supply goods and Sally Macdonald, will be appointed as a Director with effect from services, the MSA does not apply directly to it.
The MSA the AGM on 13th December 2018. requirements more appropriately relate to JPMF and JPMAM.
JPMorgans statement on Human Rights can be found on the D I R E C T O R S R E V I E W | 2 7 D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T following website: www.
com corporate Corporatenumber of shares.
The issue proceeds would be available for Responsibility document modern-slavery-act.
pdf investment in line with the Companys investment policies.
No issue of shares will be made which would effectively alter the control of the Company without the prior approval of Criminal Corporate Offence shareholders in general meeting.
The Company has zero tolerance for tax evasion.
Shares in the The Company currently does not hold any shares in the capital of Company are purchased through intermediaries or brokers, the Company in Treasury.
therefore no funds flow directly into the Company.
As the Company has no employees, the Boards focus is to ensure that ii Authority to repurchase the Companys shares the risk of the Companys service providers facilitating tax evasion resolution 13 is also low.
To this end it seeks assurance from its service The authority to repurchase up to 14.99% of the Companys providers that effective policies and procedures are in place.
issued share capital, granted by shareholders at the 2017 Annual General Meeting, will expire on 13th June 2019, unless renewed Annual General Meeting prior to that time.
The Directors consider that the renewal of the NOTE: THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR authority at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting is in the IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action interests of shareholders as a whole, as the repurchase of shares you should take, you should seek your own personal financial at a discount to their underlying NAV enhances the NAV of the advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other remaining shares.
financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Resolution 13 gives the Company authority to repurchase its own Markets Act 2000. issued shares in the market as permitted by the Companies Resolutions relating to the following items of special business will Act 2006.
The authority limits the number of shares that could be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The full be purchased to a maximum of 24,171,085 shares, representing text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of Annual General approximately 14.99% of the Companys issued shares being the Meeting on pages 74 to 75. latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document or, if different, the number of ordinary shares which is equal to i Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital excluding Treasury pre-emption rights resolutions 11 and 12 shares as at the date of the passing of the resolution.
The The Directors will seek renewal of the authority at the Annual authority also sets minimum and maximum prices.
General Meeting to issue new ordinary shares for cash up to an If resolution 13 is passed at the Annual General Meeting, the aggregate nominal amount of 4,031,200 such amount being Board may repurchase the shares for cancellation or hold them equivalent to 10% of the present issued share capital excluding in Treasury pursuant to the authority granted to it for possible Treasury shares as at the last practicable date before the reissue at a premium to NAV.
publication of this document or, if different, the number of ordinary shares which is equal to approximately 10% of the Any repurchase will be at the discretion of the Board and will be Companys issued share capital excluding Treasury shares as at made in the market only at prices below the prevailing NAV per the date of the passing of the resolution.
share, thereby enhancing the NAV of the remaining shares, as and when market conditions are appropriate.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2018 unless renewed at a prior general meeting.
Recommendation Resolution 12 will enable the allotment of shares otherwise than The Board considers that resolutions 11 to 13 are likely to promote by way of a pro rata issue to existing shareholders.
It is the success of the Company and are in the best interests of the advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new shares Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors or to sell Treasury shares to participants purchasing shares unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the through the JPMorgan savings products and also to other resolutions as they intend to do, where voting rights are investors when the Directors consider that it is in the best exercisable, in respect of their own beneficial holdings which interests of shareholders to do so.
Any such issues would only be amount in aggregate to 38,049 shares representing made at prices greater than the net asset value NAV, thereby approximately 0.01% of the voting rights of the Company.
increasing the NAV per share and spreading the Companys administrative expenses, other than the management fee which is charged on the value of the Companys net assets, over a greater 2 8 | J P M O R G A N J A P A N E S E I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 8
