qxp 12 11 2018 15:21 Page 20 I N V E S T M E N T O B J E C T I V E, P O L I C I E S A N D G U I D E L I N E S The aim of this Strategic Report is to provide shareholders with The Company does not normally enter into derivative the ability to assess how the Directors have performed their duty transactions and to do so requires prior Board approval.
to promote the success of the Company during the year under 30th September 2018: Nil.
To assist shareholders with this assessment, the Strategic The Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross assets Report sets out the investment objective of the Company, its in other UK listed investment companies and will not invest investment policies and risk management, investment restrictions more than 10% of its gross assets in companies that and guidelines, performance, total return, revenue and dividends, themselves may invest more than 15% of gross assets in key performance indicators, principal risks and how the Company UK listed investment companies.
30th September 2018: seeks to manage those risks and its long term viability.
Directors Report on page27 includes information on Board The Investment Managers do not hedge the portfolio against Diversity, Employees, Social, Environmental, Community and foreign currency risk.
Human Rights Issues, and Greenhouse Gas Emissions and also forms part of this Strategic Report.
These limits and restrictions may be varied by the Board at any time at its discretion.
Investment Objective Compliance with the Boards investment restrictions and JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust plc is an investment trust guidelines is monitored continuously by the Manager and is company that has a premium listing on the London Stock reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
Exchange and is currently a constituent of the FTSE 250 Index.
The Companys objective is to achieve capital growth from Performance investments in Japanese companies by long term outperformance In the year ended 30th September 2018, the Company produced of the Companys benchmark index, the Tokyo Stock Exchange a total return to shareholders of 24.6% and a total return on net First Section Index TOPIX expressed in sterling terms.
This compares with the total return on the Companys benchmark of 12.6%.
As at 30th September 2018, the Investment Policies and Risk Management value of the Companys investment portfolio was 976.7 million.
In order to achieve its stated investment policy and to seek to The Investment Managers Report on pages9to 15 includes manage investment risks, the Company invests in a diversified a review of developments during the year as well as information portfolio of quoted Japanese companies.
The number of on investment activity within the Companys portfolio and the investments in the portfolio will normally range between 50 factors likely to affect the future performance of the Company.
The average number of holdings in the portfolio has reduced in recent years as the Investment Managers have focused Total Return, Revenue and Dividends on those companies that have strong balance sheets, using first Gross total return for the year amounted to 188.6 million 2017: hand company research and analysis.
The Company makes use of 66.6 million and the net total return after deducting the both long and short term borrowings to increase returns.
management fee, other administrative expenses, finance costs and taxation, amounted to 180.8 million 2017: 60.0 million.
Investment Restrictions and Guidelines Distributable income for the year amounted to 8.9 million 2017: The Board seeks to manage the Companys risk by imposing 8.9 million.
various investment limits and restrictions: The Directors have declared a final dividend of 5.0p 2017: 5.0p per The Company must maintain 97.5% of investments in share.
This dividend amounts to 8.1 million 2017: 8.1 million and Japanese securities or securities providing an indirect the revenue reserve after allowing for the dividend will amount to investment in Japan.
The dividend will be subject to shareholder approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
No investment to be more than 5% in excess of benchmark weighting at time of purchase.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs See Chairmans Statement.
The Company does not normally invest in unquoted The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to monitor and assess investments and to do so requires prior Board approval.
the performance of the Company.
The principal KPIs are: 30th September 2018: Nil.
Performance against the benchmark index The Companys gearing policy is to operate within a range of This is the most important KPI by which performance is 5% net cash to 20% geared in normal market conditions.
Information on the Companys performance is given 30th September 2018: 14.7%.
in the Chairmans Statement and the Investment Managers 2 0 | J P M O R G A N J A P A N E S E I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 8 I
