B O A R D O F D I R E C T O R S Andrew Fleming Sir Stephen Gomersall, KCMG Chairman, Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration Director since 2013.
Committee and Chairman of the Management Engagement Last reappointed to the Board: 2017.
Committee Deputy Chairman of Hitachi Europe and a director of a number of Director since 2004.
Hitachi Group companies in the UK.
Sir Stephen entered the Last reappointed to the Board: 2017.
Foreign & Commonwealth Office in 1970 and held a number of appointments overseas including being Ambassador to Japan He has over thirty years of international investment management from 1999 to 2004.
He has spent more than fourteen years living experience, which included six years running an investment and working in Japan.
company in Tokyo and is Chief Executive of Waverton Investment Management.
Mr Fleming is a member of the Investment Connections with Manager: None.
Committee of the National Trust.
Shared directorships with other Directors: None.
Christopher Samuel Last appointed to the Board: 2017.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Had an executive career in asset management of over 34 years, Director since 2014. including setting up two businesses in Japan and living there for seven years.
He managed Japanese equity portfolios for ten Last reappointed to the Board: 2017. years.
He also latterly ran a Japanese equity activist business.
Currently Chairman of Defaqto and BlackRock Throgmorton Trust Currently, he is also a member of the Gambling Commission and plc and a non-executive Director of Alliance Trust plc, Sarasin & Acting Chair of the Health and Care Professions Council.
Mr Samuel was previously Chief Executive Officer Connections with Manager: None.
He has considerable experience of financial services and the investment management industry for Shared directorships with other Directors: None.
over 30 years and was based in Japan earlier in his career.
Last appointed to the Board: 2017.
15 years of investment banking and asset management business experience in Japan and Asia with SG Warburg UBS.
Has served on the boards of five listed Japanese corporations as an independent director currently for Denso Corporation, Dai-ichi Life Holdings and Hitachi Chemical.
Dr Olcott is Guest Professor All Directors are members of the Audit Committee, the at Keio University in Tokyo teaching international management Nomination and Remuneration Committee, and the and organisational behaviour.
All Directors are Connections with Manager: None.
considered independent of the Manager.
