20 STRATEGIC REPORT Our six building blocks OUR SIX BUILDING BLOCKS INVESTMENT CAPABILITY AND CAPACITY Creating value for our clients after all fees through investment excellence is our number one priority.
This, in turn, drives further demand for our investment products.
OVERVIEW Our people and culture are central to OUR STRATEGIC APPROACH delivering investment performance.
Continue to focus on high-conviction active We believe that freeing talented asset management, as a core differentiator professionals to pursue their own Maintain a high-performance culture, investment styles, within a collegiate with independence of thought, individual environment, makes a positive difference.
autonomy and accountability, and a flexible team structure With no house view to constrain them, our fund Add to our capabilities by developing talent, managers actively seek the best opportunities through attracting talented individuals and teams, fundamental analysis and clear investment processes and potentially through bolt-on acquisitions for their specific strategies, with a focus on good stewardship.
We organise our investment professionals Continuously review and reinvigorate into strategy teams, so they can share ideas and our product range, so it meets clients information, while remaining individually accountable evolving needs for the performance of their funds.
Manage the investment capability lifecycle, so we build and develop new capabilities, Track records can be a barrier to entry in our market, maximise growth from existing capabilities since it generally takes three years for a fund to build and manage the maturity of long-standing a track record that is attractive to most clients or capabilities distribution partners.
This is especially true of larger institutional clients and distribution partners.
Jupiters strong investment track record and ability to seed new PRINCIPAL RISKS products help us to attract and retain client assets.
Our ability to attract and retain critical staff, Our investment approach combines the best aspects sustained market decline and sustained fund of boutique fund managers with the systems, processes underperformance.
and risk management framework that our scale provides.
Clients also benefit from our clear focus on active asset management: we have no distractions from this core purpose.
Comparing the performance of our mutual funds against relevant managers and funds is the way we measure our competitive advantage.
Our clients typically see three years as the key period for measuring investment performance and we therefore use this time period as our primary measure.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 21 PERFORMANCE REVIEW THREE YEAR PERFORMANCE The Dynamic Bond fund is our largest fund At 31 December 2018, 46% of AUM in and has a significant influence on overall segregated mandates and investment 1st quartile 2nd quartile investment performance.
The fund has trusts were above their benchmarks over 44% taken a cautious view on the US economy three years.
We compare performance to 2018 33% and credit quality which affected its benchmark for these funds as there is no performance relative to peers funds such industry-wide data to allow comparison 38% 2017 that, for a large part of 2018, it was in the against peers.
Comparison to benchmark 43% third quartile, recovering at the very end shows whether we are meeting our 59% of the year.
Jupiter European Fund had a performance targets and is therefore 2016 16% strong year and is the largest fund in the a suitable proxy.
IA Europe ex UK sector in the UK, which is 34% We continued to add depth to our 2015 testament to its long and outstanding track 34% investment teams in 2018, hiring an record.
The Merlin range also had a good experienced fund manager for our 21% year, demonstrating the enduring strategy 2014 growing liquid alternatives business and 30% of these long-established funds.
UK Special a Head of Strategy for Multi-Asset, which Situations remained highly ranked in its enabled us to launch the new Flexible sector, achieving first quartile performance At 31 December 2018, 77% 2017: 81% Income Fund in the second half of the over both three and five years.
of our mutual fund AUM delivered year.
We also invested in our fixed income above-median performance over three In addition, our Value strategy in both team, bringing in new analysts to focus years, with 44% achieving first quartile UK and global equities performed well, on US high yield, adding to our research performance.
Over one year, 83% showing our ability to deliver in more capability and expanding the emerging 2017: 47% of our mutual fund AUM challenging markets.
Our UK Smaller markets debt team.
Companies fund was the top performer in In addition to new hires, we look to develop These measures are based on weighted its category and won a number of awards, our existing fund management talent.
averages: how our larger funds perform as we benefited from developing our fund A number of our fund managers took on therefore significantly impacts the result.
greater responsibilities during the year, The chart below shows the three-year Investment performance for our segregated either stepping up to manage existing investment performance for our 10 biggest mandates and investment trusts, making up funds as part of our succession planning funds, which each have more than 1bn 14% of our total AUM, was disappointing.
or managing newly launched funds, of assets.
such as Global Sustainable Equities.
LARGEST FUNDS PERFORMING WELL 10 funds over 1bn representing over 62% of invested assets AUM at Dec 2017 AUM at Jun 2018 AUM at Dec 2018 m m m 4th quartile 3rd quartile 2nd quartile 1st quartile 1 Dynamic Bond 9,710 7,122 5,391 European 4,948 5,562 5,076 Strategic Bond 3,906 3,891 3,635 Merlin Income 2,884 2,656 2,345 1 2,080 2,386 2,339 European Growth Income Trust 2,506 2,555 2,263 UK Special Sits 1,873 2,024 1,834 Merlin Growth 1,927 1,873 1,669 Merlin Balanced 1,732 1,723 1,621 Absolute Return 1,417 1,480 1,549 December 2018 Equities Fixed income Multi-Asset Alternatives June 2018 Equities Fixed income Multi-Asset Alternatives Three year investment performance in key funds.
Source: Morningstar except UK Special Sits which uses Financial Express IA sectors and Jupiter Internal as at 31 December 2018.
Graph shows position within the sector on a percentile basis, performance stated after all fees.
The filled bars in the graph show our current quartile ranking and the clear bars show our position as at 30 June 2018.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 22 STRATEGIC REPORT Our six building blocks continued OUR SIX BUILDING BLOCKS continued CLIENTS We continue to diversify our business by geography, client type and product, making Jupiter a more resilient business.
OVERVIEW Mutual fund clients are typically individual OUR STRATEGIC APPROACH investors wanting active returns to deliver Maintain our independence, allowing us to income and growth.
access our markets through a wide range of distribution partners Many clients also need financial advice, so we access them through distribution partners such as financial Engage with clients and distribution partners advisers and wealth managers, rather than directly.
globally to understand the products they This intermediated approach allows us to target our need, thereby keeping our product range marketing investment and develop strong relationships relevant, as distribution partners and clients with distribution partners, while keeping client service evolve their requirements straightforward.
The Jupiter brand is highly recognised, Increase the range of products our global giving us a competitive advantage in the UK market.
distribution partners allocate client assets to Online platforms are increasingly important in the Continue to deepen our UK distribution, current distribution chain.
In the UK, around 54% of our focusing on financial advisers and 2018 annual gross flows into mutual funds are through wealth managers, and develop strategic platforms, up from 37% in 2010.
We build relationships partnerships with large distributors with major platforms and make our funds available Grow our institutional business in the UK and through them.
The growth in platforms means our direct internationally, by taking on new mandates retail book is now only 3% of our assets.
There are also that offer appropriate fees and that we can influencers in our markets, such as research consultants service efficiently and rating agencies, whose recommendations affect Increase penetration of the retail and demand for our funds.
We work with them so they institutional channels in international markets understand our capabilities and products.
and broaden the range of products sold Institutions access our investment expertise through through all channels mutual funds, investment trusts and segregated Selectively enter new countries where we mandates.
We generally attract these clients through see significant opportunities and have an their investment advisers, who play a major role in advantage such as existing relationships helping clients to select fund managers.
In overseas markets, we use our strong relationships PRINCIPAL RISKS with large distributors, such as international banks, to gain a foothold.
These relationships enhance our Ineffective product, client and geographic credibility with other intermediaries, helping us to grow.
Successful distribution requires products that appeal in multiple countries and deliver superior returns.
Our broad range means clients can choose products that meet their needs and market conditions.
We only launch products where we can differentiate ourselves, as a form of competitive advantage.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 23 Our international operations have been We also see future opportunities in the significant contributors to our growth in Dutch institutional market.
PERFORMANCE REVIEW AUM in recent years.
However, we saw Jupiter is now established in all major net outflows in both Europe and Asia in Jupiters strategy of diversifying by western European countries and our 2018, as investors reduced their allocations product, client type and geography is aim is to deepen our presence in these to fixed income.
Mutual funds saw net reflected in the strength of our net inflows markets, rather than open further offices.
Over the past five years, In addition, we have registered our funds we have generated cumulative net inflows Market and exchange rate movements and for sale in Denmark, Norway and Finland to our mutual funds of 12.1bn, representing our investment outperformance resulted during the year.
organic growth of 8.3% per annum.
This in a decrease in AUM of 2.9bn during the We continue to diversify our business by geography, client type demonstrates why we continue to follow The Asia business saw net outflows in year.
At 31 December 2018, our total AUM this strategy and believe it is the best 2018 as a result of redemptions from the and product, making Jupiter a more resilient business.
stood at 42.7bn, down 15% on a year way to maximise our ability to sell our Dynamic Bond fund, which had been highly earlier, including SICAV AUM of 10.0bn investment capability to interested clients.
popular with Asian clients in previous 31 December 2017: 14.1bn.
We continued to gain a distribution Gross sales in 2018 were strong, with inflows presence in the Hong Kong retail market, Movement in Market of 11.9bn 2017: 16.5bn.
However, these AUM by 31 Dec Net Investment signing a Chinese bank as a partner, sales were more than offset by redemptions product bn 2017 flows alpha 2018 which allows us to promote our products in the year, of which our Dynamic Bond Mutual funds 43.8 4.4 2.5 36.9 through its branch network.
Singapore fund was the largest contributor.
Dynamic remains a healthy market for Jupiter, Investment Bond had been the major contributor to with an expanding client base of retail trusts 1.2 1.2 net inflows in 2016 and 2017, as well as and private banks.
During the year, we Pooled helping lead the way in our international developed a relationship with a large local funds 45.0 4.4 2.5 38.1 expansion in the last few years.
This bank to increase our access to the retail Segregated reversal in flows came from a number of market.
Having entered Thailand in 2017, mandates 5.2 0.2 0.4 4.6 factors, but was principally a result of we continued to gain momentum in 2018 short-term relative performance in the 50.2 4.6 2.9 42.7 and see good potential for further growth.
fund, allied to an industry-wide withdrawal Japanese investors are looking to diversify from global fixed income products.
For ENHANCING DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE overseas and we saw good growth in the business as a whole, total net outflows In last years report, we noted the sales during the year, with the potential were 4.6bn, compared with net inflows convergence of the retail, wealth and for continued expansion as we register of 5.5bn in 2017. wholesale channels.
In response, we a number of funds in this market.
merged our UK retail and wealth sales The industry-wide withdrawal from global During 2018, we recruited a Head of Latin teams in 2018.
This has allowed us to more fixed income products also impacted America and US Offshore.
This helped efficiently serve our clients, as IFAs and Merlin Income, which experienced net us to sign agreements with some of the wealth managers continue to consolidate outflows of 0.4bn in the year.
Excluding largest distributors in the US offshore market and gain market share.
Targeting successful this and Dynamic Bond, we saw net and to win our first institutional mandate in distributors enabled us to achieve a good outflows of 0.1bn.
We see strong prospects in level of gross sales in the UK.
both the wealth and institutional channels The outflow from segregated mandates Our institutional offer is gaining traction.
We also hired a senior resulted principally from a single institutional We strengthened the team during 2018 adviser to help us develop relationships client rebalancing its portfolio.
and developed our proposals material with institutional clients in the Middle East.
We also launched Net outflows inflows This was a positive year for new product by product m 2018 2017 our first institutionally focused capability 1 launches, with six new funds added.
with our Global Sustainable Equities Mutual funds 4,437 5,100 These were the Flexible Income Fund as product, which is already seeing good Investment trusts 22 14 part of our Multi-Asset Strategy, Global interest.
We see longer-term potential Pooled funds 4,459 5,114 Sustainable Equities, Global Value, Merlin in the institutional market in Europe and Segregated Real Return, US Equity Long Short and Asia and have begun to coordinate our mandates 167 364 Eurozone Equity.
In 2019, we will prioritise approach globally, regularly sharing extensions to our existing product range 4,626 5,478 knowledge between our businesses.
rather than introducing new capabilities.
Although our business across Europe To continue to deliver the best products, Net outflows inflows had net outflows from Dynamic Bond, we have extended the skillsets in our by strategy m 2018 2017 it saw strong demand in alternatives product function, including recruiting Alternatives 228 968 and European equities.
We continued to a new Head of Global Product.
This will deepen our retail presence in Germany help us to source new product ideas, Equities 204 1,024 and Italy, with Italy in particular delivering bring them to market effectively and Fixed income 4,196 3,926 rapid growth.
We opened an office in the manage the product lifecycle.
Multi asset 862 440 Netherlands in 2018, which will draw on our 4,626 5,478 existing distribution relationships to access the wealth channel.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 24 STRATEGIC REPORT Our six building blocks continued OUR SIX BUILDING BLOCKS continued FINANCIAL RESOURCES We maintain a strong balance sheet and cost discipline whilst investing for growth and rewarding our people and shareholders.
OVERVIEW Jupiter generates robust cash flows each OUR STRATEGIC APPROACH year and has a strong and resilient Maintain a strong and resilient balance sheet, balance sheet.
helping to ensure we have a sustainable business for the long term We use these financial resources to position the business for growth and value creation, by balancing Employ a disciplined approach to strategic the competing demands of investing for growth, taking and financial planning, budgeting, forecasting advantage of market opportunities and rewarding our and monitoring, ensuring effective financial people and shareholders.
resource management and deployment Carefully prioritise our investment in the PROFIT GENERATION people, processes and technology that We generate profit as follows: support our growth, and increased NET REVENUES shareholder returns Net revenues are the fees we earn, less payments to Maintain a remuneration philosophy that our distribution partners.
They are predominantly in aligns employees interests with the interests the form of management fees: a small proportion of clients and shareholders of our AUM 1.4bn has the potential to earn Selectively deploy corporate seed investment performance fees.
into funds to launch and help build them to the necessary scale OPERATING EXPENSES Operating expenses comprise salaries and the Share the rewards of growth with our costs of running our operating platform and support investors through our ordinary dividend infrastructure, including research costs and outsourced policy, supplemented by special dividends service providers.
Such costs include IT systems, rent, to return surplus capital administration and brand investment.
Expenses also include investment to support our PRINCIPAL RISKS growth, as we enhance our operating model and Failure to deliver strategy, sustained market acquire new talent and build out our international decline and sustained fund underperformance.
As a people business, the cost of these investments is generally recognised through the income statement as incurred.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 25 SHARING PROFIT We consistently convert a large proportion CAPITAL MANAGEMENT of our operating profit into cash, with 119% Deducting operating expenses from net We assess and review our capital position conversion in 2018 2017: 121%.
Taking into revenue leaves us with earnings available and requirements on an ongoing basis: account purchases of our own shares for distribution in the form of tax payments, we maintain a comfortable surplus to satisfy share-based awards made to variable compensation for our people and over our legal and regulatory capital employees and avoid shareholder dilution, ordinary dividends for our shareholders.
requirements, as described in the the conversion rate is 103% 2017: 107%.
Financial Review: Remuneration is important to attract, This results in a sizeable cash balance at retain and motivate high-performing we ensure we have sufficient Jupiter the year end, which stood at 201.7m at people.
Paying variable compensation shares available to meet our obligations 31 December 2018 31 December 2017: out of profits aligns their interests with under our share option schemes: and 234.2m.
after ensuring we will meet our BALANCE SHEET MANAGEMENT current and future capital and liquidity The rewards of profitability and growth We have a number of priorities in managing requirements, we look to return any are shared with our investors through our balance sheet so it remains sustainable excess to shareholders in the form of ordinary dividends, supplemented by over the cycle.
Special dividends special dividends see below.
Under our are likely to vary as our earnings and progressive dividend policy, we target an LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT cash flow vary, as this affects the level ordinary payout ratio of 50% of underlying We maintain a robust liquidity position, of surplus capital each year.
Except in exceptional as follows: dividends may also be affected by circumstances, the total ordinary dividend we maintain sufficient liquidity, so we can other factors affecting our capital for the year will not be less than the total meet our obligations as they fall due and requirements, especially as neither ordinary dividend for the previous year.
have funds for planned investments: financial regulations nor applicable CASH GENERATION we invest a component of our corporate accounting standards remain static We charge daily fees to the majority of cash to seed our funds, to ensure they over the longer term.
our funds and collect the cash at the end launch effectively or to accelerate of each month.
This cash is used to meet the timescale for reaching critical the majority of our operating expenses size thresholds.
throughout the financial year, although Jupiter has an undrawn revolving credit certain types of expense, such as deferred facility of 50m, which we expect variable compensation, are recognised to renew during 2019.
This provides across multiple accounting periods.
additional comfort that we will have the available liquidity to operate on a sustainable, long-term basis.
To date, this facility has not been drawn down.
FINANCIAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT Seed investment Operating expenses Asset manager fees CLIENTS Staff variable High Our people compensation conversion NET rate to CASH REVENUE cash Tax payments Society Fee and commission DISTRIBUTION expenses PARTNERS Dividends Our shareholders Retained as All stakeholders capital Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 26 STRATEGIC REPORT Our six building blocks continued OUR SIX BUILDING BLOCKS continued OPERATING MODEL AND INFRASTRUCTURE We continuously invest to ensure our operating model is scalable, efficient and fit for purpose as our business grows.
OVERVIEW Jupiters operating model aims to ensure OUR STRATEGIC APPROACH that as much of our growth in revenues Maintain a single operating platform across as possible drops through to profit and the Group, to deliver an efficient and scalable cash flow, whilst ensuring high levels of model as the business continues to grow operational resilience.
In response to Brexit, establish a European distribution hub and evolve our processes Maintaining a single efficient platform is critical to this.
for launching international sales offices In addition to providing operational leverage, our Optimise infrastructure investment made to platform enables us to expand distribution, allows fund date, to ensure we extract the most value managers to work effectively and supports the addition from it and drive further efficiencies of new products and investment strategies.
Enhance our management systems to ensure In order that our platform meets the needs of our decision-making is supported by a thorough business as it grows, we are continuously investing understanding of risk, and by robust analytics in it.
We target a number of different drivers in this and reporting including simplification, operational resilience and Continue to outsource non-core functions to regulatory compliance.
a small number of carefully selected service Our significant investment to date will, over time, deliver partners and suppliers efficiencies and more operating scale, facilitating further Continue to invest in our technology and growth through a standardised approach to running data capabilities, and ensure high levels of the platform.
operational resilience and cyber security To optimise earnings growth and shareholder returns, we continually monitor forecasts of key metrics, including our adjusted cost income ratio.
This informs PRINCIPAL RISKS our decisions on the pace and extent of investment Failure to enhance operating platform to spending.
Over the last five years, our adjusted cost support future business requirements, failure income ratio has been stable.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 27 PERFORMANCE REVIEW Having a single operating platform The effects of this are starting to be seen Cyber Essentials Plus status and, during across the business allows us to target across the business and are helping us not the year, conducted several cyber security our investment to those areas which we exercises with various internal and external just to improve the operational aspects believe will provide the most benefit.
In parties to inform and improve our cyber of our platform but also investment 2017, we made a significant investment in security posture.
management decision making and the the platform supporting our investment delivery of investment outperformance.
As part of our approach to simplification teams and operations by implementing and effective allocation of resources, we Ensuring continued regulatory compliance a new investment management platform.
have multiple relationships with third party is critical to our operating model.
Following Fully embedding this platform within the providers for servicing our UK unit trust the extensive resource requirements organisation was a key focus in 2018 and range.
We continually review our providers in 2017 for complying with MiFID II, the allowed us to retire a number of legacy and ran a retender process during 2018 directive came into force on 3 January systems.
This process will continue in 2019, for the consolidation of custody, client 2018.
As these requirements have bedded enabling us to derive further benefits from accounting and depositary services into a in, there has been a learning process our platform, for example as we enhance single provider.
This integrated service will across the industry, requiring further our risk management and portfolio deliver efficiencies in the latter part of 2019 focus and investment.
In addition, our construction processes.
in both our operating model and in the unit programme to comply with the General During 2018, we also embedded processes trusts themselves.
Data Protection Regulation was that had been introduced in response completed successfully and on time.
As in previous years, the operating to the requirements of MiFID II.
This was environment in 2019 is likely to continue to In preparation for a range of Brexit made more straightforward by the work be challenging, requiring us to carefully outcomes during 2019, we have set up a performed in the implementation of the prioritise our investment decisions.
management company in Luxembourg new investment management platform in Following on from the focus in prior years for our offshore SICAV product range.
on the investment management platform, Following regulatory approval, we have Across the platform, much of the work alongside the continued growth of our recruited the necessary people to staff it.
we did in 2018 related to the continued international distribution network, we In early 2019, we will transition our current simplification of the operating model expect to focus on evolving our client European distribution branches to this alongside enhancing our operational management platform as well as further entity ensuring we are compliant with resilience.
We continued to streamline our enhancing our use of the investment EU rules following Brexit.
operating platform and retire systems that management platform.
This work will be Cyber security is an issue for every were no longer required by the business.
informed by our strategic approach to business, and we are no different in To help embed this further through the data, supported by an increased use of this regard.
We continually review our organisation, we introduced an application robotics and automation alongside further approach to cyber security to ensure for mapping controls and processes in insights from our data science capabilities.
that we stay up to date in this challenging a standard manner, thereby identifying This approach allows us to continue our inefficiencies and potential operational and continuously evolving area.
We have approach of continued improvement and risks, especially those in cross-functional maintained our Government accredited simplification where it is most needed.
This has allowed us to refine a number of processes, including the introduction of robotics to automate tasks previously performed manually.
Single To complement the work already in Operating progress, we undertook an operating Platform model review with the help of external Operational Simplification advisors to identify further opportunities Resilience for process efficiencies and improvements.
The review also proposed ways in which we could further leverage our supplier and procurement relationships to ensure that we receive the maximum benefit from the Regulatory Cyber OPERATING resources employed within the business.
Compliance Security MODEL AND The management and deployment of data across the organisation is a constant INFRASTRUCTURE theme within a business such as ours which collects and reports a wide range of data Outsourced on a daily basis across multiple time zones non-core Data and periods.
The operating model review functions articulated for us a number of strategic enhancements to our approach to data strategy, helping us to understand how Data we will continue to integrate greater use Robotics Science of robotic automation and integrate a greater focus on data science into our approach.
This also helps support a wider digital transformation effort.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 28 STRATEGIC REPORT Our six building blocks continued OUR SIX BUILDING BLOCKS continued TALENT AND CULTURE We attract and develop talent, allowing our people to thrive in a high performance culture.
OVERVIEW Jupiter has a reputation for attracting OUR STRATEGIC APPROACH talented individuals in all areas of Stretch and develop our people through the the business.
challenging nature of their roles, allied with leadership and development plans, targeted We nurture our fund management talent to develop training, coaching and mentoring their capabilities and ensure we have succession plans to advance talented managers.
We balance this with Continue our ability to bring new talent bringing in new people with specialist skills, giving us into Jupiter by ensuring we have a defined strength and depth as well as enabling us to expand employment proposition, increasing our direct the breadth of investment strategies we offer.
hire capability and through our involvement with the Investment20 20 scheme We invest in all our people through training and Continue to drive diversity and inclusion at development, and look to maintain high levels of all levels of the organisation engagement and strong communication.
We value the differences between people, which promote Ensure our internal communications help different viewpoints and diversity of thought, helping people to be aligned and engaged with our us to innovate and make better decisions for our clients.
strategy, as well as fostering a culture of collaboration across the organisation Our culture is underpinned by a set of values see Continually review the external marketplace A Snapshot of Jupiter, which help our people to for additional talent that would assist us understand how to drive change through their in the successful implementation of our behaviour.
We look to maintain a performance driven growth strategy culture, with clear metrics, individual accountability and freedom of thought, to ensure we have an attractive Enhance our central functions and services, environment for active fund managers to operate in.
develop our people and foster a culture of collaboration between functions Retain and motivate our people by offering attractive benefits packages PRINCIPAL RISKS Ability to attract and retain critical staff.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 29 PERFORMANCE REVIEW Investing in and developing our people Another important initiative this year Jupiter rewards employees equally for is key to achieving high performance was the design and launch of our entrydoing equivalent jobs, at the same level and retention of talented individuals.
This has of performance and experience.
The We launched our Investing in You several streams, including interns, trainees, company has committed to a number learning and development framework apprentices and ad-hoc entry level roles.
of employee-led initiatives which seek at the start of 2018, offering a core We are pleased that around 90 students to understand and address the gender curriculum of relevant training to all have joined us in a variety of roles.
This imbalance within the business generally, employees.
Around 69% of employees had is an important part of our approach to and specifically at the more senior levels participated in at least one programme by increasing the diversity of our workforce.
This includes The the end of the year.
Feedback has been Senior Womens Leadership Group, To build a sustainable and diverse entryvery positive, with an overall satisfaction which is chaired by Chief Financial level pipeline, we have developed links with rating of approximately 94%.
It has Officer, Charlotte Jones.
This Group has schools, charities and other organisations.
also encouraged cross-departmental successfully contributed to the introduction We have also strengthened our relationship engagement and understanding.
of the new family-friendly policies with Investment20 20, an industry-wide and reaffirmed our commitment to The For any business to work effectively, initiative which provides opportunities Diversity Initiative.
This year, the launch people management skills are crucial.
for young people from a mixed range of of Jupiters Women in Technology network Management 2022 is our tailored backgrounds to join the funds industry.
acts as a support to women working in a management skills course, which requires traditionally male-dominated sector while This year also saw the launch of the managers to engage in at least 21 hours seeking to promote diversity in technology Jupiter Pride Network, an employee-led of training.
There has been an excellent within Jupiter and externally.
The latest initiative that coincided with the Investment take up amongst our managers.
We have information on our gender pay gap can be Associations campaign to foster an also been spending more time coaching found on our website, www.
open and comfortable environment for our senior team, including retaining an the LGBT community in the UK asset executive coach for the members of the We continue to reduce our recruitment management industry.
As we continue to costs and reliance on external recruitment focus on the companys long-term growth providers, with around 60% of our 2018 Gender is an important aspect of employee plans, our leadership programmes are internal and external hires being directly diversity and an analysis of our people at designed to support our overall strategy sourced.
We have implemented a new the year end is shown in the table below including succession plans for the senior resourcing system, launched a refreshed excluding contractors : management team.
careers site on the Jupiter website and At 31 actively use LinkedIn to source and attract During 2018, we were pleased to December 2018 2017 talented candidates.
introduce a competitive new employee Female Male Female Male benefits package in the UK, which will Board 4 5 5 5 come into effect from the start of 2019.
Senior The proposition takes into account the management 18 73 11 71 needs and expectations of a presentOther day workforce and offers a flexible and employees 177 245 168 233 appropriate range of benefits.
These include six months fully paid enhanced Total 199 323 184 309 maternity leave and shared parental leave, as well as a range of healthrelated benefits.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 30 STRATEGIC REPORT Our six building blocks continued OUR SIX BUILDING BLOCKS continued GOVERNANCE, RISK AND CONTROL Our platform is underpinned by a strong governance, risk and control environment.
OVERVIEW Having an effective framework of OUR STRATEGIC APPROACH governance, risk and controls is critical As we grow, evolve the design of the to our success.
organisation to ensure we have the necessary competencies and capabilities Our continued focus on growing and diversifying our to deliver our plans business, as well as continued changes in the external environment, will mean additional complexity within our Review and reinforce our corporate operating model.
Investing in our governance, risk and governance as both we and the outside control GRC framework, such that it remains effective as environment develop so it supports our the business and operating model changes, ensures that growth and enables us to manage we can protect the interests of our clients, people and external changes shareholders, and that we meet their expectations of us.
Continuously improve our processes and controls and their formalisation in line with our increase in size and regulatory expectations Retain clarity of roles and responsibilities as we grow and prepare for the Senior Managers and Certification Regime SMCR requirements PRINCIPAL RISKS Operational control environment, cyber crime and regulatory change.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 31 PERFORMANCE REVIEW During the year, we made a number of We looked at our legal entity structure In 2018, we continued to ready Jupiter improvements to the overall framework, to ensure it remained appropriate for for SMCR compliance.
We reviewed the all of which were designed to maintain our current operations.
In advance of organisation to identify the relevant and evolve its effectiveness for both Brexit and its implications, we created individuals to be designated as Senior the environment we are in today and a new legal entity in Luxembourg to Managers, and have updated their roles expectations for the future.
manage our offshore SICAV range.
As and responsibilities as necessary to ensure part of this exercise, we documented the clarity in accountability across Jupiter.
We reviewed our organisation structure oversight and challenge responsibilities and implemented a number of changes We are now working through the within the roles of those individuals based to reinforce accountability and to enable introduction of the reasonable steps in Luxembourg.
We have also made greater focus on GRC.
Furthermore, framework and readying the organisation changes to the structure of our operating under our three lines of defence model, for certification and conduct requirements.
subsidiary boards to ensure that the we reinforced the split of responsibilities composition of the Boards is fully aligned These efforts put us in a good place ahead between lines one, two and three, with the accountability and responsibility of the extension of SMCR to the wider thereby creating greater clarity across for the relevant business operations.
We financial services sector in December the organisation.
have recruited two independent Non- 2019, as well as further supporting our Executive Directors who will, subject to Following a review of our corporate growth strategy as the business becomes regulatory approval, join the Board of governance and product governance more complex.
our UK management company during arrangements in 2017, we implemented Overall, our work on organisation design, 2019, to provide independent oversight changes to our reporting committees governance, processes and controls, and challenge.
We have continued to management information and reporting, enhance our governance structure with We have maintained our approach of and SMCR compliance, continues to a review of our governance framework continuously reviewing and enhancing develop, strengthen and enhance our below the Executive Committee level.
We our processes and controls, looking for GRC environment.
replaced our previous committee structure and executing opportunities to improve and refreshed committee memberships efficiency and control effectiveness.
and terms of reference, to ensure that We are rolling out stronger and more each committee is best positioned to efficient control management, particularly effectively discharge its duties.
The revised with regard to control evidencing and structure provides a sharper focus reporting, in key operational areas with on product governance to ensure our high client impact.
products are designed and operating in a way that meets our clients needs, to further align our operating governance with best practice and meet our regulatory requirements.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
