JUPITER EUROPEAN OPPORTUNITIES TRUST PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report continued Investment Advisers Review The Net Asset Value of the Companys Ordinary shares with dividends Nevertheless, we have decided to retain this investment.
The underlying added back rose 10.2% during the twelve months to 31 May 2018. rationale, namely that it is singularly well placed to benefit from the This compares with a 0.9% rise, in sterling, of the FTSE World technology requirements of ship automation and burgeoning aviation Europe ex UK Index.
The level of the Companys borrowings at the broadband demand, still holds true.
Lesser underperformers included financial year-end was 60.0 million 2017: 117.9 million.
Borrowings Arrow Global, the UK debt collection business.
Whilst the share price represented 4.9% of net assets at the period end, having been 7.7% has dropped the company continues to make good progress and we twelve months earlier.
Borrowing rates were slightly higher than in continue to hold the shares.
the previous reporting period at around 1.4%.
The FTSE World total On the positive side, by a considerable margin the biggest single return Index was up 8.7% in sterling during the twelve months under contributor to performance was Wirecard, the German listed payment review.
The S&P500 Index returned 10.9% in sterling: the MSCI Latin services company.
Shares in this company, a longstanding investment, America Index was barely changed in sterling 1.0% reflecting the have been volatile in the past.
Indeed, in the 2016 calendar year, the political turmoil and concomitant economic disappointments in Brazil precipitous fall in the share price was a significant factor in explaining the and Argentina.
There were better returns in the East.
Asian markets portfolios poor performance.
However, we always concentrate on the excluding Japan posted a 14.0% gain.
The Hang Seng Index was the fundamentals of any company.
Wirecard continues its rapid yet steady standout performer, recording a 19.0% return.
The next most important contributor was Grenke, the German The global economic growth rate is, according to the forecasters, leasing company.
Like Wirecard it is a longstanding holding: and like increasing.
The International Monetary Fund IMF has increased Wirecard it is a beneficiary of the challenges faced by the mainstream its forecasts for 2018 steadily over the last eighteen months, now banks.
We believe that their demonstrably successful business model expecting a figure of 3.9%.
The salient reason for this steady increase will continue to grow.
Other important contributors to performance is stronger US economic growth: over the same eighteen-month period were Amadeus, the Spanish travel technology company, Deutsche the IMF raised its US Gross Domestic Product forecasts from 2.1% to Boerse, the German stock exchange, and Dassault Systemes, the 2.9%.
It is likely that the final outturn for 2018 will be a yet higher growth French technology company.
These three companies are all winners rate in the US.
By comparison the IMF expects the Euro Area to deliver from technology.
Amadeus is deeply embedded in the fulfilment 2.4% growth in 2018.
Whereas President Trump is boosting business of airline ticketing: and it is extending its reach into the business of activity by lowering tax rates, the European countries including the hotel reservation technology.
Deutsche Boerse, notwithstanding the UK are planning tax rises, thereby choking economic activity.
Energy disappointment of its failed plan to merge with the London Stock costs rose sharply over the course of the reporting period, reversing the Exchange, continues to benefit from the regulatory driven trend to on trend of recent years.
At the end of the reporting period the price for exchange trading.
Dassault Systemes is winning by building on its WTI oil was up 38.1% to $67.0.
The European Central Banks ECBs leadership in design and manufacturing software.
main refinancing rate was 0% as it was throughout the preceding twelve It is remarkable that so many contributors to the good performance, months: and three-month Euribor was -0.3% at the end of May 2018, not least RELX and NovoNordisk, have been in the portfolio for many almost exactly the same figure as a year earlier.
These historically years, proof that winning business models can surprise positively over low or negative interest rates are central to the policymakers aim to many years and that there can be rewards for backing companies for stimulate investment.
The ECBs May 2018 loan volume data show that long periods.
Portfolio turnover tends to be low.
Our activity is largely year to date aggregate loan growth is 3.2%.
Corporate loan growth is driven as and when we recognise mistakes.
The exception to this rule increasing at a slightly higher rate than household loan growth.
Loan was the sale of Wirecard shares.
The extraordinary rise in the share growth is not necessarily the same thing as increasing new investment price led to an outsized weighting which we felt bound to reduce.
Loan growth can also be explained by the increase in mergers decision to invest in Provident Financial has proved to be a significant and acquisition M&A activity of which the biggest deal in Europe in error.
Concerned by regulatory challenges, we sold the holding.
The recent months has been the acquisition of Monsanto by Bayer.
Much only other sale of any size was that of Ingenico.
A holding since of this M&A is aimed at cost optimisation rather than capacity building.
2005, we decided that Ingenico was not best placed to capture value Artificially low interest rates, the manifestation of the Quantitative in growing global business of digital payments.
Accordingly, we sold Easing QE policy, have had two other obvious effects.
There were only two new purchases of any note, adidas costs are one factor behind the increase in corporate earnings growth.
and Intermediate Capital Group ICG.
There are various attractions to Consensus estimates for the constituents of the MSCI Europe Index the adidas shares.
One is that the companys successful engagement are for European companies earnings to grow by 8.8% this year after with opinion leaders and its responsiveness to consumer preferences 14.5% in 2017.
And low interest rates have undoubtedly boosted has allowed it to build on its strong position.
The consumer companies valuations in the stock market.
QE has lifted equity valuations markedly.
segment underperformed in part because they have struggled to develop successful and responsive strategies as adidas has done.
Your Companys performance is not well correlated to economic or ICG is a UK based private equity company specialised mainly in debt stock market conditions.
The relative success of the portfolio was and mezzanine financing.
Private equity is flourishing in Europe.
ICG due to a coincidence of performance from a diverse group of stocks.
has strong niche positions which they can grow as the banks retreat The same can be said when the outcome is bad: individual stock from lines such as senior debt.
Most purchases reinforced existing performance is the key to understanding the portfolios progress.
We bought more shares in Carnival, the worlds largest owner were two significant detractors to performance.
The worst was Provident and operator of cruise ships.
Cruising is a growing business worldwide.
Financial, the UK non-standard credit company.
We failed to recognise It is extremely difficult to break into this business and therefore we the vulnerability of the business model and management failings.
believe that the incumbents, especially the industry leader, will create Recognising our mistake, we sold the holding.
Inmarsat, the UK based value.
satellite company, has also been a poor investment.
There has been price pressure in its core maritime business whilst its new broadband offering for air travel is still starting up.
6 JUPITER EUROPEAN OPPORTUNITIES TRUST PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report continued Investment Advisers Review continued Outlook There are any number of potential threats to the investment backdrop.
One comes from business itself.
Stakeholder pressures risk subverting the very purpose of business.
It is one of the reasons that we will continue to see capital drift from the publicly quoted to private equity.
This threat is reflected to an extent in the attitudes towards business of the European including the UK political class, where there is some suspicion of free markets.
A risk lies too with the threat of slower economic growth and rising interest rates.
In such an eventuality refinancing of high debt levels would become more problematic.
Our strategy for avoiding, as far as possible, these challenges and for capturing the rewards from the opportunities that will undoubtedly present themselves is to stick to our well-established strategy.
We seek to identify companies with strong, differentiated attributes which they can monetise by meeting the demands of customers, while exploiting regulatory and technological changes.
We are confident that good opportunities still abound.
Alexander Darwall Fund Manager Jupiter Asset Manager Investment Adviser 28 September 2018 7
