94 GOVERNANCE Directors report DIRECTORS REPORT DISCLOSURE REQUIRED UNDER THE LISTING RULES AND THE DISCLOSURE The Directors present their report GUIDANCE AND TRANSPARENCY RULES DTR 4.
1 1 R and the Groups audited financial Information which is the required content of the Management report can be found statements for the year ended in the Strategic report and in this Directors report.
4 R PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND RESULTS The following table is disclosed pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.
4 R. The information required The Companys principal activity is to to be disclosed, where applicable to the Company, can be located in the Annual Report act as a holding company for a group of and Accounts at the references set out below: investment management companies.
Our Information Location business model is based on investment performance, creating value and effective Interest capitalised Not applicable distribution and is explained in the Strategic Shareholder waiver of dividends Note 4.3 report.
The Group operates principally in Shareholder waiver of future dividends Note 4.3 the United Kingdom and has branches of Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable subsidiaries operating in Europe, together with four overseas trading subsidiaries.
Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable Remuneration Report The Company is incorporated with Details of longterm incentive schemes and Note 1.5 Company Number 6150195 and is Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable domiciled in England and Wales.
Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable Other information, which forms part of Significant contracts Page 96 this Directors report, can be found in the Nonpreemptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable following sections of the Annual Report and is deemed to form part of this report: Nonpreemptive issues of equity for cash in relation to major subsidiary Not applicable Commentary on the development Participation by parent of a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable and performance in the year ended Publication of unaudited financial information Page 154 31 December 2018, and likely future All the information crossreferenced above is incorporated by reference into this developments in the Groups business, is Directors report.
included in the Strategic report on pages 18 to 47.
2 has one class of ordinary shares which Descriptions of the Groups financial risk carry the right to attend, speak and vote This statement has been provided by management objectives and policies, at general meetings of the Company.
the Chairman in her introduction to the and its exposure to risks arising from its The holders of ordinary shares have the Governance section on page 50 and is use of financial instruments, are set out right to participate in dividends and other deemed to form part of this Directors report.
in Note 5.3 to the Accounts on pages 127 distributions according to their respective to 132.
INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK rights and interests in the profits of the MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS DTR 7.
2.5 Information concerning Directors Company and a return of capital on a A description of the Companys financial contractual arrangements and windingup of the Company.
Full details reporting, internal control and risk entitlements under sharebased regarding the exercise of voting rights in management processes can be found remuneration arrangements is given respect of the resolutions to be considered on pages 32 and 33. in the Remuneration report on at the AGM to be held on 15 May 2019 are pages 70 to 95. set out in the Notice of Annual General STRUCTURE OF CAPITAL AND VOTING Meeting.
To be valid, the appointment of The Groups environmental performance RIGHTS DTR 7.
6 a proxy to vote at a general meeting must data, including the absolute Scope 1 and As at 31 December 2018 and 28 February be received not less than 48 hours before 2 emissions for 2018, can be found in the 2019, there were 457,699,916 fully paid the time appointed for holding the meeting.
Corporate Responsibility section of the ordinary shares of 2p, amounting to Full details on how to submit the proxy can Strategic report on page 44.
Each share in issue is listed on be found in the AGM Notice.
Information concerning the involvement the Official List maintained by the FCA in of employees in the business is also given its capacity as the UK Listing Authority.
None of the ordinary shares carries in the Strategic report on pages 28 to 29 There were no changes to the share any special rights with regard to control and in the Governance Report on pages capital during the year.
The Company of the Company.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVE RNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 95 SHARES HELD IN EMPLOYEE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Directors are advised of their statutory BENEFIT TRUSTS duty to avoid conflicts of interest with those Lorraine Trainer stepped down from the of the Company.
All actual and potential Under the rules of the Jupiter Share Board as a NonExecutive Director with conflicts are brought to the attention of the Incentive Plan the SIP, which was effect from the close of the 2018 AGM.
The operation of the Companys introduced in 2013, eligible employees There have been no further Board changes policy on conflicts of interest is described are entitled to acquire ordinary shares up until the date of this report.
in the Governance section on page 57. in the Company.
The SIP shares are held The Directors who served during the year in trust for participants by Yorkshire The rights and obligations attaching to the are as follows: Building Society the SIP Trustee.
Voting Companys ordinary shares, as well as the Liz Airey rights are exercised by the SIP Trustee on powers of the Companys Directors, are set receipt of participants instructions.
If a Edward Bonham Carter out in detail in the Companys Articles of participant does not submit an instruction Jonathon Bond Association, which are made available for to the SIP Trustee, no vote is registered.
inspection by the Companys shareholders Charlotte Jones In addition, the SIP Trustees do not vote at the AGM and available on our website Bridget Macaskill on any unallocated shares held in trust.
As at 28 February 2019, the SIP Trustee Maarten Slendebroek SUBSTANTIAL SHARE INTERESTS held 0.17% of the Companys issued share Karl Sternberg capital.
RBC cees Trustee Limited, as As at 31 December 2018, the Company Lorraine Trainer to 16 May 2018 trustee of the Jupiter Employee Benefit had been notified of the following voting Trust the EBT Trustee, holds ordinary Polly Williams interests in the ordinary share capital shares in trust for the benefit of the Groups of the Company in accordance with Roger Yates employees.
Where the EBT Trustee has DTR 5 of the FCAs Disclosure Guidance DIRECTORS INTERESTS allocated shares held in the trust in respect and Transparency Rules.
Percentages of specific awards granted under the The Directors interests in the Companys are shown as notified, calculated with Jupiter Employee Share Plan, the holders shares are set out in the Remuneration reference to the Companys disclosed of such awards may recommend to the report on page 88.
No Director had a share capital as at the date of the EBT Trustee as to how it should exercise material interest in any significant contract movement triggering the notification.
voting rights relating to such shares.
To other than a service contract or contract the extent that a participant does not for services with the Company at any time make such recommendations, no vote is during the year.
In addition, the EBT Trustee does not vote on any unallocated shares SUBSTANTIAL INTERESTS AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 held in the trust.
As at 28 February 2019, the Number of EBT Trustee held 2.75% of the Companys shares issued share capital.
notified to the Percentage Name Company interest % CREST Silchester International Investors LLP 77,972,141 17.04 The Companys ordinary shares are Aberdeen Standard Investments 24,406,590 5.33 in CREST, the settlement system for stocks and shares traded on the Prudential plc M&G 19,743,686 4.31 London Stock Exchange.
MainFirst SICAV 18,446,096 4.03 RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER The following notification has been disclosed to the Company in accordance with DTR 5 OF SHARES during the period 1 January 2019 to 28 February 2019.
There are no restrictions on voting rights or the transfer of shares in the Company SUBSTANTIAL INTERESTS AS AT 28 FEBRUARY 2019 and the Company is not aware of any Number of agreements between holders of shares shares that result in such restrictions.
notified to the Percentage Name Company interest % Prudential plc M&G 23,008,743 5.02 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 96 GOVERNANCE Directors report continued DIRECTORS REPORT continued SUPPLIER OVERSIGHT AND Further details of the Companys employment aggregate nominal amount of 3,051,332, SIGNIFICANT CONTRACTS procedures and practices are set out in the representing approximately one third of Strategic Report on page 28. the Companys issued share capital.
The Jupiter has five significant oversight Directors intend to seek shareholders relationships: DST Financial Services DST DIVIDENDS approval for the renewal of this authority previously International Financial Data Effective from 2015, the Board changed at the AGM, to allot and grant rights to Services, HSBC Securities Services HSBC, its approach to dividends to enable subscribe for ordinary shares up to an JP Morgan Luxembourg JPML, National prompt payment alongside potential future aggregate nominal amount of 3,051,332, Westminster Bank Plc NatWest and special dividends, with the expectation that representing approximately one third Northern Trust Northern.
payment of dividends can be made in early of the Companys issued share capital In support of the unit trust fund range, April.
Accordingly, the Directors have not as at 28 February 2019.
If approved, this DSTs services include dealing and recommended a final dividend but have authority will expire on 30 June 2020 or, registration processing, the distribution approved a full year dividend in respect of if earlier, at the conclusion of the AGM of income, record keeping and responding 2018 of 9.2 pence per ordinary share 2017: in 2020. to client enquiries.
HSBC provides fund 10.3 pence per ordinary share.
Payment At the AGM in 2018, shareholders approved accounting services and passive hedging of this dividend is not subject to approval a resolution authorising the Company to services.
NatWest directly provides trustee by shareholders at the AGM.
The Directors make purchases of its own shares.
As at services and delegates custody services have also declared a special dividend of 28 February 2019, the Directors have not to Northern.
11.4 pence per ordinary share 2017: 15.5 used this authority.
A special resolution pence per ordinary share.
Both dividends JPML provides a range of services will be proposed at the AGM to renew the will be paid on 11 April 2019, to shareholders in support of the SICAVs, including Companys limited authority to purchase on the register at the close of business on depositary, custody, company secretarial, its own ordinary shares.
The authority will 15 March 2019. fund accounting, dealing and registration be limited to a maximum of 45,769,950 processing, the distribution of income, APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT ordinary shares approximately 10% of record keeping and responding to OF DIRECTORS the Companys issued share capital as client enquiries.
The Companys Articles of Association at 28 February 2019 and will set out the provide that Directors may be appointed minimum and maximum prices which the These organisations activities are defined by the Company by ordinary resolution or Company may pay for any such purchase.
in service level agreements that are closely by the Board.
If appointed by the Board, If approved, this authority will expire on monitored to ensure that service delivery a Director holds office only until the 30 June 2020 or, if earlier, at the conclusion standards are met.
Jupiters Supplier Management function In accordance with the Companys INDEPENDENT AUDITORS AND oversees a suite of agreed activities, Articles of Association and the Codes AUDIT INFORMATION including: formal meeting governance: requirements, all serving Directors offer PwC were reappointed as external the review of key performance indicators: themselves for reelection at the AGM auditors following a tender conducted reviews by Jupiters assurance functions in 2019. in 2014.
In accordance with the FRCs including Service Delivery, Business recommendations as set out in the Code, Continuity, IT security, Enterprise Risk, In addition to any powers under the the Audit will be retendered within 10 years Compliance and internal Audit where Companies Act 2006 the Act to remove of that appointment.
appropriate : site visits: and the review of Directors from office, the Company may, key reports including controls assurance by passing an ordinary resolution, remove IMPORTANT EVENTS AFFECTING THE reports and the financial report and any Director from the Board before the COMPANY SINCE THE END OF THE YEAR accounts.
Any risks or issues arising are expiration of his or her period in office.
On 22 January 2019, it was announced that progressed through to resolution and, The Company may, subject to the Articles the Groups CEO, Maarten Slendebroek, where appropriate, escalated to Senior of Association, appoint by ordinary would be stepping down.
He will be Management and reported to the Board resolution another person who is willing replaced by Andrew Formica effective to be a Director in his or her place.
On 26 February 2019, it Companys Articles of Association may was announced that the Groups CFO, The Group gives full and fair consideration be amended by special resolution of the Charlotte Jones, would be leaving Jupiter to applications for employment from shareholders.
in the third quarter of 2019, and that a disabled persons, where a disabled person further announcement regarding her can adequately fulfil the jobs requirements.
POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS successor would be made in due course.
Where existing employees become disabled, The Directors manage the Company Further details concerning both of these the Groups policy, wherever practicable, under the powers set out in the Companys events are set out on pages 9, 50 and 70. is to provide continuing employment under Articles of Association.
These powers normal terms and conditions and make include the Directors ability to issue any required changes to their working or buy back shares.
The Group provides training, resolution was passed at the AGM on career development and promotion to 16 May 2018, authorising the Directors disabled employees.
to allot new ordinary shares up to an www.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVE RNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 97 DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OF VIABILITY The role and responsibilities of each STATEMENTS Director are clearly set out and include In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the the duties of a Director as provided in the The statement of Directors responsibility Code, the Directors have assessed the Act.
It is made clear that these duties do for preparing the Annual Report and prospects of the Group over a longer not include any management function but Accounts is set out on page 98 and is period than the 12 months as required by an indication that the Director is expected deemed to form part of the Directors the Going Concern provision.
Details of to support and challenge management Report.
Within this, the Directors have the assessment can be found in the and help in the development of the included a statement that the Annual Financial Review on page 40.
Report and Accounts present a fair, CHANGE OF CONTROL balanced and understandable assessment Three months notice in writing is required The Company does not have agreements of the Groups position and prospects.
To to be served by either party to terminate with any Director or employee that would help the Board discharge its responsibilities the appointment.
provide compensation for loss of office or in this area, the Board consulted the Audit employment resulting from a change of The NonExecutive Directors letters of and Risk Committee, which advised on the control following a takeover bid, except appointment are available for inspection key considerations to comply with best that provisions of the Companys share at the Companys registered office during practice and the Codes requirements.
schemes may cause options and awards normal business hours and at the AGM Following the Committees advice, the granted under such schemes to vest in for 15 minutes prior to, and during, Board considered and concluded that: those circumstances.
the business model and strategy were clearly described: DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES COMPENSATION FOR LOSS OF OFFICE The Companys Articles of Association the assessment of performance was With reference to Schedule 7 of the Large permit the provision of indemnities to balanced: and Mediumsized Companies and Groups the Directors.
In accordance with the Accounts and Reports Regulations KPIs were used consistently: Articles of Association, the Company has 2008 paragraph 13 2 k, there are the language used was concise, with entered into a deed of indemnity in favour no agreements in place between the good linkages to different parts of the of each Director which is a qualifying Company and any Director or employee document: and thirdparty indemnity provision under the for loss of office in the event of a takeover.
an appropriate forwardlooking Act pursuant to which the Director has POLITICAL DONATIONS orientation had been adopted.
been granted the right to indemnification as permitted under the Act.
These The Group made no political donations or GOING CONCERN arrangements were in place throughout contributions during the year 2017: nil.
The Strategic report discusses the the year and up to the date of approval ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Groups business activities, together of this report and applied to the current with the factors likely to affect its future The AGM will take place on 15 May 2019. and previous Directors.
In addition, during development, performance and position.
All shareholders are invited to attend and the year the Company has maintained In addition, it sets out the Groups financial will have the opportunity to put questions Directors and Officers liability insurance position, cash flows, liquidity position to the Board.
The Notice of the AGM cover for Directors.
The financial will be circulated to all shareholders at DIRECTORS SERVICE AGREEMENTS risk management note to the Financial least 20 working days before the meeting Statements sets out the Groups objectives, Each Executive Director, at the time of this and the details of the resolutions to be policies and processes for managing report, has a written service agreement, proposed will be set out in that Notice.
capital and its financial risk management which may be terminated by either party This document will be available on the objectives, together with details of financial on not less than six months notice in writing.
instruments and exposure to credit and NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS LETTERS By order of the Board liquidity risk.
OF APPOINTMENT The Group has access to the financial The letters of appointment of the JASVEER SINGH resources required to run the business NonExecutive Directors are issued for an General Counsel and Company Secretary efficiently and has a strong gross cash initial period of three years, which may be position.
The Groups forecasts and renewed for further terms as appropriate.
28 February 2019 projections, which are subject to rigorous All appointments are subject to a review sensitivity analysis, show that the Group by the Nomination Committee upon will be able to operate within its available the third anniversary and on extension resources.
As a consequence, the Directors a further review is undertaken at the consider it appropriate to prepare the sixth anniversary at which the Boards annual Financial Statements on a going succession plans and the need to refresh concern basis of accounting.
the Boards skills and experiences are carefully considered.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
