JUPITER EUROPEAN OPPORTUNITIES TRUST PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Report of the Directors & Governance Directors Andrew Lang Sutch Chairman, is a solicitor and was formerly the senior partner of Stephenson Harwood.
He is a A Director since: 10 October 2011 corporate lawyer and has for much of his career advised investment trusts and other Last re-elected to the Board: 2017 investment funds.
He is the Chairman of J. P. Morgan Claverhouse Investment Trust plc and Hipgnosis Songs Fund Limited.
Philip Edward Fraser Best Chairman of the Audit Committee, is an investment manager based in Geneva, where he A Director since: 12 May 2009 co-founded Quaero Capital and is the fund manager of The Argonaut Fund a LuxembourgLast re-elected to the Board: 2017 listed UCITS created in 2003.
Prior to that he worked in broking at Jefferies & Co and Enskilda Securities, after starting out as a fund manager at Mercury Asset Management in the 1980s.
The Rt Hon Lord Lamont of Lerwick Chairman of the Remuneration Committee was Chancellor of the Exchequer from November A Director since: 24 June 2015 1990 to May 1993 and has been a member of the House of Lords since 1998.
He is Last re-elected to the Board: 2017 a director or advisor to a number of companies in the financial sector including Stanhope Capital and the Small Companies Dividend Trust PLC and was previously a director of NM Rothschild, Rothschild Asset Management and Jupiter Second Split Trust PLC.
John David Arnold Wallinger has over forty years experience in investment management and financial services, A Director since: 3 October 2000 most recently having been Chairman of Zebedee Focus Fund, Zebedee Growth Fund Last re-elected to the Board: 2017 and Zebedee Trading Fund, all European hedge funds.
Prior to that he was a director of Euroland Plus Smaller Companies PLC, Non-Executive Chairman of Hardt Group Capital Limited, an Austrian Fund Management group, and Vice Chairman of S. G. Warburg International, where he started their European Equity business, under the aegis of Warburg Securities, and was then an executive director of UBS A. G. Mr Wallinger was a member of the Association of Institutional Investment Management & Research.
Virginia Holmes Virginia Holmess executive experience includes serving as Chief Executive of AXA A Director since: 7 November 2017 Investment Managers in the UK and more than a decade with the Barclays Bank Group.
Elected to the Board: 2017 Virginia currently serves on the investment committee of the UK Universities Superannuation Scheme and chairs its investment management subsidiary, is chair of British Airways Pension Trustees Ltd and is a Non-Executive Director of Intermediate Capital Group.
Members of the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Conflicts of Interest Committees.
Members of the Nomination and Conflicts of Interest Committees.
