STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 41 THE USE OF ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES APMs The Group uses the following APMs: Reconciliation APM Definition data sources Reason for use Adjusted cost income ratio Administrative expenses divided by net revenue before Page 38 C box profits Net management fee margin Net management fees divided by average AUM Page 38 A Net management fees Management fees less fee expenses Page 38 A Net revenue Revenue less fee and commission expenses Page 38 A Operating expenses Administrative expenses less variable staff costs Page 38 A Ordinary dividends per share Interim and full-year dividends does not include Page 123 B any special dividends Total compensation ratio Total staff costs as a proportion of net revenue Page 38 C Underlying EPS Profit before tax less tax at the weighted average UK Page 39 D corporation tax rate divided by issued share capital Variable compensation ratio Variable staff costs as a proportion of net revenue less Page 38 C operating expenses A. t o draw out meaningful subtotals of All APMs relate to past performance.
Other results of its underlying operations, revenues and earnings, together with terms similar to APMs may be used within thereby enabling consistent period ratios derived from such measures, the remuneration section of this Annual on period comparisons and making commonly used by asset managers Report and Accounts.
Such terms constitute it easier for users of the accounts to after taking into account items such as measures used as the basis for calculating identify trends.
There are currently fees and commissions payable, without director or executive remuneration and are no material differences between which a proportion of the revenues defined in the glossary.
Jupiters underlying APMs and actual would not have been earned, and IFRS measures.
As a result, underlying CHANGES IN THE USE OF APMS administrative expenses which often administrative expenses and underlying 1.
In prior periods, the adjusted cost have a direct link to revenues through PBT have been removed as performance income ratio used net management the use of compensation ratios to set measures.
We have retained the use of fees as its denominator.
underlying EPS as it is a component in of using this measure rather than net the calculation of the Groups ordinary B. to present users of the accounts with a revenue is that it excluded box profits, dividends per share.
clear view of what the Group considers which did not generally vary in line with to be the results of distributions from its 3.
W e have discontinued the use of costs and which were therefore not a underlying operations, thereby enabling operating earnings as an APM.
This meaningful contributor to the ratio.
In consistent period on period comparisons measure, defined as net revenue less the current period, we have changed and making it easier for users of the administrative expenses, had been used the denominator to net revenue before accounts to identify trends.
as a subtotal on the face of the Groups box profits.
This enables us to continue income statement but, because it was to exclude box profits although these C. to provide additional information not not widely used internally to assess the ceased in January 2018, but also include required for disclosure under accounting Groups performance or as a component performance fees, which significantly standards.
The information is given to of other APMs, the Group feels it is impact administrative expenses.
The assist users of the accounts in gauging not necessary to continue using or change in measure has no significant the level of operational gearing and quantifying this term.
impact on previously reported efficiency in the Group and in predicting comparative ratios.
future variable cost and therefore The Strategic Report found on pages 1-47 profit levels.
has been duly approved by the Board and 2.
T he Group has previously used signed on its behalf by underlying administrative expenses, D. used by the Board to determine the underlying profit before tax PBT Groups ordinary dividend.
Also used in and underlying EPS as performance the measurement of one of the criteria CHARLOTTE JONES measures, principally to present users for legacy share-based awards to Chief Financial Officer of the accounts with a clear view of senior staff with performance conditions.
what the Group considers to be the 28 February 2019 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
