62 GOVERNANCE Audit and risk committee report AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT As Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee the Committee I am DEAR SHAREHOLDER pleased to present the Committees report for the year ended 31 December 2018, which provides you with an insight The Committee has continued into the Committees monitoring and to review and challenge the oversight activities.
integrity of the Groups financial During the year the Committee has disclosures and monitored continued to review and challenge the enhancements to the internal integrity of the Groups financial reporting and challenged the judgements and risk and control environment.
The Groups internal control environment has been a key focus of the Committee and it has engaged with management on enhancements during the year.
COMMITTEES KEY RESPONSIBILITIES Last years report highlighted the Committees oversight of significant Overseeing the Groups financial Reviewing and monitoring the change programmes within the Group, reporting processes, including effectiveness of the Internal Audit which included a new operating platform reviewing statements, announcements function and considering its work that delivered significant improvements and judgements concerning its plans and reports.
to the Groups operations and control financial performance.
This years report provides Overseeing the appointment, an insight into the Committees oversight Reviewing the Groups internal controls performance, remuneration and of the Groups preparations for Brexit and and risk management systems on an independence of the External Auditor, the audit and assurance faculty AAF ongoing basis, including the adequacy including the provision of non-audit controls report and oversight of the firms and effectiveness of the framework services to the Group.
used to monitor the Groups significant Reviewing the Groups ICAAP process.
The Committee reports to the Board on the Reviewing the Groups whistleblowing Examining the controls in place for the matters it has reviewed and debated and arrangements and ensuring the prevention and detection of fraud.
how it has discharged its responsibilities.
proportionate and independent Assessing the principal risks that could investigation of any matters reported.
KEY ACTIVITIES impact the Groups business model, Reviewing how the controls culture In addition to its regular agenda items the future performance, liquidity and is set by management, understood Committee focused on a number of key solvency.
by employees and implemented topics throughout the year.
Reviewing and monitoring the throughout the Group.
A key area of focus has been its oversight effectiveness and adequacy of the A full copy of the Committees terms of preparations for Brexit, to ensure that process for identifying, assessing, of reference can be found at the Group would continue to be able to mitigating and managing significant www.
com conduct business as usual and serve its strategic, operational and liquidity clients outside of the UK.
COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND REGULAR ATTENDEES Appointment Meetings The Committee comprises only of Company Secretary, and Heads of Members date attended independent Non-Executive Directors Finance, Compliance, Enterprise Risk, Polly Williams Chair March 2015 6 6 in accordance with the UK Corporate Internal Audit and the Groups External 1 Lorraine Trainer May 2010 2 2 Governance Code.
The Chairman, Chief Auditors attend Committee meetings Executive Officer, Chief Finance Officer, by invitation.
Jonathan Bond July 2014 6 6 Chief Risk Officer, General Counsel and Karl Stenberg July 2016 6 6 1 Lorraine Trainer stepped down from the Committee on 16 May 2018. www.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVE RNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 63 The Committee monitored the THE COMMITTEES MEMBERS Committee members attend training implementation process, which included seminars on relevant topics during the year Jonathon Bond and Karl Sternberg served the establishment of a new management and updates are provided by the Company with me on the Committee throughout company in Luxembourg, the achievement Secretary on relevant governance matters.
Lorraine Trainer stepped down of the projects key milestones and effective The Committee members biographies are from the Board and the Committee in May, risk management.
set out in full on pages 54 to 55. having decided to not seek re-election at the AGM.
The Committee has an effective The Committee reviewed the impact of Jonathon Bond is also a member of the balance of skills and experience to deliver the new IFRS 16 Leases standard on the Group Remuneration Committee, ensuring its responsibilities.
Every member has fully Groups financial position.
In light of the the appropriate identification of any issues engaged in the Committees work and their new accounting standard management that are relevant to both Committees.
contributions to Committee discussions recommended a change in methodology I formally report to the Remuneration have been positive, well informed and applied by the Group to calculate its Committee to provide an update on any demonstrate sufficient challenge.
This change brings our factors which could impact compensation.
regulatory capital reporting methodology The Board considers that all of the I am looking forward to meeting our in line with market practice.
The Committee Committees members who served during shareholders at our AGM on 15 May 2019, reviewed the matter in detail and agreed the year are appropriately experienced and to answer any questions about the contents with the change in approach.
qualified to fulfil their duties.
The Board has of this report and the Committees work.
confirmed that I have recent and relevant The Committee conducted a review of the financial experience and all members of the Groups oversight of critical third-party Committee have competencies relevant to POLLY WILLIAMS suppliers and the operational risks resulting the asset management sector in which the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee from outsourcing.
It then proceeded to Group operates.
undertake a deep-dive review of one 28 February 2019 critical supplier with an elevated risk rating and conducted a detailed assessment of the Groups first, second and third lines of defence in managing the associated risks.
COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW A review was conducted by the Committee During 2018, an internal review was conducted of the Committees effectiveness, which of the Groups AAF, which received a drew upon the outcomes of the externally facilitated review conducted the previous qualification across two control objectives year.
Committee members were invited to respond to questions which evaluated current based on exceptions in seven controls.
performance and future focuses for the Committee.
The remedial action undertaken by management was monitored by the Overall, the results of the review were positive and it was considered that the Committee Committee who received regular updates was performing well.
Interactions with management were constructive with robust challenge on how lessons learnt were being actioned.
and a good balance of the Committees time dedicated to both audit and risk topics.
Specific initiatives were identified to further support the Committees fulfilment of its The Committee reviewed assurance of responsibilities, which included more in-depth reviews of specific external risks.
the Groups control environment on a quarterly basis, which overall was found 2017 PRIORITY 2018 STATUS to be effective.
Development of a risk A broader range of risks has been identified and included in the The Committee also challenged the Groups agenda with an increased Committees schedule of annual topics for consideration.
readiness and resilience for a cyber-attack focus on external risks on its IT systems.
This included the Groups threat landscape, its security defences and Increased focus on key There is an ongoing and continual focus in committee papers and in stakeholder interests the discussions of the Committee on stakeholder interests.
recovery plans in the event of an attack and the Groups ability to respond to the Planning key areas of Each of the Committees meetings addresses a key topic of focus, as evolving cyber threat.
focus for the Committee well as its standard items for consideration.
This is aligned with the throughout the year Groups financial calendar and enables more focused meetings.
The Committee continued to oversee the relationships with the internal and Enhancement of reporting The structure, length and focus of Committee papers have been of key issues reviewed and updated by management which has supported the external auditors and monitored both their quality of discussion during meetings.
A full review of the Committees activities during 2018 can be found on pages 64 to 69.
2018 EVALUATION CONCLUSIONS review of the preparations and controls for the implementation of the Senior In addition to its core functions, during Managers and Certification Regime: 2019 the Committee will be focused on: review of the Groups resilience to continued monitoring of the external risks: and implementation of changes to the Groups operations and assurance review of technological developments process in relation to Brexit: and potential impacts on the operations of the Group.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 64 GOVERNANCE Audit and risk committee report continued AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT continued COMMITTEE MEETINGS In 2018, those meetings took place in May.
During the year, the Group established The Committee met separately with the an executive Risk and Finance Committee, The Committee holds five scheduled Chief Finance Officer in December.
In which reports to the Committee at each meetings per year and held one additional February, July and October, the Committee meeting on its activities.
The Committee meeting during 2018 to review the Companys met with internal and external auditors reviewed at each of its scheduled response to the FRC, following its review of lead partners without management meetings, preparations for Brexit and the the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
In preparation for every Groups Governance, Risk and Controls meetings were scheduled at key times in Committee meeting, the Committee programme.
The Committee also received the audit and financial reporting calendar.
Chairman meets individually with both regular reports from the heads of the Only members of the Committee have external and internal audit partners and assurance functions.
the right to attend meetings.
Outside of its the Chief Financial Officer.
usual meetings schedule, the Committee An overview of the key additional items also meets in private with the Chief Risk considered at each Committee meeting Officer and the Compliance Director.
KEY COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES FOR 2018 February May July Annual Report CASS audit Interim accounts Re appointment of external auditors Risk and control self assessment and ICAAP business process management Fraud detection and prevention Effectiveness of external auditors H2 2018 Compliance plan Whistleblowing Oversight of key third-party supplier Money laundering reporting officer report AAF Legal and litigation Tax strategy MiFID II Third-party supplier whistleblowing Legal and litigation October December Deep dive of IT controls Significant accounting estimates and judgements Risk appetite statement Accounting standards Enterprise risk management framework Non-audit services External audit plan Culture reporting framework Effectiveness of internal audit 2019 internal audit plan Cyber risk Regulatory capital reporting Internal audit charter Annual compliance plan Committee effectiveness Terms of reference REVIEW OF THE ANNUAL REPORT An additional Committee meeting was REGULATORY REPORTING AND ACCOUNTS held specifically to discuss the proposed An in-depth review was conducted by response to the FRC.
The response The Committee reviewed the Groups management of the Groups regulatory included background information relevant half-year financial statements in July.
reporting position, in light of the adoption to the items raised and an agreement The financial statements for the year of the new accounting standard IFRS 16 to make limited modifications to the ended 31 December 2018 were reviewed Leases.
Following this review the Group explanations for certain disclosures to in February 2019. elected to change the way it calculates enhance their clarity.
The FRC subsequently its regulatory capital, in line with FCA FINANCIAL REPORTING closed their enquiry with no further action.
As a result, the adoption of the new During the year the Group received It should be noted that the review of the accounting standard will not materially an enquiry letter from the Conduct 2017 accounts by the FRC does not provide reduce the Groups capital surplus and Committee of the FRC, in relation to any additional assurance regarding its aligns the Group with the methodology the Annual Report and Accounts for accuracy and the FRC does not accept used in the investment management sector.
the year ended 31 December 2017. any liability in relation to its review.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVE RNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 65 The Committee considered the accounting issues and significant matters of judgement impacting the preparation of the 2018 financial statements.
The External Auditor was asked for its view of the judgements made by management and all relevant issues were scrutinised and challenged by the Committee.
The table on the following pages details areas where the Committee exercised judgement on the Annual Report.
KEY AREAS OF FOCUS RESPONSIBILITY ACTIONS OF THE COMMITTEE True, fair, balanced The Committee is responsible for reviewing The Committee reviewed the half-year and annual financial and understandable the Companys Annual Report to ensure that statements with management.
The review focused on: it is true, fair, balanced and understandable the Companys performance in relation to its strategic and provides the information necessary for objectives shareholders to assess the Groups position, the integrity of the Groups financial reporting process performance and strategy.
application of accounting policies and judgements compliance with relevant legal and financial reporting standards the impact of new accounting standards and how this would impact the Groups reporting and accounting disclosures The Committee received updates on future accounting developments under IFRS and how these impacted the Group.
The Committee agreed with managements assessment that two IFRS accounting standard changes, effective from 1 January 2018, would have minimal impact on the Group.
The new IFRS 16 Leases standard, effective from 1 January 2019 required significant changes to the Groups accounting treatment of leases.
The Committee reviewed and challenged these changes in detail.
The Committee reviewed the Annual Report in its entirety and assessed whether the report was fair, balanced and understandable.
In making this assessment the Committee discussed the requirement with senior management and confirmed that the external auditors had had access to all relevant information.
The Committee made a recommendation to the Board, following its assessment, that the Annual Report is true, fair, balanced and understandable and is approved for publication.
Long-term viability The Directors are required to review the The Committee reviewed the Groups viability for a period of long-term viability of the Company.
The Committee discussed and reviewed: Further details on the Groups viability can be found in the Financial Review section of the Groups current financial position and its net cash balance the Strategic Report.
the Groups liquidity and any risk to its future liquidity the Groups strategic and financial plans the ICAAP the Groups business and cash flow projections external market risks, in particular the impact of Brexit The Committee reviewed the impact of IFRS 16 on the Groups financial position and challenged management on its forecasts and projections.
The Groups surplus capital levels and cash liquidity were reviewed.
The Committee recommended to the Board that the viability statement be approved.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 66 GOVERNANCE Audit and risk committee report continued AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT continued KEY AREAS OF FOCUS RESPONSIBILITY ACTIONS OF THE COMMITTEE Going concern The Committee is responsible for reviewing The Committee reviewed a number of factors such as liquidity whether it is appropriate for the Company management and cash generation from operations, contingent to adopt the going concern basis of liabilities, unfavourable market scenarios versus the Groups core accounting in preparing the half-year forecasts and other risks to the Groups operations or balance and annual financial statements for the sheet position.
The Committee resolved that it was appropriate for the Group to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the half-year and annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018.
No material uncertainties were identified and the Board was not notified of any qualifications or assumptions as to the Companys ability to continue to operate over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approving the financial statements.
Share based The Committee reviews share-based Certain assumptions are required to be made in order to payments payments as part of its review of the calculate the accounting charge for share awards.
include anticipated levels of vesting and timings of exercises.
In line with previous years, the most significant share-based payment accounting costs for the Group related to Long-Term Incentive Plans and Deferred Bonus Plans.
The Committee reviewed the assumptions in leaver rates, the likely vesting levels following performance condition testing and timings of exercises based on historical data, and the Companys business plan.
The Committee agreed that the assumptions proposed by the Finance function were appropriate.
Goodwill The Group has goodwill of 341.2m on its The Committee reviewed whether the Groups goodwill was balance sheet which is not amortised and deemed to be impaired.
A full impairment test using a discounted remains the same from year to year unless cash flow model was conducted during the year.
The test deemed to be impaired.
demonstrated that there continued to be significant headroom available between the fair value of the goodwill asset and the Company beta.
The Committee reviewed managements recommendation and agreed that no impairment of the Groups goodwill was required.
Basis of The Group is required to consolidate The Committee reviewed the assessment of control of an entity, consolidation entities under the control of Jupiter Fund which considered the direct holding in a fund as well as factors like Management plc into the Group accounts.
In addition to Group owned companies, The Committee agreed that the adopted approach was in line with this includes certain funds whereby the accounting standards.
Group acts as the fund manager and owns The Committee reviewed the consolidation of employee benefit a significant proportion of the fund for trusts EBTs.
The Committee agreed with the judgement of example funds that have been seeded by management that the EBTs functioned as subsidiaries of the Group the Group.
and were not considered an area of significant judgement for the Group.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVE RNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 67 KEY AREAS OF FOCUS RESPONSIBILITY ACTIONS OF THE COMMITTEE Trade and other Input VAT receivables As disclosed in previous Annual Reports, in The Committee noted that the level of receivable as held in the payables 2013 HMRC issued a revised assessment in accounts had not changed from the previous provisions made.
relation to input VAT recovered by Jupiter Asset Management Group Limited since September 2009, which has yet to be fully settled.
It is anticipated this will result in monies being returned to the Group and an appropriate receivable is in the accounts.
New accounting Lease accounting standards The Committee is responsible for reviewing The Committee reviewed the impact of the new accounting the Groups adoption of new accounting standard on the Groups leases, how the Groups lease assets standards and from 1 January 2019 the Group and liabilities are calculated and the consequential impact on adopted IFRS 16 Leases.
the Groups regulatory capital treatment.
The Committee reviewed and agreed the applicable discount rate.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND During the year, the Committee: had oversight of the implementation INTERNAL CONTROLS of significant change programmes received regular reports on the including the Groups Risk and Controls The Chief Risk Officer reports to the progress of the Groups ICAAP process, Programme and the implementation of Committee on a quarterly basis on any which enabled it to provide feedback the Groups Brexit plans: updates to the Groups risk profile and the throughout the year on various scenarios effectiveness of the Groups enterprise and assumptions utilised, including the reviewed the Groups tax strategy and risk framework and internal controls, Groups wind-down plan.
The Committee associated internal processes and with applicable risk dashboards.
This reviewed and recommended that the controls: includes the Groups emerging, strategic Board adopt the Group ICAAP at its reviewed the Groups AAF report and operational risk areas together meeting in July: on controls and monitored the with conduct and regulatory risks.
The reviewed the Groups approach to client implementation of the Groups control Committee conducts an annual review rebates and endorsed a number of improvements: and of the Risk Appetite Statement and changes to processes and practices: Enterprise Risk Framework and makes conducted a quarterly review of the reviewed operational risks and the recommendations thereon to the Board.
effectiveness of the Groups internal performance of third-party providers controls.
The General Counsel attends the to the Group: Committees meetings, to advise on current legal and regulatory matters including any particular litigation and intellectual property issues affecting any Group company.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 68 GOVERNANCE Audit and risk committee report continued AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT continued The Committee has primary responsibility The policy requires that all non-audit AUDITORS REMUNERATION for the Groups relationship with the spend, for services which are permissible AUDIT FEE External Auditor.
A review of the under the policy, amounting to 50,000 or 0.2m 2018 effectiveness of the External Auditor was more must by approved by the Committee.
2017 0.2m undertaken by means of a questionnaire, For permissible services amounting to which was completed by members of the between 30,000 and 50,000, prior AUDIT FEE FOR SUBSIDIARIES Committee and from Finance, Risk, HR, approval from the Chief Finance Officer 0.4m 2018 Company Secretariat, Compliance and must be sought.
For all amounts below 2017 0.3m fund and client servicing teams.
Questions this threshold the Head of Finance can were on a variety of areas including the provide approval.
quality of people and service, robustness AUDIT-RELATED ASSURANCE SERVICES Regular reports are circulated to the of audit, quality of delivery and audit 0.2m 2018 Committee setting out the non-audit fees.
PwC was found to have performed 2017 0.2m services provided by the External Auditor effectively during the audit and upheld throughout the year to date and the fees high standards of professional service.
These services mainly related to A summary of the questionnaires findings, 0.3m 2018 the review of the interim results, the AAF which included areas for improvement, 2017 0.2m report and the CASS audit.
There are areas were discussed at the Committees meeting of assurance where the work being done in July.
The Committee Chairman then is, in the view of the Group, similar in type OTHER NON-AUDIT SERVICES discussed the action points with Jeremy and scope to the work performed during 0.1m 2018 Jensen, the Groups audit partner.
the audit and as such, can be provided 2017 0.0m The Committee reviewed and approved more efficiently and cost effectively by the PwCs terms of engagement and the auditor.
We continue to look at these items EXTERNAL AUDITOR proposed fee for the 2018 audit.
The on a case by case basis, to determine PwC is the Groups External Auditor, Committee has reviewed and satisfied whether PwC is the appropriate supplier.
having been reappointed following a itself with respect to the External Auditors A different supplier would be considered formal tender in 2014.
Jeremy Jensen was qualifications, expertise, resources and where it would not be detrimental to the the lead audit partner throughout 2018. independence.
It continues to believe Group.
An analysis of fees paid in respect that PwC conducts its audit work with of PwCs audit and non-audit services THE STATUTORY AUDIT SERVICES FOR objectivity and to a high standard.
The is included within Note 1.3 on page 105.
LARGE COMPANIES MARKET INVESTIGATION Committee considered the External The Board has recommended the MANDATORY USE OF COMPETITIVE Auditors proposed audit scope and plan reappointment of PwC as external auditor, TENDER PROCESSES AND AUDIT COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES ORDER at the October meeting and found it to which will be put to shareholders at the OF 2014 STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE be effective.
There are no contractual AGM on 15 May 2019. obligations restricting Jupiters choice The Company confirms that it has complied of external auditor, other than in respect with the provisions of the CMA Order 2014 of EYs appointment as Internal Auditor.
for the financial year under review.
The Company intends to retender the external The Committee has a primary responsibility audit contract no later than 2024. to safeguard the External Auditors objectivity and independence.
A nonEach year the External Auditor presents audit services policy has been in place to the Committee the proposed scope of throughout the year and sets out the its full-year audit plan, together with a procedures for the provision of any nonreview plan for the half-year.
This includes audit services by the External Auditor to its assessment of the material risks to any entity within the Group.
The Committee the Groups financial statements and monitored the value of non-audit spend its proposed materiality levels, for the during the year against a standard of 70% Committees discussion and agreement.
In of the average audit fee on a three year 2018, PwC attended all of the Committees rolling basis.
meetings and also provided reports on specific topics requested by the Committee, which included the CASS audit and the AAF report.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVE RNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 69 COMPLIANCE The 2018 Internal Audit plan was reviewed 2018 REVIEW OF THE EFFECTIVENESS and approved by the Committee, with OF INTERNAL AUDIT The Head of Compliance reports to the audit fieldwork completed during the year.
Committee on a quarterly basis which It is vital that the independence of the The plan was designed and assessed includes a compliance risk dashboard, Internal Audit function is maintained to against the Enterprise Risk Management results of compliance monitoring, ensure good governance.
During the year Framework of the Group and focused on comprehensive updates on regulatory the Committee reviewed and confirmed the aspects of Jupiters strategic risks.
developments and on staff regulatory continued independence of EY.
and procedures monitor the services 14 audits were conducted in the period.
EY are utilised for, outside the scope of During the year, the Committee: The audits included: Internal Audit.
The guidance details the approved the annual compliance plan: types of services EY should not supply and I embeddedness of firm-wide strategy: places restrictions on the amount of fees, reviewed regulatory capital II general data protection regulation that fall outside of the Internal Audit fees, reporting matters: review: payable to EY in any one year.
In addition, received a report from the Companys III post implementation review of MiFID II: all services proposed to be supplied by EY Money Laundering Reporting Officer must be approved by either the Head of IV review of the Groups operations in on the activities of the Financial Finance or the Chief Financial Officer.
Hong Kong: Crime Team: V governance review: The effectiveness of Internal Audit was considered culture across the organisation, reviewed by the Committee at its October VI regulatory reporting review: and and the development of a reporting meeting.
A two-stage evaluation process framework: VII portfolio management review was conducted comprising a survey and reviewed the Groups ongoing These reviews have helped the Group to analysis of key internal audit metrics.
compliance with MiFID II: implement more robust control procedures The survey was completed by senior monitored various change programmes and Internal Audit continues to work management and other senior employees designed to ensure compliance with closely with the firms Risk and Compliance who had been involved in Internal Audits the evolving regulatory framework: teams to ensure a holistic approach to the work throughout the year.
reviewed the Groups whistleblowing provision of assurance in the Group.
The key performance metrics were split policy and procedures: and The Committee approved the 2019 Internal into three categories: people and process: monitored the resourcing of the Audit plan and as part of the planning coverage: and value.
Overall, a positive Compliance function and its ability work, considered the level of assurance level of satisfaction was reported, with to effectively support the Group.
provided by all assurance functions, which specific areas for improvement identified includes Risk, Compliance, and External and communicated.
INTERNAL AUDIT and Internal Audit.
The focus of the 2019 EY has provided the Groups Internal Audit The Committee considered whether Internal Audit plan will be the operational function since 2008.
The Internal Auditor outsourcing the function to a specialist resilience of the Group, with particular reports directly to the Chairman of the independent provider continued to be emphasis on the implementation of new Committee and, in addition to submitting appropriate and reviewed alternative systems and processes in relation to cyber status reports for each Committee meeting, models.
Having considered these, the security and the management of rebates.
provides Committee members with copies Committee remained of the view that A total of nine audits are planned for 2019. of any internal audit reports completed outsourcing the function to a specialist between meetings.
The status reports independent provider remained include findings and recommendations, appropriate and allowed for the as well as the Groups progress with provision of subject experts as required.
These help to inform the Committees discussion of any required follow-up.
The Committee works with the Internal Auditor to ensure that its work is embedded in the business and is coordinated with that of the External Auditor.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
