14 STRATEGIC REPORT Market review UNDERSTANDING OUR MARKET ENVIRONMENT A number of powerful longterm trends are driving demand for differentiated investment products that can deliver outperformance to clients, after all fees.
C LIENTS ARE DEMANDING FEE AND AGEING RETURNS ON THEIR INVESTMENTS TRANSPARENCY AND VALUE FOR MONEY Populations around the world are Persistently low interest rates in many increasing and people are living longer.
countries mean that traditional savings Fees can have a significant impact According to the United Nations, 13% of accounts offer negative real returns.
on returns to clients over time.
Clients the global population was aged 60 or As a result, pre and postretirement therefore want a clear understanding of over in 2017, equating to 962m people.
savers are turning to investment how much they are paying, so they can Europe has the largest proportion of products which offer the prospect of assess whether they are receiving value over 60s at 25%, while Asia is in line with positive returns.
In particular, the ability for money from their asset managers.
Worldwide, to increase the value of savings during Our primary regulator is the Financial the population aged 60 or over is the postretirement phase while still Conduct Authority FCA in the UK.
We growing faster than all younger age generating income is changing the welcome the FCAs continued drive towards groups, at about 3% per annum.
The nature of client demand.
transparency in fee charges and its focus number of older people is projected on the value for money to clients of the to reach 1.4bn by 2030 and 2.1bn by 5.
C LIENTS ARE DEMANDING investment service provided.
All regions except Africa will have DIFFERENT PRODUCTS a quarter or more of their population Flows into mutual funds continue to over 60 by 2050.
At one end of the spectrum, ARE CONSOLIDATING there is ongoing demand for lowcost In the UK, the retail and wealth channels 2.
INDIVIDUALS ARE HAVING TO exchangetraded and index funds, are consolidating, as distributors acquire SAVE FOR RETIREMENT where returns track an underlying market each other.
These channels are also The population trends described above index.
These offerings are generically converging, for example as advisory mean that many more people need known as passive funds.
At the other end, practices launch their own funds.
In to fund longer retirements.
However, there have been significant inflows into addition, we see these organisations the cost of funding pensions means highperformance, outcomeorientated behaving more like institutions, such that governments and companies are active strategies, capable of delivering as using independent consultants limiting pension provision.
This is the area in and thirdparty research and support.
therefore increasingly having to provide which Jupiter operates.
These trends enable fund providers for retirement themselves, using defined In the middle are traditional funds, such such as Jupiter to influence a larger contribution pension schemes and other as longonly, singlegeography equity number of advisers more easily, through forms of longterm savings.
These have seen their central decision makers, and to sizeable outflows, especially from funds target the distribution partners who 3.
D EVELOPING ECONOMIES which stick closely to the benchmark are growing most quickly and have the ARE GETTING RICHER and compete with lowcost passive potential to take a greater range of funds.
As incomes grow in developing alternatives.
Conversely, this transformation of the economies, individuals increasingly To attract and retain clients, active channels is expected to lead to greater want to diversify their savings by holding asset managers must be able to volatility in fund flows, as individual foreign investments, which give them clearly differentiate their products decisionmakers influence greater levels access to a wider range of assets.
and demonstrate that they deliver of fund selection and asset allocation.
Mutual fund providers, pension funds positive returns after all fees.
and insurance companies are providing more opportunities for these individuals to achieve their investment goals.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 15 MARKET DRIVERS WHAT THESE TRENDS MEAN FOR JUPITER The trends in our markets have important 8.
U NCERTAINTIES FACING OUR MARKETS implications for our strategy and operations: AND INVESTORS In addition to the trends outlined above, There is substantial demand for investment products that there are some uncertainties which could offer strong performance after fees.
Jupiter must meet this affect how our market operates or influence challenge in order to retain clients, attract greater inflows and which market participants are successful.
Investment outperformance after all fees for our clients, delivered through active asset management, is There is political uncertainty in a number of therefore our number one priority.
the countries in which we operate, including Demand for different product types and the continued the outcome of the Brexit process.
These shortening of product lifecycles means we need to further uncertainties could affect clients wealth innovate and diversify our active range.
We continue to and subsequent attitude towards savings develop and launch new investment products, where we have and investment.
Brexit could result in the ability to differentiate our active offering.
At the same time, unforeseen changes in government policy longterm demographics are increasing demand for mutual or the regulatory and legal framework for funds.
This gives us the opportunity to further expand our the fund management industry, and not just distribution, as we continue to diversify geographically and in the UK, our home market.
Technological advances will also affect To continue to deliver investment performance and further the way the industry operates.
Artificial diversify our product range, we must attract and retain the best intelligence, machine learning, data and investment talent, and ensure we have a culture in which they analytics could fundamentally change can thrive.
Technology may We need to continue to invest in our operating platform, to also have an increasing role in distribution ensure we have systems that can sustain our growth, support and client services, for example by enabling different product types and allow us to operate efficiently and precisely targeted marketing and allowing in compliance with evolving regulations.
We are investing in advisers to selfserve and find answers to new technologies, such as data analytics, to ensure we keep their common questions.
pace with technological change and enable further efficiencies through process automation and appropriate outsourcing.
To ensure we continue to deliver for clients, as well as our people and shareholders, we need a governance, risk and control framework designed to support our growth.
We continue to develop and evolve our internal processes in a way that recognises the importance of controls.
To deliver our strategic goals, we need the financial strength to invest in the business, support our growth, reward our people and increase returns to shareholders.
We have a disciplined approach to cost management, remuneration and the deployment of investment expenditure.
We have a robust balance sheet and a clear and consistent approach to dividends and capital returns.
Through effective liquidity and capital management we proactively deploy more of our balance sheet as seed investments, enabling funds to achieve scale more quickly.
We follow a highly disciplined process in deploying, redeeming and recycling such seed investment.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
