JUPITER EUROPEAN OPPORTUNITIES TRUST PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Report of the Directors & Governance continued Report of the Directors The Directors present the Annual Report and Accounts of the Company powers to buy back shares or reissue shares are detailed on page 17 for the year ended 31 May 2018. under the heading Resolution 13: Authority to buy back shares.
Results and Dividends There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in the Company: no special rights with regard to control attached to securities: Results and reserve movements for the year are set out in the Statement no agreements between holders of securities regarding their transfer of Comprehensive Income and Statement of Financial Position on pages known to the Company: no agreements which the Company is party 32 and 33 and the Notes to the Accounts on pages 37 to 50. to that affect its control following a takeover bid: and no agreements between the Company and its directors concerning compensation for Capital Structure loss of office.
All of the Companys shares are fully paid and carry one vote per share.
The Ordinary shares carry no additional obligations or special rights.
As the Company does not have any employees it also does not have an The Ordinary shares are listed on the premium segment of the official employee share scheme.
list of the UK Listing Authority and are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights In accordance with the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the As at 31 May 2018 the Companys issued share capital and voting Company has been notified of the following substantial interests in the rights totalled 112,100,331.
Ordinary shares amounting to 3 per cent.
or more of the voting rights held in the Company.
Amendment to the Articles of Association and powers to buy back the Companys shares require a special resolution to be passed by shareholders at a General Meeting.
The rules governing the directors Ordinary shares 31 May 2018 % of total Number voting of shares rights Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 4,757,982 4.24 Reliance Mutual Insurance Society Ltd 4,453,247 3.97 Directors Directors and Officers Liability Insurance and A list of the Directors of the Company and their biographies can be Indemnification found on page 13.
All Directors held office throughout the year under During the year under review the Company purchased and maintained review with the exception of Virginia Holmes who was appointed as a liability insurance for its Directors and officers as permitted by Section Director on 7 November 2017.
Directors Remuneration and Interests The Company has indemnified each of its Directors to cover any liabilities that may arise to a third party, as defined by Section 234 of The Directors Remuneration Report and Policy on pages 23 to 26 the Companies Act 2006. provides information on the remuneration and shareholdings of the Directors.
Ongoing Appointment of Investment Adviser, Conflicts of Interest Alternative Investment Fund Manager and Depositary Each Director has a statutory duty to avoid a situation where he has The Company has entered into an Investment Management Agreement or might have a direct or indirect interest which conflicts or might with Jupiter Unit Trust Managers Limited JUTM, who became the conflict with the interests of the Company, unless, in terms of the Alternative Investment Manager AIFM to the Company with effect Articles of Association, the relevant conflict or potential conflict has from 22 July 2014, pursuant to the requirements of the AIFMD.
Under been authorised by the Board.
The Directors have declared all potential these arrangements, certain investment management functions have conflicts of interest with the Company.
The Register of potential been delegated from JUTM to Jupiter Asset Management Limited conflicts of interests is kept at the Registered Office of the Company.
The Company also appointed J. P. Morgan Europe Limited It is reviewed regularly by the Board and all Directors will advise the JPM Europe as its depositary for cash monitoring, safekeeping of Company Secretary as soon as they become aware of any potential financial instruments and other assets and oversight with effect from conflicts of interest.
Directors who have potential conflicts of interest 22 July 2014.
The Global Custody agreement with J. P. Morgan Chase will not take part in any discussions which relate to any of their potential Bank N. A. JPMCB will remain in place: JPM Europe has entered into conflicts.
an internal delegation agreement with JPMCB to delegate the custody functions to it.
14 JUPITER EUROPEAN OPPORTUNITIES TRUST PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Report of the Directors & Governance continued Report of the Directors continued The Directors have reviewed the performance and terms of JUTM does not directly employ any individuals and therefore the total appointment of JAM as the Companys Investment Adviser.
A summary amount of remuneration paid by it is nil.
All staff are employed and paid of the terms of the appointment including the notice of termination by other entities of Jupiter.
In the interests of transparency, Jupiter has period, annual fee and any performance fee payment is set out in apportioned the total employee remuneration paid to all 499 Jupiter staff Note 23 of the accounts on page 49.
The Directors believe that it is in respect of JUTMs AIFMD duties performed for the AIFs on a number in the best interests of all shareholders for the Company to continue of funds basis.
It has estimated that the total amount of employee the appointment of the Alternative Investment Fund Manager and the remuneration paid in respect of duties for the Company is 2,322,724, associated appointment of the Investment Adviser on their existing of which 387,823 is fixed remuneration and 1,934,901 is variable terms of appointment having reviewed the company secretarial, remuneration.
accounting, fund management and other services provided by both The aggregate total remuneration paid to AIFMD Identified Staff that is entities and having regard to the Companys performance against its attributable to duties for the Company is 1,789,148 of which 117,316 is Benchmark Index during the year under review.
The Directors are of the paid to Senior Management and 1,671,832 is paid to other staff.
It should view that the portfolio should remain under the Alternative Investment be noted that the aforementioned Identified Staff also provide services to Fund Managers stewardship.
other companies within Jupiter and its clients.
They are included because Common Reporting Standards their professional activities are considered to have a material impact on the risk profile of the Company.
With effect from 1 January 2016, The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development OECD introduced new Regulations Leverage for Automatic Exchange of Financial Account Information the Common In accordance with the requirements under AIFMD, the leverage employed Reporting Standard, CRS.
HMRC enacted the CRS in the UK through by the Company as at 31 May 2018 was 1:07 as determined using the The International Tax Compliance Regulations 2015.
Gross method, and 1:13 as determined using the Commitment method.
These Regulations require all Financial Institutions to share certain Average leverage on a gross exposure basis is calculated by taking information on overseas shareholders with HMRC: this scope the sum of the notional values of the derivative instruments and bank includes an obligation for Investment Trust Companies which had loans used by the Company, without netting, and is expressed as a ratio previously had no such reportable accounts under the UK FATCA of the Companys net asset value.
Average leverage on a commitment regulations.
Accordingly, the Company will be required to provide basis is calculated by netting the sum of the notional values of the information to HMRC on the tax residencies of a number of non-UK derivative instruments and bank loans and expressing it as a ratio of the based certificated shareholders and corporate entities on an annual Companys net asset value.
The Company did not invest in derivatives basis.
HMRC will in turn exchange this information with tax authorities during the year.
Short-term bank loans are disclosed under Finance in the country in which the shareholder may be resident for taxation costs in Note 6 on page 39. purposes.
HMRC has advised that the Company will not be required to provide such information on uncertificated holdings held through Disclosed in the table below is the level of leverage employed by the CREST.
The Company has engaged Capita Asset Services to provide Company.
such information on certificated holdings to HMRC, the deadline being 31 May annually.
Gross exposure Commitment exposure AIFMD Remuneration Disclosure Average leverage Average leverage Under the requirements of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers employed during employed during Directive AIFMD, Jupiter Unit Trust Managers Limited JUTM part of the period for the period for the Jupiter Group, which comprises Jupiter Fund Management plc and all Maximum the year ended Maximum the year ended of its subsidiaries Jupiter is required to comply with certain disclosure Limit 31 May 2018 limit 31 May 2018 and reporting obligations for funds that are considered to be Alternative 2:1 1:07 2:1 1:13 Investment Funds, including the Company.
Jupiter operates a Group-wide remuneration policy, which applies to all Going Concern employees across the Group.
All employees are incentivised in a similar The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern way and are rewarded according to personal performance and Jupiters basis.
The Directors consider that this is the appropriate basis as success.
Details of the remuneration policy, including the applicable they have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate financial and non-financial criteria, are set out in the detailed remuneration resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable policy disclosures available via the following link: future.
In considering this, the Directors took into account the Companys investment objective, risk management policies and capital https: www.
com Global en Investor-Relations Governance management policies, the diversified portfolio of readily realisable Risk-management securities which can be used to meet short-term funding commitments and the ability of the Company to meet all of its liabilities and ongoing Remuneration decisions are governed by Jupiters Remuneration expenses.
The Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis of Committee the Committee, which meets on a regular basis to consider accounting in preparing the financial statements.
remuneration matters across the Group.
In order to avoid conflicts of interest, the Committee comprises independent non-executive directors, ISA Qualification and no individual is involved in any decisions regarding their own The Company currently manages its affairs so as to be a qualifying remuneration.
investment trust under the Individual Savings Account ISA rules.
As 15 JUPITER EUROPEAN OPPORTUNITIES TRUST PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Report of the Directors & Governance continued Report of the Directors continued a result, under current UK legislation, the Ordinary shares qualify for The Investment Advisers UK voting policies are consistent with the UK investment via the stocks and shares component of an ISA up to the Stewardship Code.
The Investment Advisers Corporate Governance & full annual subscription limit, currently 20,000, in each tax year.
It is Voting Policy can be found at www.
the present intention that the Company will conduct its affairs so as to The Board and the Investment Adviser believe that shareholders have continue to qualify for ISA products.
a vital role in encouraging a higher level of corporate performance and Bribery Prevention Policy therefore adopt a positive approach to corporate governance.
The Investment Adviser aims to act in the best interests of all its stakeholders The provision of bribes of any nature to third parties in order to gain by engaging with companies that it invests in, and by exercising its voting a commercial advantage is prohibited and is a criminal offence.
Not only is this commensurate with good market practice, Board takes its responsibility to prevent bribery by Jupiter on its behalf it goes hand in hand with ensuring the responsible investment of its clients very seriously.
To aid the prevention of bribery being committed for funds.
Equally, companies are asked to present their plans for maintaining the benefit of the Company, Jupiter Asset Management Limited has social and environmental sustainability within their businesses.
Jupiter will advise any changes to the policy to the Board.
The Board and the Investment Adviser believe that institutional investors should exercise their corporate governance rights including voting at Internal Controls general meetings.
The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Companys system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
Internal In order to assist in the assessment of corporate governance and control systems are designed to meet the particular requirements of sustainability issues and contribute to a balanced view, the Investment the Company and to manage rather than eliminate the risks of failure Adviser subscribes to external corporate governance and sustainability to achieve its objectives.
The systems by their very nature can provide research providers but does not necessarily follow their voting reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement recommendations.
Contentious issues are identified and, where or loss.
There is an ongoing process which accords with the Turnbull necessary and where timescales permit, are discussed with corporate guidance on internal controls for identifying, evaluating and managing governance and or sustainability analysts and portfolio managers, and risks significant to the Company.
The Board has reviewed the with the companies themselves.
The Investment Adviser ensures that effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems including the its policy is voted in practice and timely voting decisions made.
financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
These systems have been in place for the period under review and to From time to time resolutions will be brought to Annual General Meetings the date of signing the accounts.
AGM by third parties encouraging companies to address specific environmental and or social concerns.
In such instances, Jupiters The Company receives services from Jupiter Asset Management corporate governance and sustainability analysts will discuss their Limited and J. P. Morgan Chase Bank N. A. relating to its investment views with the fund manager and the investee company if appropriate.
management, global custody and certain accounting and The Investment Adviser will then vote for what it considers to be in the administration services.
J. P. Morgan have reported to the Board on best financial interests of shareholders, whilst having regard for any their internal control objectives and the relevant procedures to meet specific sustainability concerns unless otherwise directed.
Documented contractual arrangements are in place with Jupiter and J. P. Morgan which define the areas where the Company Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions has delegated authority to them.
The Directors have considered the Details on the Companys greenhouse gas emissions can be found on report on the internal control objectives and procedures of Jupiter page 12 of this report.
together with the opinion of the service auditor for that report.
That report details the measures and the testing of the measures which are Shareholder Relations in place to ensure the proper recording, valuation, physical security All shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote at the AGM and protection from theft of the Companys investments and assets during which the Directors and Investment Adviser will be available to and the controls which have been established to ensure compliance answer questions regarding the Company.
The Notice of Meeting sets with all regulatory, statutory and fiscal obligations of the Company.
out the business of the AGM and any item not of an entirely routine The Directors have also had regard to the procedures for safeguarding nature is explained in the Directors Report or Notes accompanying the the integrity of the computer systems operated by the Investment Notice.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue.
Adviser and the key business disaster recovery plans.
By way of the Information about proxy votes is available to shareholders attending procedures described above the Board reviews the procedures in place the AGM and published thereafter on the Investment Advisers website.
to manage the risks to the Company on an annual basis.
The Company reports to shareholders twice a year by way of the The Company does not have an internal audit function.
The Audit Half-Yearly Financial Report and Annual Report & Accounts.
In Committee considers whether there is a need for an internal audit addition, Net Asset Values are published on a daily basis and factsheets function periodically.
As most of the Companys functions are delegated are published monthly on the Investment Advisers website to third parties the Board does not consider it necessary for the www.
Company to establish its own internal audit function.
The Board has developed the following procedure for ensuring that UK Stewardship Code and the Exercise of Voting Powers each Director develops an understanding of the views of shareholders.
The Companys Investment Adviser is responsible for voting the shares Regular contact with major shareholders is undertaken by the it holds on the Companys behalf.
The Investment Adviser supports the Companys corporate brokers and by the corporate finance executive Financial Reporting Councils UK Stewardship Code, which sets out of the Investment Adviser.
Any issues raised by major shareholders the responsibilities of institutional shareholders in respect of monitoring are then reported to the Board.
The Board also receives details of all and engaging with investee companies.
16 JUPITER EUROPEAN OPPORTUNITIES TRUST PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Report of the Directors continued material correspondence with shareholders and the Chairman and Resolution 13: Authority to buy back shares individual Directors are willing to meet shareholders to discuss any Resolution 13 seeks shareholder approval for the Company to renew the particular items of concern regarding the performance of the Company.
power to purchase its own Ordinary shares.
The Board believes that the The Chairman, Directors and representatives of the Investment Adviser ability of the Company to purchase its own Ordinary shares in the market are also available to answer any questions which may be raised by a will potentially benefit all shareholders of the Company.
The purchase of shareholder at the Companys AGM.
Ordinary shares at a discount to the underlying Net Asset Value would enhance the Net Asset Value on the remaining Ordinary shares if they Statement in Respect of the Annual Report & Accounts were cancelled on repurchase or reissued as treasury shares at a Having taken all available information into consideration, the Board lesser discount than that on which they were first repurchased.
has concluded that the Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended The Company is seeking shareholder approval to repurchase up 31 May 2018, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable to 16,890,032 Ordinary shares, representing 14.99 per cent.
of the and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys issued share capital the maximum permitted under the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Boards Listing Rules at a price that is not less than 1p per Ordinary share conclusions in this respect are set out in the Statement of Directors the nominal value of each Ordinary share and not more than 5 per Responsibilities on page 26. cent.
above the average of the middle market quotations for the five Annual General Meeting business days preceding the day of purchase.
The authority being sought will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to This years AGM will be held at The Zig Zag Building, 70 Victoria Street, be held in 2019.
The decision as to whether to repurchase any Ordinary London SW1E 6SQ at 11.00 am on 7 November 2018. shares will be at the absolute discretion of the Board.
Ordinary shares repurchased under this authority may either be held by the Company in Resolutions relating to the following special business will be proposed: treasury for resale or cancelled.
The Company will fund any purchases Resolution 11: Authority to Allot Shares by utilising existing cash resources or loan facilities.
The Directors may only allot shares for cash if they are authorised to The Board has determined the following policies in respect of the do so by shareholders in a general meeting.
At the Annual General Investment Advisers discretion in the use of treasury shares.
In the Meeting of the Company held on 7 November 2017, the Directors event that treasury shares are not reissued to the market within six were authorised to allot up to 37,191,776 Ordinary shares with an months of their date of purchase they will automatically be cancelled.
This authority will expire at Treasury shares will only be reissued at a premium to Net Asset Value.
the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
Since the authority Any treasury shares will only be reissued at a price not less than the 1,100,000 shares have been issued.
market bid price at the time of purchase.
The Directors are now seeking to renew their authority to allot up to Resolution 14: Notice of General Meetings 37,558,443 Ordinary shares with an aggregate nominal value of The Board believes that it is in the best interests of shareholders of the 375,584.43.
This authority will lapse at the conclusion of the Annual Company to have the ability to call meetings on 14 days clear notice General Meeting to be held in 2019.
The sum of 375,584.43 is should a matter require urgency.
The Board will therefore, as last year, approximately one third of the current issued share capital.
propose a resolution at the Annual General Meeting to approve the reduction in the minimum notice period from 21 clear days to 14 clear The Directors believe that it would be beneficial to the Company for days for all general meetings other than annual general meetings.
them to allot shares whenever they consider that it would be in the best The Directors do not intend to use the authority unless immediate interests of the Companys existing shareholders to do so.
The shares action is required.
The approval will be effective until the Companys will only be issued at a premium to Net Asset Value at the time of issue.
next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
Resolution 12: Authority to disapply pre-emption rights The Company will also need to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Shareholders Rights Directive before it can call a The Directors may only allot shares for cash or sell shares held in General Meeting on 14 clear days notice.
treasury, other than by way of offer to all existing shareholders pro rata to their shareholdings if they are authorised to do so by the shareholders in general meeting.
This resolution seeks authority for the Directors to allot shares for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders up to a nominal amount of 112,675.33.
This sum represents 11,267,533 Ordinary shares of 1p each, being 10 per cent.
of the current issued share capital.
This authority would allow the Directors to satisfy any future additional demand for shares with the benefit of enlarging the Company.
The current authority will expire at the conclusion of the 2018 AGM and it is the intention of the Directors to seek renewal of this authority at that AGM.
The Directors will only use this authority in circumstances where they consider it is in the best interests of the Company.
As with the shares issued to date, any new Ordinary shares will be issued or sold if held in Treasury only at prices greater than the prevailing NAV and therefore will be accretive to the NAV per share.
17 JUPITER EUROPEAN OPPORTUNITIES TRUST PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Report of the Directors & Governance continued Report of the Directors continued Regulatory Disclosures Information to be disclosed in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4 The disclosures below are made in compliance with the requirements of Listing Rule 9.8.
4 1 The Company has not capitalised any interest in the period under review.
4 2 The Company published its Half Yearly Financial Report on 26 February 2018 which contained unaudited financial information.
4 4 The Company has no incentive schemes in operation.
4 5 and 6 No director of the Company has waived or agreed to waive any current or future emoluments from the Company.
4 7, 8 and 9 The Company has not allotted any equity securities during the period under review within the meaning of Listing Rule 9.8.
4 10 During the period under review, there were no contracts of significance subsisting to which the Company is a party and in which a Director of the Company is or was materially interested: or between the Company and a controlling shareholder.
4 11 This provision is not applicable to the Company.
4 12 and 13 During the period under review, there were no arrangements under which a shareholder has waived or agreed to waive any dividends or future dividends.
4 14 This provision is not applicable to the Company.
Recommendation The Board considers that the passing of the resolutions being put to the AGM would be in the best interests of the Company and its Shareholders as a whole.
They therefore recommend that Shareholders vote in favour of Resolutions 1 to 14, as set out in the Notice of Meeting.
By Order of the Board Jupiter Asset Management Limited Company Secretary 28 September 2018 18
