JUPITER EUROPEAN OPPORTUNITIES TRUST PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report continued Strategic Review The Strategic Report has been prepared in accordance with the Benchmark Index Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report The Companys benchmark index is the FTSE World Europe ex UK Regulations 2013.
The Strategic Report seeks to provide shareholders with the relevant Dividend Policy information to enable them to assess the performance of the Directors The Directors intend to manage the Companys affairs to achieve and the Company during the period under review.
shareholder returns through capital growth rather than income.
It is therefore not expected that the Company will pay a regular annual Business and Status dividend.
However, in order to qualify for approval by HM Revenue During the year the Company carried on business as an investment and Customs as an investment trust, no more than 15 per cent.
of the trust with its principal activity being portfolio investment.
The Company income which the Company derives from ordinary shares or securities has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust can be retained in respect of each accounting period.
As such, the subject to the Company continuing to meet the eligibility conditions of Company may declare a dividend from time to time.
sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and the ongoing requirements for approved companies as detailed in Chapter 3 of Part 2 Management of the Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011.
In The Company has no employees and most of its day-to-day the opinion of the Directors, the Company has conducted its affairs in the responsibilities are delegated to Jupiter Asset Management Limited, appropriate manner to retain its status as an investment trust.
who act as the Companys Investment Adviser and Company Secretary.
The Company is an investment company within the meaning of section Further details of the Companys arrangements with Jupiter Asset Management Limited and the Alternative Investment Fund Manager 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
AIFM, Jupiter Unit Trust Managers Limited can be found in Note 23 to The Company is not a close company within the meaning of the provisions the accounts on page 49. of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and has no employees.
J. P. Morgan Europe Limited acts as the Companys Depositary and The Company was incorporated in England & Wales on 28 September the Company has entered into an outsourcing arrangement with 1999 and started trading on 20 November 2000, immediately following J. P. Morgan Chase Bank N. A. for the provision of accounting and the Companys launch.
Reviews of the Companys activities are included in the Chairmans Although Jupiter Asset Management Limited is named as the Company Statement and Investment Advisers Review on pages 4 to 7.
Secretary, J. P. Morgan Europe Limited provides administrative support There has been no significant change in the activities of the Company to the Company Secretary as part of its formal mandate to provide during the year to 31 May 2018 and the Directors anticipate that the broader fund administration services to the Company.
Company will continue to operate in the same manner during the Internal Controls and Risk Management Systems current financial year.
The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, Planned Life of the Company evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Company.
This is described in more detail on page 16.
The Articles of Association of the Company provide that at every third Annual General Meeting AGM an ordinary resolution shall be proposed Viability Statement that the Company shall continue in existence as an investment trust.
If any In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance such resolution is not passed at any of those meetings, the Directors shall, Code as issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in April within 90 days of the date of the resolution, put forward to shareholders 2016, the Board has assessed the viability of the Company over the proposals which may include proposals to wind up or reconstruct the rolling three years.
The Companys investment objective is to achieve Company whereby shareholders are entitled to receive cash in respect long-term capital growth and the Board regards the Companys shares of their shares equal as near as practicable to that to which they would be as a long-term investment.
As part of its assessment, the Board has entitled on a liquidation of the Company at that time and whether or not noted that shareholders will be required to vote on the continuation of shareholders are offered other options under the proposals.
As at the year end, the Board are not aware of any events or conditions which would suggest the continuation As a resolution to that effect was passed at the 2017 AGM, the next vote will not be passed.
Three years is considered a reasonable period scheduled continuation vote will be at the 2020 AGM.
for investment in equities and is appropriate for the composition of the Companys portfolio.
The Board has considered the Companys Shareholders should note that the valuations used to produce the business model including its investment objective and investment financial statements on a going concern basis might not be appropriate policy as well as the principal risks and uncertainties that may affect if the Company were to be liquidated.
the Company as detailed below.
Investment Strategy The Board has noted that: In order to achieve the objective of investing in securities of European The Company holds a liquid portfolio invested predominantly in companies and geographical sectors or areas which offer good prospects listed equities: for capital growth, the Investment Adviser adopts a stock picking The Company maintains a relatively low level of gearing: approach, in the belief that a thorough analysis and understanding of a company is the best way to identify long-term superior growth prospects.
The Companys ongoing charges and operational expenses are well covered by the expected levels of return and revenue: Investment Policy The Company has maintained a consistent performance and share The investment policy of the Company is set out in full on page 2 of price discount to NAV: this document.
European equities remain an attractive opportunity for investors: and 10 JUPITER EUROPEAN OPPORTUNITIES TRUST PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report continued Strategic Review continued No significant increase to ongoing charges or operational expenses five years respectively by NAV performance.
The Company was ranked is anticipated.
2nd in the peer group in terms of discount to NAV as at 31 May 2018 source: JP Morgan Cazenove.
The Board has also considered the Companys prospects over the rolling three years, its principal risks, its level of gearing, the predicted Capital Gains Tax Information demand for the Companys shares as well as market outlook, both for The closing middle market price of Ordinary shares on the first date of equity shares and investment trusts.
dealing 20 November 2000 for Capital Gains Tax purposes was 101.5p.
The Board has therefore concluded that there is a reasonable Premium Discount to Net Asset Value expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and The Directors review the level of the discount or premium between the meet its liabilities as they fall due over the rolling three years.
middle market price of the Companys Ordinary shares and their Net Asset Value on a regular basis and take the opportunity to issue shares Gearing when there is sufficient demand at not less than NAV.
Gearing may be defined as the ratio of a companys debt, less cash held, compared to its equity capital, expressed as a percentage.
The The Directors have powers granted to them at the last annual general effect of gearing is that where the value of the investment portfolio meeting to purchase Ordinary shares and hold them in treasury or for increases, all the increase accrues to the shareholders whereas when cancellation as a method of controlling the discount to Net Asset Value and enhancing shareholder value.
the value falls, the shareholders suffer the whole of the reduction.
Holders of the Companys debt are not affected by such increases or No Ordinary shares were bought back during the year.
reductions, provided that the portfolio value remains sufficient to cover Under the Listing Rules, the maximum price that may currently be the debt.
paid by the Company on the repurchase of any Ordinary shares is In order to improve the potential for capital returns to shareholders the 105 per cent.
of the average of the middle market quotations for the Company had access to a flexible loan facility with Scotiabank Ireland Ordinary shares for the five business days immediately preceding the Designated Activity Company for amounts up to 135 million.
The minimum price will be the nominal value of the the accounting year, the existing facility of 125 million was increased to Ordinary shares.
Further details of the Scotiabank The Board is proposing that its authority to repurchase up to Ireland Designated Activity Companys loan facility can be found in approximately 14.99 per cent.
of its issued share capital should Note 13 to the accounts on page 42. be renewed at the Annual General Meeting.
The new authority to On 14 September 2018 the Companys existing 135 million multi currency repurchase will last until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting revolving loan facility was due to expire.
Accordingly, on 14 September of the Company in 2019 unless renewed earlier.
Any repurchase 2018 the Board agreed to renew the facility at 100 million.
made will be at the discretion of the Board in light of prevailing market The Directors consider it a priority that the Companys level of gearing conditions and within guidelines set from time to time by the Board, the Companies Act, the Listing Rules and Model Code.
should be maintained at appropriate levels with sufficient flexibility to enable the Company to adapt at short notice to changes in market conditions.
Treasury Shares The Board has not set any additional limits or restrictions on the In accordance with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 Companys new 100 million loan facility with Scotiabank Europe PLC.
any Ordinary shares repurchased, pursuant to the above authority, The Board regularly reviews the Companys level of gearing.
These Ordinary shares may subsequently be cancelled or sold for cash.
This would give the Company the ability to Key Performance Indicators reissue shares quickly and cost effectively and provide the Company At the quarterly board meetings the Directors consider a number of with additional flexibility in the management of its capital.
The Company performance indicators to help assess the Companys success in may hold in treasury any of its Ordinary shares that it purchases achieving its objectives.
The key performance indicators used to pursuant to the share buy back authority granted by shareholders.
At measure the performance of the Company over time are as follows: present there are no shares held in treasury.
Net Asset Value changes over time Principal Risks and Uncertainties Ordinary share price movement The principal risk factors that may affect the Company and its business A comparison of the absolute and relative performance of the Ordinary can be divided into the following areas: share price to Net Asset Value and the Companys Benchmark Index Investment Strategy and Share Price Movements The Company is Discount over varying periods exposed to the effect of variations in the price of its investments.
A fall Peer Group comparative performance.
in the value of its portfolio will have an adverse effect on shareholders funds.
The aim of the Board is to favour capital growth wherever A history of the Net Asset Value and benchmark is shown on page 3 under possible, but it is inevitable that from time to time losses may be incurred.
the heading Performance Since Launch and in the monthly factsheets The Board reviews the Companys investment strategy and the risk of which can be viewed on the Companys section of the Investment Advisers adverse share price movements at its quarterly board meetings taking website www.
com JEO and which are available on request into account the economic climate, market conditions and other factors from the Company Secretary.
that may have an effect on the sectors in which the Company invests.
Peer Group Performance Foreign Currency Movements The Company has exposure to foreign There were 8 investment trusts in the Europe sector as at 31 May 2018. currency through its investments.
The Board considers carefully factors The Board monitors the Companys performance in relation to both the which may affect the foreign currency in which the Company has an sector as a whole and the companies within the sector which the Board exposure at its quarterly board meetings taking into account the economic considers to be its peer group.
and political climate of various regions and the prospects for sterling.
As at 31 May 2018, of those companies within the Europe sector, the Company was ranked 2nd over one year, 1st over three and 1st over 11 JUPITER EUROPEAN OPPORTUNITIES TRUST PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report continued Strategic Review continued Interest Rates The Company has exposure to cash which generates Custody The Board receives quarterly reports from the Depositary interest through interest bearing accounts.
The Board is mindful of confirming safe custody of the Companys assets and cash and interest rates when setting limits on the Companys exposure to cash.
holdings are reconciled to the Custodians records.
The Depositarys internal controls reports are reviewed by the Investment Adviser and Liquidity Risk This risk can be viewed both as the liquidity of the Companys Directors and concerns are discussed as and when the securities in which the Company invests and the liquidity of the they may occur.
The Company may invest in securities that have a very limited market which will affect the ability of the Companys The Depositary is specifically liable for loss of any of the Companys Investment Adviser to dispose of securities when he no longer feels securities or cash held in custody.
they offer the potential for future returns.
Likewise the Companys Financial Inadequate financial controls could result in misappropriation shares may experience liquidity problems when shareholders are of assets, loss of income and debtor receipts and inaccurate reporting of unable to realise their investment in the Company because there is a Net Asset Value per share.
The Board annually reviews the Investment lack of demand for the Companys shares.
The Board is mindful of Advisers statements on its internal controls and procedures in addition the liquidity in the Companys shares.
In addition, the Board seeks the to any financial reporting by the Company.
advice of the Companys brokers, Cenkos, who give advice on ways in Derivatives The Company invests in derivatives from time to time.
which the Board can influence the liquidity in the Companys shares.
Derivatives may be a riskier investment than equities as they can exaggerate The Company monitors performance to ensure it is able to meet the the return that can be achieved compared to investing directly in equities.
financial objectives of the loan repayment.
The Board has set limits on the amount of exposure the Company has to Gearing Risk The Companys gearing can impact the Companys derivatives and it reviews these limits at its quarterly board meetings.
The performance by accelerating the decline in value of the Companys net Company did not invest in derivatives during the year.
assets at a time when the Companys portfolio is declining.
Conversely In accordance with the AIC and the UK Corporate Governance Code, gearing can have the effect of accelerating the increase in the value the Directors have carried out a review of the effectiveness of the of the Companys net assets at a time when the Companys portfolio system of internal control as it has operated over the year and up to the is rising.
The Companys level of gearing is under constant review by date of approval of the report and accounts.
the Board who take into account the economic environment and market conditions when reviewing the level.
Social and Environmental Matters Discount to Net Asset Value A discount in the price at which The Investment Adviser considers various factors when evaluating the Companys shares trade to Net Asset Value would mean that potential investments.
While an investee companys policy towards the shareholders would be unable to realise the true underlying value of environment and social responsibility, including with regard to human their investment.
As a means of controlling the discount to Net Asset rights, is considered as part of the overall assessment of risk and Value the Board has established a discount control policy which is suitability for the portfolio, the Investment Adviser does not necessarily under constant review as market conditions change.
Further details of decide to, or not to, make an investment on environmental and social the buy back programme can be found on page 11 under the heading grounds alone.
Premium Discount to Net Asset Value.
Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions Regulatory Risk The Company operates in a complex regulatory All of the Companys activities are outsourced to professional third environment and faces a number of regulatory risks.
As such it does not have any physical assets, property, 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 could result in the Company employees or operations of its own and does not generate any being subject to tax on capital gains in the portfolio.
Breaches of other greenhouse gas or other emissions.
regulations, such as the UKLA Listing Rules, could lead to a number of The Company has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from its detrimental outcomes and reputational damage.
Breaches of controls by operations as its day-to-day management and administration functions service providers could also lead to reputational damage or loss.
The have been outsourced to third parties and it neither owns physical Board relies on the services of its Company Secretary, Jupiter Asset assets, property nor has employees of its own.
It therefore does not Management Limited, and its professional advisers to ensure compliance have responsibility for any other emissions producing sources under with, amongst other regulations, the Companies Act 2006, the UKLA the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Listing Rules and the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
Loss of Key Personnel The day-to-day management of the Company Board Diversity has been delegated to the Investment Adviser.
Loss of the Investment It is seen as a prerequisite that each member of the Board must have Advisers key staff members could affect investment return.
The Board is the skills, experience and character that will enable each Director aware that Jupiter Asset Management Limited recognises the importance to contribute individually, and as part of the Board team, to the of its employees to the success of its business.
Its remuneration policy effectiveness of the Board and the success of the Company.
Subject is designed to be market competitive in order to motivate and retain staff to that overriding principle, diversity of experience and approach, and succession planning is regularly reviewed.
The Board also believes including gender diversity, amongst Board members is of great value, that suitable alternative experienced personnel could be employed to and it is the Boards policy to give careful consideration to issues of manage the Companys portfolio in the event of an emergency.
overall Board balance and diversity in appointing new directors.
Operational Failure of the Investment Advisers core accounting The Board currently comprises four male directors and one female director.
systems, or a disastrous disruption to its business, could lead to an inability to provide accurate reporting and monitoring.
The Investment For and on behalf of the Board Adviser is contractually obliged to ensure that its conduct of business Andrew Sutch conforms to applicable laws and regulations.
Details of how the Board Chairman monitors the services provided by Jupiter Asset Management Limited 28 September 2018 and its associates are included within the Internal Controls section of the Report of the Directors on page 16.
