FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Directors report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Annual Report and audited financial statements of the Company and the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The Directors Report contains certain statutory, regulatory and other information and incorporates, by reference, the Strategic Report and the Corporate Governance Report included earlier in this document.
Strategic Report A fair review of the Groups performance during the period and of its position at the period end, including commentary on its likely future development and prospects, is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 02 to 37, whilst information on principal risks and uncertainties and key performance indicators is given on pages 20 to 28 and page 19, respectively.
All of this information should be read in conjunction with this report.
The Corporate Governance Report, including the Directors Remuneration Report, on pages 38 to 85, summarises the Companys governance and Directors remuneration arrangements.
The Our People and Sustainability sections on pages 29 to 37 summarise the Groups approach to diversity, health and safety, environmental matters and community matters.
All of these sections form part of this Directors Report, into which they are incorporated by reference.
Results and dividends The audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the period under review are set out on pages94 to 133 and pages 134 to 137, respectively.
The Company intends to retain its earnings to expand the growth and development of its business and, therefore, the Directors do not anticipate paying ordinary dividends in the foreseeable future.
2019 Annual General Meeting AGM An explanation of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM, and the recommendation of Directors in relation tothese, is included in the circular to shareholders accompanying this Annual Report.
Resolutions regarding the authority to issue shares are commented upon later in this report under share capital.
The Companys AGM will be held at The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED at 9.30am on1May 2019.
Research and development We continue to dedicate resources to improve the customer experience and enhance our offering to Restaurant Partners.
The Company and the Group do not perform basic research.
Development costs incurred are capitalised when it is probable that future economic benefits will be attributable to the asset and that these costs can be measured reliably see Note 5.
Change of control In the event of a takeover, a scheme of arrangement other than a scheme of arrangement for the purposes of creating a new holding company or certain other events, unvested Executive Director and employee share awards may, in certain circumstances, become exercisable.
Such circumstances may, although do not necessarily, depend on the achievement of performance conditions or the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The Company does not have any agreements with any Director or officer of the Company that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover.
The Company has a committed Revolving Credit Facility in place which provides its lenders with certain rights under a change of control.
Under a change of control each lender has the option to make its outstanding loans immediately due and payable and cancel its facility commitment.
Save as otherwise disclosed above, there are no other significant agreements to which the Company is a party tothat take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
Financial instruments Our risk management policies relating to capital risk and financial risk which includes market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk are detailed within Note 20 of the notes to the financial statements on pages 124 to 128.
In addition, theoverall risk framework and strategy for the Group is included within the Strategic Report on pages 02 to 37.
Employment of disabled persons Our policy in respect of the employment of disabled persons is set out in the Our People section on page 29.
Employee consultation Details of employee consultation are set out in the Our People section on page 32.
138 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Substantial shareholdings At 5 March 2019, the Company had been notified in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the FCA, or was aware, that the following held, or were beneficially interested in, 3% or more of the voting rights in the Companys shares at that date: Number of % of voting 1 Ordinary shares rights 2 The Sara Marron Discretionary Settlement the SM Trust 91,472,442 13.43 3 Capital Group Companies, Inc. 72,436,528 10.63 Massachusetts Financial Services Company 59,073,500 8.67 Baillie Gifford & Co Ltd 34,185,882 5.02 3 FIL Limited 28,827,929 4.23 1.
Total voting rights attached to the issued share capital of the Company comprising 681,172,878 Ordinary shares each of 0.01 nominal value, being the 681,172,878 Ordinary shares in issue at 5 March 2019.
STM Fidecs Trust Company Limited is the holder of the registered legal title to the Ordinary shares beneficially owned by the SM Trust.
As at 31 December 2018: Capital Group Companies, Inc. held 65,249,160 shares representing 9.58% of the voting rights in the Company at that time: and FIL Limited held 34,429,681 shares representing 5.06% of the voting rights in the Company at that time.
The Company received no notifications of interests indicating a different whole percentage holding at 31 December 2018, other than as shown in the footnotes to the table above.
Directors The Directors of the Company who served throughout the period and up to the date of signing this Annual Report except where noted were: Mike Evans Chair appointed 6 March 2018 : Peter Duffy Interim Chief Executive Officer appointed 21 January 2019 : Paul Harrison Chief Financial Officer : Gwyn Burr: Frederic Coorevits: Alistair Cox: Roisin Donnelly: Andrew Griffith Senior Independent Director : Diego Oliva: Helen Weir appointed 1 December 2018 : Peter Plumb stepped down on 21 January 2019 : and David Buttress stepped down on 26 April 2018.
Certain key matters in connection with the Directors are shown below: The business of the Company is managed by its Directors, who may exercise all powers of the Company subject to the Articles of Association and UK legislation.
Directors of the Company are appointed either by the Board or by shareholders under the Companys Articles of Association and may resign or be removed in a similar manner.
Biographical details of the current Directors are set out on pages 40 and 41.
The Directors interests in the Ordinary share capital of the Company and any interests known to the Company of their connected persons are set out in the Report of the Remuneration Committee commencing on page 64.
The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors in relation to certain losses and liabilities that they may incur in the course of acting as Directors of the Company, its subsidiaries or associates, which remain in force at the date of this report.
No member of the Board had a material interest in any contract of significance with the Company or any of its subsidiaries at any time during the year, except for their interests in shares and in share awards and under their service agreements and letters of appointment disclosed in the Report of the Remuneration Committee commencing on page 64.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 139 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Directors report continued Share capital Certain key information relating to the Companys shares is shown below: The Companys shares at the year end comprised entirely Ordinary shares of 0.01 each, which rank equally in all respects.
The rights attached to the shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution of theshareholders.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them, except: i where the Company has exercised its right to suspend their voting rights or to prohibit their transfer following the omission of their holder, or any person interested in them, to provide the Company with information requested by it in accordance with Part 22 of the Act: or ii where their holder is precluded from exercising voting rights by the FCAs Listing Rules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
The Group operates employee share plans as set out in the Report of the Remuneration Committee commencing on page 64 and in Note 7 of the financial statements.
Shares held by the Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs abstain from voting by agreement with the Company.
Save as described above, shares acquired through the Companys employee share plans rank pari passu with shares in issue and have no special rights.
At the year end, the Company had authority exercisable by the Directors to issue up to 452,594,396 shares subject to certain restrictions.
The Company will seek to renew its authority to issue shares at the 2019 AGM.
At the AGM on 26 April 2018, shareholders granted the Company limited authority to make market purchases of up to 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
This is a standard authority which many listed companies maintain and which the Company has no current intention of utilising: however, it will seek to renew this authority again at the 2019 AGM.
Save as described under the Board Representation Agreement described below, the Company is not aware of any agreements or control rights between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Further information regarding the Companys share capital, including the changes to this during the year, is set out in Note 23 of the financial statements.
Board Representation Agreement At the time of the Companys IPO, the SM Trust the Shareholder Party entered into an agreement the Agreement with the Company which entitles the Shareholder Party to appoint one Director to the Board of the Company.
Frederic Coorevits, who is the nominated appointee on behalf of SM Trust, will remain on the Board until he steps down or the Agreement lapses in the event of the Shareholder Party ceasing to hold at least 10% of the Ordinary shares.
The Shareholder Party has also agreed not to propose the appointment of a further Board representative or vote against the election or re-election of a person the Board has put forward for election or re-election as a Director of the Company.
Corporate governance The Company is committed to achieving the highest standards of corporate governance.
Its application of the principles of good governance in respect of the UK Corporate Governance Code for the period under review is described in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 38 to 39.
The Directors Responsibility Statement in respect of this Annual Report and the financial statements appears on page 142.
Tax governance The Company is committed to high standards of tax governance.
In complying with paragraph 16 2 and paragraph 25 1, Schedule 19 of the UK Finance Act 2016, the Groups tax strategy, as approved by the Board, is published on the corporate website.
Going concern, viability and risk management The Companys statement with regard to the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements is included in the principal risks and uncertainties section on page 21.
The Directors carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group.
This included those that could threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Details of how we manage and mitigate these are set out in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 54 to 56.
The Groups viability statement is included in the Principal risks and uncertainties section, please see page 21.
140 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Political donations The Company did not make any political donations during the current or prior year.
Greenhouse gas emissions unaudited This section has been prepared in accordance with our regulatory obligation to report greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to section 7 of the Act Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
The table below shows our emissions performance for the years ended 31 December 2016, 2017 and 2018.
Our 2017 and 2018 emissions disclosures have both been independently verified by Carbon Credentials against the ISO 14064-3 standard.
2018 2017 2016 Scope 1 combustion of fuel and operation of facilities tCO 884 1,118 1,088 2 Scope 2 location based electricity tCO 874 615 802 2 Scope 2 market based electricity tCO 1,025 636 910 2 Scope 3 business travel tCO 3,664 2,625 2,306 2 Total Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions location based 5,422 4,358 4,196 tCO e per m Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions location based 7.0 8.0 11.2 2 Scope 1 comprises vehicle emissions in relation to operational visits to restaurants.
Scope 2 comprises our energy consumption in buildings.
Scope 3 comprises other business travel.
Data notes: We quantify and report our organisational greenhouse gas emissions in alignment with the World Resources Institutes Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
Emissions from the consumption of electricity outside of the UK are reported in tCO rather than tCO e since the 2 2 International Energy Agency emission factors for electricity currently account for carbon dioxide emissions only.
Scope 2 emissions have been calculated using the location based and market based methods.
Under the location based method, we have utilised the UK Government and the International Energy Agency country-specific emission factors for electricity generation.
Under the market based method, for our European operations, we have utilised the residual mix electricity emission factor published by RE-DISS as we have been unable to obtain tariff-specific emission factors from our suppliers, and for all non-European suppliers we have utilised the location based grid electricity emission factors as residual emission factors have yet to be calculated outside of Europe.
This approach is in line with the data hierarchy outlined in the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance.
In line with previous years we have presented our total emissions in relation to revenue, in order to represent how our emissions are impacted by the growth in the business.
Performance Emissions have increased by 24% in 2018 2017: 4%.
Emissions have increased at a greater rate in 2018 as a result of the continued growth of the business, M&A activity and accelerated delivery roll-out.
Whilst Scope 1 emissions have decreased, Scope 3 emissions have increased as the growth of the Groups Canadian business, along with the launch of SkipTheDishes delivery platform in the UK and Australia, has required more business travel for management.
Related party transactions with Directors Please refer to Note 26 for details of transactions entered into with related parties.
Overseas branches The Company has no branches outside the UK.
Events after the balance sheet date The Directors confirm that there have been no material events since the balance sheet date.
However, we note the departure of the Chief Executive Officer, Peter Plumb, in January 2019.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 141 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Directors report continued Directors Responsibility Statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the European Union.
Under UK company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company, and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Act and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 40 to 41, confirm that, to the best of each persons knowledge and belief: the Company and Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and the Parent Company: and the Strategic Report and Directors Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The Board considers the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
Disclosure of information to the auditor Each of the Directors of the Company at the time when this report was approved confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given in accordance with section 418 2 of the Act.
Auditor Deloitte LLP, the Groups auditor, has indicated its willingness to continue in office and, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee and in accordance with section 489 of the Act, a resolution to reappoint it will be put to the 2019 AGM.
The audit tender process undertaken during 2018 is summarised in the Report of the Audit Committee on page 58.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf Tony Hunter Company Secretary 5 March 2019 142 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
