06 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Market context Current market and outlook There are approximately 1.6tn in UK defined benefit pension scheme obligations source: PPF, which is driving high demand for fide-risking solutions, with transactions forecast to reach approximately 700bn by being 2031 source: Hymans Robertson.
While insurer capacity will increase in the long term, over the medium term we believe the demand for fide-risking solutions exceeds the current supply available from providers.
The defined benefit fide-risking market is projected to grow further over the next decade, with just transactions expected to be over 30bn per year.
This level of activity would result in only 2% of total defined benefit pension assets each year being fide-risked, providing Structural drivers in our markets mean significant potential upside.
2018 has been a record year for the defined we can grow profits while delivering benefit fide-risking market, where transactions are expected to reach 23bn source: LCP, better outcomes for customers ahead of the previous record in 2014 of 13.2bn.
There were four transactions written over 1bn and the largest transaction to date has been 4.4bn.
Four providers, including Just, wrote their largest ever deal and a new entrant completed transactions in the external market.
UK MARKETS The defined benefit fide-risking market is usually characterised as starting slow in the DEFINED BENEFIT fide-RISKING SOLUTIONS early part of the year and building pace, with a Introduction peak of activity often seen in the final quarter.
Defined benefit pension schemes have an For a market with traditional peaks and obligation to pay a pre-determined monthly troughs 2018 was different, with high levels of retirement income based on an employees activity and demand throughout the year.
earnings history, tenure of employment and age.
Operating these schemes has become Employee benefits consultants are predicting unattractive and more costly for employers another busy year in 2019 and are reporting over the last decade and this has created an pipelines of new business expected from opportunity for guaranteed income their clients of 30-40bn, which is larger than providers to fide-risk, fully or partially, an any prior year.
The outcome for the year is employers existing defined benefit more difficult to predict given insurers, obligations to its members.
scheme sponsors and consultants will be required to resolve other potential competing Taking the risk out of paying priorities such as Brexit and the recent High Court ruling that Lloyds Banking Group must company pensions equalise guaranteed minimum pensions for men and women.
Defined benefit fide-risking can occur via a Buy-in, whereby a pension scheme pays a single premium to an insurance company to purchase an income stream that matches its obligations to its members, but retains legal responsibility for those obligations.
An alternative is a Buy-out, where a pension scheme removes its obligations by purchasing individual insurance policies to replicate its obligations to some or all of its pension scheme members, who then become customers of the fide-risking provider.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 07 INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT INCOME MARKET 88% of dened benefit pension schemes are closed to new members and increasingly to future accrual % Introduction Guaranteed Income for Life GIfL products are bought by individual customers to convert 100 some or all of their accumulated pension savings into a guaranteed lifetime retirement 80 income.
The solution provides people with 60 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 peace of mind from the security of knowing 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 the income will continue to be paid for as long 40 as the customer and, where relevant, for as long as they or, typically, their spouse lives.
In 20 the UK, GIfLs traditionally offered an income 0 payable without reference to the individuals 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 health or lifestyle, and were differentiated Closed to new members open to benefit accrual Closed to future accrual only by reference to a limited number of Source: The Purple Book 2018, PPF factors such as age, postcode, premium size and, prior to 31 December 2012, gender.
The capacity of companies to deliver fideExpected growth in DB fide-risking transactions risking solutions is constrained.
Defined bn An individually underwritten GIfL takes into benefit pension schemes are competing for account an individuals medical conditions 12.0 the same resources as a number of life and lifestyle factors to determine their life insurance companies who have explored, or expectancy.
People who are eligible and are exploring, selling their large books of purchase an individually underwritten GIfL 0.0 Guaranteed Income for Life business and in 23.0 9.0 typically achieve double-digit percentage 0.0 0.0 0.0 2018 this exceeded 12bn.
increases in income compared to purchasing a 13.2 12.3 12.2 GIfL which is not individually underwritten.
The Department for Work and Pensions is 10.2 7.5 seeking views on a new legislative framework 5.2 4.4 for authorising and regulating defined benefit Providing security 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 forecast superfund consolidation vehicles of the type Buy-in Buy-out Backbook acquisition and peace of mind envisaged by the White Paper Protecting defined benefit pension schemes published Source: Just Group analysis, Hymans Robertson, LCP The proportion of people purchasing in March 2018.
This new profit making an individually underwritten GIfL is arrangement, which is subject to consultation, External GIfL market m continuing to increase and our view is this if introduced, would provide a new fide-risking will become the minimum standard for solution for schemes and sponsors that 3,000 all providers over the next few years.
cannot achieve a Buy-out from an insurance company.
These so-called superfunds are Pension customers are encouraged to 2,165 proposed to be regulated outside of the 2,119 1,917 compare the GIfL offer provided by their insurance regime and so are not subject to the 1,728 existing pension company to those offered more robust capital requirements of the on what is the open or external market.
If these new March 2018 the FCA introduced rules requiring arrangements are regulated as proposed pension companies to provide customers with there is a risk they could become a cheaper, an external GIfL quotation showing the best substitute solution to a buyout of liabilities for quote available from the external market some pension schemes, although they may 2015 2016 2017 2018 2021 forecast alongside the quotation from the incumbent provide less protection for members Source: Just Group analysis, ABI firm.
They have subsequently announced compared to an insurance solution.
Just Group rules to strengthen this requirement and, and our peers in the industry are actively where the customer is eligible, require engaging with government to ensure any new firms to provide a medically underwritten arrangements are created in a regulated comparison.
This should provide new environment that does not allow members of opportunities for Just Group as we compete defined benefit pension schemes to receive a in the open market when these customers poor deal and that regulatory arbitrage is choose to shop around: this is our addressable eliminated.
market as we do not have an existing base of pension savings customers.
The open market increased from 48% of the total GIfL market in 2017 to 50% in 2018 source: ABI.
CAGR 7.8% CAGR 11.5% 08 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Market context continued Continuing developments are driving growth in Enabling people to our addressable market: the structural drivers of growth in the improve their later-life retirement income market are strong and assets accumulating in defined contribution living standards The LTM market will DC pension schemes are projected to grow to around 6bn increase consistently over the next decade.
People are becoming increasingly positively This growth arises from an increase in the disposed to accessing some of the equity in per annum by the end number of people joining workplace pension their homes to improve the quality of their schemes as a result of the successful state later lives or to help their family.
The of 2021, which is a auto-enrolment policy and the increase in compound annual growth rate of the lifetime compound annual contribution rates implemented in 2018: mortgage market between 2001 and 2018 was growth in DC pension assets also arises as 13.7% and this has attracted new providers to growth rate of 15% companies close down final salary or enter the market in the last few years.
from 2018 defined benefit DB pension schemes and offer their employees DC pensions instead: Just Group is a leading product provider of thousands of people are transferring out of lifetime mortgages.
Our HUB Financial DB pension schemes into DC pension Solutions business is a leading distribution schemes to take advantage of Pension business providing consumers with regulated Freedoms.
When transferring, many people advice on equity release solutions from are choosing to secure a guaranteed income across the market.
for life, by using some of the transfer value to purchase an individually underwritten Current market and outlook GIfL: and Homeowners aged over 55 are estimated to many life and pension companies are own property wealth of over 3.0 trillion choosing to put in place broking solutions to source: ONS.
We estimate that the existing offer their pension savings customers industry loan book including interest is just access to the best individually underwritten 26bn.
The market remains under-penetrated GIfL deals in the market.
Some are choosing and there is significant headroom for growth.
to transfer their obligations to provide a guaranteed GIfL rate to their customers to We do not expect the changes prescribed by an alternative product provider or broking the PRA Policy Statement 31 18 to have a solution.
This grows our addressable market material impact on the overall growth in the and provides customers with better market.
Some customers may not be able to outcomes.
Our HUB group of companies is access their housing wealth at earlier ages providing many of these corporate services.
and some may not be able to access as much equity as they have been able to in the past.
LIFETIME MORTGAGES Introduction Just is forecasting that the LTM market will A lifetime mortgage LTM allows grow to around 6bn per annum by the end of homeowners to borrow money secured 2021, which is a compound annual growth against the equity in their home without the rate of 15% from 2018.
The primary drivers of need to move out.
The amount borrowed is growth are: repayable together with accrued interest on households wanting to top up their the death of the homeowner or moving retirement income to improve their permanently into residential care.
This standard of living in later life: product can be used by retirees to supplement an increase in the number of people with savings, top up retirement income or to settle outstanding interest-only mortgages who any outstanding indebtedness.
are entering retirement and require a solution to settle the debt with the existing The typical lifetime mortgage customer is mortgage company: around 70 years old, has a house valued at strong demographic growth.
The number of around 200,000 and agrees a facility to people aged 65 and over is forecast to borrow up to 30% of the house value.
increase from around 12 million today to over 18 million by 2040: and an increase in new entrants who spend money on advertising which results in people becoming aware of LTMs combined with people becoming more disposed to using some of their housing equity.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 09 Seven years of consecutive growth of lifetime LONG-TERM CARE SOLUTIONS INTERNATIONAL MARKETS mortgage sales in the UK m Introduction Care Plans, or immediate needs annuities, are SOUTH AFRICAN RETIREMENT INCOME MARKET 3,941 a segment of purchased life annuities.
A Care South Africa has one of the five largest Plan offers a guaranteed income paid directly immediate guaranteed income for life 3,057 to a registered care provider or an individual markets in the world, with many structural for the life of the insured, in exchange for an similarities to the UK, including legislative 2,149 up-front lump sum premium.
Under current framework, products and distribution.
1,602 rules this income is tax free when paid directly 1,379 Limited state social security, tax incentives 1,073 to the registered care provider.
Care Plans are 920 for private retirement provision and increased 772 available to individuals entering care facilities compulsion to purchase a guaranteed or receiving domiciliary support.
As such, Care income for life or drawdown solution mean Plans provide a form of longevity insurance to 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 the retirement market is expected to grow the individual against the costs of receiving significantly over the coming years.
Lump sum mortgage sales care until their death.
New drawdown mortgages initial advance The market is dominated by defined Existing drawdown mortgages further advances Just has a strong pedigree in the market, contribution arrangements.
The market Source: Equity Release Council having been one of the market leaders for that could annuitise includes approximately 17 years.
3.5bn at-retirement and 23bn in-retirement Number of people millions aged 65 savings, however currently the great majority Current market and outlook of consumers use drawdown plans.
There is a substantial market for care in the 18% 19% 20% 22% 24% 24% of UK population UK.
The drivers of the need for care are Just has introduced an innovative new strong because: 18.1 product to the South African market which 17.2 there are currently around 1.6 million 15.7 provides the customer with the benefit of a people aged 85 or over in the UK this is the 14.0 guaranteed income for life solution within a 12.7 average age at which people go into care 11.6 drawdown product.
It is expected that this number will more than double over the next two Prudential regulation has moved to the new decades, suggesting a growth rate in excess Solvency Assessment and Management of 3%: SAM regime which became effective on around 33% of women aged 65 and 20% of 2015 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 1 July 2018: SAM is recognised as equivalent men aged 65 are likely to enter a care home to the Solvency II regime.
Source: ONS at some point in the future: and there is uncertainty over government policy Additionally, the government-led reform to for long-term social care.
The government retirement legislation became effective from has withdrawn the cap on care fees that 1 March 2019.
This makes trustees of was due to become effective in 2020 and retirement funds responsible for providing planned to publish a Green Paper on care default solutions at retirement, with and support for older people by summer Just Have Been Leaders For retirement benefit counselling provided by 2018, which was delayed at the time of each pension scheme to provide information writing this report.
This will set out how the on default options at retirement.
government proposes to improve care and 17years support for older people and tackle the challenge of an ageing population.
