44 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Board of Directors CHRIS GIBSON-SMITH, RODNEY COOK, Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer Appointed: 04 April 2016 Appointed: 05 July 2010 Chris Gibson-Smith was appointed Chairman Rodney Cook was appointed as Group Chief of Just Group plc in April 2016.
He previously Executive Officer of Just Group plc in April 2016.
He served as Chairman of Partnership Assurance was Chief Executive Officer of Just Retirement Group plc from April 2013 until April 2016.
Group plc from August 2013 until April 2016, and was appointed as Chief Executive Officer of Just Chris brings over 46 years business experience Retirement Holdings Limited in July 2010. across a wide range of industries.
This includes over 40 years of cumulative FTSE main board Previously, Rodney was Managing Director, Life and experience, 26 of which as Chairman.
Chris Pensions of Liverpool Victoria.
Rodney, a qualified currently holds the role of Vice Chairman of actuary, has 40 years experience in financial UBS Investment Bank as of July 2016, and was services, having led businesses in both the United previously Chairman of the London Stock Exchange Kingdom and Australasia.
He commenced his Group plc from 2003 to 2015.
He was Chairman career with AMP, which culminated in his of the British Land Company plc from 2007 until appointment as Managing Director of Pearl in 1999.
2012, and was a Director of the Qatar Financial This was followed by time at Zurich Financial Centre Regulatory Authority from 2006 to 2012.
Services as Managing Director of Sterling Assurance, Eagle Star Life and as Zurich Financial Chris was Chairman of NATS from 2001 to Services Customer Solutions Director, before 2005, Group Managing Director of BP from joining Prudential as PruLab Director.
1997 to 2001, a Director of Lloyds TSB from 1999 to 2005 and a Director of Powergen from 2001 to 2002.
He has also served on UK Government advisory committees on aviation and oil and gas, and was awarded the CBE for his services to the financial industry.
Committee and internal directorships Committee and internal directorships Chair of the Nomination Committee and Market Member of the Market Disclosure Committee Disclosure Committee Executive Director of Just Retirement Limited and Member of the Group Risk and Compliance Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited Committee and Remuneration Committee Director of Just Retirement Limited and Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited Current other listed directorships Current other listed directorships Vice Chairman of UBS Investment Bank None STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 45 Senior Independent Director DAVID RICHARDSON, KEITH NICHOLSON, Group Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Senior Independent Director Interim Group Chief Financial Officer and Managing Director, UK Corporate Business Appointed: 04 April 2016 Appointed: 09 October 2013 David Richardson was appointed as Group Deputy Keith Nicholson was appointed as Senior Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of Independent Director of Just Group plc the UK Corporate Business of Just Group plc in in April 2016.
He was Senior Independent April 2016, and was appointed as Interim Group Director of Just Retirement Group plc Chief Financial Officer on 31 October 2018.
He was from October 2013 until April 2016.
Chief Finance Officer of Partnership Assurance Group plc from February 2013 until April 2016.
Keith is Chairman of Liberty Managing Agency Limited and Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe Previously, David was Group Chief Actuary of SE and Deputy Chairman of The Equitable Life the UKs largest closed life assurance fund Assurance Society.
He was Deputy Chairman of consolidator, Phoenix Group, where he was Wesleyan Assurance Society until he resigned from responsible for restructuring the Groups balance its board in September 2014.
He was a partner at sheet and overall capital management.
Prior to KPMG, where he led their UK insurance practice this, David worked in a number of senior roles at until he retired from the firm in March 2009.
Swiss Re, across both its Admin Re and traditional reinsurance businesses.
Those roles included Chief Actuary of its Life and Health business, Head of Products for UK and South Africa and Global Head of its Longevity Pricing teams.
David commenced his career at the actuarial consultancy Tillinghast.
David is a Fellow of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries and a CFA charter holder.
Committee and internal directorships Committee and internal directorships Member of the Market Disclosure Committee Chair of the Group Risk and Compliance Committee Executive Director of Just Retirement Limited, Member of the Audit, Nomination and Market Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited, Just Disclosure Committees Retirement Money Limited, and Partnership Home Director of Just Retirement Limited, Partnership Loans Limited Life Assurance Company Limited, HUB Financial Solutions and HUB Pension Solutions Limited Current other listed directorships Current other listed directorships None None 46 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Board of Directors continued non-executive Directors PAUL BISHOP, IAN CORMACK, Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: 04 April 2016 Appointed: 04 April 2016 Paul Bishop was appointed as a Non-Executive Ian Cormack was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Just Group plc in April 2016.
He Director of Just Group plc in April 2016.
He previously served as a Non-Executive Director for previously served as Senior Independent Director Partnership Assurance Group plc from May 2014 for Partnership Assurance Group plc from May 2013 until April 2016. to April 2016.
Paul has spent the majority of his career at KPMG, Prior to his appointment, Ian spent over 30 years at and from 1993 to the end of January 2014 was a Citibank up until 2000, latterly as UK Country Head Partner, apart from a brief period when he was and Co-Head of the Global Financial Institutions employed at Atos KPMG Consulting as a Managing Group.
From 2000 to 2002, he was Chief Executive Director.
Paul has specialised in the insurance Officer of AIG Europe.
He was previously a sector for over 30 years, particularly life insurance, Non-Executive Director of Pearl Group from 2005 to and led KPMGs insurance consulting practice for 2009, Aspen Insurance Holdings from 2002 to 2012, much of his time as a Partner.
Paul also spent 18 Qatar Financial Centre Authority from 2006 to 2012, months on secondment at Standard Life as Head of Bloomsbury Publishing from 2011 to 2015, Xchanging Financial Change in the period leading up to its from 2012 to 2016, and previously Chairman of the demutualisation and IPO.
Paul is a Chartered CHAPS hi-value payment system.
Ian is a former Accountant ACA.
Paul is currently a Non-Executive Chairman of the LSE Taurus Review Committee, and a Director of National House Building Council and the former member of the board of Cedel, the Executive Police Mutual Assurance Society, and was recently Committee of the European Securities Committee, appointed in March 2019 as a Non-Executive the settlement board of the London Stock Exchange, Director to Zurich Assurance Limited.
the Council of the British Bankers Association and a former member of APACS.
In addition, Ian previously served as Senior Independent Director of Phoenix Group Holdings Limited from 2009 to 2018.
Committee and internal directorships Committee and internal directorships Chair of the Audit Committee Chair of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Nomination Committee and the Just Member of the Nomination Committee and Group Retirement Limited Partnership Life Assurance Risk and Compliance Committee Company Limited Investment Committee Director of HUB Financial Solutions Limited, HUB Director of Just Retirement Money Limited, Pension Solutions Limited, Just Retirement Money Partnership Home Loans Limited, Just Retirement Limited, Partnership Home Loans Limited, Just Limited, and Partnership Life Assurance Company Retirement Limited, and Partnership Life Assurance Limited Company Limited Current other listed directorships Current other listed directorships None Chairman of Maven Income & Growth VCT 4 Non-Executive Director of Hastings Group Holdingsplc and Royal Bank of Scotland plc including the businesses of National Westminster Bank plc, Ulster Bank Limited and NatWest Holdings Limited STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 47 MICHAEL DEAKIN, STEVE MELCHER, CLARE SPOTTISWOODE, Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: 30 April 2014 Appointed: 15 May 2015 Appointed: 04 April 2016 Michael Deakin was appointed as a Non-Executive Steve Melcher was appointed as a Non-Executive Clare Spottiswoode was appointed as a NonDirector of Just Group plc in April 2016.
He previously Director of Just Group plc in April 2016.
He served Executive Director of Just Group plc in April 2016. served as a Non-Executive Director for Just as a Non-Executive Director of Just Retirement She served as a Non-Executive Director of Retirement Group plc from April 2014 until April 2016.
Group plc from May 2015 until April 2016.
Partnership Assurance Group plc from October 2014 to April 2016.
Michael is a qualified actuary and has over 26 Steve has worked in financial services for over 40 years investment management experience.
He years, during which time he has held posts at JP Clare is a mathematician and economist by joined Clerical Medical in 1974 where he was Morgan, Marsh & McLennan and as Chief Executive training: in June 2010, she was appointed by HM appointed Director of Investments in 1995 and in Officer of Eagle Star, Allied Dunbar and Sun Life of Treasury to the Independent Commission on 2001 Chief Investment Officer of Clerical Medical Canada UK.
He now has a portfolio of roles, Banking The Vickers Commission.
Clares career Investments, later named Insight Investments.
including as a Non-Executive Director of Allianz Re has involved acting as Policyholder Advocate for Since retiring from Insight in November 2003, he in Dublin and as Chairman of Euler Hermes Pension Norwich Unions with-profits policyholders at Aviva, has served as a non-executive member of the Fund.
He is also an executive mentor, which takes in which role she acted on behalf of one million board of the Pension Protection Fund and was him inside many different industries.
policyholders, tasked with reattributing Avivas Chairman of its Investment Committee from 2004 inherited estate, and included time as Director to 2010, and a board member of the London General of Ofgas, the UK gas regulator.
Clare Pension Fund Authority from 2006 to 2012 Deputy previously served as Chairman of FlowGroup plc Chairman from 2009. from 2011 to June 2017.
In addition to the Just Group, Clare is a NonExecutive Director of BW Offshore Limited, British Management Data Foundation, Ilika plc, Gas Strategies Group Limited and Gas Strategies Holdings Limited.
Committee and internal directorships Committee and internal directorships Committee and internal directorships Chair of the Just Retirement Limited Partnership Life Chair of HUB Financial Solutions and HUB Pension Member of the Audit Committee and Group Risk Assurance Company Limited Investment Committee Solutions Limited and Compliance Committee Member of the Market Disclosure Committee, Member of the Audit Committee, Group Risk and Director of HUB Financial Solutions Limited, HUB Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee Compliance Committee and the Remuneration Pension Solutions Limited, Just Retirement Limited, Committee and Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited Chair of Just Retirement Money Limited and Partnership Home Loans Limited, and Director of Director of Just Retirement Money Limited, HUB Financial Solutions Limited, HUB Pension Partnership Home Loans Limited, Just Retirement Solutions Limited, Just Retirement Limited, and Limited, and Partnership Life Assurance Company Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited Limited Current other listed directorships Current other listed directorships Current other listed directorships None None None
