10 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Business model We operate a business model OPERATING MODEL with mutually reinforcing SCALABLE OPERATING MODEL strengths which delivers Our scalable operating model is superior outcomes focused on growing our addressable market by increasing our access to customers and then selecting the KEY STRENGTHS most appropriate risks available.
MULTI-CHANNEL DISTRIBUTION We maintain a multi-channel approach, giving us market access through intermediaries and partner Our People Service businesses to distribute our individual We regularly recognise the We have a proud and consistent and corporate solutions.
success of our people and record of Financial Adviser 5 Star the great service we deliver service awards.
Customer service Our focus is on strong long-term and to our customers, backed by and superior outcomes are mutually beneficial relationships with a renewal of our culture to central to our philosophy.
We are financial intermediaries, corporate preserve the best of our rewarded for this with high levels partners and employee benefits heritage.
Our ways of of repeat business from our consultants EBCs.
working are encapsulated distribution channels.
Our in-house corporate solutions, by our brand values.
advice and distribution business HUB Financial Solutions provides a range of services to our partners and their customers and employees.
Our market leadership in retirement income positions HUB Financial Solutions to win mandates to provide other insurance Digital Capabilities Distribution companies with a range of insourced and We stay abreast of developing Our multi-channel distribution outsourced services for their customers.
business models, digital model maximises our reach capabilities, and ways of into the market and creates AUTOMATED UNDERWRITING working.
Project delivery an in-built resilience if the focuses on lean approaches.
fortunes of one channel shift.
Our fully automated underwriting systems We have digital innovation We seek to adapt to a changing offer efficient data capture, fast turnaround teams whose objective is to distribution landscape, with times and scalability.
This differentiates our service delivery, and delivers benefits to financial intermediaries, corporate partners and customers.
LEADING SERVICE, REPUTATION AND BRAND The foundations of our service culture and record are our systems, our fair approach, Market position INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY and a culture of ensuring issue resolution We have strong positions in IP rather than speedy closure.
the majority of our markets, We continuously invest in our with attractive market shares proprietary IP to increase Our brand, Just, was launched in January underpinned by compelling profitability through superior 2017 and continues to gain increasing products and the power of risk selection, GIfL and recognition in corporate, intermediary and our operating model.
Our lifetime mortgage retail markets.
relationships and unique origination, and multiThe brand continues to build on our purpose insights give us the capability channel distribution to to help people achieve a better later life.
to lead and influence market identify and secure highdevelopments and innovations.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11 GENERATING VALUE SUPERIOR RISK SELECTION STRONG FINANCIAL MODEL investors By managing our resources We have world-class capabilities in The Group creates value by taking effectively and creatively we selecting risks that help us focus on on those risks which we believe can generate profits, which benefit creating value for shareholders, be fairly rewarded.
shareholders through dividend payments and shareholder value.
while also delivering better DIVIDENDS PAID IN 2018 outcomes for customers.
CAPITAL EFFICIENT MODEL Synergies across our suite of products result 24M in an efficient and balanced use of capital.
NEXT GENERATION UNDERWRITING We can tactically shift capital between our SYSTEM: PROGNOSYS RETAIL CUSTOMERS product markets by adjusting our risk PrognoSys is a powerful proprietary We improve our customers later selection appetite.
Risk selection identifies tool for pricing and reserving that allows lives by providing straightforward, those risks for which we are most rewarded the Group to identify and price for the good value products, and on a relative profit basis.
risks we want and provide improved excellent service.
Just Retirement Limited, our principal life outcomes for customers.
NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS dec 2018 assurance company, uses an internal model Whilst it is already market-leading, we to calculate our capital requirements more continue to invest in PrognoSys to ensure 0.6M appropriately than a standard formula and continued leadership.
approval is only granted to companies who BUSINESS CUSTOMERS An updated version of PrognoSys have met the Prudential Regulation We deliver solutions to solve the following the integration of our two medical Authoritys PRA requirements.
challenges and needs of our datasets, further improves our medical Partnership Life Assurance Company corporate customers and partners.
underwriting expertise and competitive Limited currently uses the Solvency II advantage.
Recent enhancements are standard formula to calculate its capital allowing us to fine-tune our offers to OUR PEOPLE requirements, and intends to progress an healthier customers.
Developing, recognising and internal model major change application to rewarding our colleagues secures use the Group internal model.
EXPERIENCED MEDICAL TEAM a skilled and motivated team.
AND UNDERWRITERS FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT COLLEAGUE NUMBERS DEC 2018 Our in-house medical team is made up of Our operating model is complemented by a epidemiologists, doctors and bio-statistical 1,103 conservative approach to risk management.
This team enables us to develop We have strong experience of delivering superior pricing and reserving processes communities accurate longevity estimates coupled with and stay as up to date as possible with We are a significant local prudent reserving.
latest medical and longevity developments.
employer in our home community The majority of longevity risk for both DB We benefit from a deep understanding of of Reigate.
Our communities and GIfL business is held by high quality the whole spectrum of lifestyle, medical benefit from job creation, our tax international reinsurers.
and behavioural factors and their impact payments, and our community on life expectancy.
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT Our experienced underwriters enable us CORPORATION TAX AND employers Our investment policy enables us to provide NATIONAL INSURANCE PAID IN 2018 to apply our proprietary IP in our pricing attractive income levels to customers and and reserving.
to optimise risk-adjusted returns for 46M shareholders, while ensuring that cash flows UNRIVALLED PROPRIETARY DATA from assets under management are more suppliers Our extensive database means we than sufficient to meet payment obligations We maintain a significant supply understand the likely impact of medical and to our DB and GIfL portfolios as they fall due.
chain, working with businesses of lifestyle information on life expectancy.
As we create value, we We follow an enhanced buy-and-maintain We hold over 3.0 million person-years of help them to create further value investment strategy whereby we purchase medical and mortality data, an unrivalled and impact.
assets with attractive riskreward breadth and depth of data for analysis.
characteristics and hold them to maturity PAYMENTS MADE TO SUPPLIERS IN 2018 The insight this gives us into customer to capture the full risk premium, particularly lifestyle and medical outcomes is a the illiquidity premium.
We trade and 76M significant competitive advantage.
replace assets where this makes sense, taking into account frictional costs.
The majority of our financial asset portfolio is held in investment grade fixed income securities such as government and corporate bonds.
The Group also invests in lifetime mortgages, private placements, commercial property mortgages and infrastructure loans.
