STRATEGIC REPORT Our markets The world we are in We are moving towards a time when anyone anywhere will be able to order whatever food they want, for whatever meal, at the push of a button.
It is a transformation in how we eat, enabled by technology, and is a trend that has fuelled Just Eats phenomenal growth.
We are responding to customer demand for convenience and choice but our business is about much more than that.
We help restaurants to accelerate their growth growing orders, running better, more profitable businesses and providing industry-leading technology and access to the best deals that save them money.
Byworking together, we all contribute to a sector that is fit for the future and helps us serve the worlds greatest menu.
Our market size We operate in significant structural growth markets totalling over 83 billion in Total order value across all of our geographies currently Just Eat and its associates account for just 5.3 billion of this.
Marketplace Delivery Latin America Just Eats heritage is in the tens Just Eats move into delivery Just Eat has a 26 billion ofthousands of independent has unlocked an additional market opportunity in Mexico takeaways and restaurants 41billion market opportunity.
and Brazil, where it operates thathave their own delivery These are branded high street through its associate, iFood.
capability which is worth restaurants, Quick Service Themarket has huge potential 16billion.
It is made up of two Restaurant chains and thousands due to the combined population components: 7 billon that is of sit-down restaurants without size of over 300million people.
bought online: and a further delivery capabilities.
Historically, 9billon worth of takeaway the only way to eat their food food that is still ordered on the astakeaway was to visit the telephone.
The telephone remains restaurant yourself Just Eats biggestcompetitor.
Market opportunity Market opportunity Market opportunity total order value total order value total order value 16bn 41bn 26bn Total market opportunity 83bn Market opportunity data source: OC&C, Euromonitor, UBS research 2017 Just Eat Group markets.
08 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Customer champion We connect over 26million customers with more to serve every customers takeaway moment and we than 100,000 restaurants, offering unrivalled choice are continually evolving our technology to help people with more than 100 different cuisine types available discover and try new foods, or to help them find what at the click of a button.
they want more quickly at home, in the office or with friends, whenever or wherever they are.
Food nourishes, satisfies and brings people together.
The busy nature of modern life means that, with We always look to improve the customer experience competing priorities for time, people are using through better monitoring, evaluation and adaptation, technology to ensure they can get quality products turning transactions into conversations and adopting and services, quickly and conveniently.
artificial intelligence and machine learning to increase personalisation andrecommendations.
We strive to make all food occasions enjoyable, whether an old favourite or something completely new.
We aim Restaurant champion We help our Restaurant Partners prosper in the opening times and delivery areas.
We take care of digital age using our scale to save them money and financial administration, managing payments and card our technology to help them grow their businesses.
services to save restaurants time.
Because we have scale working with more restaurants than anyone We bring a host of benefits to our Restaurant Partners.
else we provide access to the best deals from arange Historically, many have had neither the resources nor of suppliers and introduce the very best innovations technology to digitise their businesses or engage in for reducing costs, saving time, increasing profits and mass marketing.
We provide the platform and tools operating more efficiently.
tohelp independent restaurants move online and reach a significantly broader customer base in effect we We also provide insights into customers eating habits are their digital high street.
Together with the reach and work with Restaurant Partners to respond to changing of our advertising and branding, our Restaurant Partners tastes and expectations, using data and business generate increased orders which help togrow intelligence to understand trends and adapt for what theirbusinesses.
We will use our increasing scale to pass more financial and operational benefits through to Through our Partner Centre, we have given Restaurant Partners, resulting inmore savings and restaurants more immediate control of menus, more profit for them.
Sector champion We use our technology and scale to inform, inspire of compostable packaging and the launch of electric and support our Restaurant Partners to drive up scooters to help reduce takeaway deliverys contribution standards across the industry.
As market leader in online food delivery, we have a By spearheading the founding of the British Takeaway Campaign, we have created a unified voice for the responsibility to tackle misperceptions about takeaway food and at the same time to educate and influence many cuisine groups, and are championing several critical policy initiatives, from access to skills and our Restaurant Partners about what they can do to provide healthier options.
That is why we are working immigration, to business rates.
We also hold takeaway awards in a number of countries to help recognise with partners including Shift, a charity which uses research and design techniques to create products and celebrate the hard work and dedication of those working in the sector.
and services which help address social problems, and the Sustainable Restaurant Association, to fund pilots We are helping to create a more sustainable food tech into improvements in the sector, and to promote sector.
For example, we are working directly and via bestpractice.
partnerships to make takeaways more sustainable through To find out more as well as how we are working to improve food plastic recycling initiatives, a seaweed sauce sachet hygiene standards, see pages34 to 37 trial, helping to recycle used cooking oil, the development Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 09 STRATEGIC REPORT Our markets continued Delivering across the world We have a diverse international footprint.
Canada Active customers 3.5m Orders 30.7m Average order value 18.09 Revenue 177.9m Total order value 556m Market size 2 Brazil associate 6bn Market penetration Active customers 9% 10.1m Orders 110.2m Average order value 9.53 International Revenue 22% 123.8m Total order value United 1,050m Australia & Revenue by Kingdom New Zealand operating 49% Market size 3 segment 6% 16bn Market penetration 7% Canada 49 23 6 22 H 23% 1. International segment consists of Denmark, France, Ireland, Italy, Mexico, Norway, Spain and Switzerland.
Brazil shown on a 100% ownership basis.
Revenue shown on a reported basis excluding Brazil.
10 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report UK Active customers 12.2m Orders 1 International 122.8m Average order value Active customers 18.79 8.0m Revenue Orders 385.6m 54.7m Total order value Average order value 2,307m 18.95 Market size Revenue 16bn 169.3m Market penetration Total order value 14% 1,036m Market size 37bn Market penetration 3% Australia and New Zealand Active customers 2.6m Orders 13.0m Average order value 24.22 Revenue 46.7m Total order value 315m Market size 8bn Market penetration 4% Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 11 STRATEGIC REPORT 2018 strategic performance review Peter Duffy Paul Harrison Interim Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Overview 2018 was a transformational year for Just Eat.
Revenue Creating a increased 43% to 779.5 million with uEBITDA up 6% to 173.9 million, after investing 51 million in our strategic initiatives to deliver on our hybrid strategy.
Overall growth leading hybrid was driven by the combination of strong underlying marketplace order growth, accelerating growth of delivery orders and the inclusion of HungryHouse marketplace acquired 31 January 2018.
We continued to invest in our people, brands and platforms as we helped our 100,000 Restaurant for online food Partners serve over 221 million takeaways to more than 26 million active customers.
Consumers continued to choose Just Eat as their destination of choice when delivery ordering food with order frequency per customer improving by 5% to 8.4 times per annum compared tolast year.
Summary Strong financial performance in The business remains highly cash generative with strong cash conversion and 197.6 million net cash atransformational year generated by operations.
As at 31 December 2018, Significant strategic progress enabling JustEat had net cash of 3.5 million and substantial headroom against its covenants.
us to take advantage of 83 billion marketopportunity Good progress across all geographies During the year, we introduced three strategic pillars that underpin how we intend to unlock our hybrid strategy andincrease our market opportunity.
12 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Creating a leading hybrid marketplace Unrivalled marketplace foundation Targeted world-class delivery Highly experienced team Our strategy Enhancing our unrivalled marketplace foundation Creating a leading hybrid marketplace Our marketplace business achieved orders of We are creating a leading hybrid offering by combining 1 186.5million 2017: 161.6 million and revenue our unrivalled marketplace with the targeted roll-out of of569.6 million 2017: 473.1 million constant currency delivery.
The broad reach of our marketplace combined during the year.
We have reinvested to create a with our enhanced range from adding delivery provides world-class experience for both our customers and customers with the best choice and an even better Restaurant Partners to drive increased engagement, experience.
In turn, this drives greater customer acquisition, order frequency and retention.
retention and frequency ultimately driving incremental We continued to invest in marketing our brands which orders for all of our Restaurant Partners and strengthening resulted in record levels of awareness and numerous record the network effects of our business.
Our leading hybrid trading days, including over almost 1,500 orders per minute model enables us to optimise profitability by algorithmically during the X Factor Final in the UK.
Our investments in managing the customer search experience to match product and technology have enabled us to create a demand with available courier capacity, driving greater leading user experience for customers via the Just Eat courier utilisation and lower cost per order.
Total orders via the App are now at 56% 2017: 50%.
During the year, we introduced three strategic pillars We have also significantly improved our marketing and that underpin how we intend to unlock our hybrid strategy data toolset with the launch of new CRM tools creating and increase our market opportunity from 16 billion to the foundation for greater curation and personalisation, 57 billion across our core geographies, with a further ultimately driving further efficiencies and improving 26 billion in Latin America where we operate through returns on our marketing investment.
The strategic pillars are: i Enhancing We continue to help our Restaurant Partners to reach our unrivalled marketplace foundation: ii Targeted more customers, grow their business and improve standards world-class delivery to complement our marketplace: in the industry.
Over 80% of our Restaurant Partners and iii Highly experienced team, supporting extraordinary are now using Just Eat Orderpad enabling them to run local customer experts.
better businesses through greater control and insight, In order to deliver our initiatives we invested 51 million whilst offering the potential to improve customer service during the year.
This comprised 19 million to drive by enabling direct contact with restaurants rather than continued exceptional growth in Canada and launching through our contact centres.
During the year, we significantly SkipTheDishes technology into Australia: 21 million in improved customer service levels through the launch of scaling delivery for Branded Restaurant Groups and new tools enabling the automatic resolution of cancelled working to improve the delivery economics in the UK: and missing items and providing a better, more and a 11 million investment in brand building for our consistent customer experience.
early stage marketplace business in Mexico.
This was In 2018, our investment in Mexico drove record customer less than our guidance of between 55 to 60 million and partner acquisition with orders up almost 100% during due to the outperformance of SkipTheDishes in Canada.
the year and Restaurant Partners up 117% to 11,061 as at The results of these initiatives are outlined in detail below.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 13 STRATEGIC REPORT 2018 strategic performance review continued Our strategy continued In December 2018, we completed the acquisition of Flyt, a leading software platform that helps restaurant groups Targeted world-class delivery to and restaurant suppliers globally to integrate their point complement our marketplace of sale POS systems with third party services.
Flyts 2 Delivery orders grew 220% year on year to software enables Just Eat Restaurant Partners to receive 34.7million 2017: 10.8 million, achieving revenue of orders via Just Eats platforms directly into their POS 210.0 million 2017: 68.8 million constant currency.
system, improving overall operating efficiency and enhancing the customer experience.
The acquisition During the year, we invested in the targeted roll-out of enables us to accelerate the development of Flyts delivery in key zones enabling us to increase our overall technology and offer Flyts services to more of our customer base and drive more orders to our Restaurant Partners globally.
It will also help us accelerate RestaurantPartners.
the roll-out of delivery with Quick Service Restaurants We invested 19 million in driving continued exceptional and Branded Restaurants both in the UK and globally.
growth in Canada and launching SkipTheDishes technology The consideration of 22 million was paid using existing into Australia.
This was less than the 25 million investment cash resources.
A further cash consideration may also we originally outlined due to the outperformance of be payable subject to certain operational and financial SkipTheDishes in Canada.
We used our investment to criteria being met over the next three years.
accelerate growth with SkipTheDishes reaching full coverage across Canada during the year, driving triple Highly experienced team, supporting digit order growth and moving it towards profitability extraordinary local customer experts after reaching uEBITDA breakeven during Q4.
3 We reorganised our marketing team to put our customers at the heart of everything we do.
We created Our Australian business completed the integration of SkipTheDishes world-class delivery platform with a Customer Team, responsible for Marketing, Digital, Customer Relationship Management CRM, Business Menulogs marketplace, creating a hybrid offering.
Welaunched 28 delivery zones covering c. 55% of the Intelligence BI, Data, Machine Learning and Operations all of which are vital for Just Eat to offer our customers addressable population, signed up over 2,700 delivery Restaurant Partners and started to see an improvement the best and easiest way to find and order their food ofchoice.
in cost per drop and encouragingly reached breakeven on a gross profit basis in our more mature zones.
In order to deliver a world-class hybrid marketplace we In the UK, we invested 21 million in the roll-out of delivery have created a global delivery fulfilment team to create a consistent experience for customers, Restaurant Partners and now work with over 2,000 Restaurant Partners fulfilling their delivery requirements, across 197 delivery and couriers.
Our global fulfilment team is based in Canada and run by online food delivery experts from zones covering c. 35% of the addressable population.
This was more than the 20 million investment we originally SkipTheDishes focused on driving innovation and cost optimisation across our delivery network globally.
We outlined as we took the opportunity to accelerate the targeted roll-out delivery.
We continued working with believe this is a crucial competitive advantage as we extend our hybrid model.
third party couriers and also launched an independent courier-model trial using SkipTheDishes technology in selected cities in Q4.
We continued to see an improving trend in the delivery economics reaching breakeven on a gross profit basis in our more mature zones.
14 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Segmental overview Comparative financial numbers are presented below within the segmental review on a constant currency basis so as to remove the fluctuations associated with operations in different functional currencies.
The performance of the Group is monitored internally using a variety of statutory and Alternative Performance Measures APMs.
APMs are not defined within IFRS and are used to assess the underlying operational performance of the Group and as such these measures should be considered alongside IFRS measures.
The main measure of profitability used by management to assess the performance of the business is Underlying EBITDA uEBITDA.
It is defined as earnings before finance income and costs, taxation, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA, and additionally excludes long-term employee incentive costs, exceptional items, foreign exchange gains and losses, other gains and losses, and an adjustment for the associates uEBITDA.
For full definitions and reconciliations of APMs, please refer to the APM appendix at the end of the document.
Just Eats share of Latin America uEBITDA is calculated as 33% of Brazil uEBITDA and 100% of Mexico uEBITDA.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 15 STRATEGIC REPORT 2018 strategic performance review continued Our UK business continued to experience strong growth as one fifth of the UK adult population chose Just Eat as its takeaway food delivery platform of choice.
Segmental overview continued Revenue increased 186% on a constant currency basis United Kingdom to 177.9 million.
Revenue growth was ahead of order Our UK business continued to experience strong growth growth, despite a reduction in AOV, reflecting the addition as one fifth of the UK adult population chose Just Eat of lower AOV, higher frequency restaurants to the platform.
as its takeaway food delivery platform of choice during uEBITDA was a loss of 11.5 million 2017: 11.1 million the year.
In the first half of the year, we consolidated constant currency, with an improved margin of -7% our number one position through the successful 2017: -16% constant currency reflecting the optimisation integration of HungryHouse and we remain the UKs of delivery zones as we move towards profitability.
most comprehensive online takeaway food delivery Australia & New Zealand platform with over 30,000 Restaurant Partners.
Active As outlined at the half year, Australia & New Zealand customers increased 16% to 12.2 million generating remains highly competitive due to the unusually high 122.8 million orders, up 17% from 2017, despite the proportion of its population residing in two major cities impact of exceptionally hot weather in July and August.
and, as a result, our focus has been on the successful The UKbusiness hit a number of milestones during the integration of SkipTheDishes world-class delivery platform yearincluding supplying over 600,000 orders in one with Menulogs marketplace, creating a leading hybrid day and our first ever 1 million order weekend.
We continued to scale our delivery business Revenue increased 27% to 385.6 million driven by strong throughout the year with a presence in 28 zones across marketplace order growth, accelerating growth of delivery Sydney, Melbourne and Perth as at year end and signed up orders and the inclusion of HungryHouse.
Average order key Branded Restaurant Groups such as Hungry Jacks value AOV increased by 6% to 18.79. uEBITDA increased and KFC, taking the total number of Restaurant Partners by 22% to 189.5 million with a margin of 49% 2017: 51% to 11,200, up 14% year on year.
Active customers reflecting investment in the roll-out of delivery in key zones.
decreased by 14% to 2.6 million generating orders of 13.0 million 2017: 15.2 million as we focused on Canada creating a world-class hybrid experience.
SkipTheDishes, our market-leading Canadian food delivery business, has had an exceptional year and continued to Australia & New Zealand generated revenue of 46.7 million, grow triple digits with the launch of multilingual capabilities.
flat on a currency neutral basis, with revenue returning This enabled full coverage across Canada, with expansion to growth as we exited FY18 following the integration into Quebec, and supported the launch of new Branded of delivery and sign-up of key Branded Restaurant Groups.
Restaurant Partners, including McDonalds and TimHortons, uEBITDA decreased to 6.5 million 2017: 16.2 million taking the total number of Restaurant Partners to over constant currency due to our focus on delivering a 16,900, almost doubling year on year.
Active customers world-class hybrid marketplace featuring key Branded increased 72% to 3.5 million generating 30.7million Restaurant Groups.
AOV improved by 3% during the year orders, up 165% from 2017. to over 24.
16 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report International iFood Share of uEBITDA from associates International comprises eight countries Denmark, Just Eat owns a 33% stake in iFood, the leading hybrid France, Ireland, Italy, Mexico, Norway, Spain and marketplace for takeaway food delivery in Brazil.
International order growth was strong, generated revenue of 123.8 million 2017: 64.5 million powered by new Restaurant Partner sign-ups across on a constant currency basis.
This represents a 92% tier 2, 3 and 4 cities and the targeted roll-out of delivery increase and was driven by a 103% increase in orders to with third parties in key cities.
Just Eats share of results from iFood resulted in an uEBITDA loss of 5.7 million The number of active customers increased by 34% to 2017: loss of 0.3million.
The increased loss year on year 8.0 million generating orders of 54.7 million, up 34% was due to increased investment by iFood in logistics year on year.
Italy and Spain performed strongly serving and marketing tocapture its significant market opportunity.
over 1 million orders in a month for the first time during The results from investment have been strong in both the year.
Our French business was rebranded from marketplace anddelivery, with iFood remaining around AlloResto to Just Eat during the year and continued to 16 times the size of its nearest competitor in Brazil.
add restaurants outside of Greater Paris.
Tofund the investment, iFood requires capital from its Our International businesses generated an AOV of shareholders and given iFoods excellent progress to date in capturing the significant opportunity in Brazil, 18.95 2017: 19.42 constant currency and revenue of169.3million 2017: 129 million constant currency, we plan to continue to participate in funding iFoods growth plans.
uEBITDA was 14.2 million with a margin of 8% 2017: 15% constant currency reflecting the targeted roll-out of delivery in key zones across Europe and our Operating costs investment in brand building in Mexico as outlined above.
Operating costs increased to 599.9 million 2017:382.5 million comprising Cost of Sales of216.9million 2017: 96.0 million, Staff costs of177.2million 2017: 135.0 million, Marketing costs of146.3 million 2017: 110.7 million and Overhead costs of 59.5 million 2017: 40.8 million.
Overhead costs include property, software and administrative costs.
Marketing was broadly flat as a percentage of revenue at 19% 2017: 20% as we continued to invest heavily in building the brand and driving customer loyalty.
Items outside of uEBITDA Adjusting items from uEBITDA to operating profit of 63.6 million in the year 2017: 235.4 million primarily comprise depreciation and amortisation of other intangible assets of 25.3 million 2017: 14.0 million, amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions of 23.9 million 2017: 24.4 million and acquisition transaction and integration costs of 14.8 million 2017:10.7 million including 7.5 million relating to the integration of HungryHouse which was acquired on 31 January 2018 2017: nil.
A full reconciliation between uEBITDA and operating profit is provided in Note 4 to the financial statements.
Italy and Spain performed Taxation strongly serving over 1million The business total income tax charge decreased to orders in a month for the first 21.8 million 2017: 27.5 million, resulting in an effective tax rate ETR of 21.4%.
The decline in the statutory time during the year.
tax charge is driven largely by the recognition of a deferred tax asset relating to the cumulative tax losses in SkipTheDishes in Canada, which is treated as an adjusting item for the purpose of underlying ETR.
TheETR onunderlying profits was 22.4% 2017: 23.7%, which isreflective of the current tax arising in the profitablemarkets.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 17 STRATEGIC REPORT 2018 strategic performance review continued Profit for the year Updated segmental disclosure for 2019 Statutory profit for the year was 79.9 million 2017: To reflect the evolution of the business, our operations loss of 103.5 million.
The loss in 2017 was principally in Mexico and Brazil, which are managed by our associate the result of the 180.4 million non-cash impairment iFood, will be excluded from our reported uEBITDA from charge.
Adjusting for this, the loss in 2017 would have full year 2019 onwards.
Full segmental disclosure under been a profit of 76.9 million in 2017. the updated methodology can be found at the end of this release.
Earnings per share Adjusted EPS was 17.0 pence 2017: 16.8 pence, up 1% Outlook on last year and broadly tracking the increase in uEBITDA In 2019, we will leverage the improvements we have Statutory basic EPS increased to 12.1 pence 2017: loss made in our marketplace business to drive order and per share of 15.2 pence.
revenue growth, while we now also expect to grow marketplace uEBITDA margins year on year.
Furthermore, The Alternative Performance Measures appendix to the we anticipate 2019 will see our Canadian business, financial statements includes a reconciliation between SkipTheDishes, report its first full year uEBITDA profit, statutory and adjusted EPS.
demonstrating the route to profitability for delivery.
We will invest this increased profit in accelerating our other Balance sheet exciting delivery initiatives along the pathway towards In 2018, non-current assets increased by 295.9 million profitability, principally in the UK and Australia.
The 2017: 167.1 million, primarily as a result of the acquisition targeted roll-out of delivery in key zones will allow us to of HungryHouse and Flyt.
Over the course of the year, increase our overall customer base and serve even more 24.8 million 2017: 18.8 million was capitalised relating brilliant food moments.
Other non-current The Board expects to report full year 2019 revenue assets includes the business 51.1 million investment in inthe range of 1.0 billion to 1.1 billion and uEBITDA our associate iFood 2017: 38.0 million.
The business both excluding Brazil and Mexico in the range of holding increased to 33% during the year 2017: 32%.
Under iFoods latest plan, the Board expects Just Eats share of its Latin American Cash flow and net debt operations being Brazil and Mexico together to report The high level of cash conversion has continued, an uEBITDA loss in the range of 80 million to 100 million.
benefiting from collecting the gross value of orders Just Eat will fully participate in funding iFoods exciting made by payment card ahead of making net payments growth plans, maintaining its shareholding.
In 2018, net cash from operating activities including payments for tax and interest was 157.3 million 2017: 166.7 million.
The business spent 348.7 million in investing activities during the year 2017: 35.7 million, which predominantly related to cash spent acquiring Peter Duffy HungryHouse.
As at 31 December 2018, the business Interim Chief Executive Officer had cash balances of 185.9 million 2017: 265.1 million.
Excluding cash remitted to restaurants following the end of the year, net cash was 3.5 million 2017: 212.9million net cash.
Paul Harrison Chief Financial Officer 5 March 2019 The Board expects to report full year 2019 revenue in therange of 1.0 billion to1.1billion.
18 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
