STRATEGIC REPORT Chairs statement The past year has seen strong performance by Just Eat.
"Total revenue increased by 43% to 779.5 million, Underlying EBITDA ""uEBITDA"" was up by 6% to 173.9million andprofit before tax was 101.7 million after investing 51million in our strategic initiatives."
Our adjusted earnings per share grew by 1% to 17.0 pence.
Furthermore, the Group continued to be highly cash generative, with 157.3 million of net operating cash inflow.
These results were driven by 221 million orders this year, which was an increase of 28%.
This performance surpassed our expectations thanks to the strategic initiatives we took during the year as part of our hybrid strategy.
These initiatives included developing our marketplace Mike Evans into a world-class experience for both hungry customers Chair and busy Restaurant Partners as well as the targeted roll-out of our delivery services to complement our marketplace.
In fact, in many ways, 2018 has been atransformational year for the business.
Strongly These results were achieved during this transformation thanks to an enormous amount of hard work by our people, loyalty from our customers, great service from our positioned for Restaurant Partners and support from our shareholders.
Iwould like to thank them all.
With their help, our unrivalled marketplace reach, and the targeted roll-outof our delivery platform, we have created a the future unique hybrid food delivery service.
This gives our growing customer base the best of both worlds with access to more choice and better service than ever.
Summary The past year has seen strong Of course there is more to do and we are excited about performance by Just Eat our plans for the future.
Later in this Strategic Report, we talk about some of the initiatives we already have This is an exciting time for food delivery underway and others we have planned.
This is an exciting time for food delivery markets around the world.
Wewant markets around the world to capitalise on that by serving customers in eachof our markets as best as we can, drawing on the resources of The investments we have made in 2018 the Group as a whole.
Just one example is our roll-out of give us an excellent platform to execute the SkipTheDishes technology from Canada into the UK our strategy at pace in 2019 and Australia enabling our success in delivery as well asmarketplace.
We completed our aquistion of Flyt Limited in December 2018.
Flyt is a leading software platform that helps restaurant groups and restaurant suppliers globally to integrate their point of sale POS systems with third party services.
Bringing Flyt into our Group will help us accelerate the roll-out of delivery with Quick Service Restaurants and Branded Restaurant Groups both in the UK and globally.
04 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Our people and culture The Board is fully committed to compliance with both the letter and the spirit of the UK Corporate Governance The success of our business through these changes isatestament to our people.
We continue to add great Code.
Details of the work of our Board and its Committees during the year are set out in the Corporate Governance people to our world-class team who share our vision, values and culture.
This includes the teams from our review commencing on page 38 of this report.
acquired businesses which are now part of our diverse, We are honoured to continue to be part of the FTSE4Good engaged and inclusive workplace.
As well as SkipTheDishes Index Series, which measures the performance of in Canada, HungryHouse in the UK has now been integrated companies demonstrating strong environmental, social into the business.
"and governance ""ESG"" practices."
In Just Eat, how we The rest of the Board and I engage with our Executive Team do business is a key part of our success and we will continue to work hard to do better in these areas.
and people more generally to ensure that the culture and values in the business align with our strategy.
To enhance this engagement further, in December, we appointed Listening to our shareholders views Roisin Donnelly as our Non-executive Director specifically In addition to our management roadshows and Capital designated in relation to workforce engagement.
In a Markets Day, during the past year we have proactively business like Just Eat, such engagement is key and I am engaged with over 20 of our largest shareholders at pleased to say that the new role has been embraced by aNon-executive Director level.
This included both Roisin and management alike, with the full support of ourconsultations on remuneration and a shareholder the rest of the Board.
The extensive input we received was comprehensively reported to and fully See page 29 for more detail about people and culture discussed by the Board and Remuneration Committee as appropriate.
Governance and leadership As planned when I joined the Board in March last year, I was impressed that so much of the passion we have Itook on the role of Chair from Andrew Griffith in April.
within Just Eat is shared by our investor community.
Andrew had been fulfilling the role on an interim basis Allviews expressed, whether externally or internally, following the unexpected passing of our previous Chair, aretaken into account in our decision-making processes.
The rest of the Board and I are This is part of our commitment to undertake our role grateful to Andrew for providing his valuable leadership and responsibilities to make decisions that we believe during the period.
Andrew now continues to fulfil his are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole to role as Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
maximise shareholder value for the long term.
We are grateful for shareholders support in this.
In December, Helen Weir joined the Board as an additional Independent Non-executive Director.
Helens skills and Annual General Meeting perspectives are already contributing to the Board.
Her Our Annual General Meeting will be held on 1 May 2019. appointment complements a highly skilled, experienced All members of the Board are due to attend.
This will and diverse group of Non-executive Directors.
Along with bea good opportunity for our shareholders to meet the the Executive Directors and myself, they are providing Directors.
Shareholders will be able to have their questions effective leadership and strategic direction to our answered about our success during the last year and business and our people.
about our plans for the future.
I look forward to welcoming We intend to appoint Helen as Audit Committee Chair after those shareholders who are able to attend.
"the conclusion of the current audit cycle with presentation of this Annual Report at our Annual General Meeting Outlook ""AGM"" on 1 May 2019."
Andrew Griffith, who has done The investments we have made in 2018 give us an an excellent job in this role over the past five years, has excellent platform to execute our strategy at pace in agreed to continue as a member of the Committee to 2019.
We will continue to leverage our leading marketplace ensure a smooth transition.
This whole process is part business while accelerating our exciting delivery initiatives, ofour ongoing succession planning for the Board and creating a unique hybrid food delivery service and building its Committees.
upon our success to create long-term value for all our stakeholders.
I look forward to reporting to you on In January this year, Peter Plumb stepped down as Chief further progress during this exciting period.
Executive Officer and from the Board.
He left with our thanks for setting the Group on a new course and our best wishes for the future.
Peter Duffy, our Chief Customer Officer, was appointed Interim Chief Executive Officer while a search for a permanent replacement is undertaken.
Mike Evans Chair 5 March 2019 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 05
