18 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategy in action HELPING DEFINED BENEFIT MEMBERS TO MAKE THE MOST OF THEIR PENSION BENEFITS Weve transformed the way scheme exercises Our game-changing Our ability to develop new can now be undertaken.
HUB Pension personalised member business opportunities is Solutions uses digital technology to radically improve the way scheme specific information education portal helps demonstrated by HUB can be interrogated and delivered to pension scheme members and financial advisers.
understand pension WHY IS IT NEEDED?
HUB Pension Solutions launched in June 2018 There are 6.3 million potential customers options, leading to more to transform the way trustees, pension scheme whoare yet to access their defined benefit members and financial advisers implement efficient trustee-driven pensions.
Defined benefit pension and participate in defined benefit pension entitlements can often be life-changing sums bulk transfer exercises scheme transfer exercises.
of money, but education and professional advice is essential to ensure individuals GARY THROWER The new business is one of the HUB companies achieve good outcomes in retirement.
Managing Director, HUB Pension Solutions within Just Group, which focus on delivering corporate solutions to employee benefits The Financial Conduct Authority wants to consultants, financial advisers, pension ensure this market is safer for consumers.
Our schemes, other UK businesses and to their new service delivers help direct to members members, customers and clients.
before advice is even considered.
Only those people who have concluded they have a HUB Pension Solutions provides a digital solidreason for considering alternatives to platform enabling financial advisers, who are receiving scheme benefits will be connected providing advice to support scheme transfer with the schemes appointed regulated exercises, to generate transfer value analysis financial advisers.
for individual scheme members in real time at the click of a button.
The service also provides trustees and scheme sponsors with support fortheir individual pension scheme members.
It helps members understand the valuable benefits provided by their pension scheme, delivers real-time access to their up-to-date individual scheme benefits and helps them to compare these to other options available.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19 Currently, generating transfer value analysis for a large scheme can take months, its done in an archaic way and costs too much.
HUB Pension Solutions is a game-changer.
The service integrates with Spences award-winning administration platform allowing accurate, up-todate member data to be interrogated in real time.
This will radically speed up delivery times and reduce cost David Davison Director at Spence & Partners 20 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategy in action BUSINESS PROCESS TRANSFORMATION Testing the use of robotic process We are transforming the Our initiatives on business automation tools.
These tools help to increase speed and accuracy, especially for way work is done to deliver process transformation repetitive tasks.
By partnering with one of value for shareholders, are aimed at delivering the worlds leading automation technology companies and utilising leading-edge protect the environment increased productivity industry software, the team has already and provide a better place andgrowth capability.
established a programme of certification and identified a number of opportunities to to work for our colleagues implement automation throughout the first Business process transformation is about half of 2019.
PAUL TURNER optimising and improving our ways of Removing duplicated activity across our Managing Director, Retail working to make us more efficient and retail customer services teams and our ensuring we build the right foundations for corporate solutions businesses.
achieving a genuinely scalable operating model.
A range of benefits have quickly OVERARCHING FOCUS become clear, from being able to remove Our focus at Just is providing the best possible repetitive and time consuming tasks outcomes for our customers, which means with little added value, through to having that we must run our business as efficiently greater visibility of the activities of our aspossible, whilst delivering high standards colleagues so that we can work together ofservice.
Initiatives include: ENLIGHTEN OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Implementing a workforce management We have implemented a transformation tool in order to improve efficiency by programme in parts of the Group where enabling a transparent view across the proven management techniques are organisation of both our productivity and combined with cutting-edge software.
performance metrics so we can diversify, Successful implementation of this approach scale and automate as required.
has enabled the Group to clearly identify Rolling out a paperless approach across how much it costs to serve customers at theGroup.
Implementation in our GIfL a process, team and functional level.
This newbusiness processes is eliminating over helps to identify major areas of waste 500,000 pieces of A4 paper each year, and within the business, which we focus we expect to achieve similar impacts in on to improve the cost of delivering an other areas.
The objective is to ensure that behavioural change, metrics and a performance culture are deeply embedded within the business.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21 creativity structured and work innovation verbal repetitive conversation tasks Subjective accuracy & Thought consistency O R unstructured logical information processing emotion 24 7 and operation compassion
