16 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic objectives 1.
GROW OUR MARKETS GIVE CUSTOMERS A AND BROADEN OUR DISTINCTLY JUST DISTRIBUTION REACH EXPERIENCE EVERY TIME We increase sales in our markets by We align our customer experience We aim to deliver working to grow market demand: with our brand promise across all consistent growth we capture our share of these channels and businesses.
in profits through risk growing markets by ensuring growth in distribution reach andmargin selection and customer access.
combined with strong cost and capital discipline.
WHY THIS IS IMPORTANT WHY THIS IS IMPORTANT When we succeed in addressing all of our We have a fundamental belief that our Our brand embodies fairness, a strong social strategic objectives we will be achieving products meet needs that, if unaddressed, purpose and our desire to improve retirement consistent growth in shareholder value and create risks to the quality of later life that our for customers by providing them with be addressing an ever greater number of later customers may experience.
So its important simple-to-understand products and services.
We will also be laying progressively to grow markets and reduce the experience of stronger foundations to pursue our fifth those risks.
Larger markets create more sales It expresses our ambition to present ourselves objective to diversify and build businesses opportunities for us and more value for differently, provide outstanding service to our outside of our current core, meeting more shareholders.
And a combination of customers and support people with the needs and generating more valuable growth.
distribution reach and larger markets means broader challenges of later life.
greater opportunity for us to select the risks Our strategic choices are also made with a view we want to accept.
to reducing the principal risks our business faces and making our business more resilient.
HOW WE ACHIEVE THIS HOW WE ACHIEVE THIS In our UK DB fide-risking business we continue We have defined our customer experience to drive growth in the small and medium principles and framework to ensure that our segment of the DB fide-risking market, typically products and services live up to our brand with a transaction size of less than 250m.
Our innovative medical underwriting solutions are particularly applicable for smaller We are working hard to ensure that our culture schemes or those from particular industries, embraces the brand promise and customer KEY: PRINCIPAL RISKS and enable us to provide more options for perspective.
For instance, in our call centres, no AND UNCERTAINTIES pension scheme trustees.
one is measured against call-handling time.
SEE PAGE 34 Such measures undermine willingness to spend We support growth in the UK GIfL, LTM and time on the phone to fully address customer A Market environment care markets through market and distributor needs.
Pricing assumptions B education and regulatory engagement.
We expand our distribution reach through the We measure, share and celebrate great C Regulatory changes active pursuit of new partner business customer feedback across the Company.
Economic environment D E Operational processes and systems A B C D E F A B C D E F Brands and reputation F STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17 3.
Make smart risk Focus on strong Diversify our business choices financial management away from any single business line or market We identify and price for the We ensure that we spend money We grow outside our core businesses business we want.
We ensure new wisely, avoid waste and deliver by leveraging our insights, business complements our balance value for the business.
We consider capabilities and intellectual property.
sheet and provides the best balance the capital impact and return of all We diversify to grow and also to of risk, reward and capital usage.
reduce dependency on any one business line, distributor or market.
WHY THIS IS IMPORTANT WHY THIS IS IMPORTANT WHY THIS IS IMPORTANT Efficient deployment of our capital is key We have a firm target to achieve capital Our current markets have growth potential, but tooptimising the volume of business that self-sufficiency, which we will only achieve we already have substantial market shares and we write, at what margin, and its capital with the careful application of our available a focus on profitable new business over growth consumption.
In addition, we seek to ensure capital and a focus on ensuring that expenses for the sake of it.
So identifying new markets that the synergies between our businesses are aligned to the scale and needs of the helps us access profitable opportunities to are maximised through careful cash flow business.
Careful stewardship of our finances deploy our assets and capabilities.
matching of, amongst other factors, the makes money available to fund our existing likely duration of LTM, DB and GIfL solutions.
Just as importantly, new markets are a means to diversify away from any concentration in market, regulatory or balance sheet risk.
With diversification we can seek to develop businesses that have a lower new business strain on capital, meaning growth is not constrained by our balance sheet.
HOW WE ACHIEVE THIS HOW WE ACHIEVE THIS HOW WE ACHIEVE THIS We combine customer insight, market We have strong governance to focus on our We are selective in pursuing a limited knowledge and unrivalled medical IP to target on-going operating costs.
A strong costnumber of diversification prospects.
Our the business and customer segments that are benefit approach is embedded into all our focus is on opportunities in which our existing most attractive on a risk reward basis.
assets and capabilities create advantage, distribution reach gives us access into our maximise potential, and minimise downside target segments and significant business The evolution of our culture includes risk.
We closely monitor progress and act flows from which to pick our preferred risks.
a strong emphasis on avoiding waste.
fast when expectations are not met.
Strong relationships with high-quality We use our internal model to drive a reinsurers allow us to reduce the associated disciplined approach to pricing our services longevity risk on the insurance reserves and to continuously improve our capital cost-effectively.
