Other statutory information Other statutory information UK Listing Rule disclosures Information required to be disclosed pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.
4R may be found on the following pages: Information Annual report section Page Shareholder waivers of future dividends Other statutory information 110 Details of long-term incentive schemes Directors report 99-100 Information required by LR 9.2.
2AR 2 a Relationship agreements Other statutory information 110-111 Statement of capitalised interest Financial statements 139 Contract for the provision of services by major shareholder Financial statements 159 rights of one vote per share comprises 470,593,519 ordinary shares Directors excluding treasury shares.
Further details of the Companys issued In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all share capital are shown in note 23 on page 146.
Directors will retire and submit themselves for re-election at the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Details of On 1 August 2018, the Group delisted from the Hong Kong Stock Directors contracts or letters of appointment are included in the Exchange.
The Group retains its primary listings on the London and Directors Remuneration Report on pages 100 to 101.
During the year, no Director had any interest in any shares or A list of the Groups subsidiary undertakings and their principal debentures in the Companys subsidiaries, or any material interests activities is given in note 37 k beginning on page 173. in any contract with the Company or a subsidiary being a contract Purchase of own shares of significance in relation to the Companys business.
The Company was authorised by shareholders at the 2018 Annual Directors indemnity and insurance General Meeting to purchase its own shares on the market within KAZ Minerals maintains liability insurance for its Directors and certain limits.
In the period since the 2018 Annual General Meeting, Officers.
The Company has also granted indemnities to each of the the Company has not purchased any shares under this authority.
Directors, the Chief Financial Officer and the Company Secretary The Board will seek shareholders approval to renew the authority to the extent permitted by law.
to make market purchases of the Companys shares at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Dividends The Board recommends the payment of a final dividend for the Major shareholdings year ended 31 December 2018 of 6 US cents per ordinary share As at 20 February 2019, the Company had been notified under Rule 2017: nil.
If approved, the dividend will be paid on 17 May 2019 to 5.1.
2 of the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the shareholders on the UK register of members at the close of following interests in its total voting rights: business in the UK on 23 April 2019.
An interim dividend of 6 US Number of ordinary Percentage of total shares of 20 pence voting rights held as at cents per ordinary share was paid on 3 October 2018, bringing the Name of holder eachheld 20 February 2019 total dividend for 2018 to 12 US cents per ordinary share.
Vladimir Kim 149,306,795 31.73% The Employee Benefit Trust EBT waived the right to receive Oleg Novachuk 35,986,372 7.65% dividends due or to become due at any time in the future on shares Vladislav Kim 32,115,920 6.82% held by it on behalf of share plan participants employed by Aristus Holdings Limited 22,344,944 4.75% theGroup.
Relationship agreements Annual General Meeting As required by Listing Rule 9.2.
2ADR 1, on 23 July 2014, the The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at 12.15pm on Company entered into: i an amended and restated relationship Thursday 2 May 2019 at the offices of Linklaters LLP, One Silk agreement originally entered into on 26 September 2005 with Street, London EC2Y 8HQ, United Kingdom.
Details of the meeting Cuprum Holding Limited, Perry Partners S. A. and Vladimir Kim: and venue and the resolutions to be proposed, together with ii a relationship agreement with Stansbury International Limited explanatory notes, are set out in a separate Notice of Annual and Eduard Ogay.
General Meeting which accompanies this Annual Report and Accounts.
A summary of the business carried out at the Annual In accordance with Listing Rule 6.5.
4R, each relationship agreement General Meeting will be published on the Companys website establishes that all transactions between the Company and the www.
controlling shareholder are undertaken on an arms length basis and on normal commercial terms, that neither the controlling Share capital shareholder nor its associates will cause the Company to breach or As at 31 December 2018, the Companys issued share capital was circumvent the Listing Rules or prevent the Company from 458,379,033 ordinary shares of 20 pence each, credited as fully paid.
complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules and that As at the date of this Directors Report, the Companys issued share neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will capital is 480,723,977, following the issue of 22,344,944 new propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder resolution which ordinary shares to the Vendor on 22 January 2019 as part of the is intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the proper Initial Consideration on the acquisition of the Baimskaya copper application of the Listing Rules.
The Company holds 10,130,458 ordinary shares in treasury and the issued share capital of the Company which carries voting 110 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Under the relationship agreement with Vladimir Kim, inter alia, The terms of a pre-export finance debt facility dated there must be a majority of independent Directors on the Board 20 December 2012, as amended and restated on 8 June 2017, and on all its standing committees, and no material transaction may between KAZ Minerals Finance PLC and a syndicate of banks, be entered into without approval of the independent Directors.
provide that if any person excluding Vladimir Kim and Oleg Novachuk or group of people acting in concert, secures control of Each relationship agreement will continue as long as the ordinary the Company: i a lender under the facility shall not be obliged to shares are listed on the premium segment of the Official List and fund a loan: and ii if a lender or lenders whose participation in the traded on the London Stock Exchange, and will terminate should loan outstanding exceeds two-thirds of the total loan amount the relevant shareholder cease to be a controlling shareholder as outstanding so require, the parties shall enter into negotiations for a defined in the Listing Rules.
period of not more than 30 days with a view to agreeing alternative The Company has complied with the independence provisions terms for continuing the facility.
If no alternative basis has been included in the relationship agreements and, so far as the Company agreed during such period, then the lenders may cancel the is aware, such provisions have been complied with during the period commitments of the lenders to lend the facility and declare all under review by the controlling shareholders and their associates.
outstanding amounts due and payable.
Although Eduard Ogay stepped down from the Board with effect Each of a $1.8 billion facility agreement and a $149 million facility from 31 October 2014, as he continues to be considered to be agreement dated 29 December 2014 between KAZ Minerals acting in concert with Vladimir Kim for the purposes of the Code, Finance PLC as borrower and China Development Bank details of the relationship agreement between the Company, Corporation as lender, contain terms which give the lender the right Stansbury International Limited and Eduard Ogay have to cancel any of the commitments provided to KAZ Minerals been included.
Finance PLC and declare all outstanding loans, together with accrued interest, and all other amounts accrued and outstanding Political donations immediately due and payable on 30 business days notice if the The Group did not give any money for political purposes in the Company ceases to hold directly or indirectly more than 50 per United Kingdom nor did it make any donations to EU political cent of the issued share capital of KAZ Minerals Finance PLC and or organisations or incur any EU political expenditure during the year.
Policy on derivatives and financial instruments The terms of a credit facility agreement dated 14 December 2016 The Groups objectives and policies on financial risk management, between KAZ Minerals Aktogay LLC as borrower and and information on the Groups exposures to foreign exchange, Development Bank of Kazakhstan JSC as lender, provide that if counterparty credit, commodity price, liquidity and interest rate there is a change in the ownership structure of the borrower in an risks can be found in note 31 commencing on page 152. amount of 10% or more of the participating interests of the borrower, to a person or persons other than a member of the Legal proceedings Group and without the prior written consent of the lender, it would Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is a defendant in trigger an event of default.
any proceedings which the Directors believe will have a material effect on either the Companys financial position or profitability.
Going concern Commitments and contingencies are disclosed in note 32 beginning The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a on page 158. reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future which Significant agreements change of control is for this purpose a period of at least 12 months from the date of The following significant agreements contain certain termination approval of these financial statements.
Accordingly, they continue and other rights for the counterparties upon a change of control of to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the the Company.
Each of a $1.3 billion facility agreement and a CNY1.0 billion facility agreement dated 16 December 2011 between KAZ Minerals Articles of Association Aktogay Finance Limited as borrower and China Development The following description summarises certain provisions of the Bank Corporation as lender, contain terms which give the lender Companys Articles of Association and applicable English law the right to cancel any of the commitments provided to KAZ concerning companies the Companies Act 2006.
This summary is Minerals Aktogay Finance Limited and declare all outstanding loans, qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companys Articles of together with accrued interest, and all other amounts accrued and Association and the Companies Act 2006.
The Companys Articles outstanding immediately due and payable on 30 business days of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a notice if the Company ceases to hold directly or indirectly more general meeting of shareholders.
than 50 per cent of the issued share capital of KAZ Minerals Rights attaching to shares Aktogay Finance Limited and or certain other named subsidiaries.
The rights attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company are defined in the Companys Articles of Association.
com 111 Other statutory information continued Voting rights Audit information Members may attend any general meeting of the Company.
On a The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this show of hands every member or his her representative who is Directors Report confirm that so far as they each are aware, there present in person or by proxy has one vote on each resolution and is no relevant audit information being information needed by the on a poll every member or his her representative who is present auditors in connection with preparing their audit report, of which in person or by proxy shall have one vote on each resolution for the Companys auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken each share of which he she is the holder.
all steps that he she ought to have reasonably taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, which allows multiple establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
proxies appointed by a single member to vote on a show of hands, all substantive resolutions at general meetings will normally be put Auditors to a poll vote.
Employees who participate in the Companys Share Having reviewed the independence, objectivity and performance of Incentive Plans SIP and hold shares in the SIP trusts, provide the auditors, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board directions to the trustee to vote on their behalf by way of a form that the existing auditors, KPMG, be re-appointed.
resolutions re-appointing them as auditors and authorising the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at the 2019 The Company is not aware of any agreements between Annual General Meeting.
shareholders that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of Dividend rights Shareholders may by ordinary resolution declare dividends but the the Annual Report and the financial statements amount of the dividend may not exceed the amount recommended The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and by the Board.
the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Transfer of shares Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent A total of 22,344,944 ordinary shares in the Company comprising company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Initial Equity Consideration on the acquisition of Baimskaya they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in were issued and allotted to the Vendor on Initial Completion on accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 22 January 2019 and are subject to a three-year lock-up period as adopted by the European Union EU and applicable law, and ending on the third anniversary of Initial Completion.
have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements Other than as set out above, there are no restrictions on the on the same basis.
transfer of shares other than certain restrictions as set out in the Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial, Companys Articles of Association.
Transfers of uncertificated statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair shares must be carried out using CREST and the Board can refuse a view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with the their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group regulations governing the operation of CREST.
and parent company financial statements, the Directors are The Company is not aware of any agreements between required to: shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer select suitable accounting policies and then apply of shares.
them consistently: Powers of the Directors make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: The Directors are responsible for the management of the business state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS of the Company and may exercise all powers of the Company as adopted by the EU, subject to any material departures subject to applicable legislation and regulation and the Companys disclosed and explained in the Group and parent company Articles of Association.
financial statements: Appointment and retirement of Directors assess the Group and parent companys ability to continue as a The Board shall have the power at any time to appoint any person going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going who is willing to act as a Director, so long as the total number of concern: and Directors shall not exceed the maximum number prescribed in the use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend Articles.
Any Director so appointed shall retire at the next Annual to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease General Meeting following such appointment.
Every Director shall operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
retire at each Annual General Meeting.
A Director who retires at The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting an Annual General Meeting whether by rotation or otherwise records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and may, if willing to act, be re-appointed.
parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and of the parent company and enable them to ensure that the financial, statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
112 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS They are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group, to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website www.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement Each Director confirms to the best of his her knowledge that: the Group and parent company accounts, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: the Strategic Report and Directors Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Strategic Report comprising pages 2 to 73 and the Directors Report comprising pages 74 to 113, and including the sections of the Annual Report and Accounts referred to in these pages, have been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Susanna Freeman Company Secretary 20 February 2019 Registered Office th 6 Floor, Cardinal Place 100 Victoria Street London, SWIE 5JL United Kingdom Registered in England and Wales No.
