Business model Creating value for our stakeholders KAZ Minerals is focused on the mining and processing of copper.
The Group benefits from a number of strategic advantages which enable it to create value for its shareholders and other key stakeholders.
KEY EXPLORATION MINING AND INPUTS AND DEVELOPMENT PROCESSING Access to the key inputs required for the mining and processing of copper is the source of our competitive advantage and enables us to generate value for our stakeholders.
The Group seeks to The Group operates Natural resources develop natural seven copper We have access to 3,289 Mt of measured and indicated mineral resources at our mining resources, focusing concentrators assets, with an average copper grade of 0.39%.
oncopper assets located with a total sulphide ore The ore also contains by-products of gold, silver and zinc.
inKazakhstan and the processing capacity of CIS region.
16 Mt of Power Our operations in Kazakhstan benefit from oxide ore was also competitive power tariffs and a domestic processed via heap power surplus, enabling us to operate large scale facilities at low cost.
Water Average grade of copper in We have access to readily available fresh water ore in mineral resources from groundwater and surface water sources.
Our modern processing facilities recycle a high proportion of water consumed.
3,289 Mt Transport Mineral resources measured Our operations are connected to existing national rail networks which enable us to and indicated efficiently deliver our products to customers in China and Europe.
Labour We employ approximately 14,000 people in our business.
There is a skilled mining workforce in Kazakhstan.
Finance Development projects Production $1.5 billion of gross liquid funds at 31 December 2018, supported by long term debt facilities.
How we run our business Low cost operations Health and safety Environment Local communities The Groups net cash cost in 2018 of 85 USc lb Safety is our highest priority.
We seek to minimise the impact of KAZ Minerals is a responsible was amongst the lowest of any pure-play listed our activities on the environment.
operator and we seek to share copper miner.
Our target is zero fatalities and a We report all material impacts the benefits of the development reduction in the rate of injuries in our Corporate responsibility of natural resources with TRIFR at our operations.
report, see pages 47 to 64 local communities.
10 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For more information, see pages 17 Strategy 31 Operating review SALE OF VALUE CONCENTRATE CREATION Shareholders We seek to deliver value for our shareholders, maximising value over the long term by investing in the construction of large scale, low cost copper mines with long mine lives that will generate value through the commodity cycle.
Customers Our customers in China and Europe rely on our supplies of metal and concentrate.
The copper we produce is used to construct The majority of the power and transport infrastructure and 77 Mt Groups copper housing, generate clean energy and in the manufacturing of consumer goods.
Ore mined in 2018 concentrate issupplied to Suppliers smelter customers in We prioritise local content where possible China.
and require suppliers to meet our codes of 0.63% conduct.
Our Suppliers Charter sets out the Zinc concentrate from the Copper grade of sulphide standards that we require of our suppliers.
see page 61 for further details.
East Region is sold to ore processed in 2018 customers in Kazakhstan, 2017: 0.71% Communities We create jobs and business opportunities China and the CIS.
We support local social projects.
We engage with communities close to our operations and any proposed new Treatment and refining development project to minimise harm and East Region and Bozymchak copper to share in the benefits of natural resource concentrate and some material from extraction see page 62 for further details.
Bozshakol and Aktogay is toll processed into cathode in Kazakhstan at the Our people Balkhash smelter.
We invest in our people, helping them Sale of finished metals to further their careers.
Professional The Group sells finished metals from the development is one of our core corporate Balkhash smelter and copper cathode values see page 60 for further details.
produced from oxide ore at Aktogay.
We are committed to offering equality of opportunity to all, regardless of gender.
23% of our employees are female compared with an average of 15% for peers and we are working to increase this number.
Sales Kazakhstan We are a major economic contributor to Kazakhstan.
Our tax contributions support the Government in providing public services and infrastructure.
The Group funds social projects at local and national level.
Em Ep m loy ploy eee ses Ta Rxis s kt ma rate ng ag yement M Co iner c po lo rs au te re governance The G KAZ M roup s ine ere ak ls r s te o a sptetc rt as t ct a he r ndi ght ThW e G e c ro lo usp t ely m akeo s a r nito er t sph oe r nsiib sk les KA KA Z M Z M inie nre arls i als a s co dh m em reis t tte o d t o rett ao f in s re kie lld eo d s m o taff a f bsy o soc ff ia etrio inn a g nd ana ds tr soacn ia st pa ed w renitt a h o ppr ur a oac ct hiv tio ti th es.
e reth he ab h iliig ta hes ting t s m ta inin nda gr s dit se o s a f fter safe w we r oe rk giu nlg co arly co ndin tiso un lt w s an itd f h o au irr ma Pn le aa gs ee s me en e p t aa ng d co es 5n 6 t tro 6 ol o 3 f f it osr a clo co sur rpe o a ra ntd e p ge or vie orn dic aa nlc ly e. reviews rem eu m np elr oa yte io en s a. W nd t e mo radn e u ito nrio ou nsr tax d a ef tf aailie rs.
d analysis of the key risks and updates closure plans for each con re trp are cto se rn s a tin ng d s th ue pm pl.
y chain to to our business.
