Market overview Well positioned to benefit from growth in demand Our asset base mainly consists of large scale, low cost copper mines.
We are well positioned to benefit from the expected tightness in the copper market, as declining global supply coincides with continued growth in demand.
China & Kazakhstan Asia & CIS & Europe Europe China Copper Gold Silver Zinc in cathode bar bar concentrate China Bozshakol Copper concentrate East Region China Copper Aktogay concentrate China & Europe Bozymchak Copper cathode Contains by-products of gold and silver in concentrate Copper cathode, gold bar and silver bar are produced under a tolling arrangement with the Balkhash smelter 12 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our products The Groups revenues are primarily derived from the sale of copper Growing with additional revenues from by-products of gold, silver and zinc.
The Groups performance is therefore highly impacted by demand for commodity prices, which reflect global supply and demand fundamentals, as well as market sentiment and the activities of financial investors.
Commodity prices can be volatile and cyclical as a copper result of dependence upon geopolitical and macroeconomic factors.
The outlook for the Chinese economy is of particular significance as Copper is essential for modern it is the biggest consumer of copper and the main physical market infrastructure, energy generation and for the Group.
transmission, transportation, communications, industrial machinery Around 50% of the Groups revenues arise from the sale of copper and electrical appliances.
concentrate, primarily to China, with some material sold to smelters in the CIS region.
Copper concentrate is sold at a provisional LME copper price less TC RCs, which is adjusted to a final price, typically the second month after delivery.
A further 30% of Group revenue is derived from the sale of copper cathode, mainly to Chinese and European customers.
Sales are made at a provisional LME price, which is adjusted to a final price, typically one month after delivery.
Remaining revenues derive from by-products of gold, silver and zinc.
49% Global copper consumption forecast to rise 49% by 2040 Source: Wood Mackenzie www.
com 13 Market overview continued Generating clean energy for the future The world is rapidly transitioning to greener sources of energy.
Solar and wind power require higher amounts of copper per unit of energy produced than fossil fuel based power generation.
Copper The physical copper market remained tight during 2018 and is 2018 market performance expected to remain in a small deficit, with exchange stocks The average LME copper price during 2018 was $6,526 t, a 6% continuing to decline.
However, market prices for copper have been increase compared with $6,163 t in the prior year.
heavily influenced by negative macroeconomic news flow rather The positive momentum in copper markets at the end of 2017 than supply and demand fundamentals, finishing 2018 at prices continued into 2018, with copper trading above $7,000 t for the below $6,000 t. majority of the first quarter.
A weaker dollar as well as market anticipation of possible supply disruption from labour disputes lent Average price movement compared to prior year support to prices.
A ban on low-grade scrap imports positively impacted demand for refined copper in China.
The copper price achieved a four-year high of $7,300 t in June following the start of labour negotiations at Escondida and the suspension of the Tuticorin 6% 1% -8% 1% smelter in India.
The average copper price during the first half of 2018 was $6,917 t. Copper Gold Silver Zinc Sentiment worsened significantly in the second half of 2018.
The ongoing trade dispute between China and the USA contributed to increased global economic and political uncertainty.
Anticipated disruptions to copper supply did not materialise, with copper prices falling sharply in August following a labour settlement at Escondida.
A stronger dollar and an increase in US interest rates have also negatively impacted prices.
The average copper price during the second half of 2018 was $6,143 t and copper finished the year at $5,965 t. 14 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Electric vehicles The adoption of electric and hybrid vehicles and their associated charging infrastructure will need significantly more copper than the existing internal combustion fleet.
Market outlook The long-term outlook for copper remains positive, despite the negative market sentiment at the end of 2018.
There continues to be a broad consensus that the market for copper will enter a period of supply deficit over the medium term.
Demand for copper will continue to grow, with sources of traditional consumption supported by new sectors such as renewable energy and electric vehicles.
Copper supply is expected to be limited by declining ore grades, restricted investment and a lack of new major deposits.
Large scale copper projects with the potential to fill the supply gap are scarce, with many projects facing significant economic, political and environmental challenges.
With long lead times required to bring new production to market, this could result in a period of consistent supply-deficit and support higher copper prices.
In the short term the copper market is expected to remain tight as moderate demand increases are offset by new production.
As a result, copper prices will continue to be volatile and susceptible to market sentiment.
com 15 Market overview continued By-products Market fluctuations: how we respond KAZ Minerals continually monitors commodity market and industry 2018 market performance research.
When performing business planning or assessing Gold prices were stable throughout 2018, generally trading in a investment opportunities, the Group considers a range of range of $1,200 - $1,300 per ounce.
The average price for the year commodity price cases and performs sensitivity analysis.
The Group of $1,268 per ounce was 1% above the prior year.
Silver prices were has cost competitive assets which can generate positive cash flow in weak, with an average price of $15.7 per ounce being 8% below the a lower commodity price environment.
The Groups operations are prior year.
The silver market is expected to report a surplus in 2018 also located in close proximity to its key Chinese market.
owing to weak demand factors from industrial usage.
The Group is not currently and does not normally hedge Zinc was an underperformer amongst base metals in 2018 owing to commodity prices but may enter into a hedge programme where increased market supply from new projects, which returned the the Board determines it is appropriate to provide greater certainty concentrate market to balance after a period of deficit.
The average over future cash flows.
In periods of lower prices, the Group has LME zinc price was $2,922 t in 2018, 1% above the average price successfully reduced costs and been able to defer non in2017.
Market outlook The outlook for gold and silver is highly dependent upon macroeconomic factors.
Historically, silver and gold prices were Sensitivity analysis on prices correlated, but 2018 saw this relationship decouple, with silver The approximate effect on EBITDA resulting from a 10% becoming more dependent on demand from industrial usage.
Gold movement in the average realised commodity prices on the prices could benefit from an increase in inflation or further global Groups results is shown below, assuming all other variables economic uncertainty as a source of portfolio insurance.
remain constant: Average Impact of 10% price Forecast growth in the demand for zinc is expected to be met by realised price movement on EBITDA increases in supply, with China being an important source.
2018 $ million Environmental and regulatory scrutiny has curtailed production in Copper sales $ t 6,002 178 China, but future consolidation in the mining sector could result in a Gold sales $ oz 1,260 21 resumption of supply growth from larger operations.
Silver sales $ oz 16 6 Zinc sales $ t 2,015 10 Consumer products Consumer electronics, air conditioning and refrigeration are a growing source of demand for copper, as developing economies transition to consumption-led growth.
16 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018
