Chairs statement Continuing our high growth strategy The medium term fundamentals for copper are strong and support the Groups strategy of investing in large scale, low cost copper projects.
In 2018, KAZ Minerals has delivered a strong operational Looking forward, we believe the medium-term demand outlook for performance and progressed its high growth strategy, securing a copper is robust.
There is a global trend towards investment in new world class copper project through the acquisition of the highly copper intensive renewable energy generation, supported by Baimskaya licence area in Russia.
In the near term we are focused new sources of demand such as the growing use of electric vehicles.
on the expansion of Aktogay, where work has commenced on a Copper supply will be challenged as head grades at operating mines $1.2 billion project to double processing capacity, adding 80 ktpa of across the world are declining and resources depleting.
We have additional copper production from 2022. reviewed a large number of potential copper projects and the results of this exercise reinforced our view of a growing copper Health and safety supply deficit over the next decade.
Large scale copper projects Providing our employees and contractors with a safe working with attractive operating costs are scarce and many face significant environment is the Groups highest priority.
While fatalities are on a execution challenges.
long term downward trend, I am disappointed to report that there Through our commitment to the Aktogay expansion project and were four fatalities at our underground mining operations during the acquisition of Baimskaya we have now established a pipeline of 2018.
The Board HSE Committee visited the Groups operations value-accretive projects which will enable the Group to continue to twice during the year to monitor progress on the initiatives we are deliver transformational growth in copper into a strengthening implementing to improve safety culture and performance, in market, whilst maintaining our position as a first quartile producer particular at our underground mines in the East Region.
The Groups open pit mines of Bozshakol, Aktogay and Bozymchak Aktogay expansion project have operated without any fatal incidents for a total of 38 million The Aktogay expansion was approved by the Board in December man hours, reflecting the strong safety culture that we have 2017 and is expected to double Aktogays sulphide ore processing established at these operations.
The Group is committed to its goal capacity by the end of 2021 through the construction of an of zero fatalities across all assets and we will continue to devote the additional concentrator and crusher.
This is a relatively low risk necessary resources to achieve this.
brownfield project which will deliver near term material copper Near and long term growth in copper production growth, with first output from the new plant expected The Group has built a track record of delivering large scale, open pit in 2021, contributing 80 ktpa from 2022-27, and 60 ktpa thereafter.
copper projects in the CIS region through the successful execution The design of the new processing facility is identical to the original of the Bozshakol and Aktogay projects.
Copper production from Bozshakol and Aktogay sulphide concentrators and this will be the these mines has ramped up to achieve an industry leading annual third such plant constructed by the Group.
growth rate of over 50% from 2015 to 2018.
79% of our 295 kt In 2018, the Group locked-in pricing on certain key long lead items copper production in 2018 was from our recently from equipment suppliers and commenced preparatory commissioned mines.
earthworks ahead of the main structural construction phase beginning in 2019.
Our recent experience in building facilities of this type will enable us to execute a greater proportion of the project using the Groups in-house management capabilities than we did with Bozshakol or Aktogay, working closely with proven local and international contractors and suppliers.
4 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Baimskaya scale at the expanded Aktogay facilities.
Future production from Our review of potential growth projects identified the Peschanka Baimskaya will primarily be powered by energy from carbondeposit in the Baimskaya licence area as a rare opportunity to free sources.
acquire a globally significant greenfield copper resource, which is KAZ Minerals continues to be a sector leader in gender equality, located in a similar geographic region to our existing operations.
with a rate of female participation in the workforce of 23%, Peschanka is a large scale, copper porphyry deposit with a low strip amongst the highest in the industry.
The proportion of women ratio and the project has certain construction and operating employed is also reflected at senior management level and I am challenges in common with our recently commissioned open pit pleased to report that two of the Groups senior female mines in Kazakhstan.
The average copper and gold grades at professionals were recognised in this years 100 Global Inspirational Peschanka are higher, whilst capital intensity is lower than both Women in Mining 2018 awards.
Bozshakol and Aktogay, based on our expectation of copper equivalent output of 330 kt over the first 10 years.
Dividends The Groups dividend policy, established at the time of Listing, is for After a due diligence process led by our experienced projects team the Board to consider the cash generation and financing with support from external consultants, the Board approved the requirements of the business before recommending a suitable acquisition of the Baimskaya licence area in August 2018 for a total dividend.
This maintains flexibility, which is appropriate given the consideration of $900 million, comprising an initial cash payment of underlying cyclicality of a commodity business and the Groups $436 million and 22.3 million shares with the remaining growth ambitions.
consideration expected to be payable in KAZ Minerals shares.
A In Bozshakol and Aktogay, the Group has a portfolio of large scale, share lock-up period and the deferred consideration structure low cost operations which are highly cash generative and have aligns the interests of the Vendor with KAZ Minerals in performed strongly in the year.
This has enabled the rapid commencing copper production from the asset as early as possible fide-gearing of the balance sheet, with the Groups net debt to and allows the Vendor to participate in the upside from the EBITDA ratio at 1.5x at 31 December 2018.
Accordingly, the Board successful delivery of the project, as shareholders of the Group.
has recommended a final dividend of 6.0 US cents per share.
Initial Completion took place on 22 January 2019, following receipt Combined with the interim dividend of 6.0 US cents per share, the of the required government approvals and the satisfaction of other dividend in respect of the 2018 financial year is 12.0 US cents conditions precedent.
We have appointed Fluor to conduct a bankable feasibility study of An initial cash payment of $386 million for the Baimskaya acquisition the Peschanka deposit and work on this is underway, with the has been paid from existing liquidity, with a further $50 million cash results expected to be announced to the market in the first half of payment expected to be settled in 2019.
This will include guidance on the timing of capital expenditure, requirements of the Baimskaya project construction including the expected production volumes, operating costs and sustaining capital capital budget, phasing, sources of funding and partnering options expenditure.
In parallel with the feasibility study, the Group will have will be assessed during the feasibility study, following which the discussions with banks on financing the construction phase and Board will further review the Groups allocation of capital.
evaluate the potential for partnering.
Outlook Delivering for all stakeholders In the second half of 2018, short term macroeconomic concerns KAZ Minerals is a responsible developer and operator of copper and a lower than average level of supply disruption weighed on the mines and we seek to balance the interests of all stakeholders in our copper price.
However, the medium term fundamentals for the business.
See page 50 for more details on our Corporate Values.
copper market remain strong and support the Groups strategy of As a major investor in Kazakhstan, the Group has generated growth investing in large scale copper projects that will deliver valuein industrial output, export earnings, GDP and employment through accretive growth.
Together, the Aktogay expansion and Baimskaya the delivery of the Bozshakol and Aktogay projects.
The Group paid projects offer an industry leading pipeline of near and long term taxes of $368 million in 2018 in Kazakhstan and our total economic growth, which will enable the Group to double copper production value distributed was over $1.4 billion see pages 46 and 48 for while maintaining its position in the first quartile of the global moredetails.
KAZ Minerals supports a social investment programme focused on healthcare, education, infrastructure, culture and sport to help build Oleg Novachuk on the strong relationships that exist with the communities in the Chair regions of our operations and to support the development of Kazakhstan at a national level.
As we have increased output from our recently launched open pit mines, the energy and CO intensity of our operations has reduced 2 significantly.
Energy intensity measured as TJ kt of ore processed has reduced every year from 2015 to 2018, falling from 0.86 TJ to 0.22 TJ.
In the future, the CO intensity of our operations is 2 expected to improve further, as we benefit from economies of www.
