our ambition and our purpose Our ambition is to become the leading homeimprovement company.
We believe everyone should have a home they feel good We have a framework for action that guides everything about, so our purpose is to make home improvement we do, and will help us achieve our ambition and be the accessible for everyone.
first-place people turn to for their home improvement needs see page 12.
In 2015, we were faced with a choice: disrupt ourselves or face being disrupted by new, agile competitors.
We were We are for everyone who wants to improve the home: a good company, built by hard-working colleagues, with professionals, helpers, and the home improvers solid sales and profit, and 1,200 stores across 10 markets.
We want people to Our scale wasnt used well enough.
be successful whatever their home improvement projects are: to build, re-build, maintain or personalise the home.
We were also not leveraging the massive potential of our markets.
People always want to cherish where they live and With the ONE Kingfisher plan see page 19, and united will spend money to make their homes better.
And with more under our common purpose, we will know better than people living in less space, within older houses and looking anyone what our customers need, how to remove the for more comfort, the home improvement market is large barriers and hurdles, and provide unique solutions to and growing.
But the home improvement journey can be home improvement problems.
We will make home a nightmare with many barriers: lack of inspiration, budget, improvement accessible for millions more people.
time, skills, or even just daily life.
At the same time, we will be a better employer for our People wanted help with home improvement.
We visited colleagues, a better partner to the communities in which thousands of homes across Europe, watching how people we operate, and the suppliers with whom we do business.
live and listening to customers.
We were excited by what We will also be a more responsible business, and a more we learnt: peoples home improvement needs are more valuable investment proposition for our investors read similar than different: people are brave and resourceful, more about our sustainability strategy on pages 30-31. and willing to try, to learn and to do more in the home.
Our ambition is to become the leading home improvement This untapped potential is our opportunity to play an company.
And were just getting started.
important part in challenging the status quo and make a real difference for our customers.
This, coupled with our untapped scale, meant we had to reconsider our purpose and renew our ambition.
We chose to line up our collective strengths behind one clear purpose: to make home improvement accessible for everyone.
That means delivering the right solutions at the right time with great quality and consistently fair and affordable prices.
And we are now 78,000 colleagues working together towards one ambition: to become the leading home improvement company.
Pursuing this ambition means operating in a different way: collaborating and doing things together once.
With global functions and local businesses working hand in hand we can be more challenging, more efficient and more competitive.
Each colleague has a unique role to play read about how were engaging our colleagues on pages 28-29.
