our transformation In January 2016 Kingfisher announced the ONE Kingfisher plan.
This plan will leverage the scale of the business by By this we mean that without the transformation we creating a unified company, where customer needs would expect performance to be broadly inline with the always come first.
The focus over thefive years of the macro-economic backdrop in our respective markets.
plan will be on three key pillars: creating a unified, unique Until we have unified our customer offer, we will have and leading home improvement offer: driving our digital limited expansion.
In addition, the total expected cash capability: and optimising our operational efficiency.
cost of the transformation is 800 million, with a capital return of 600 million over the first three years.
Overall, this five year transformation plan aims to deliver 500 million of sustainable annual profit uplift by Year 5, over and above business as usual.
Business as usual Transformation Expansion Unified EBIT Operational Digital & Unique uplift Efficiency Offer Market 350m 50m 100m 500m We know that our This consists of two The biggest opportunity is Expected to generate customer needs are programmes: in unifying around 90% of 500 million of sustainable already more similar 1.2 billion goods not for annual profit uplift by investing in our thandifferent across resale GNFR spend.
This the end of Year 5, driving core ecommerce all our markets.
will be achieved through improved return on capital platforms by leveraging acombination of cost employed ROCE.
Going forward, we will ourScrewfix best-insavings and working move to having a unified class capability in a simpler, more and unique offer.
This will Brilliant Basics : and effective way.
deliver significant benefits building capability to for our customers, such provide customers with as newer products, digital services that will higher quality and better help them with more sustainability, all at the best stages of their home prices.
There will also be improvement projects.
significant benefits tothe business, including higher sales and improved sourcing efficiencies.
Read more Read more Read more on page 22 on page 23 on page 24 For a review of what we have identified as the principal risks to delivering our strategy see pages 40 to 47 www.
com 19 IMAGE REMOVED our progress The second year of our five year transformation plan has been another year of good progress.
We have delivered the key strategic milestones for the second year.
We are developing improved training programmes and engagement schemes for our colleagues.
And this year we launched our new sustainability plan.
progress against our strategic milestones in year 2 We have delivered the key strategic milestones in the second year of our plan.
Unified, unique and leading offer We are unifying our offer, with the same products Unified and available everywhere.
This will deliver significant customer benefits, such as newer products, higher unique offer quality, better sustainability, lower prices and simpler ranges.
It will also deliver significant business benefits, Unify 20% of product such as higher sales, fewer stock keeping units SKUs, cost of goods sold COGS fewer suppliers, cost price reduction CPR and improved processes.
Unify 20% of product cost of goods sold COGS 23% of product has now been unified COGS, ending Digital the year with an exit rate of 35%.
We have significantly reduced the number of global suppliers and SKUs, by around 80% to date, but are still offering customers similar breadth of choice.
We also launched our first unique ranges in Outdoor and Bathroom & Storage.
Deliver Year 2 of 3 year unified IT platform roll out alongside Sales of our unified and unique ranges are outperforming non-unified ranges despite  better ecommerce disruption during the year.
Sales of unified and unique ranges excluding clearance, were up 1% compared to last year, with the second half growing by 3%.
Including clearance, unified and unique sales were broadly flat compared to last year, slightly ahead of total group sales in constant currency, which were down 0.3%.
Operational Growth in unique ranges, such as the new bathroom efficiency furniture and shower ranges, is ahead of unified ranges, however the mix of ranges implemented to date is weighted towards unified.
For example, sales of unified and unique Deliver a further 20 million Bathroom & Storage increased by 11%, whereas total sales of benefits from unified were broadly flat excluding clearance.
The bathroom GNFR programme ranges have sold well across all our four markets e. g. France up 8%, Other International up 18% reflecting positive feedback from both customers and colleagues.
Cost of change including clearance is in line with expectations and we remain confident in our target to deliver 350 million annual profit uplift by full year 2020 21, which broadly equates to a 5% reduction in cost of goods sold.
Gross margin for unified and unique ranges was up 180basis points before clearance of old ranges.
22 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 of 2017 18 over 50% of Group sales were operating on the Driving our digital capability new platform.
We have also now started implementation Implementation of a unified IT system is a key enabler at Brico Dpt France and Castorama Poland.
of our ONE Kingfisher plan.
It also provides a significant opportunity, with a seamless and stronger digital offer for Our ecommerce initiatives are gaining momentum.
We our customers, to substantially increase sales and digital have built a new group mobile platform and launched a penetration.
This is expected to generate 50 million new B&Q mobile app in September.
The app has received annual profit uplift by the end of the 2020 21 financial year.
very positive customer feedback and is delivering improved average transaction values.
One-hour Click & Deliver Year 2 of 3 year unified IT platform roll Collect is now available in all B&Q stores.
In France, we out alongside better ecommerce relaunched the new castorama.
fr website in January with the new mobile app soon to follow.
Total Group This involves investing in our core ecommerce digital sales are now at 6%, up from 4% last year.
platforms, enabled by the new unified IT infrastructure, and leveraging our Screwfix best-in-class capability.
We have also launched the first of our digital home This includes upweighted digital marketing, improved improvement services tools, including a bathroom site search, new checkout and launching new mobile sites.
planner tool, which is integrated into the B&Q website.
During the 2017 18 financial year, we implemented all Castorama France stores, with back office and supply chain to be completed in Q1 2018, meaning that by the end Launch of new unique ranges The design of all our unique product ranges is based on five key principles: function, form, sustainability, quality and low prices.
This year we launched new bathroom and hand tool ranges.
Imandra bathroom Magnusson hand tools We undertook in-depth research into how people use their bathrooms, Magnusson was originally an own-brand visiting customers in their homes across Europe.
We learnt that it is the range at Brico Dpt France.
We improved 2 smallest 4-7m and busiest room in the house: storage is a problem it, adding extra features that would make people typically have around 25 bottles of products: and its a challenging the range as attractive to the professional project around 40% of people give up.
Using that research, we created tradesperson as the home improver.
This the new Imandra range which includes the following features: flagship range is now being launched across the business.
Tough, durable and Modular and adjustable, to work with any layout, however small reliable, the range includes products with Slim floor-to-ceiling cabinets to maximise all space, even behind doors a host of new features, such as a tape 35cm deep drawers, deep enough for towels measure with: Shallow basins with recessed waste pipes, allowing space for Auto-stop extension with long stand out an extra drawer 19mm wide double-sided measure Cabinets with mirrors inside and out Durable nylon coating for longer life 10-year guarantee Magnetic end for one-handed measuring Smooth closing to avoid damage to hands and fingers Five-year guarantee IMAGE REMOVED IMAGE REMOVED www.
com 23 Driving our digital capability Our Digital Hub opened in 2016 in central London and is working on driving forward Kingfishers digital growth plans.
Work is focusing on two areas: Ecommerce Our ecommerce plans follow closely behind the roll-out of our new unified IT platform, which was completed in B&Q UK and Castorama France last year and is on track to be implemented across the whole business in 2019.
Key developments in the last 12 months include the launch of a new IMAGE REMOVED one-hour Click & Collect service at B&Q in August 2017.
In addition, a new Group mobile platform was built and launched initially at B&Q in the UK.
B&Qs new mobile app features rapid loading speeds of less than one second, making it one of the fastest apps around.
The app has been delivering higher average transaction values.
Engagement from customers and Home improvement services colleagues has also been excellent with a One of our key aims is to help our IMAGE REMOVED near 5 star rating on the App store so far.
customers along all the steps of their home improvement project, including In January 2018, the new Castorama ideas and inspiration.
A first step was the France website was launched, featuring launch of the new bathroom planning tool better search facilities, improved at B&Q UK.
This enables customers to navigation and better check-out.
create 3D designs of their bathroom.
So A new mobile app for Castorama far, over 60,000 planning sessions have France will follow shortly.
been completed on the site.
Further digital services will be launched later this year.
The root causes of this disruption relate to the combined Optimising our operational efficiency impact of: The main driver will come from unifying the c. 1 billion Clearing of old ranges and remerchandising of new annual spend on GNFR.
This programme is a combination ranges as we physically impacted 25% of our total of cost savings, and an opportunity to work in a simpler store space this year and more effective way across the business, and is expected to generate 100 million annual profit uplift Systems and data the roll out of our unified IT platform by the end of 2020 21. remains on track, however the implementation process places pressure on some of the business functions Deliver a further 20 million benefits from New processes transitioning to new ways of unified GNFR programme working takes time e. g. our new Offer & Supply Chain organisation went live in June 2016, working as ONE In 2017 18 we delivered a further 28 million team, with unified global functions with new processes of benefits, exceeding our initial target for the year, and accountabilities for the first time taking the cumulative benefit to 58 million.
This included categories such as media buying, where we have moved We have acted on the root causes of business disruption to a global supplier for the first time: standardising the and are adapting our approach as we progress.
Given the way we operate e. g. security : and several local increased level of change, we appointed Steve Willett as retenders consolidating the number of suppliers.
We are also prioritising the multiple transformation workstreams with a new phased Adapting our transformation approach as approach e. g. having reviewed the phasing of our plans to we progress roll out our unified product ranges COGS, we announced Given the significant increase in the level of transformation our decision at our half year results to smooth and fide-risk activity in 2017 18, we have continued to adapt our the profile for 2018 19 and 2019 20, moving from 55% to approach as our transformation progresses.
The 90% target for 2020 21 remains unchanged.
During the year we experienced some business disruption, principally reflecting product availability issues and the clearance of old ranges.
We estimate a c. 1.5% like-for-like impact during the year.
Availability of unified and unique ranges has progressively improved.
