Strategic Report Divisional review continued CONSTRUCTION The Construction division comprises UK building, UK infrastructure and international construction.
Highlights Innovation continues to play an increasing costs relating to Hong Kong and the Revenue stable at more than role in the housebuilding sector and Kier Caribbean.
The current order book of 2.0bn with operating profit up 5% Living is working with its supply chain to 5.0bn is at a record level for secured and Stable operating margin of 2.0% develop a digital smart living platform and probable work and benefited from the Contract awards in the year of increase exposure to modern methods of inclusion of the additional share of the more than 2.7bn construction to help speed up build and Smart Motorway and HS2 joint ventures, mitigate any potential Brexit impact.
following the liquidation of Carillion.
Theorder book represents more than Residential outlook 90%of forecast revenue for FY19, The UK demand for affordably priced newly onincreasing volumes.
1 Revenue built housing remains strong, reinforced by UK building a competitive mortgage market and the The UK regional building business had a Help to Buy incentive.
The regional profile 2,053m good year.
The business has experienced of the business outside of London provides an unprecedented volume of contract 2017: 2,019m a stable environment for private and mixed awards over the last two years, tenure affordable housebuilding with 2 2 Operating profit Operating margin particularlyin its core markets and on demand exceeding supply.
We have a 41.9m 2.0% existing frameworks in the education strong pipeline of 2bn that provides a 3 3 2017 : 39.8m 2017 : 2.0% andhealth sectors.
Order book Statutory operating profit Thebusiness continues to perform well The trend for public, and increasingly, andhas achieved its Vision 2020 target private sector clients adopting construction 5.0bn 41.5m 3 3 of15% ROCE two years early.
2017 : 4.2bn 2017 : 50.1 m frameworks as the preferred method to procure new work continues, providing long-term visibility of future work.
Over 70% 1 Group and share of joint ventures.
of our new work is procured through 2 Stated before non-underlying items.
The business secured places tothe consolidated financial statements.
3 on ten construction frameworks in the year, Restated to reclassify the profit on disposal of Mouchel Consulting within discontinued providing access to over 3bn of operations.
See note 1 to the consolidated opportunities.
Key framework awards in the financial statements.
period included: the ten-year Defence Infrastructure Organisations Clyde Commercial Revenue was up 2% to 2,053m 2017: Framework worth up to 750m : 2,019m with an underlying operating the four-year Designed for Life Wales profit increase of 5% to 41.9m 2017: Healthcare National & Regional 39.8m.
These results reflect strong Frameworks worth up to 500m : revenue growth during the fourth quarter the four-year Strathclyde University following a decline earlier in the year as a Framework worth up to 250m : and result of slower site starts and adverse weather.
The fourth quarter performance the Department for Work and Pensions resulted in a strong working capital Estates Contractor Framework worth up improvement in the second half of the year to 150m.
which mitigated the effect of ongoing negotiations on a health sector project in the south east of England.
Underlying operating margins were maintained at 2.0% 2017: 2.0% after incurring the final exit 46 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Education remains a leading sector for the Infrastructure International division generating more than 700m Following the publication of the UK National In the Middle East, operations continue to revenue per annum of which the majority is Infrastructure Pipeline in August 2017, focus on the United Arab Emirates UAE delivered through framework arrangements keysectors targeted for growth are market.
A selective approach to bidding has with the Education Skills Funding Agency transport and power and energy where the been adopted focusing on UK Export ESFA, local authorities, universities and Group has established credentials and Finance UKEF opportunities.
national framework providers such as strong relationships.
In the year, the five-star Saadiyat Rotana Scape and the LHC.
In the year, positions Our strategy is to focus on projects that hotel has opened and infrastructure were secured on ESFA funded schemes deliver sustainable margins and positive projects for Meraas and Nshama were which will create over 36,000 pupil places.
cash flow as well as an appropriate completed.
Ongoing projects include our In the tertiary education sector, universities riskprofile.
two Nshama residential projects, the are developing their accommodation and Bluewaters residential and infrastructure The business maintained its position as estate plans which provide new long-term work and the Dubai Arena and the Dubai the lead supplier to Highways England.
Following Carillions liquidation, its work on In the health sector, c. 200m of awards the M6 junctions 16 19 has transferred Construction outlook were achieved from the Procure22 to Kier, complementing other Smart framework and more than 1bn of The business delivered a consistent 2% Motorway work on the M6 junctions 13 healthcare opportunities are in the pipeline, operating margin, has a record order book 15, the M20 and M23.
A rationalisation underpinned further by the recent of 5.0bn and has more than 90% of ofsuppliers on the Smart Motorways Government announcement of additional forecast revenue secured for FY19.
The programme is underway and Kier is well NHS funding.
We continue to progress a business is performing well, driven by its positioned to continue to be involved.
range of projects in the sector, including regional office presence, its position on In transport, the 43m A13 contract one health facility contract, the scope of frameworks, growth in infrastructure commenced and work continues on HS2 which has expanded considerably at the investment, split of private and public where pricing models have been submitted request of the client since the original sector clients and sector mix.
Works are on schedule to contract was signed.
We are in constructive continue to be the preferred method for complete during this financial year the Kier dialogue with that client about the total procurement by the public sector and Kier Farringdon Crossrail project, despite the value of the project.
has a strong pipeline of framework bid broader Crossrail delays.
The Mersey opportunities coming to market over the The business has continued to diversify its Gateway project, which has been next six months.
With established health presence from the health and education challenging, was completed in October sector credentials, the Group is well sectors to related complementary sectors 2017 when the bridge opened to traffic.
positioned to benefit from the impact of the such as bioscience and student The final landscaping and post completion additional Government investment in the accommodation.
In the industrial sector, works are due to complete in 2019 as NHS.
The infrastructure business provides Kier is seeing considerable growth with a scheduled.
Final account discussions good medium-term prospects with a solid number of manufacturing opportunities continue whilst a number of claims against track record and strong client relationships from non-UK based clients looking for new third parties are being progressed.
in its key sectors, for example transport facilities in the Midlands.
Other key sectors and nuclear in which new opportunities will Following the successful integration of include defence with the 35m award at arise.
Increased car usage is seeing new McNicholas and utilising our combined rail MoD Lyneham and a place secured on the Smart Motorway opportunities coming on capabilities, numerous schemes in the ten-year 750m MoD Clyde Commercial stream.
The Smart Motorway Programme power and signalling arena resulting from Framework in support of the MoDs future has significant investment planned over the CP6 are being reviewed whilst delivery of submarine programmes.
Further opportunities next five years with the next procurement existing Network Rail CP5 contracts are will be available from the MoDs future tranche commencing in late 2018. ongoing.
Work has commenced on the defence estate development requirements 120m Luton DART link joint venture.
and planned capital investment programme.
In addition, we continue to In the power and energy markets, work is support Ministry of Justice projects.
ongoing at Hinkley Point C with additional projects coming on stream.
Key targets in In aviation, new opportunities arising from this sector include future opportunities in the Heathrow expansion project and other Sizewell C and Wylfa.
regional airport growth are expected.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 47
