Strategic Report Infrastructure Services WE PROVIDE ESSENTIAL INFRASTRUCTURE SERVICES The barrel-vaulted glass roof at Kings Cross, London, refurbished by Kier.
WE PROVIDE ESSENTIAL INFRASTRUCTURE SERVICES We are leveraging our skills to deliver for the end-user be they road users, water consumers, residents or rail passengers.
The heritage of Kier rests in its track record Kier is the number one provider of strategic ofconstruction.
However, today the Groups maintenance and management of highways capabilities are weighted more to services services.
Key clients include Highways withan increasing footprint in infrastructure England, Transport for London and a number services.
These services underpin the social of local authorities across the country.
and economic growth of the UK.
Key In the utilities sector, the Group has infrastructure projects include Crossrail, the specialist capabilities in the power and Mersey Gateway bridge, Hinkley Point C and energy, water, telecommunications and currently the roll-out of oneof the UKs largest railsectors.
In power and energy, clients include UK Approximately 38% of the Groups revenue is Power Networks and Western Power in infrastructure services with a significant Distribution and in the water sector clients presence across the UK in the highways and include Anglian Water and Thames Water.
Intelecommunications, the Group is now The provision of both capital projects as well thelargest provider of domestic fibre as the maintenance of those assets enables installation services for Virgin Media the Group to offer clients an end-to-end followingthe acquisition of McNicholas, solution and enhanced value.
andin rail provides electrical and mechanicalservices to Network Rail.
c. 2bn 38% 7% Revenue % of Group share of a 29bn revenue UK market Turn to pages 22 to 23 for more information.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 5 Strategic Report Buildings The Elekta building, Crawley, Sussex.
WE ARE THE UKS LARGEST REGIONAL BUILDER With growth in the UKs population, more public facilities including hospitals and schools are needed as well as places to work, rest and play.
Kier is a national builder with a network of such as museums and hotels, and regional offices which ensures that every developing commercial sites.
Over 400 project contributes to the local economy, projects are undertaken each year.
utilising local skills and drawing on the With a focus on new building methods, Kier localsupply chain.
has delivered over the last five years more Our portfolio covers local and regional projects than 2bn of projects that have included as well as major projects.
We have the using off-site construction and modern flexibility and expertise to build across a range methods ofconstruction.
of projects from a 250k extension to a Kier is a leader in the education and health strategic asset costing hundreds of millions sectors and has an established position on ofpounds.
public frameworks and growing positions in Our activities support local economies with the private sector.
work including town centre regenerations, refurbishing transport hubs andinterchanges, building schools, civic and leisure facilities c. 2bn 40% 3% Revenue % of Group share of a c. 67bn revenue market Turn to pages 24 to 25 for more information.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 7 Strategic Report Developments & Housing A Kier affordable home.
WE ARE A LEADING PROVIDER OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING We work collaboratively to regenerate communities and to accelerate the delivery of houses to areas of thecountry with the greatest need.
Kier has a strong track record in regenerating The increased use of technology within areas through its property development and thehome has seen a change in the housing activities.
These capabilities, along buildingof new homes.
The inclusion of with strong local knowledge and supply chain smart design and technology within the relationships, also allow us to provide homeis driving innovation.
Kier Living has maintenance services to local authorities and invested 3m in upgrading its customer private landlords with large housing portfolios.
relations software platform to help improve With demand outstripping supply, Kier works communications with its customers pre closely with Homes England and other housing andpost sales completion.
providers to accelerate the development of In the housing maintenance market, Kier new affordable homes which help address the ispioneering an entirely new predictive national shortage in the UK market where over approach to property asset management 300,000 homes are needed every year.
topre-empt maintenance issues and so preventthe need for costly and disruptive reactive repairs.
c. 1bn 22% 3.5bn Revenue % of Group Developments & revenue Housing pipeline Turn to pages 26 to 27 for more information.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 9
