viability statement In accordance with provision C2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have considered the prospects of the company over a period longer than the 12 months required by the going concern provision.
The assessment period For the strategic areas, we have considered viability The Board has concluded that the period for this in terms of project delivery: Unified & Unique, Digital review should be three years.
This is in line with the and Unified IT platforms have been considered as these usual business planning period and the period over projects have highest potential impact on our viability.
which we assess the principal risks.
We have also modelled clusters of scenarios to test the viability.
One for the macroeconomic scenarios and two How we assess the Groups prospects looking at the interdependencies of the project scenarios.
The Board has continued to monitor progress against Stress testing has also been performed and taken into the strategic review this year and has therefore been consideration for the assessment.
able to review sufficient information to form a reasonable The scenarios were developed to test the viability of the expectation as to the companys longer-term viability.
Group however there are control measures in place to The plan produced as part of the strategic review help prevent and mitigate the risks materialising.
We also provides consolidated plans at both the company and have options available to the Group to maintain liquidity, Operating Company level.
The plans also consider the including reducing non-essential capital expenditure and companys cash flows, committed funding and liquidity withholding dividends.
Therefore we believe we have positions, forecast future funding and key financial sufficient capacity to maintain the viability of the metrics.
Sensitivity analysis of the main assumptions Group should any of these scenarios materialise.
underlying the plans was also carried out.
The plan was approved by the Board and year one has been Viability statement approved for the latest financial budgets and KPIs As a result of the steps taken above, the Directors have that are subsequently used by the Board to monitor a reasonable expectation that the company will be able performance during the year.
to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of the assessment.
Assessment of viability In addition to the assessment above, as in previous years, Going concern the Board has carried out a robust assessment of the The Directors confirm that, after reviewing expenditure principal risks facing the business, including those that commitments, expected cash flows and borrowing would threaten the business model, future performance, facilities, they have a reasonable expectation that solvency or liquidity.
The principal risks are set out on Kingfisher plc and the Kingfisher group of companies pages 40 to 47.
Scenarios have been developed to test have adequate resources to continue in operational the companys resilience to the occurrence of these risks.
For this reason, we continue to adopt The scenarios relate to the macroeconomic environment the going concern basis in preparing these financial and the strategy.
With a Group of our size and diversity statements.
Further details of the companys liquidity there are several scenarios which could be explored.
We are available in the Financial Review on pages 30 to 37. selected those which would enable the Board to make a reasonable assessment of the viability.
Strategic report approval The strategic report is approved for and on behalf of the Board by: Vronique Laury Chief Executive Officer 20 March 2018 48 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018
