Strategic Report Divisional review continued SERVICES The Services division comprises infrastructure services highways and utilities, property services housing, facilities management and related services and environmental services.
Highlights Services revenue increased 10% to Post-year end, two three-year extensions to Revenue growth of 10% to 1.9bn 1,849m 2017: 1,688m, underpinned 2021 and 2022 respectively worth over Robust operating margin of 5% by the highways and utilities businesses 250m per annum were secured on Award of Highways England Areas and following the acquisition of McNicholas Highways England Areas 3 and 9 with six 3 and 9 extensions worth more which produced a good first full-year month extensions secured more recently than 250m per annum contribution in line with expectations.
Revenues on an organic basis were flat Order book of 5.2bn.
In local authority roads, the Shropshire with volumes in our environmental business Council highways contract was successfully continuing to fall as contracts conclude.
Funding pressures Underlying operating profit was 93.0m continue to lead to a wide variety of client 1 Revenue 2017: 87.0m, up 7%.
A robust delivery and procurement solutions being underlying operating margin of 5%, in line explored covering both insourcing and with Vision 2020 targets, reflects the outsourcing.
The devolution of funding and 1,849m stable and consistent performance of the decision-making, both locally and regionally, business.
The Services division had an 2017: 1,688m is now starting to gather pace with the order book at 30 June 2018 of 5.2bn establishment of Regional Transport 2 2 Operating profit Operating margin 2017: 4.7bn, benefiting from the Bodies, Mayoral Authorities and increased Highways England contract extensions for 93.0m 5.0% collaboration between authorities.
More than 90% of forecast Groups regional scope and expertise, it is revenue for FY19 is secured.
Order book Statutory operating profit expected that this will provide further The divisions capabilities principally relate growth opportunities.
5.2bn 67.9m 2017: 4.7bn 2017: 54.5m to the provision of infrastructure services in In Australia, our DM Roads joint venture the highways and utilities sectors, which, was successful in being awarded two new together with the Groups capabilities in contracts: the five-year 180m Perth 1 Group and share of joint ventures.
construction, place Kier as one of the UKs Metropolitan Network Contract and the 2 Stated before non-underlying items.
See note 4 leading infrastructure businesses with five-year 30m Goldfields-Esperance Rural tothe consolidated financial statements.
These contracts reflect the increasing demand for new and Infrastructure services Highways upgraded roads in the region in light of Revenue in highways was in line with population growth.
In strategic roads, Highways England is working in collaboration with the Infrastructure services Utilities supply chain, including Kier, to build upon its Through the acquisition of McNicholas and current ways of working.
Highways England is its subsequent successful integration, supplementing its current asset delivery Kierhas become a top three provider to model with a new 8bn framework and will theUK utilities sector, covering all regions be presenting a number of delivery integration of the UK.
The business focuses on partnership contracts which will provide threesectors: water, energy and significant opportunity for the delivery of telecommunications.
In addition, the capital schemes over the next six years.
provision of multi-utility survey and design expertise is enabling Kier to provide new services in complex environments such as aviation, rail and transport.
Most recently, we have secured enabling works contracts at London City Airport as a part of the 480m City Airport Development Programme where both Kier Utilities and Kier Construction are working.
48 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements In the water sector, procurement for the The integration of McNicholas has Property Services outlook upcoming AMP7 regulatory period is enhanced the Groups breadth of capability With continuing pressure on public underway and we are engaging with both in the utilities market and it is expected sectorbudgets, the merger of housing new and existing clients on their that new opportunities will arise from associations and a greater focus on fire requirements through their bid processes.
thedevelopments in energy generation risk compliance, challenges as well as In August 2018, Kier was appointed as andstorage, particularly following opportunities remain in this sector.
oneof four framework partners carrying out theintroduction of EVs and smart Thegrowth of the private rental sector the 45m mechanical and electrical infrastructure.
The telecommunications isproviding new opportunities for the services MEICA programme of works to market is also growing.
service the three-year requirements of Property services Housing maintenance Environmental Services South West Water.
The housing maintenance sector continues The operational performance of the In the power sector, the Group has secured to undergo significant change following environmental services business is stable an initial three-year contract with Western budgetary challenges faced by local whilst markets remain challenging as a Power Distribution to the value of around authorities and the impact of Grenfell.
result of low recyclate prices.
The Group is 30m per year, covering areas in the West Consequently, the business has extended negotiating the termination of one major and East Midlands.
In Northern Ireland, the its mix of clients with increasing focus on contract in this business and will continue five-year 35m SGN natural gas eight housing associations and private sector to reduce its exposure to this market as towns distribution framework has recently clients.
This change has resulted in a contracts conclude.
The new regulatory period number of new awards and extensions commences in 2021 and early engagement Services outlook including three new contracts replacing with prospective clients has commenced.
With an increased The Services division, which accounts for focus on fire risk assessments, the In telecommunications, the market remains approximately 50% of the Groups profits, business has strengthened its capability in buoyant with a number of new alternative is performing well.
Having secured more this field.
fibre providers coming into the market on than 1.9bn of new work in the year, the the back of Government incentives and it is Services division now has an order book of On 29 June 2018 the disposal of Wheldon anticipated that further work for Kier will 5.2bn providing strong, long-term visibility Contracts and Services Limited for a total arise.
A three-year 100m contract was of our workload and more than 90% of its consideration of up to 0.4m.
It was secured with Gigaclear to build high-speed forecast revenue for FY19.
acquired in July 2017 as part of the fibre networks in Devon and Somerset.
The market for UK infrastructure maintains its position as the single biggest construction and maintenance is forecast supplier to Virgin Media for both consumer Property services Facilities management to grow at 6% per annum until 2020 and business connections, network build The Property services team continues to underpinned by fundamental drivers and and maintenance activities.
maintain its profile in the public and private political consensus for the continuing sectors.
During the year, new contracts investment to stimulate the UK economy Infrastructure services outlook were mobilised with the British Red Cross, and targeted regional economies.
The outlook for our highways maintenance the Home Office, Moorland and High Peak business remains positive with Highways It is also anticipated in Highways that Councils and The Office Group.
On 17 England funding secured through to the end expenditure in the new 2020-2025 RIS2 September 2018, the Group exchanged of the 17bn Roads Investment Strategy 1 will be greater than RIS1.
The utilities contracts for the sale of its pension RIS1 in 2020 and predicted future funding market provides opportunities to grow in administration business, acquired with the levels expected to increase.
The outlook the run-up to each new regulatory period.
Completion is remains positive for Australia with our key We remain confident that we are well expected in the first half of this financial clients in Western Australia and New South positioned to take advantage of the next year for a total consideration of up to Wales increasing spending to meet the round of highways, water and rail regulatory 3.5million in cash.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 49
