our strategic milestones for year 3 Full year 2018 19 represents another year of significant implementation.
The strategic milestones for 2018 19 are set out below.
Summary For the second year in a row we have achieved our key Unified and unique offer strategic milestones and our full year 2020 21 targets remain unchanged.
However, we have experienced some Deliver growth in unified & unique sales and business disruption reflecting the significant increase gross margin in transformation activity.
We have acted on the root causes, continuing to have a flexible approach, adapting Unify 40% of product COGS as necessary as our transformation progresses.
Full year 2018 19 represents another year of significant implementation hence we expect some ongoing businessdisruption.
Negotiations are well progressed to unify 40% unified and unique product COGS.
We expect Digital unique ranges will continue to drive sales growth and thatas more cost price reduction CPR is delivered, Complete final year of unified IT platform weexpect an uplift in Group gross margin including roll out to Operating Companies clearance.
As we roll out our unified IT platform, we are also starting to unlock further efficiencies beyond goods Complete ecommerce roll out in France not for resale GNFR.
During the year we established a and Poland shared services centre in Krakow, Poland.
In full year 2018 19 the combination of GNFR savings and net savingsfrom operational efficiencies are expected Market launch of first home improvement to be around 30 million.
services in the UK and France We are building the ONE Kingfisher engine to provide the platform for growth.
As we are now entering the third year of our transformation, we are starting to develop plans to take that new engine, and combine it with the best of physical and digital.
This will provide our Operational efficiency customers with a great offer incorporating engaging experiences alongside ultimate convenience, and will Implement finance shared services in at involve not only leveraging our big box estate but also least two Operating Companies our Screwfix best in class convenience model.
Deliver 30 million benefits from unified Overall, we are aware of challenges ahead but remain confident in our ability to deliver the full year 2020 21 GNFR programme and other efficiencies plan benefits.
Retail operations Maintain higher colleague engagement scores than retail sector www.
com 25 a clear long-term roadmap 2015 16 2016 17 2017 18 2018 19 Unified and unique offer Unified & New Offer and Supply Chain organisation Unique Offer Cut the tail Unified IT platform roll-out Digital ecommerce Home improvement services B&Q Store closures Operational Goods not for resale GNFR Efficiency Further operational Retail best practices Store of the future Retail Screwfix UK & Europe retail expansion Operations Retail expansion excluding Screwfix 26 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 2017 18 key strategic 2018 19 milestones delivered strategic milestones 2019 20 2020 21 Unified 23% of product Deliver growth in unified & unique COGS sales and gross margin Unified and unique offer Unify 40% of product COGS Delivered Year 2 of 3 year Complete final year of unified unified IT platform roll-out IT platform roll-out to Operating Unified IT platform roll-out alongside better ecommerce Companies Complete ecommerce roll-out ecommerce in France and Poland Home improvement services Market launch of first home improvement services in the UK and France Delivered a further 28 million Implement finance shared services of benefits from unified GNFR in at least two Operating Companies programme Deliver 30 million benefits from unified GNFR programme Goods not for resale GNFR and other efficiencies Further operational efficiency initiatives Opened 60 Screwfix outlets Maintain higher colleague in the UK engagement scores than Store of the future retail sector Screwfix UK & Europe retail expansion Retail expansion excluding Screwfix www.
