board of directors IMAGE REMOVED Anders Dahlvig Mark Seligman Non-executive Director Senior Independent Director Clare Chapman Pascal Cagni Andy Cosslett Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Chairman IMAGE REMOVED Rakhi Goss-Custard Andrew Bonfield Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Vronique Laury Karen Witts Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Board of directors ONE Kingfisher A R N R N R N Clare Chapman Andy Cosslett Andrew Bonfield Non-executive Director, Chairman Chairman, Chairman of Non-executive Director, of the Remuneration Committee the Nomination Committee Chairman oftheAudit Committee Appointed to the Board effective 1 April Appointed to the Board in February 2010 Appointed to the Board in December 2010.
2017 before being appointed Chairman and will be stepping down with effect from Expertise and experience: Clare brings on 13 June 2017.
12 June 2018. international perspective and expertise Expertise and experience:Andy Cossletts Expertise and experience: Andrew brings from a series of high-profile human early career was with Unilever in a variety significant current finance experience to resource leadership roles.
She was of branding and marketing roles.
He then the Kingfisher Board.
He was previously previously Group People Director spent 14 years at Cadbury Schweppes Chief Financial Officer of Cadbury plc and of BT Group and Director General of in senior, international roles before prior to that he was Chief Financial Officer Workforce for the NHS and Social Care.
becoming CEO for InterContinental of Bristol-Myers Squibb from 2002 to She was also a non-executive director Hotels Group IHG.
He was Finance Director of BG of TUI Travel plc and Chairman of its six years, creating value by leveraging the Group plc from 2001 to 2002 and Chief Remuneration Committee.
Her previous power of its brands alongside executing a Financial Officer of SmithKline Beecham experience also includes Group HR programme of significant transformational Plc from 1999 to 2000 during an 11-year Director of Tesco plc from 1999 to 2006 and cultural change.
He served as CEO for period with the pharmaceuticals group.
and HR Vice President of Pepsi Colas Fitness First from 2012 to 2015, where he West and Central European operations Other directorships: Andrew is Finance was again instrumental in successfully from 1994 to 1999.
Director of National Grid plc.
He is repositioning the business and brand.
Chairman of the Hundred Group Other directorships: Clare joined Other directorships: Andy joined the of Finance Directors.
the Board of Heidrick & Struggles board of the Rugby Football Union RFU in International, Inc. in early 2016 and April 2012 and served as Chairman of the was subsequently also appointed as N Pascal Cagni organising committee of the 2015 Rugby the Remuneration Committee Chair, Non-executive Director World Cup.
He was appointed Chairman and became a non-executive director and of the RFU in October 2016. the Chair of the Remuneration Committee Appointed to the Board in November 2010. of The Weir Group plc on 1 August 2017.
Expertise and experience: Pascal Clare also serves as a Commissioner provides the Board with expertise in on the Low Pay Commission.
the field of digital and multi-channel retailing.
He was formerly the General Manager, Vice President of Apple Europe, Middle-East, India and Africa.
His previous experience includes roles at Packard Bell, NEC and Booz Allen Hamilton.
He held the position of non-executive director on the board of Egg Banking plc, the online banking arm of Prudential plc, was an independent member of the supervisory board of Vivendi SA and served on the board of Style.
He actively conducts strategy, consulting and venture capital activities through c4v.
Other directorships: Pascal is a member of the board of directors of Banque Transatlantique, and was appointed as Chairman of Business France in August 2017.
52 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 A N A R N A R N Mark Seligman Anders Dahlvig Rakhi Goss-Custard Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board in December 2009.
Appointed to the Board in February 2016.
Appointed to the Board in January 2012.
Expertise and experience: Anders brings Expertise and experience: Rakhi is a highly Expertise and experience:Mark provides extensive commercial retailing expertise experienced director in digital retailing, substantial expertise to the Kingfisher to the Board.
He was previously Chief having spent 11 years at Amazon.
Board in the field of finance.
He was a Executive and President of the IKEA Most recently she was Director, UK senior adviser at Credit Suisse.
He began Group from 1999 to 2009, having spent Media at Amazon, responsible for ranges his career at Price Waterhouse and spent 26 years with the company.
Prior to such as books, music and DVDs.
She was over 30 years in the City, including senior becoming Chief Executive, he was Vice previously Director, UK Hardlines, where roles at SG Warburg, BZW and Credit President of IKEA Europe from 1997 to she was responsible for home, garden Suisse First Boston.
At Credit Suisse he 1999 and Managing Director of IKEA UK and DIY product ranges.
Prior to joining was Deputy Chairman Europe from 1999 from 1993 to 1997.
Amazon, Rakhi held roles at TomTom to 2005 and later Chairman UK Investment and in management consultancy in the Banking from 2003 to 2005.
Other directorships: Anders is a director United States.
of Oriflame Cosmetics AB, H&M Hennes & Other directorships: Mark serves as Mauritz AB and Axel Johnson AB, and is a Other directorships: Rakhi is a nonan alternate member of the Panel on member of the Advisory Board of Lund executive director of Schroders plc, Takeovers and Mergers.
He joined University Business School.
He is also a Rightmove plc, Intu Properties plc and Smiths Group plc as an independent director of Resurs Bank AB, Pret a Manger Be Heard Group plc.
Mark Limited and Chairman of the board of became a non-executive director of The Inter Ikea Holding BV.
Royal Bank of Scotland plc in April 2017 Vronique Laury and became the Senior Independent Chief Executive Officer Director in January 2018.
Appointed to the Board in December 2014.
Expertise and experience: Vronique is a Karen Witts highly experienced international retailer Chief Financial Officer who has worked in the home improvement Appointed to the Board in October 2012. sector for more than 25 years in France and in the UK.
She joined Kingfisher in Expertise and experience:Karen is a 2003, after spending 15 years at Leroy seasoned Chief Financial Officer and Merlin in various commercial roles, and in chartered accountant with a strong her 15 years with the business she has held background in finance and management several key roles including Chief Executive across a variety of sectors.
Prior to joining of Castorama France, Group Commercial Kingfisher, she served as Chief Financial Director and Commercial Director of B&Q Officer, Africa, Middle East, Asia and Asia UK & Ireland.
She became Chief Executive Pacific for Vodafone Group plc and before Officer on 8 December 2014. that spent 11 years in Finance Director and General Management roles at BT.
Karen has also worked in companies including Diageo and Mars.
She provides significant current relevant finance expertise to the Board.
Other directorships: Karen is a non-executive director of Imperial Brands plc, andChairman of its Audit Committee.
A Audit Committee R Remuneration Committee N Nomination Committee www.
