Directors Report Introduction Research and development This Directors Report and the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 56 The Group undertakes research and development activities when inclusive together comprise the management report for the providing services to its clients for example, in relation to design purposes of Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
development, construction techniques and project management process and efficiencies.
The direct expenditure incurred is not Information incorporated by reference readily identifiable, as the investment is typically included in the relevant project.
The following information is provided in other appropriate sections of this Annual Report and the financial statements and is Share capital incorporated by reference: As at 30 June 2018, the issued share capital of the Company Information Reported in Page s consisted of 97,460,163 ordinary shares of 1 pence each.
Corporate governance Corporate Governance 57 to 85 Detailsof changes to the ordinary shares issued and of options Statement inclusive and awards granted during the year are set out in notes 24 Statements of Directors 110 and25to the consolidated financial statements on pages 163 Responsibilities to165 inclusive.
Directors Board of Directors 64 and 65 Subject to the provisions of the articles of association of the Directors Remuneration 97 Company the Articles and prevailing legislation, shares may be Report Directors issued with such rights or restrictions as the Company may by shareholdings and ordinary resolution determine or, if the Company has not so shareinterests determined, as the Directors may decide.
Employees Corporate responsibility 34 Restrictions on transfer of securities in the Company Financial instruments Financial statements 166 to 170 There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the note27 inclusive Company, other than those that are set out in the Articles or apply Going concern Board statements 60 as a result of the operation of law or regulation.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may Greenhouse Corporate responsibility 35 gas emissions result in restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Company.
Important events Not applicable Substantial holdings since the end of As at 19 September 2018, the Company had been notified of the thefinancial year following interests in the share capital of the Company being Likely future Chief Executives 19 voting rights over such share capital, pursuant to Rule 5.1 of the developments strategic review Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Results and dividends Chairmans statement 12 1 Shareholder Interest Standard Life Aberdeen plc 14.0% Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R Woodford Investment Management Ltd 10.0% The table below sets out where information required to be BlackRock Inc 5.9% disclosed under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R can be found in this AnnualReport to the extent applicable to the Company.
Brewin Dolphin Limited 5.0% Information Reported in Page s Rathbone Investment Management Ltd 4.9% 1 Amount of interest Financial statements 146 Schroders plc 4.8% capitalised note 12 Computer Norges Bank 3.0% software, footnote 2 1 Subject to rounding.
2 Unaudited financial Not applicable information Securities carrying special rights 4 Long-term incentive Directors Remuneration 86 to 107 No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights schemes Report inclusive with regard to control of the Company.
5 11 Not applicable Rights under employee share schemes 12 13 Rights under employee 108 and 109 As at 30 June 2018, RBC Trustees Guernsey Limited RBC, as share schemes the trustee of the Kier Group 1999 Employee Benefit Trust, owned 14 Not applicable 12,897 shares approximately 0.01% of the Companys issued share capital at that date.
These shares are made available to Political donations satisfy the vesting of LTIP awards and awards of shares to senior The Company made no political donations during the year 2017:nil.
management as part of the annual bonus arrangements.
RBC does not exercise any voting rights in respect of shares held by the trust.
RBC waives its rights to dividends in respect of such shares, other than those relating to the annual bonus arrangements.
108 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements As at 30 June 2018, Yorkshire Building Society YBS held The Directors were also granted authority to allot shares i non-pre- 1,385,686 shares approximately 1.42% of the Companys issued emptively and wholly for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of share capital at that date ontrust for the benefit of members of 48,729 and ii for the purposes of financing an acquisition or other the SIP.
At the same date, YBS also held 8,919 shares 0.01% of capital investment up to a further nominal amount of 48,729. the issued share capital on trust for the benefit of members of the Powers in relation to the Company buying back its shares legacy May Gurney Share Incentive Plan.
YBS does not exercise any voting rights in respect of the shares held by the trust The Company may only buy back shares if the Articles do not prohibit although beneficiaries may authorise YBS to vote in accordance it from doing so and it has received the requisite authority from with their instructions.
YBS distributes dividends received to shareholders in general meeting.
Although the Articles do not contain beneficiaries under the trust.
any such prohibition, the Company did not request any such authority at its last AGM and does not propose to do so at the forthcoming AGM.
As at 30 June 2018, the trustee of the May Gurney Limited Employee Share Ownership Trust and the trustee of the May Gurney Change of control Integrated Services PLC Employee Benefit Trust held, respectively, The Groups principal loan facility agreements with its UK lending 219,759 and 19,045 shares in aggregate, approximately 0.25% of banks, the note purchase agreements entered into in 2012 and the Companys issued share capital at that date.
2014 in connection with the Groups US private placements of These shares are made available to satisfy awards of shares under notes and the Schuldschein loan agreements entered into in May the Groups remuneration arrangements.
Neither trustee exercises and June 2016 each contain provisions under which, in the event any voting rights in respect of shares held by their respective trust of a change of control of the Company, the Company may be and each waives dividends payable with respect to such shares.
required to repay all outstanding amounts borrowed.
Restrictions on voting rights Certain of the Groups commercial arrangements, including certain of its joint venture agreements, contract bond agreements and No shareholder will, unless the Board otherwise determines, be other commercial agreements entered into in the ordinary course entitled to vote at any general meeting unless all calls or other of business, include change of control provisions.
sums then payable by the shareholder in respect of that share have been paid or if that shareholder has been served with a Certain of the Groups employee share schemes or remuneration disenfranchisement notice.
arrangements contain provisions relating to a change of control of the Company.
Outstanding options and awards may become The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of exercisable or vest upon a change of control.
securities that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
There are no agreements between the Company and the Directors Appointment and replacement of Directors providing for compensation for loss of office by any of the Directors  that occurs as a result of a takeover bid other than those referred to above.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board holds office Branches until the next AGM of the Company after his her appointment and Because the Group is a global business, it has activities which is then eligible to stand for election.
operate through branches in certain jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors in office at the date of this Annual Report, other than Nick Winser, will be standing for re-election by members Auditor at the 2018 AGM.
Further information about the Directors skills The Board has decided that  LLP will be and experience can be found on pages 64 and 65. proposed as the Groups auditor for the financial year ending The Company may by ordinary resolution, of which special notice 30June 2019 and a resolution relating to this re-appointment will has been given, remove any Director before the expiry of the be tabled at the forthcoming AGM.
AGM The Company is not aware of any of the Directors being the The Companys 2018 AGM will be held at 12 noon on beneficiary of a qualifying indemnity provision.
16 November 2018 at the Andaz Hotel, 40 Liverpool Street, Amendment of Articles London EC2M 7QN.
The Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the This Directors Report was approved by the Board and signed on Companys shareholders.
its behalf by: Powers of the Directors Subject to the Articles, applicable law and any directions given by shareholders, the Companys business is managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Powers in relation to the Company issuing its shares Hugh Raven The Directors were granted authority at the AGM on 17 November Company Secretary 2017 to allot shares in the Company i up to an aggregate 19 September 2018 nominal amount of 324,866 and ii up to an aggregate nominalamount of 649,733 in connection with a rights issue.
Tempsford Hall Sandy Bedfordshire SG19 2BD Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 109
