Directors statement of responsibility Responsibility for preparing financial statements The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report of the corporate and financial information included on the and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law companys website.
Legislation, regulation and practice in the and regulations.
United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation, regulation and UK company law requires the directors to prepare financial practice in other jurisdictions.
statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group Financial statements in Responsibility statement accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: IFRS as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations and have elected to prepare the parent the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the company financial statements in accordance with United relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law including loss of the company and the undertakings included in the FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Under s. 393 of the consolidation taken as a whole: Companies Act 2006, the directors must not approve the the strategic report includes a fair review of the development accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and and performance of the business and the position of the fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation profit or loss of the company for that period.
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face: and In preparing the parent company financial statements, the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a thedirectors are required to: whole are fair, balanced and understandable and provide select suitable accounting policies and then apply the information necessary for shareholders to assess the them consistently: companys performance, business model and strategy.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are By order of the Board reasonable and prudent: follow applicable UK Accounting Standards except where any Paul Moore departures from this requirement are explained in the notes to Company Secretary the parent company financial statements : and 20 March 2018 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
In preparing the group financial statements in accordance with IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply themconsistently: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial performance:and make an assessment of the companys ability to continue as agoing concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
com 97 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Kingfisher plc We are independent of the Group and the Company Report on the audit of the financial in accordance with the ethical requirements that are statements relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the Opinion UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to In our opinion: listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these the financial statements give a true and fair view of the requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not 31 January 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year provided to the Group or the Company.
then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained prepared in accordance with International Financial is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the ouropinion.
European Union: Summary of our audit approach the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Key audit The key audit matters that we identified Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial matters in the current year were: Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure inventory valuation: Framework: and recognition of supplier rebates: the financial statements have been prepared in store impairment: French accordance with the requirements of the Companies operatingunits: Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial impairment of goodwill: France cash statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
generating unit: We have audited the financial statements of Kingfisher taxation matters: transfer pricing: and plc the Company and its subsidiaries the Group classification and presentation of whichcomprise: exceptional and adjusted items.
the consolidated income statement: Within this report, any new or refined the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: key audit matters are identified the consolidated and Company statements of changes with and any key audit matters in equity: which are the same as the prior the consolidated and Company balance sheets: year are identified with.
the consolidated cash flow statement: The materiality that we used for Materiality the statement of accounting policies: and the Group financial statements was the related notes 1 to 37 of the Group financial 34 million which was determined statements and notes 1 to 16 of the Company on the basis of profit before tax and financial statements.
The materiality that we used for the Company financial The financial reporting framework that has been applied statements was 30.6 million, which in the preparation of the Group financial statements is was determined on the basis of 90% applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European of Group materiality.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial We focused our Group audit scope Scoping statements is applicable law and United Kingdom primarily on all significant trading Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced entities and the Group head office.
Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally These locations represent the principal Accepted Accounting Practice.
business units and account for 99% 2016 17: 99% of the Groups revenue, Basis for opinion 97% of the Groups profit before tax We conducted our audit in accordance with International 2016 17: 97% and 93% 2016 17: 95% Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit In the current year, our key audit Significant of the financial statements section of our report.
matters have been refined to reflect changes changes in the Groups underlying in our operations as described below.
approach 98 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the Directors statement in note 2. a to the financial statements about We confirm that we whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting have nothing material in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the companys to report, add or draw ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of attention to in respect approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they We confirm that we were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including have nothing material the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the Directors assessment of the companys to report, add or draw ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything attention to in respect material to add or draw attention to in relation to: of these matters.
the disclosures on pages 42 to 47 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation on page 40 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on page 48 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Company required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
In the current year our key audit matters have been refined to reflect changes in the Groups underlying operations.
The main changes noted are set out below.
Given the significant increase in inventory from 2,173 million at 31 January 2017 to 2,701 million at 31 January 2018, the Unique and Unified Offer implementation and associated clearance activities taking place across the Groups operating units, we have expanded our key audit matter relating to inventory valuation to include a fraud risk in relation to considering the ongoing appropriateness of the Groups policy for inventory provisioning.
We have pinpointed our key audit matter regarding store impairment to Brico Dpt France and Castorama France due to their recent trading performance, in particular sustained negative like-for-like growth and underperformance against the market.
We have removed lease-based provisioning as a key audit matter as there have not been any significant lease-based provisions recorded in the year and there is not a material judgement in accounting for any movement in provisions recorded in prior periods.
com 99 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Kingfisher plc continued We have pinpointed our key audit matter regarding the impairment of goodwill to the valuation of goodwill attached to the France cash generating unit.
This assessment is due to the recent trading performance in France: in particular sustained negative like-for-like growth and underperformance against the market.
We have refined our taxation key audit matter to focus on the valuation of transfer pricing provisions, given that the provisions held are inherently judgemental relying on judgements around how the tax authorities would approach and consider these issues.
Inventory valuation Key audit matter As at 31 January 2018, the value of inventory held by the Group was 2,701 million description 31 January 2017: 2,173 million as disclosed in note 17 to the financial statements.
Assessing the valuation of inventory requires significant judgement in estimating the eventual selling price of items held, as well as assessing which items may be slow-moving or obsolete.
As detailed in the Strategic Report on page 22 the Group has continued rationalising the number of stock keeping units SKUs as it continues to look to unify its product offering with the same products, presented everywhere in the same way.
This had led to an increase in the inventory balance.
This adds additional complexity to assessing the level of inventory which will become obsolete and the expected net realisable value NRV of inventory which will be sold.
Further, given there has been clearance activity for the past year as the Group looks to unify its ranges, this can impact the eventual selling price and hence the net realisable value of inventory, which ultimately influences the level of provisions recorded.
The Groups principal accounting policy on inventory is on page 119 and the sources of estimation uncertainty for inventory are on page 122.
Judgements relating to inventory and stock provisioning policy are a significant issue considered by the Audit Committee as discussed on page 67.
Given the level of judgement applied and the potential for manipulation, we consider this to be a fraud risk specifically in relation to considering the ongoing appropriateness of the Groups policy in the context of inventory rationalisation and clearance activities taking place across the Groups operating units.
How the scope of our Our audit focused on whether the valuation of year end inventory was in accordance with audit responded to IAS 2 Inventory.
This included challenging the judgements taken regarding the recording of the key audit matter obsolescence and net realisable value provisions.
We obtained assurance over the appropriateness of managements assumptions applied in calculating the value of inventory provisions by: evaluating the design and implementation of key controls over inventory provisioning with their operating effectiveness assessed in certain operating companies: reviewing the cost of clearance for Unified ranges implemented to date and understanding how this impacted the year end provision: critically assessing the Groups inventory provisioning policy, with specific consideration given to the increase in inventory and expected clearance activity: verifying the existence and condition of inventory by attending a sample of inventory counts throughout the year across all in scope components, including those at 16 distribution centres and 67 retail stores: checking the value of a sample of inventory to confirm it is held at the lower of cost and net realisable value, through comparison to vendor invoices and current sales prices: and recomputing provisions recorded to verify that they are recorded in line with the Groups policy and IAS 2.
This was done in conjunction with IT specialists for some components where the provision is automatically calculated.
Key observations The results of our audit work were satisfactory and we concur that the level of inventory provisions are appropriate.
We also concur that the Groups policy for inventory provisioning is in accordance with IAS 2.
100 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Recognition of supplier rebates Key audit matter The Group receives significant amounts of supplier incentives, discounts, and rebates and description recognises these as a deduction to cost of sales.
These agreements largely comprise volume-based rebates based on percentage levels agreed for the calendar year, but also include arrangements with a greater degree of judgement such as advertising and marketing support.
Assessing the point at which a rebate earned from suppliers should be recognised as a reduction to cost of sales, including adherence to contractual terms, is an area of complexity and requires a detailed understanding of the contractual arrangements and the source data on which managements calculations are based.
As the majority of volume rebates are settled on a calendar year basis, we identified a risk relating to recognition of non-volume based rebates and any judgement in the volume rebates recognised in January and which have not yet been settled.
The majority of rebate agreements are subject to netting agreements with the supplier.
Asdetailed in note 18, there are 274 million of rebate debtors recorded at year end.
The Groups principal accounting policy for rebates is on page 118 and the sources of estimation uncertainty for rebates are on page 122.
Given the level of judgement applied and the potential for manipulation, we consider this to be a fraud risk.
How the scope of our We obtained a detailed understanding, and evaluated the design and implementation, of audit responded to controls that the Group has established in relation to the recognition of supplier rebates.
the key audit matter We tested that amounts recognised were accurate and recorded in the correct period based on the contractual performance obligations by obtaining and reviewing a sample of contracts with suppliers to assess the conditions required for rebate income to be recognised and verified whether or not these had been met.
We circularised a sample of suppliers or agreed rebates to supplier agreement to give assurance that the arrangements recorded were accurate and complete and, where outstanding balances were significant at the year end, to confirm the amounts owed.
Where responses were not received, we completed alternative procedures such as obtaining rebate contracts, understanding the contractual terms and recomputing the rebate earned.
For accrued volume-based agreements, we recalculated the rebates due based on shipments in the year and contractual terms.
For other rebates, we also focussed on the timing of recognition of the rebate income based on the contractual performance obligations.
Key observations We concluded that rebate income and rebate accrual is materially correct and has been recognised in accordance with the Groups policy.
We consider the disclosure given around supplier rebates to provide an appropriate understanding of the types of rebate income received and impact on the Groups balance sheet as at 31 January 2018. www.
com 101 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Kingfisher plc continued Store impairment: French operating units Key audit matter As at 31 January 2018 the value of property, plant and equipment held by the Group was description 3,736 million, as disclosed in note 14 to the financial statements.
Our key audit matter relates to the Brico Dpt France and Castorama France operating units due to recent trading performance, in particular sustained negative like-for-like growth.
There are several technically complex or judgemental aspects of assessing store impairment, which are set out below.
We note that cash flow forecasting, impairment modelling and property values are all inherently judgemental.
The key assumptions applied by management in their store impairment reviews are: determining the cash-generating units CGUs, which the Group has determined as being individual stores, with indicators of impairment: country-specific discount rates and long term growth rates: store costs, including rent, staff payroll and general operating costs: and forecast contribution growth.
As detailed in note 2 to the financial statements, the Group uses vacant possession valuations to approximate fair value less costs to sell when considering impairment.
How the scope of our Our audit procedures included assessing the design and implementation of key controls audit responded to around the Groups impairment reviews.
the key audit matter We challenged the French impairment models by: challenging the completeness and accuracy of managements impairment indicatorassessment: checking the mechanical accuracy of the models: assessing in conjunction with our valuation specialists the discount rates applied to the impairment review: comparing forecast growth rates to external economic data: considering prior period forecasting accuracy: challenging key inputs in the model including forecast sales growth and margins.
agreeing the vacant possession value of freehold property to third party valuation reports, challenging the inputs and valuation methodology applied: and checking that the disclosures within the financial statements were appropriate.
Key observations We did not identify any additional impairments over and above that recorded by Management.
102 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Impairment of goodwill: France cash generating unit Key audit matter As at 31 January 2018 the value of goodwill held by the Group was 2,437 million, as disclosed description in note 12 to the financial statements.
The goodwill attributable to cash generating units CGUs is reviewed for impairment using avalue in use model, as described in note 12 to the financial statements.
Determining the carrying value of goodwill requires management to make significant estimates including forecast cash flows, discount rates and long term growth rates.
As detailed in the finance review on page 34 there has been sustained negative like-for-like growth in France and therefore we focussed our work on the risk of impairment against the 524 million of goodwill allocated to the France CGU.
The Groups principal accounting policy on goodwill and intangible assets is on page 118.
The carrying value of goodwill is a significant issue considered by the Audit Committee as discussed on page 67.
How the scope of our In order to address this key audit matter we audited the assumptions used in the impairment audit responded to model for goodwill of the France cash generating unit.
Our work included: the key audit matter evaluating the design and implementation of controls in place around the Groups impairment review: assessing whether managements cash flow forecasts are in compliance with IAS36 Impairment of Assets and specifically that they exclude cash flows not permitted by IAS36 such as costs and revenue which are considered enhancing: agreeing the forecast cash flows to the Board approved business plan and challenging the forecast future cash flows for the French CGU in light of historic performance: assessing historical forecasting accuracy by comparing historic forecasts to actuals: comparing the long-term growth rates to external economic forecasts: assessing in conjunction with our valuation specialists the discount rates applied to the impairment review: assessing the appropriateness of the sensitivities applied by management and whether this gave rise to any impairment: checking the arithmetic accuracy of the impairment model: and reviewing the disclosures within the financial statements.
Key observations We concurred with the judgement made by management that no impairment is required against the French CGUs Goodwill.
Based on sensitivity analysis performed using a reasonably possible change in assumptions, no impairment was identified.
com 103 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Kingfisher plc continued Taxation matters: Transfer pricing Key audit matter The Group files tax returns in many jurisdictions and is periodically subject to tax audits in the description ordinary course of its business including matters relating to transfer pricing, indirect taxes and transaction-related tax.
Applicable tax laws and regulations are subject to differing interpretations and the resolution of a final tax position can take several years to complete.
Where it is considered that future tax liabilities are more likely than not to arise, an appropriate provision is recognised in the financial statements.
Our key audit matter focussed on the valuation of transfer pricing provisions as we consider this to be the most judgemental area of the provisioning given the range of possible outcomes and the number of tax authorities involved for a multinational Group such asKingfisher.
The Groups principal accounting policy for taxation is on page 120 and the sources of estimation uncertainty for taxation is on page 122.
The significant judgements and estimates related to corporate and business taxes are a significant issue considered by the Audit Committee as discussed on page 67 and tax disclosures are given in notes 9, 24 and 35.
How the scope of our We tested the design and implementation of controls around the valuation of transfer audit responded to pricingprovisions.
the key audit matter The Group audit team, in conjunction with tax specialists, evaluated the tax positions taken by management in the context of local tax law and tested the accuracy and completeness of transfer pricing provisions which included reviewing the external opinions and other support received from advisers which management has used in assessing the level of transfer pricing provisions to record.
We further tested the valuation and accuracy of underlying schedules used to compute the transfer pricing provisions.
We also involved our internal transfer pricing specialists to understand the approach taken to transfer pricing, the transactions that flow between Group entities including any changes in approach during the year.
Key observations We consider the provisions recorded for transfer pricing to be acceptable in the context of the Groups overall tax exposures and our materiality.
We consider the overall clarity of disclosure in relation to tax provisioning and the discussion of contingent liabilities to be appropriate.
104 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Classification and presentation of exceptional and adjusted items Key audit matter The presentation and consistency of costs and income within transformation costs description and exceptional items is a key determinant in the assessing the quality of the Groups underlyingearnings.
For the year ended 31 January 2018, the Group incurred non-exceptional transformation costs of 114 million 2016 17: 44 million along with a net pre-tax exceptional balance of nil 2016 17: 17 million credit as shown in note 5.
The presentation of certain income and costs as non-GAAP measures under IFRSs is judgemental, with IFRSs only requiring the separate presentation of material items.
The exceptional items are expected to be non-recurring and are disclosed separately by virtue oftheir nature, size or incidence.
Management judgement is required in determining whether an item meets the Groups definition of transformation costs or is exceptional and non-recurring.
The Group has established definitions of exceptional items and transformation costs.
TheGroups principal accounting policy on use of non-GAAP measures is on page 116 and the judgements made in applying the accounting policy is on page 122.
The treatment and presentation of transformation costs and exceptional items is a significant issue considered by the Audit Committee as discussed on page 67.
How the scope of our We evaluated the design and implementation of controls around the Groups classification of audit responded to transformation costs and exceptional items.
the key audit matter We agreed a sample of exceptional items and transformation costs to supporting evidence.
We evaluated the presentation of items, both individually and in aggregate, considering consistency with the Groups definition of transformation costs and exceptional items and latest guidance from the Financial Reporting Council and the European Securities and Markets Authority.
For exceptional items, we reviewed managements application of the policy on exceptional items for consistency with previous accounting periods.
We also assessed whether the disclosures within the financial statements provide sufficient detail for the reader to understand the nature of these items.
For all significant adjustments recorded in calculating underlying profits, we discussed the appropriateness of the item with the Audit Committee and any disclosure considerations.
Key observations As a result of our work, we are satisfied that the amounts classified as exceptional items and transformation costs are presented in accordance with the Groups stated accounting policy and that the related disclosure of these items in the financial statements is appropriate.
com 105 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Kingfisher plc continued Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both inplanning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Materiality for 34 million 2016 17: 37 million 30.6 million 2016 17: 17.5 million the financial statements Basis for determining 5% 2016 17: 5% of profit before 90% 2016 17: 47% of Group materiality.
materiality taxation, before exceptional items as defined in note 2 to the Group financial statements: this is below 1 % 2016 17: below 1% of equity.
Rationale for the We considered alternative benchmarks, The materiality used is 90% of group benchmark applied including underlying pre-tax profit, materiality.
The entity is non-trading adjusted pre-tax profit, revenue and contains an investment in all of and total assets.
In determining our thegroups trading components.
benchmark we considered the focus of the users of the financial statements.
Profit before taxation, before exceptional items provides a consistent year on year approach excluding exceptional gains and losses, and is considered to be a relevant performance measure to theGroups stakeholders.
Pre-exceptional Group materiality 34 million profit before tax PBT 682 million 34 million Component materiality range excluding parent company 2.7 million to 17.5 million Audit Committee reporting threshold 1.5 million We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 1.5million 2016 17: 1.5 million for both the Group and Company financial statements, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
106 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
The Group operates nearly 1,300 stores in 10 countries across Europe.
All markets are wholly owned with the exception of Turkey which is a joint venture.
We focused our Group audit scope primarily on all significant trading entities and the Group head office entities which includes B&Q UK, Castorama France, Brico Dpt France, Castorama Poland, Castorama Russia, Screwfix UK, Brico Dpt Spain, Brico Dpt Romania and the Kota joint venture.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to a full audit or audit of specified accounts balances.
These locations represent the principal business units and account for 99% 2016 17: 99% of the Groups revenue, 97% of the Groups profit before tax 2016 17: 97% and 93% 2016 17: 95% of the Groups net assets.
The entities which are out of our scope are primarily individually insignificant cost entities and other smaller operations.
The locations in scope were selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at these locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from 2.7 million to 17.5 million 2016 17: 2.4 million to 17.5 million.
How we work closely with component auditors The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor visits locations considered the most significant each year.
For the remaining locations where Group audit work is performed, but no visit is carried out, the Senior Statutory Auditor has discussed and challenged the key areas of judgement with the lead audit partner of the component in the current year and a member of the Group audit team has visited the location.
In the current year, the Group audit team have made 23 2016 17: 24 visits to component sites and a member of the Group audit team has visited each in-scope subsidiary location at least once.
The most significant components of the Group are its retail businesses in the UK, France and Poland.
As such, there is ahigh level of communication between these teams to ensure an appropriate level of involvement in this audit work.
The Senior Statutory Auditor has visited B&Q UK, Screwfix UK, Castorama France, Brico Dpt France and Castorama Poland at least once in the year.
We also held planning briefings, attended by the component auditors from each of the locations discussed above, at which we discussed developments in the Group relevant to our audit, including risk assessment and audit procedures to respond to the risks identified.
com 107 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Kingfisher plc continued Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises We have nothing to the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our report in respect of auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, orhave no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free frommaterial misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditorsreport.
108 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records report in respect of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain report in respect of disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors these matters.
remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records andreturns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed as auditors by the Directors to fill a casual vacancy on 5 October 2009 and this was approved subsequently by the shareholders on 17 June 2010 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 30 January 2010 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 9 years, covering the years ending 30 January 2010 to 31 January 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Richard Muschamp FCA Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, UK 20 March 2018 www.
