Executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Discretion 1 Basic salary To aid the recruitment, retention Reviewed annually, with effect from For 2018 19, the annual basic salaries The Committee has the discretion and motivation of high performing of the Executive Directors are todetermine the precise amount 1 June, and reflects: Executive Directors 799,722 Chief Executive, 520,574 ofbasic salary within the DRP, Increases throughout the rest of Chief Financial Officer, and including approving the salary for a To reflect the value of their thebusiness 423,300 for each of the two newly-appointed Executive Director.
experience, skills and knowledge, Market benchmarking exercise Managing Directors.
This represents Itwill also determine whether there and importance to the business undertaken periodically to ensure a2% increase for each, slightly below are specific reasons to award salary salaries are set at around the median the average increase for the increases greater than those for the of the market competitive level for workforce in general wider workforce people in comparable roles with The maximum annual salary increase similar levels of experience, will not normally exceed the average performance and contribution increase across the rest of the Changes in the scope of an Executive workforce 2018: 2.5%.
Higher Directors role may also require a increases will be exceptional, and made further adjustment to salary in specific circumstances, including: Increase in responsibilities or scope of the role To apply salary progression for a newly appointed Executive Director Where the Executive Directors salary has fallen below the market positioning 2 Benefits To provide protection and market Executive Directors receive The value of benefits may vary The DRP will always apply as stated, competitive benefits to aid from year to year depending on unless there are specific individual a combination of: recruitment and retention of high the cost to the Company circumstances why it should not Car allowance performing Executive Directors Private medical insurance Life assurance Ill health income protection Holiday and sick pay Professional advice in connection withtheir directorship Travel, subsistence and accommodation as necessary Occasional gifts, for example appropriate long service or leaving gifts 3 Pension To help recruit and retain high Participation into a defined Unless they choose to take The DRP will normally apply as stated.
performing Executive Directors contribution pension scheme membership of the occupational However, the Committee has the or cash equivalent pension scheme, Directors receive discretion to maintain existing To reward continued contribution to apension contribution or cash arrangements for current Directors the business by enabling Executive allowance of 10.5% of salary, in Directors to build retirement benefits linewith the maximum employer contribution for employees in the Companys Group Personal PensionPlan.
The current Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer each receives a cash contribution of 25% of salary, which was the previous policy.
The Managing Director, London Portfolio receives a cash contribution of 12.5% of salary, an historic personal term of employment Landsec Annual Report 2018 105 Proposed RemunerationPolicy continued 1.
Executive Directors continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Discretion 4 5 6 7 Annual bonus To incentivise the delivery of All measures and targets are Minimum bonus payable is 0% The Committee has the discretion to stretching, near-term business targets reviewed and set by the Board ofsalary set targets and measures each year and personal performance objectives at the beginning of the year and Maximum bonus potential is 150% Although many of the outturns for payments are determined by the To reward near-term outperformance of salary the Group element of the bonus plan Committee after the year end, relative to industry benchmarks are calculated formulaically and based on performance against therefore the Committee has no Specific business measures and the targets set discretion to adjust these, it applies its targets, for example development Specific measures and targets will judgement to assess progress against lettings targets, progress of new be set each year, but will always some of the broader measures, and in developments, and asset include a measure of Total Property every case is able to use its discretion management initiatives, will protect Return versus that of the market to adjust them down if appropriate the value of our properties in the short term, provide future Other measures and targets will The Committee does have the opportunity for the business, and reflect the most critical business discretion to award appropriate create long-term revenue profit performance indicators for the bonus payments under the individual performance year ahead, and will be both specific element maximum 20% of basic and measurable.
Revenue Profit salary to reflect the performance The inclusion of broader KPIs for performance will always feature and contribution of an individual example Sustainability and Diversity as a key measure Executive Director targets, ensure that these important priorities get the required focus from The achievement of on-target Within the Policy, the Committee the executives performance should result in a will retain flexibility including: payment of 50% of the maximum The ability to recognise performance When to make awards and opportunity i. e. 75% of salary through variable remuneration payments enables the Group to control its cost A small proportion no more than How to determine the size of an base flexibly and react to events and 20% of basic salary of an Executive award, a payment, or when and market circumstances Directors bonus is based on the how much of an award should be Committees assessment of the Deferral of a portion of annual payable achievement of pre-set personal bonuses into shares encourages Who receives an award or payment performance objectives a longer-term focus aligned to Whether a departing Executive shareholders interests and The structure of the plan incentivises Director should receive a bonus and discourages excessive risk taking outperformance by ensuring that whether and what proportion of the threshold targets are stretching awards should be paid at the time Bonuses up to 50% of salary are of leaving or at a subsequent date paid in cash Whether a departing Executive Any amounts in excess of 50% of Director should be treated as a salary are deferred into shares for good leaver in respect of deferred one year bonus shares Any amounts in excess of 100% of How to deal with a change of salary are deferred into shares for control or any other corporate two years event which may require Deferred shares are potentially adjustments to awards forfeitable if the individual leaves To determine that no bonus or a prior to the share release date reduced bonus is payable where Bonus payments are not the performance of the business pensionable has been poor, notwithstanding Withholding and recovery provisions the achievement of objectives malus and clawback apply where any overpayment was made as a result of a material misstatement ofthe Companys results or a performance condition, or where there has been fraud or gross misconduct, whether or not this caused the overpayment 106 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Governance Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Discretion 8 9 Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Incentivises value creation over the The Committee may make an Award limit 300% of salary The Committee may use its discretion long-term in excess of that created annual award of shares under to make lower grants of shares to by general market increases, and the LTIP Executive Directors if appropriate.
equally rewards outperformance For example the two Managing Vesting is determined on the basis of our peer group when the overall Directors will receive share awards of the Groups achievements market has declined equivalent to 200% of salary in 2018 against stretching performance Rewards execution of our strategy targets over a fixed three-year The outturns of the LTIP are calculated and the long-term outperformance financial period and continued formulaically and therefore the ofour competitors employment.
There is no re-testing Committee has no discretion to adjust these, unless it determines Aligns the long-term interests of The Committee reviews the they should be adjusted down Executive Directors and shareholders measures, their relative weightings and targets prior to each award Within the DRP, the Committee will Promotes retention The measures selected are relative retain flexibility including: and directly aligned to the interests When to make awards and of shareholders.
50% of an award payments is weighted to a measure of Total How to determine the size of an Property Return versus the industry award, a payment, or when and benchmark over a three-year period how much of an award should vest and 50% to Total Shareholder Who receives an award or payment Return versus our listed comparator Whether a departing Executive group over a three-year period Director is treated as a good For each measure, no awards vest leaver for the purposes of the for performance below that of the LTIP and whether and what benchmark.
Only a proportion, proportion of awards vest at 20% will vest for matching the the time of leaving or at a performance of the benchmark subsequent vesting date andsignificant outperformance is How to deal with a change of required for the maximum award control or any other corporate tovest event which may require In order to give the participants adjustments to awards greater flexibility over the timing ofexercise, the awards are given asnil-cost share options with a seven-year exercise period.
Any outstanding awards also vest as nil-cost options, and dividends accrue on vested options where they are subject to a two-year holding period, but not thereafter Executive Directors are required to hold vested awards for a further two years including post-employment following the three-year vesting period expiry Withholding and recovery provisions malus and clawback apply where any overpayment was made as a result of a material misstatement ofthe Companys results or a performance condition or where there has been fraud or gross misconduct, whether or not this caused the overpayment Landsec Annual Report 2018 107 Proposed RemunerationPolicy continued 1.
Executive Directors continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Discretion Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE Scheme To encourage all employees to make All employees, including Executive The maximum participation levels The DRP will apply as stated a long-term investment in the Directors, are entitled to participate may vary in line with HMRC limits.
Within the DRP, the Committee Companys shares, through a in the SAYE Scheme operated by the For 2018 19, participants may save will retain the flexibility to determine savings-related arrangement Company in line with UK HMRC up to 500 per month for either whether a departing Executive guidelines currently prevailing three or five years, using their Director should be treated as a accumulated savings at the end good leaver of the period to purchase shares at The Executive Directors will be eligible a 20% discount to the market price to participate in any other HMRCat the date of grant approved all-employee shareplans that may be implemented Share ownership guidelines To provide close alignment between Executive Directors are expected to The DRP will apply as stated N A the longer-term interests of Executive build up and maintain shareholdings Directors and shareholders in terms with a value set at a percentage of of the Companys growth and basic salary: performance Chief Executive 250% of salary Other Executive Directors 200% of salary These levels are normally required to be achieved within five years of appointment in order to qualify for future long-term incentive awards.
Deferred or unvested share awards not subject to performance conditions may count towards the ownership levels on a net of tax basis 2.
Non-executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Base fee To aid the recruitment, retention and motivation The Chairman is paid a single fee for all Board The current fees for Non-executive Directors are ofhigh performing Non-executive Directors duties and the other Non-executive Directors shown in the Annual Report on Remuneration receive a basic Board fee, with supplementary on page 97 To reflect the time commitment given by Nonfees payable for additional responsibilities executive Directors to the business Any increases reflect relevant benchmark data Reviewed but not necessarily changed annually for Non-executive Directors in companies of by the Board, having regard to independent a similar size and complexity, and the time advice and published surveys commitment required The Chairmans fee is also reviewed by the Board rather than the Remuneration Committee Additional fees To reflect the additional time commitment Reviewed but not necessarily changed annually The opportunity depends on which, if any, additional required from Non-executive Directors in chairing by the Board, having regard to independent roles are assumed by an individual Non-executive various Board sub-committees or becoming the advice and published surveys Director over the course of their tenure Boards Senior Independent Director.
Occasionally Any increases reflect relevant benchmark data awarded to a Non-executive Director who for Non-executive Directors in companies of completes aspecific additional piece of work a similar size and complexity, and the time on behalf of theBoard commitment required 108 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Governance Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Other incentives and benefits Non-executive Directors do not receive any other N A remuneration or benefits beyond the fees noted above.
Expenses in relation to Company business will be reimbursed including any tax thereon, where applicable If deemed necessary, and in the performance of their duties, Non-executive Directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense Share ownership To provide close alignment between the longer-term The current share ownership guidelines require N A interests of Non-executive Directors and shareholders Non-executive Directors to achieve an ownership in terms of the Companys growth and performance level of 100% of annual fees within three years of appointment Any share-based entitlements granted under 3.3 Remuneration of newly appointed the Companys share plans will be determined Executive Directors 3.
Directors Service Agreements on the basis of the relevant plan rules.
The The remuneration package for a new externally and Letters of Appointment default position is that any outstanding appointed Executive Director will be set in 3.1 Service Agreements Executive Directors unvested awards automatically lapse on accordance with the terms of the Companys The Executive Directors have Service cessation of employment.
However, under approved DRP in force at the time of Agreements with the Company which normally the rules of the LTIP, in certain prescribed appointment.
The Committee has the flexibility continue until the Directors agreed retirement circumstances, such as redundancy, disability, to set the basic salary of a new hire at a date or such other date as the parties agree.
retirement or other circumstances at the discount to the market level initially, with a Inline with Group policy, the Executive Directors discretion of the Committee taking into series of planned increases implemented over employment can be terminated at any time account the individuals performance and the following few years subject to performance by either party on giving 12 months prior the reasons for their departure, good leaver in the role to bring the salary to the desired written notice.
For example, if an positioning.
Only in very exceptional Executive Directors role has effectively been circumstances will the salary of a newly The Company allows Executive Directors to hold made redundant, and there are no significant appointed Executive Director exceed the market external non-executive directorships, subject to performance issues, the Committee is likely to median benchmark for the role.
the prior approval of the Board, and to retain look favourably on the granting of some good fees from these roles.
The annual bonus will operate in accordance leaver provisions.
However, if an Executive with the terms of the approved DRP, albeit with Director has resigned for a similar role in a 3.2 Termination Provisions the opportunity pro-rated for the period of competitor organisation then such provisions ExecutiveDirectors employment in the first year.
Depending on the are extremely unlikely to apply.
Where good An Executive Directors Service Agreement timing and responsibilities of the appointment, leaver provisions in respect of share awards may be terminated without notice and without it may be necessary to set different performance are deemed to be appropriate, a participants further payment or compensation, except measures and targets initially.
The LTIP will also awards will vest on a pro-rated basis and for sums earned up to the date of termination, operate in accordance with the DRP.
The subject to the satisfaction of the relevant on the occurrence of certain events such as maximum level of variable pay that may be performance criteria with the balance of gross misconduct.
The circumstances of the offered to a new Executive Director is therefore the awards lapsing.
The Committee retains termination taking into account the individuals at an aggregate maximum of 450% of salary, discretion to decide not to pro-rate if it performance and an individuals opportunity but it may be lower.
This limit does not include is inappropriate to do so in particular to mitigate losses are taken into account by the value of any buy-out arrangements deemed circumstances.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Committee when determining amounts appropriate see over the page.
ifthe termination of employment is not payable on termination, including pay in lieu for one of the specified reasons, and the of notice.
The Groups normal approach is to Committee does not exercise its discretion stop or reduce compensatory payments to to allow an award to vest, all outstanding former Executive Directors when they receive awards automatically lapse.
remuneration from other employment during the compensation period.
The Company does not make any arrangements that guarantee pensions with limited or no abatement on severance or early retirement.
There are no special provisions for Executive Directors with regard to compensation in the event of loss ofoffice.
Application of the Policy RemunerationPolicy continued In addition to the elements of the remuneration package covered by the policy, the Committee Basic salary Bene ts Pension Annual Bonus may buy out certain existing remuneration arrangements of an incoming Executive Director through the offer of either additional cash and or share-based elements on a one-time basis or ongoing when it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company.
Any such payments will be based solely on Policy Element Application in 2018 19 Policy Element Application in 2018 19 Policy Element Application in 2018 19 Policy Element Application in 2018 19 Policy Element Application in 2018 19 remuneration lost when leaving the former employer and will take into account the existing 1 4 5 6 7 8 9 delivery mechanism i. e. cash, shares, options, Basic salary Annual bonus Long-Term Incentive Plan awards and time horizons and performance conditions.
Matching Share Plan awards for 2018 vesting Savings Related Share Option Scheme Non-executive Director fees In the case of an internally appointed Executive The increase in current salaries The maximum bonus potential The value of this years The Executive Directors, and all As the fees for Non-executive Details on Details on Details on Details on Details on Director, any variable pay element awarded for the Executive Directors will for the Executive Directors Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP other eligible employees, will Directors were reviewed in late page 105 page 98-99 page 98 page 108 page 97 in respect of the prior role would be paid out be 2%, just below the average will remain at 150% of salary.
award to the Executive be entitled to participate in the 2017, no further revisions will increase to employees pay No changes are proposed to Directors will not exceed the Companys Savings Related take place over the course of according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to across the Group in 2018. the weighting of the elements current individual limit of 300% Share Option Scheme which the year.
The annual fee for take into account the appointment.
In addition, Therefore, the new annual gross of the plan which remain at: of salary.
Robert Noel and is operated in line with current Dame Alison Carnwath as any other ongoing remuneration obligations salaries will be 799,782 for Martin Greenslade will each UK HMRC guidelines Chairman remains at 375,000 26% based on the Companys existing prior to appointment will continue, Robert Noel, 520,574 for receive an award of 300% of until July 2018, and this will Total Property Return provided that they are put to shareholders for Martin Greenslade, and salary.
In view of their lower bethe same fee payable to performance versus that approval at the earliest opportunity.
423,300 for Colette OShea levels of Board experience, Cressida Hogg upon her of the market Share Ownership Guidelines and Scott Parsons.
These will Colette OShea and Scott appointment as Chairman.
26% based on the Companys For external and internal appointments, the beeffective from 1 June 2018 Parsons will each receive an Theannual base fee for all Revenue Profit performance The existing share ownership Details on Committee may agree that the Company will award equivalent to 200% otherNon-executive Directors levels i. e. 250% of salary for 35% based on delivery of page 108 meet certain relocation expenses, for a limited of salary for 2018.
These have 2 theChief Executive and 200% specific business objectives period only, as appropriate.
Where a Director made in the form of nil-cost been in effect since 1 April 2016. of salary for other Executive for the year Benefits is recruited from overseas, flexibility is retained options with a seven-year Additional fees also apply for Directors will continue to 13% based on the delivery exercise period.
Committee chairmen, and to provide benefits that take account of No changes to the current apply, recognising that the Details on of individual targets these remain unchanged Outstanding LTIP and market practice in their country of residence.
benefit arrangements which two newly-appointed Directors page 105 Matching Share Plan The Company may offer a cash amount on mainly covers annual holiday willbe given time to build up awards granted in 2015 will entitlement, car allowance, their shareholding recruitment, payment of which may be vest later in2018 subject to life assurance, private medical staggered over a period of up to two years, the performance conditions cover and income protection to reflect the value of benefits a new recruit Executive Director Recruitment and set at the time and the insurance are proposed may have received from a former employer.
 plan rules under which they during the year were granted Shareholders will be informed of the External recruitment and Details on 3 termination activity during the remuneration package and all additional page 109 year is currently not envisaged: payments to newly-appointed Executive Pension however should this occur, the Directors at the time of their appointment.
Although the new policy Policy will apply as stated Details on This was the case when the two Managing willapply from 2018, the page 105 Directors for the London and Retail portfolios Service Agreements and Letters of Committee has used its were appointed to the Board in January 2018.
Appointment discretion to maintain a supplement of 25% of basic 3.4 Chairman and Non-executive Directors If new Service Agreements, salary gross to Robert Noel Details on Letters of Appointment or variations to existing ones, and Martin Greenslade.
Due page 109 The Chairman and the Non-executive Directors are required over the course toa historic term of her of the year, the Policy will apply do not have Service Agreements with the employment, Colette OShea as stated Company.
Instead, each of them has a Letter of will retain a cash supplement of12.5% of her salary.
The new Any new Non-executive Director Appointment which sets out the terms of their policy of 10.5% of salary will joining the Board will be appointment, including the three months prior beapplied to Scott Parsons, contracted under a Letter of written notice on which their appointment can equivalent to the previous Appointment as per the Policy be terminated by either party at any time.
The contribution he received in dates of the current Letters of Appointment are respect of pension shown in the Annual Report on Remuneration and these, together with the Executive Directors Service Agreements, are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
On appointment, the fee arrangements for anew Non-executive Director are set in accordance with the approved remuneration policy in force at that time.
Application of the Policy Long-term incentive plan awards Policy Element Application in 2018 19 Policy Element Application in 2018 19 Policy Element Application in 2018 19 Policy Element Application in 2018 19 Policy Element Application in 2018 19 1 4 5 6 7 8 9 Basic salary Annual bonus Long-Term Incentive Plan awards and Matching Share Plan awards for 2018 vesting Savings Related Share Option Scheme Non-executive Director fees The increase in current salaries The maximum bonus potential The value of this years The Executive Directors, and all As the fees for Non-executive Details on Details on Details on Details on Details on for the Executive Directors will for the Executive Directors Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP other eligible employees, will Directors were reviewed in late page 105 page 98-99 page 98 page 108 page 97 be 2%, just below the average will remain at 150% of salary.
award to the Executive be entitled to participate in the 2017, no further revisions will increase to employees pay No changes are proposed to Directors will not exceed the Companys Savings Related take place over the course of across the Group in 2018. the weighting of the elements current individual limit of 300% Share Option Scheme which the year.
The annual fee for Therefore, the new annual gross of the plan which remain at: of salary.
Robert Noel and is operated in line with current Dame Alison Carnwath as salaries will be 799,782 for Martin Greenslade will each UK HMRC guidelines Chairman remains at 375,000 26% based on the Companys Robert Noel, 520,574 for receive an award of 300% of until July 2018, and this will Total Property Return Martin Greenslade, and salary.
In view of their lower bethe same fee payable to performance versus that 423,300 for Colette OShea levels of Board experience, Cressida Hogg upon her of the market Share Ownership Guidelines and Scott Parsons.
26% based on the Companys beeffective from 1 June 2018 Parsons will each receive an Theannual base fee for all Revenue Profit performance The existing share ownership Details on award equivalent to 200% otherNon-executive Directors levels i. e. 250% of salary for 35% based on delivery of page 108 of salary for 2018.
These have 2 theChief Executive and 200% specific business objectives made in the form of nil-cost been in effect since 1 April 2016. of salary for other Executive for the year Benefits options with a seven-year Additional fees also apply for Directors will continue to 13% based on the delivery exercise period.
Committee chairmen, and No changes to the current apply, recognising that the Details on of individual targets these remain unchanged Outstanding LTIP and benefit arrangements which two newly-appointed Directors page 105 Matching Share Plan mainly covers annual holiday willbe given time to build up awards granted in 2015 will entitlement, car allowance, their shareholding vest later in2018 subject to life assurance, private medical the performance conditions cover and income protection Executive Director Recruitment and set at the time and the insurance are proposed  plan rules under which they during the year were granted External recruitment and Details on 3 termination activity during the page 109 year is currently not envisaged: Pension however should this occur, the Although the new policy Policy will apply as stated Details on willapply from 2018, the page 105 Service Agreements and Letters of Committee has used its Appointment discretion to maintain a supplement of 25% of basic If new Service Agreements, salary gross to Robert Noel Details on or variations to existing ones, and Martin Greenslade.
Due page 109 are required over the course toa historic term of her of the year, the Policy will apply employment, Colette OShea as stated will retain a cash supplement of12.5% of her salary.
The new Any new Non-executive Director policy of 10.5% of salary will joining the Board will be beapplied to Scott Parsons, contracted under a Letter of equivalent to the previous Appointment as per the Policy contribution he received in respect of pension Landsec Annual Report 2018 111 Dividends The results for the year are set out in the financial statements on pages 123-170.
Directors The Company has paid three quarterly interim dividends to shareholders for the year under review, Report eachof 9.85p per ordinary share: Table 63 The Directors present their report for the year 1st Interim 2nd Interim 3rd Interim Final 2017 18 2017 18 2017 18 2017 18 proposed ended 31 March 2018.
Property Income Distribution PID Non-PID PID PID Additional disclosures PID Non-PID Other information that is relevant to this report, Record Date 8 September 2017 1 December 2017 9 March 2018 22 June 2018 and which is also incorporated by reference, Payment Date 6 October 2017 5 January 2018 6 April 2018 27 July 2018 including information required in accordance Amount per ordinary share 9.85p 9.85p 9.85p 14.65p with the UK Companies Act 2006 and Listing Rule 9.8.
4R, can be located as follows: Appointment and removal of Directors Table 62 The Company is proposing a final dividend of The appointment and replacement of Directors 14.65p per share.
The proposed final dividend Likely future developments Pages 12-13 is governed by Landsecs Articles of Association brings the total dividend for the year to 44.2p, inthebusiness Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Code an increase of 14.7% over the prior year.
Subject Employee engagement Page 46 Code, the Companies Act 2006 Act and to shareholders approval at the 2018 AGM, Going Concern and Page 58 related legislation.
The Board may appoint thefinal dividend will be paid on 27 July 2018 Viability Statement aDirector either to fill a casual vacancy or as toshareholders on the register at the close Governance Pages 59-114 anaddition to the Board so long as the total of business on 22 June 2018.
Capitalised interest Page 136 number of Directors does not exceed the limit Financial instruments Page 156 The Board has also declared a first quarterly prescribed in the Articles.
An appointed Director dividend in respect of the 2018 19 financial Credit, market and liquidity risks Pages 157-160 must retire and seek election to office at the yearof 11.3p per ordinary share, to be paid on next Landsec AGM.
In addition to any power of Related party transactions Page 169 5October 2018 to shareholders on the register removal conferred by the Act, Landsec may by Pages 182-183 Greenhouse gas emissions at the close of business on 7 September 2018. ordinary resolution remove any Director before the expiry of their period of office and may, UK Corporate Governance Code In addition to the payment of dividends, subject to the Articles, by ordinary resolution The Company has complied in full with the theCompany made a return of capital to appoint another person who is willing to act as principles of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance shareholders, details of which can be found a Director in their place.
In line with the Code Code throughout the year.
The Code can be onpage 113. and the Boards policy, all Directors are required found on the FRCs website: frc.
to stand for re-election at each AGM.
A Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP election Company status iscurrently available in respect of all dividends Directors powers Land Securities Group PLC is a public limited paid by Landsec.
The Board manages the business of Landsec liability company incorporated under the laws under the powers set out in the Articles.
These of England and Wales.
It has a premium listing Events since the balance sheet date powers include the Directors ability to issue on the London Stock Exchange main market Since 31 March 2018, there have been no orbuy back shares.
Shareholders authority forlisted securities LON:LAND and is a material items to report.
toempower the Directors to make market constituent member of the FTSE 100 Index.
purchases of up to 10% of its own ordinary Directors shares is sought at the AGM each year.
The Landsec is a Real Estate Investment Trust REIT.
The names and biographical details of the Articles can only be amended, or new Articles It is expected that the Company, which has current Directors and the Board Committees adopted, by a resolution passed byshareholders nobranches, will continue to operate as the ofwhich they are members are set out on in general meeting and being approved by at holding company of the Group.
pages 62-63. least three quarters of the votescast.
Disclaimer All the Directors held office throughout the year Directors interests The purpose of this Annual Report is to provide except Colette OShea and Scott Parsons, both Save as disclosed in the Directors Remuneration information to the members of the Company of whom joined the Board on 1 January 2018.
Report, none of the Directors, nor any person and it has been prepared for, and only for, the Kevin OByrne stepped down as a Non-executive connected with them, has any interest in the members of the Company as a body, and no Director of the Board on 27September 2017. share or loan capital of Landsec or any of its other persons.
The Company, its Directors and subsidiaries.
At no time during the year ended employees, agents and advisers do not accept The Service Agreements of the Executive 31 March 2018 did any Director hold a material or assume responsibility to any other person Directors and the Letters of Appointment interest, directly or indirectly, in any contract to whom this document is shown or into whose of theNon-executive Directors are available of significance with Landsec or any subsidiary hands it may come and any such responsibility for inspection at Landsecs registered office.
undertaking other than the Executive Directors or liability is expressly disclaimed.
Briefdetails of these are also included in in relation to their Service Agreements.
the Directors Remuneration Report on A cautionary statement in respect of pages 109-110. forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report appears on the inside back cover of this document.
112 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Governance Directors indemnities and insurance Substantial shareholders Landsec has agreed to indemnify each Director As at 31 March 2018, the Company had been notified under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules against any liability incurred in relation to acts DTR5 of the following holdings of voting rights in its issued share capital: or omissions arising in the ordinary course of Shareholders holding 3% or more of the Companys Issued ShareCapital Table 64 their duties.
The indemnity applies only to the Shareholder name Number of ordinary shares Percentage of total voting rights extent permitted by law.
A copy of the deed 1 attaching to issued share capital ofindemnity is available for inspection at BlackRock, Inc. 67,987,111 9.17 Landsecs registered office and will be available Norges Bank Investment 52,729,065 7.11 at the 2018 AGM.
Landsec has in place Management appropriate Directors & Officers Liability The Vanguard Group, Inc. 25,235,050 3.40 insurance cover in respect of potential legal action against its Directors.
Legal & General Investment 23,930,321 3.23 Management Ltd Share capital 1.
The total number of voting rights attaching to the issued share capital of the Company on 31 March 2018 was 741,459,785.
Landsec has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of nominal value 2 10 3p each ranking pari passu.
No other The Company received no DTR notifications, Shareholder voting rights and restrictions securities have been issued by the Company.
byway of change to the above information on transfer of shares At31 March 2018, there were 751,298,964 orotherwise, during the period from 1 April to All the issued and outstanding ordinary shares ordinary shares in issue and fully paid, of which 14May 2018, being the period from the year of Landsec have equal voting rights with one 9,839,179 are held in treasury.
No shares were endthrough to the date on which this report vote per share.
There are no special control bought back during the year.
Further details has been signed.
Information provided to the rights attaching to them save that the control relating to share capital, including movements Company under the DTR is publicly available rights of ordinary shares held in the EBT can be during the year, are set out in note 34 to the toview via the regulatory information service directed by the Company to satisfy the vesting financial statements.
of outstanding awards under its various employee share plans.
Return of capital and share consolidation Employee Benefit Trust The nominal value of the Companys shares and In relation to the EBT, the Trustee has agreed ACS HR Solutions Share Plan Services the number of shares in issue changed during not to vote any shares held in the EBT at any Guernsey Limited is a shareholder who acts the year.
On 27 September 2017, Landsec held general meeting.
However, atthe EGM held asthe trustee Trustee of Landsecs offshore an EGM to seek shareholder approval in relation inSeptember 2017 we asked the EBT to vote discretionary Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
to the return of capital to shareholders of the in favour of the return of capital and share Itisused to purchase Land Securities Group PLC majority of the proceeds of the sale of consolidation.
While the EBT usually waives its ordinary shares in the market from time to time 20Fenchurch Street, EC3.
The amount returned right to any dividends, the EBT accepted the for the benefit of employees, including for totalled 475m, equivalent to 60p per share, capital return and used the funds to purchase satisfying outstanding awards under Landsecs effected by way of a B share scheme.
shares in the market to take its shareholding up various employee share plans.
The EBT Shareholders were issued B shares which were to the same level as before theconsolidation.
purchased a total of 1,063,770 shares in the immediately redeemed by the Company for market during the year for an aggregate Ifany offer is made to all shareholders to 60p per share.
This was followed by a 15 for consideration of 10,886,169 including all acquire their shares in Landsec, the Trustee will every 16share consolidation which changed the dealing costs.
Of these shares purchased, 2 not be obliged to accept or reject the offer in nominal value of our shares from 10p to 10 3p.
63,770 were purchased using the 60p per share respect of any shares which are at the time The rationale for the share consolidation was from the return of capital.
The EBT released subject to subsisting awards, but will have tomaintain comparability, so far as possible, 678,147 shares during the year to satisfy vested regard to the interests of the award holders and between the historical per share financial share plan awards.
At 31 March 2018, the EBT will have power to consult them to obtain their information, for example, dividends per share, held 1,178,179 Land Securities Group PLC shares views on the offer.
Subject to the above, the and future financial information on a per share in trust.
A dividend waiver is in place from the Trustee may take such action with respect to basis without being distorted by the effect of Trustee in respect of all dividends payable by the offer as it thinks fit.
Landsec on shares which it holds in trust.
Further details regarding the EBT, and of shares At the EGM, shareholders also refreshed the issued pursuant to Landsecs various employee authority previously given at Landsecs AGM share plans during the year, are set out in held on 13 July 2017 for the Company to make note 35 to the financial statements.
market purchases of ordinary shares, to allot shares and to disapply pre-emption rights within certain limits.
These authorities will expire at the 2018 AGM and a renewal of each authority will be sought.
Further information on our return of capital and share consolidation, together with a worked example for shareholders of the tax calculation on the return of capital, can be found on our website: landsec.
Landsec Annual Report 2018 113 Human rights and equal opportunities Political donations Directors report Landsec operates a Human Rights Policy which The Company did not make any political continued aims to recognise and safeguard the human donations or expenditure in the year that rights of all citizens in the business areas in requires disclosure 2016 17: nil.
Landsec is not aware of any agreements or which we operate.
We support the principles set Auditor and disclosure of information control rights between existing shareholders out within both the UN Universal Declaration totheauditor that may result in restrictions on the transfer of Human Rights and the International Labour So far as the Directors are aware, there is no ofsecurities or on voting rights.
The rights, Organisations Declaration on Fundamental relevant audit information that has not been including full details relating to voting of Principles and Rights at Work.
Our Policy is built brought to the attention of the Companys shareholders and any restrictions on transfer on these foundations including, without auditor.
Each Director has taken all reasonable relating to Landsecs ordinary shares, are set limitation, the principles of equal opportunities, steps to make himself or herself aware of any outin the Articles and in the explanatory notes collective bargaining, freedom of association relevant audit information and to establish that that accompany the Notice of the 2018 AGM.
and protection from forced or child labour.
such information was provided to the auditor.
These documents are available on Landsecs ThePolicy has been extended to take account website at: landsec.
of the new Modern Slavery Act that came into A resolution to confirm the reappointment of force in October 2015 and requires Landsec to Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of the Company Change of control report annually on its workforce and supply will be proposed at the 2018 AGM.
The There are a number of agreements that take chain, specifically to confirm that workers are reappointment has been recommended to the effect, alter or terminate upon a change of not enslaved or trafficked.
Landsecs second Board by the Audit Committee and EY has control of the Company following a takeover.
slavery and human trafficking statement, indicated its willingness to remain in office.
None of these are considered significant.
The relating to the financial year ended 31 March Companys share plans contain provisions that 2017, was approved by the Board on 2018 Annual General Meeting take effect in such an event but do not entitle 28September 2017 and posted on our website This years AGM will be held at 10.00 am on participants to a greater interest in the shares on 30 September 2017.
Thursday, 12 July 2018, at 80Victoria Street, of the Company than created by the initial London SW1E 5JL.
A separate circular, grant or award under the relevant plan.
There Landsec is an equal opportunities employer and comprising a letter from the Chairman, are no agreements between the Company and our range of employment policies and guidelines Noticeof Meeting and explanatory notes in its Directors or employees providing for reflects legal and employment requirements respect of the resolutions proposed, can be compensation for loss of office or employment inthe UK and safeguards the interests of found on our website: landsec.
or otherwise that occurs specifically because employees, potential employees and other ofa takeover.
We do not condone unfair treatment The Directors Report was approved by the of any kind and offer equal opportunities in Board on 14 May 2018. all aspects of employment and advancement regardless of race, nationality, gender, age, By Order of the Board marital status, sexual orientation, disability, Tim Ashby religious or political beliefs.
Landsec recognises Group General Counsel and Company Secretary that it has clear obligations towards all its employees and the community at large to Land Securities Group PLC ensure that people with disabilities are afforded Company number 4369054 equal opportunities to enter employment and progress.
Landsec has therefore established procedures designed to provide fair consideration and selection of disabled applicants and to satisfy their training and career development needs.
If an employee becomes disabled, wherever possible Landsec takes steps to accommodate the disability bymaking adjustments to their existing employment arrangements, or by redeployment and providing appropriate retraining to enable continued employment in the Group.
Further information can be found in the Social review on pages 46-51.
114 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Contents Financial statements 116 S tatement of Directors Responsibilities 117 Independent Auditors Report 123 Income statement 123 S tatement of comprehensive income 124 Balance sheets 125 S tatement of changes in equity 126 S tatement of cash flows 127 N otes to the financial statements Landsec Annual Report 2018 115
