Retail Portfolio review We have a great portfolio of retail assets capable of competing and thriving in a fast-changing market.
At a glance 1.7% 1 Valuation deficit 3.4% Ungeared total property return 2.3% The portfolio outperformed its IPD QuarterlyUniverse sector benchmark at 2.3% 13m of investment lettings 3m of developmentlettings 2.7% Like-for-like voids 31 March 2017: 2.9% and units in administration: 0.8% 31 March2017: 0.4% By repositioning, reinventing 1.
and reinvesting weve created a resilient portfolio of centres well-matched to customers changingexpectations.
Scott Parsons, Managing Director, Retail Portfolio 30 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Actions and outcomes Focus for 2017 18 Progress in 2017 18 Focus for 2018 19 Outperform IPD sector The total return of the Progress feasibility benchmark Retail Portfolio was 3.4% onsuburban London outperforming its IPD shopping centres sector benchmark at 2.3% Progress planning applications forphysical Growing like-for-like net Like-for-like net rental improvement plans for rental income income down 2m the new outlet centres Progressing lettings at Westgate Oxford 90% let: Diversify income streams Westgate Oxford: Selly Selly Oak 91% pre-let: and through innovation in Oak, Birmingham: and the Plaza reconfiguration retail the Plaza reconfiguration at Bluewater 93% let Continue to develop our at Bluewater Community Employment Programme in construction Progressing the Plaza Plaza reconfiguration at and customer service, with reconfiguration at Bluewater delivered to time the aim of supporting Bluewater to time and budget 70 disadvantaged people and budget into jobs Successfully launching Successfully launched Drive energy reduction Westgate Oxford after Westgate Oxford on time across the portfolio in achieving practical but marginally behind support of our 2030 completion on time budget due to slightly corporate commitments and on budget higher letting incentives Integrating the three Three new outlet centres newly acquired outlet successfully integrated centres into the Retail Portfolio Further developing the Community Employment Community Employment Programme expanded Programme beyond with programme delivered its current focus on at Westgate Oxford, construction with 75 St Davids, Cardiff and disadvantaged people Lewisham and secured being supported into employment for jobs in retail 86candidates Improving energy Successfully implemented management in support 28energy reduction of 2030 corporate opportunities across the commitments portfolio, which have contributed to areduction of 4% in energy use Landsec Annual Report 2018 31 Retail Portfolio review continued We have taken decisive steps to reposition our portfolio with a focus on vibrant, resilient assets inthe best locations.
Our reinvention of the offer at our centres creating and constantly refreshing a diverse mix of brands and experiences means our assets are much better matched to peoples changing expectations and priorities.
And our reinvestment in the strongest assets helps them to remain dominant within their catchment and resilient in uncertain market conditions.
Looking at our market, physical stores remain the dominant retail sales channel, with more than 85% of spend on retail goods in the UK touching a store in some way.
The retail property market is polarised between destination centres and convenience-led assets, with space caught in the middle facing growing pressure.
Shopping destinations can achieve higher dwell time and average spend per visit by providing agreat visitor experience based on a strong mix of retail, food and leisure.
Buy In May 2017, we became the leading ownermanager of outlet centres in the UK when we acquired Freeport in Braintree, Clarks Village inSomerset and Junction 32 in West Yorkshire for 333m.
At each centre were strengthening the mix of retailers and enhancing the overall Its95% pre-let or in solicitors hands, with day out experience.
lettingsincluding M&S, Next and JD Sports.
Key indicators Thedevelopment includes a student Develop accommodation block, which weve pre-sold In October 2017, we opened Westgate Oxford toUnite.
Were on schedule to complete in our 800,000 sq ft retail and leisure destination -1.9% late2018.
in Oxford city centre, developed in joint venture Footfall in our shopping centres was down 1.9% with The Crown Estate.
The centre is anchored national benchmark down2.5% Manage by John Lewis and includes a fantastic range of This year, we secured 13m of investment 100 shops with an eclectic mix of places to eat, lettings.
Our like-for-like portfolio has voids drink and play.
The centre attracted 9 million -0.5% of2.7% and a weighted average lease term visitors in the first six months and is now 96% Same centre non-food retail sales, taking into of 7.9years.
let or in solicitors hands.
account new lettings and occupier changes, were down 0.5% national benchmark down At Bluewater, Kent, we secured planning The opening of Westgate Oxford was the 2.2%: including online, down 0.1% consent and started construction of a new culmination of a seven-year journey.
We took store for Primark.
Weve also unlocked value ona series of complex challenges to deliver by reconfiguring space, doubling the size of acentre deserving of its place at the heart of a -1.0% the Apple store and using previously redundant very special and under-served city.
We set and space to create a new statement store for Same store non-food retail sales were down 1.0% achieved the goal of creating one of the most Snow & Rock.
Weve redeveloped the former national benchmark down 2.9% sustainable retail destinations in the country.
Glow events venue too, adding four screens to Along the way we created 566 construction provide a state-of-the-art cinema along with a jobsand 3,400 full time equivalent retail jobs, 25,000 sq ft trampoline park.
And we launched 10.3% including 86 jobs created this year for people an online shopping portal for Bluewater that Retailers rent to sales ratio in our portfolio from disadvantaged backgrounds through our supported 5m of transactions during the was10.3%, with total occupancy costs Community Employment Programme.
year an example of how digital and physical including rent, rates, service charges and retailing can successfully interact.
In August 2017, in joint venture with Sainsburys, insurance representing 17.7% of sales we started construction at Selly Oak on a 190,000 sq ft scheme that includes a Sainsburys supermarket and retail and leisure units.
32 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report 1 Net rental income Table 12 Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 Change m m m Like-for-like investment properties 283 285 2 Proposed developments Development programme 5 5 Completed developments Acquisitions since 1 April 2016 20 20 Sales since 1 April 2016 5 21 16 Non-property related income 9 9 Net rental income 322 315 7 1.
Sell At White Rose, Leeds, we opened the new Disposals totalled 200m during the year, extension, delivering an 11-screen IMAX cinema whichincludes the sale of Chester Retail Park and six new restaurant units.
We also completed and Ibis, Euston, which was compulsorily the UKs largest ever installation of solar PV in purchased by HS2.
aretail asset, with the new rooftop system providing up to 20% of the centres annual Net rental income communal energy requirement.
Net rental income has increased by 7m to 322m for the year.
The acquisition of three At Gunwharf Quays, Portsmouth, we negotiated outlet centres has resulted in a 20m increase the surrender of the Jamies Italian lease to to net rental income which is partly offset by a facilitate a new flagship store for Timberland.
These include We continued to bring in aspirational outlet Ibis, Euston and Greyhound Retail Park this brands, including Kate Spade, Furla and Karl year, and The Cornerhouse, Nottingham and Lagerfield.
And we started work on a longerPrintworks, Manchester both sold in the second term masterplan with a vision of creating a half of last year.
The 2m reduction in our day-out destination with the feel of a resort.
like-for-like portfolio is mainly due to lower In terms of food and beverage, successful surrender receipts, an increase in car park rates mid-market operators have saturated the and higher bad debt provisions.
market and visitors seek variety, so we have Outlook worked to keep refreshing the brand mix.
The outlook for retail and retail property is AtWestgate Oxford, for example, theres an challenging, with the sector facing both exciting range of food brands at Westgate Social structural and cyclical pressures.
Were not and fine dining with views on the roof terrace.
immune from the challenges but, given the Cinemas can play a big role in providing an polarisation in our market between experience experience and were now the largest cinema and convenience, our portfolio is well matched landlord in the UK.
Screens attract visitors, to the trends we see ahead.
Over the next increase dwell time and boost the turnover of 12 months, well continue to be very active restaurants.
This year we worked with Cine, our managers refreshing the mix at our centres largest cinema operator, to ensure that their and helping brands to enhance the experiences cinemas in our centres remain dominant and they provide and the value they create.
That means ensuring each cinema To read about our Retail Portfolio strategy is regularly refurbished and has either an IMAX goto page 16 or large 4DX screen.
Were constantly developing new ways to help brands connect with visitors and provide customers with a great time.
This year we hosted pop-up experiences throughout our centres including 3D chocolate printing, the launch of Shepherd Neames first cider and a Christmas store for sparkling wine brand Chapel Down.
We took London-based brands out to our regional centres, with SticksnSushi and Pizza Pilgrims opening at Westgate Oxford, H&M sister brand Arket arriving in Bluewater and international cosmetics brand NYX choosing Trinity Leeds.
Our customers now get to enjoy virtual reality experiences too, with the first in cinema VR screen at Curzon, Westgate Oxford.
Virgin Holidays has a VR-enabled concept store in Cardiff, and Vertigo VR is a virtual reality entertainment centre at Xscape, Milton Keynes.
