But climate change is creating new risks.
Increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases Physical Climate change in the atmosphere are causing rising average Were clear that climate change is happening temperatures and erratic weather patterns.
review now and how we choose to respond will help These trends are manifesting in natural hazards determine the health of our business over the like high winds, increasing rainfall, flooding and long term.
Climate change is already considered extreme temperatures.
And these natural hazards a material issue within Landsec and we were have the potential to affect our business.
So, as We believe our assets and the first property company with an approved an organisation that relies on our physical assets operations should create science-based target.
for the creation of value, we need to assess how hazards could affect us.
financial value while Launched in 2017, The Task Force on Climaterelated Financial Disclosures TCFD encourages Our risk assessment having a positive impact businesses to disclose their response to climate Rising average annual temperatures could lead change by discussing both the risks and on the people and places to higher cooling costs for our business and our opportunities.
Were committed to the principles customers.
More erratic temperature changes we rely on.
of the TCFD and they inform our reporting here.
could lead to strain or failure of our mechanical heating and cooling systems.
Storms could lead Our priorities to higher maintenance costs.
And flooding, Through our sustainability programme and Our top ten assets by value both inland and coastal, could lead to direct science-based carbon target, we are determined damage to our properties.
All of these hazards to lead the transition towards a lowcarbon can affect our customers business continuity.
This presents a significant opportunity Contemporary offices with retail and for our business and our customers, and is restaurants.
Annualised net rent 35.0m already delivering both operational cost savings and wider stakeholder benefits.
2 80-100 Victoria Street, SW1 Landmark site, home to blue-chip businesses and retailers.
Annualised net rent23.3m 3 One New Change, EC4 Office and leisure destination in an iconic building.
Annualised net rent 29.1m 4 Bluewater, Kent The dominant shopping centre in the south east of England.
Annualised net rent 28.9m Landsec share 5 Gunwharf Quays, Portsmouth Outlet shopping, leisure and entertainment on a waterfront location.
Annualised net rent 26.2m 6 Trinity Leeds 778,000 sq ft retail destination developed by us.
Annualised net rent 26.7m 7 1 & 2 New Ludgate, EC4 396,000 sq ft of modern, technically resilient office space, restaurant and retail.
Annualised net rent 22.8m 8 Queen Annes Gate, SW1 Offices built by us in 1977, refurbished in 2008.
Annualised net rent 32.4m 9 White Rose, Leeds 814,500 sq ft of contemporary retail space.
Annualised net rent 23.1m 10 Nova, SW1 A stunning new destination in the heart of Victoria.
Annualised net rent 3.6m This year we have included 1 New Street Square, EC4 in the total for New Street Square, which lifts the combined asset to the top of our valuation list.
We have split Piccadilly Lights into two assets: the screens and a potential redevelopment scheme at neighbouring Sherwood Street, W1.
42 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report To assess these risks we have worked with which means storms and flooding could Willis Towers Watson, conducting research continue to affect our assets.
We also found Our new Sustainability Charter using stochastic modelling to help determine that an increase in average temperature is and Brief the likelihood of potential weather patterns likely to affect our operational costs of cooling and natural hazards.
The modelling looked and heating, but not in a financially material This year we introduced two new at how future weather patterns are likely to way.
Our modelling shows the requirements documents to help us progress our impact our assets over two time horizons: for more cooling, but less heating, will broadly sustainability programme.
up to 2030 and beyond 2030. cancel each other out when it comes to costs.
Our new Sustainability Charter clearly The likelihood of future weather events was The effects beyond 2030 are likely to be outlines our expectations and ambitions to modelled based on the four Representative different.
The risk of inland flood, coastal flood all partners.
We use it to support proactive Concentration Pathways RCPs which are and windstorm will increase.
The impact of conversations and it includes a pledge we used by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate these hazards will become more relevant require partners to take.
So, when were Change IPCC to illustrate future concentrations towards 2050, resulting in an increased negative agreeing contracts or planning a new of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere.
We impact on the current Landsec portfolio if our project together, this charter plays an focused on a best-case scenario, where global control measures remain the same.
important part in the conversation.
average temperature increases by two degrees, Our response and a worst-case scenario, with a temperature Our new Sustainability Brief clearly sets Because the lifetime of our assets can be increase of four degrees.
out our sustainability ambitions for anything between five and 50 years, we need developments, the role our designers Our findings to take action to address risks now.
Through and delivery partners can play in creating In the period up to 2030, our analysis showed our Responsible Property Investment Policy the best experiences, and how we risks of natural hazards are unlikely to increase were continuing to assess energy efficiency and measure success.
in a material way as a direct result of climate climate risks when we buy new assets.
Natural weather variability will continue, 2030, we may need to consider selling assets You can find both documents at with high residual risk from natural hazards.
com We usually design our developments to last 60years.
Using our Sustainability Brief for developments and engineering specifications, we will continue to create resilient assets Climate change advocacy capable of withstanding extreme temperature changes.
And well continue to include warmer We recognise we cant solve key temperatures in our design parameters to sustainability issues on our own.
Thats ensure we dont create unnecessary heating why we actively support public policy capacity.
To manage our buildings effectively, andregulation onissues that align we will continue to invest in controls and withour business.
Some of our actions efficient energy systems in the period to 2030. onadvocacy: And well continue to assess our insurance We became the first property company products to ensure we have adequate cover.
in the world to have its carbon emission Our disclosure target approved by the Science Based Our existing processes give us confidence that Targets initiative.
This commits Landsec our business activities, strategy and financial to reduce emissions in line with the planning are resilient to climate-related risks requirements of the global 2 degree and we are currently well positioned to benefit warming target.
from the transition to a low carbon economy We were one of the first property through to 2030.
These processes will also help companies to join the We Mean us to mitigate risk after 2030, as the effects of Business coalitions RE100 and EP100 climate change become more severe.
Were campaigns, a group of influential committed to the ongoing review of these risks businesses committed to procuring and will reassess if there are major changes to renewable energy and improving energy our portfolio or unexpected changes to the productivity.
We are active members of the UK Green Building Council and Better You can see full details on how were Buildings Partnership, working with responding to TCFD in our Sustainability our peers to help the entire industry Data Performance Report at landsec.
We are working with a coalition chaired by the World Business Council on Sustainable Development to expand science-based target methodologies for the built environment, helping more companies take action.
Westgate one of the UKs lowest carbon shopping centres, delivering efficiency today, and resilience forthe future.
Landsec Annual Report 2018 43 Physical review Landsec energy intensity Chart 25 Sustainable design and innovation continued 247 London 250 Great design helps create the best experience Retail Landsec for our customers.
It increases efficiency and 214 encourages people to spend time in our spaces.
200 Efficient use of natural resources This is good for our customers, communities Carbon and energy and partners and therefore good for us.
The Our commitment is to reduce carbon intensity right design also allows buildings to be flexible 150 2 kgCO m by 40% by 2030 compared with 129 across their lifespan, enabling them to adapt 2 a 2013 14 baseline for properties under our 111 to changing customer needs.
100 management for at least two years, with Our approach 77 a longer-term ambition of an 80% reduction 64 62 For the past ten years weve focused on building by 2050.
During the year we reduced carbon 50 strong foundations achieving energy and intensity further and are now down 28.6% water efficiency, green building certification compared with our 2013 14 baseline, which and low carbon emissions.
But weve also been keeps us on track to achieving our 2030 and 0 exploring how we can make our developments 2050 targets.
Our approach now centres on Baseline Baseline Baseline Were on track largely thanks to our active foundations and features.
Foundations are 2030 target energy management programme, which the actions that can build our credibility.
is reducing the energy we use to power our Theyre typically not visible to our customers, offices and shopping centres and also due to Waste but theyre vitally important.
They include the decarbonisation of the UK national grid.
Our commitment is to send zero waste to improving diversity in our supply chain, reducing Our energy intensity has reduced by 14.3% landfill with at least 75% recycled across all our waste and sourcing materials from ethical since our 2013 14 baseline keeping us on track operational and construction activities by 2020. supply chains.
Since 2016 17, Through smarter procurement and increased The visible actions are features things like we have implemented 60 energy reduction data accuracy weve achieved our commitment, community employment and wellbeing.
projects across our portfolio, which will diverting 100% of the waste produced from These bring clear benefits to customers and contribute further savings in years to come.
At 74.9%, we continue the community.
And because theyre so Were also generating more of our own energy to improve our recycling rate by engaging our tangible, they make our developments even through renewable sources such as solar panels.
All waste that isnt recycled is sent more popular.
They include the creation of new to waste to energy plants.
Renewables jobs, installing renewable energy generation Our commitment is to continue to procure Our focus is on creating a circular economy and creating green spaces for our customers 100% renewable electricity across our portfolio where, instead of throwing things away, we to enjoy.
and achieve 3 MW of on-site renewable re-use and recycle them.
Were also constantly Carbon in the supply chain electricity capacity by 2030.
Since 1 April 2016, looking for innovative ways to reduce our This year weve built on our work with the our Group electricity contract has been 100% operational impact on the environment.
Carbon Trust to scope out and report on renewable.
At least 15% of gas is now procured For example, three of our retail assets measurable carbon emissions associated with from green sources.
We have 1.4MW of on-site including Westgate Oxford have on-site food our business.
This includes the ones we control, renewable electricity capacity.
These use aerobic digestion to break as in our head office or the landlord-controlled down up to one tonne of food waste a day and We are committed to increasing the amount spaces within our properties, and emissions turn it into wastewater.
This ensures no food of renewable electricity generated on our sites indirectly associated with our business waste is taken to landfill and CO emissions 2 and pioneering low carbon technologies to known as scope 3 emissions, like the carbon are reduced by having fewer waste collections.
In August 2017, we installed emissions produced by construction companies the largest solar PV system on a UK shopping Good waste management practices can have and suppliers when they work with us.
Weve set centre at our White Rose centre in Leeds.
For example, our new targets for reducing these emissions, were system will provide 20% of our landlord electricity active approach to recycling has enabled us to encouraging all our main contractors, through demands, enough to power 200 UK homes for avoid over 2.5m in landfill tax this year.
our Sustainability Charter, to set science-based a year.
That means a reduction of 250 tonnes targets, and were working with our customers of carbon the equivalent of more than half to help them reduce energy use.
a million miles of passenger car emissions.
Waste management performance 100% 74.9% of waste diverted from landfill of used materials sent for recycling 2017: 99.9% 2017: 70.8% 44 Landsec Annual Report 2018 2 kWh m Strategic Report Materials Our commitment is to source core construction Wellbeing at our new office in Victoria products and materials from ethical and sustainable sources.
In Retail, our Selly Oak 431 employees and 45,000 White noise machines help scheme is on track to achieve 45% responsibly sourced materials and Westgate has achieved annual visitors create a sense of privacy in just over 86%.
In London, were targeting the open plan environment 87% of our employees said their 70% responsibly sourced materials and are working environment enables Our ventilation and cleaning tracking each development as it progresses through design.
them work productively regime is tightly controlled to 40%above the Leesman Survey keep the air free from harmful Biodiversity benchmark chemicals Our commitment is to maximise the biodiversity potential of all our development World first dual-certified space There are over 700 places to and operational sites, and achieve a 25% meeting both WELL Silver work, from sit-stand and biodiversity net gain across the five sites offering the greatest potential by 2030.
Certification and BREEAM treadmill desks to quiet working Outstanding booths and library spaces An LED circadian lighting system Landsecs ground-breaking matches external light levels commitment raises the bar for its own sector and others.
Stephanie Hilborne OBE Chief Executive, The Wildlife Trusts Weve developed a methodology with The Wildlife Trusts to measure biodiversity on all sites and are developing net gain plans at several sites.
Our methodology enables us to determine different sites potential for biodiversity, helping us prioritise our efforts and investment.
A total of ten measures have been installed since 2016 17.
Wellbeing Our commitment is to ensure our buildings are designed and managed to maximise wellbeing and productivity.
Our assets should be great places to work and visit.
For an office, this means designing spaces to encourage physical and mental wellbeing.
Ourfuture office developments will follow the health and wellbeing criteria set by the BREEAM or WELL certifications.
In retail, surveys tell us atmosphere is one of the most important reasons customers choose to visit.
We need to focus on lighting, indoor air quality, heating andacoustics, creating the right conditions forcomfort.
Our award-winning workplace at 80-100 Victoria Street, SW1 is designed for activitybased working and is the UKs largest WELL Certied space.
We set out to remove all the barriers to an active, healthy and productive working day.
Employee benefits promote healthy lifestyles and include discounted gymmembership, on-site yoga classes, free breakfasts and healthy snacks throughout theday.
Active working at 80-100Victoria Street, SW1 our home.
