Creating and protecting value To create value we buy, We aim to be a sustainable business Our business through the market cycles by anticipating develop, manage and and responding to the changing needs model sell property, drawing of our customers, communities, partners and employees.
We act early to position on a range of financial, the Group for the conditions we see ahead.
physical and social resources along the way.
Inputs Core activities Financial Including the different types of funds we use to invest in our business, from shareholder capital to borrowings.
Physical Including our land and Sell Buy buildings, the materials and technologies we use, and thenatural environment.
Develop Manage Social Including the relationships we have with customers, communities and partners and the capabilities of our employees.
22 Landsec Annual Report 2018 T C N A E P M I T T A S L E V R E N I I N E R V E L S A T T I M P E A N C T Strategic Report We take a long-term view of value creation.
For us, its about transforming financial, physical and social resources into financial, physical and social value for our shareholders and society.
We work hard to provide our customers with a great experience, support local communities, reward investors, recruit and develop great people, enhance the built environment and minimise our impact.
Core activities Outputs Financial Further reading Long-term growth in income Read more about and asset values, creating our value outputs onpage 24 capacity for us to increase dividends for our shareholders.
To read our Financialreview go to pages 34-41 Physical Further reading Space that creates value for Read more about us by meeting the changing our value outputs requirements of our customers onpage 25 and communities and a To read our Physicalreview go healthy environment for all.
topages 42-45 Social Further reading Our ability to help businesses Read more about and people to thrive including our value outputs our own employees.
onpage 25 To read our Socialreview go topages 46-51 Landsec Annual Report 2018 23
