Board of Directors Executive Directors Non-executive Directors 1.
Simon Palley Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Chairman of the Board N R Senior Independent Director N R Non-executive Director R Non-executive Director R N Appointed to Board: January 2010 Appointed to Board: September 2005 Appointed to Board: September 2004 Appointed to Board: January 2014 Appointed to Board: January 2014 Appointed to Board: August 2010 Appointed as Chief Executive: April 2012 Appointed as Chairman: November 2008 Appointed as Senior Independent Appointed as Chairman with effect Skills and experience Skills and experience Director: July 2016 from 12 July 2018 Skills and experience Martin brings extensive and wide-ranging Skills and experience A senior figure within the private equity Robert is a chartered surveyor and has financial experience to the Group from Dame Alison has very significant board Skills and experience Skills and experience industry, Simon has extensive over 30 years experience in a number of the property, engineering and financial level experience gained across a range of Edward has significant experience of Cressida has experience of building and understanding of portfolio management, sectors within the property market and sectors in the UK and overseas.
He also industries and countries.
This enables her general management as a former CEO developing businesses both in the UK financial metrics and the impact of extensive knowledge of the London has extensive financial expertise, to create the optimal Board environment of a private equity backed and a large and globally.
From 2014 to April 2018, interest rates on capital markets.
He has commercial property market in particular.
particularly in relation to corporate and get the best out of her fellow Directors listed company.
Having been a fund she was Global Head of Infrastructure expertise in private equity and capital He has substantial executive leadership finance and investment arrangements, both during and outside meetings.
She has manager for many years, he also has at the $350bn Canada Pension Fund markets and considerable experience and listed company experience.
Prior to and significant listed company experience expertise in alternative asset management, a comprehensive understanding of Investment Board, managing a portfolio managing highly talented professionals.
joining Landsec in 2010 as Managing at board level.
Prior to joining Landsec in banking and global manufacturing.
stock markets and investor expectations.
After Simon has had a successful and broad Director of the London Portfolio, Robert 2005, Martin was Group Finance Director Dame Alison worked in investment banking Edward became Vice Chairman of Jupiter starting her career at JP Morgan, ranging career in investment banking, was Property Director at Great Portland of Alvis plc and prior to that he worked and corporate finance for 20 years before Fund Management plc in March 2014, Cressida worked for 3i Group Plc, first consulting and private equity.
He started Estates plc and prior to that he was a in corporate finance serving as a member pursuing a portfolio career.
During her having been Chief Executive Officer in private equity and then co-founding his career at Chase Manhattan before director of the property services group, ofthe executive committee of Nordeas banking career, she held senior positions of thecompany since June 2007 where its infrastructure business.
From 2009 moving to Bain & Company and then Nelson Bakewell.
investment banking division and atJ.
Henry Schroder Wagg & Co. Phoenix he oversaw the firms listing on the to 2014, as Managing Partner, she was BC Partners where he worked for 17 years, Managing Director of its UK business.
Securities and Donaldson, Lufkin & London Stock Exchange in 2010.
He responsible for managing 3i Infrastructure rising to the position of Managing Partner.
She has served as a non-executive started his career at Schroders as an plc, a FTSE250 investment company.
She Simon then became Chairman of the Robert is a director of the European Other current appointments director of Friends Provident plc, Gallaher investment analyst before moving to has extensive Board experience, including private equity firm Centerbridge Partners Public Real Estate Association EPRA.
Martin is a trustee of International Justice Group plc, Glas Cymru Cyfyngedig Welsh Electra Investment Trust where he was most recently on the Boards of Anglian Europe, a post he held until 2013.
He was appointed a director of the British Mission UK.
Water, Barclays plc and Man Group plc.
Water Group and Associated British Ports.
Property Federation in July 2016 and will Other current appointments Dame Alison was appointed a Dame in Management committees become its President for 12 months in July Other current appointments Other current appointments Simon is a non-executive director of 2014 for her services to business.
A member of the Groups Executive and 2018 and is also a trustee of the Natural Edward is Vice Chairman of Jupiter Fund Cressida has no other current UKGovernment Investments, a Senior Investment Committees.
Other current appointments Management plc, a Board member of appointments.
Adviser to TowerBrook Capital Partners Audit Committee meetings at the Dame Alison is currently a non-executive TheInvestor Forum, a trustee of the and an adviser to the private equity Management committees invitation of the Committee Chairman.
director of Zurich Insurance Group Limited Esme Fairbairn Foundation, a trusteeof arm of GIC.
Simon is also a trustee Chairman of the Groups Executive, and Chairman of its Audit Committee, the Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment of the University of Pennsylvania and Health, Safety & Security, Investment and anon-executive Director of Paccar Inc Trust and a member of the Strategic The Tate Foundation.
He attends aFortune 500 company and CICAP Advisory Board of Livingbridge.
the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Limited, and a senior adviser to Evercore Committees at the invitation of the Partners.
She isalso a member of the UK Committee Chairmen.
Panel on Takeovers and Mergers and a supervisory board member and audit committee chair of the Frankfurt listed chemicals company, BASF SE.
Stacey Rauch Key to symbols A A A Managing Director, London Portfolio Managing Director, Retail Portfolio Non-executive Director N Non-executive Director Non-executive Director N A Audit Committee Appointed to Board: January 2018 Appointed to Board: January 2018 Appointed to Board: August 2009 Appointed to Board: January 2017 Appointed to Board: January 2012 N Nomination Committee Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience R Remuneration Committee Colette has over 20 years property Scott has more than 20 years of Chris is a scion of the property industry, Nicholas brings wide-ranging and Stacey brings deep analytical thought experience in London, operating in investment and finance experience in with decades of property investment, international financial and general tothe Board, with considerable expertise Independent as per the UK investment, asset management and the UK real estate market.
He re-joined fund management and capital allocation management experience to the Group of retail trends and insights gained at CorporateGovernance Code.
She joined Landsec in 2003 Landsec in 2010 and was Head of Property, experience gained across a range of gained from working in consumer facing aleading international management DameAlisonCarnwath was considered and was Head of Development, London London Portfolio, before being appointed businesses and disciplines within the businesses, particularly in the retail, consultancy.
Stacey is a Director Senior independentupon appointment as Portfolio, before being appointed its as Managing Director, Retail Portfolio, realestate sector.
He has significant leisure and hospitality sectors.
He also has Partner Emeritus of McKinsey & Company Chairman.
Cressida Hogg will also be Managing Director in April 2014.
Prior to re-joining Landsec, experience of general management as extensive commercial and operational where she served clients in the US and considered as independent upon led the London business through its 2010 Scott held senior positions at Brookfield a former Chief Executive and Chairman knowledge and skills in relation to strategy internationally for 24 years.
Whilst there, appointment as Chairman.
three million sq ft speculative London Asset Management and GE Capital of significant businesses.
Chris was and IT development.
Nicholas is Group she co-founded the New Jersey office and development programme, including Real Estate.
Chairman and Partner of Orchard Street Finance Director of Whitbread PLC, a was the first woman to be appointed as Full Board biographies are available to the transformation of Victoria.
Prior to Investment Management LLP, a leading position he has held since November 2012. an industry practice leader.
She was a viewon our website: landsec.
com about Other current appointments joining Landsec, Colette was Head of commercial property investment Before that, he was Chief Financial leader in the firms Retail and Consumer our-management Scott was appointed a Property Estates at the Mercers Company where manager focused on the UK market Officer of Premier Farnell PLC, and prior to Goods Practices, served as the head of Committee member of the RNLI in she led the property team whilst also and continued to act as an adviser to that he worked at Dixons Retail PLC in a the North American Retail and Apparel April 2016 and is a trustee of LandAid.
gaining extensive office, retail and that firm until 31 March 2017.
He has variety of management roles, including Practice and acted as the Global Retail residential experience.
also been a Board Member of The Crown Chief Financial Officer.
She retired from Management committees Estate and has held senior positions at qualified as an accountant with Price McKinsey & Company in September 2010 A member of the Groups Executive Other current appointments Haslemere NV and Jones Lang Wootton Waterhouse.
Nicholas became Chairman and has since then pursued a portfolio and Investment Committees.
Chairman Colette was appointed as a Business Fund Management.
He was previously of our Audit Committee in September 2017. career.
She has significant board level of the Retail Executive Committee.
Board Member of the Mayor of President of the British Property experience gained through non-executive Londons Local Enterprise Partnership Other current appointments Federation and Chairman of the Bank positions held in retail and other industries.
for London LEAP in 2016 and is Joint Nicholas is Group Finance Director of of England Property Forum.
Chris is Chair of the Royal Docks Enterprise Whitbread PLC.
Other current appointments a chartered surveyor.
Stacey is Chairman of the Board of Fiesta Other current appointments Restaurant Group Inc and a director of Management committees Chris is currently a Wilkins Fellow of Ascena Retail Group Inc, both NASDAQ A member of the Groups Executive Downing College, University of Cambridge, listed companies.
Chairman a Governor of Oundle School and an of the London Executive Committee.
advisory board member to certain overseas entities within the Brack Capital Real Estate Group.
62 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Governance Executive Directors Non-executive Directors 1.
Simon Palley 1 2 Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Chairman of the Board N R Senior Independent Director N R Non-executive Director R Non-executive Director R N Appointed to Board: January 2010 Appointed to Board: September 2005 Appointed to Board: September 2004 Appointed to Board: January 2014 Appointed to Board: January 2014 Appointed to Board: August 2010 Appointed as Chief Executive: April 2012 Appointed as Chairman: November 2008 Appointed as Senior Independent Appointed as Chairman with effect Skills and experience Skills and experience Director: July 2016 from 12 July 2018 Skills and experience Martin brings extensive and wide-ranging Skills and experience A senior figure within the private equity Robert is a chartered surveyor and has financial experience to the Group from Dame Alison has very significant board Skills and experience Skills and experience industry, Simon has extensive over 30 years experience in a number of the property, engineering and financial level experience gained across a range of Edward has significant experience of Cressida has experience of building and understanding of portfolio management, sectors within the property market and sectors in the UK and overseas.
After Simon has had a successful and broad 3 4 Director of the London Portfolio, Robert 2005, Martin was Group Finance Director Dame Alison worked in investment banking Edward became Vice Chairman of Jupiter starting her career at JP Morgan, ranging career in investment banking, was Property Director at Great Portland of Alvis plc and prior to that he worked and corporate finance for 20 years before Fund Management plc in March 2014, Cressida worked for 3i Group Plc, first consulting and private equity.
Adviser to TowerBrook Capital Partners 5 6 Audit Committee meetings at the Dame Alison is currently a non-executive TheInvestor Forum, a trustee of the and an adviser to the private equity Management committees invitation of the Committee Chairman.
Stacey Rauch Key to symbols 7 8 A A A Managing Director, London Portfolio Managing Director, Retail Portfolio Non-executive Director N Non-executive Director Non-executive Director N A Audit Committee Appointed to Board: January 2018 Appointed to Board: January 2018 Appointed to Board: August 2009 Appointed to Board: January 2017 Appointed to Board: January 2012 N Nomination Committee Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience R Remuneration Committee Colette has over 20 years property Scott has more than 20 years of Chris is a scion of the property industry, Nicholas brings wide-ranging and Stacey brings deep analytical thought experience in London, operating in investment and finance experience in with decades of property investment, international financial and general tothe Board, with considerable expertise Independent as per the UK investment, asset management and the UK real estate market.
Nicholas is Group she co-founded the New Jersey office and 9 10 development programme, including Real Estate.
Landsec Annual Report 2018 63 Executive Committee 1.
Miles Webber Chief Executive Group General Counsel and Group Human Resources Director Director of Corporate Affairs Company Secretary and Sustainability Full biography on page 62 Joined Landsec in June 2013 Joined Landsec in May 2015 Joined Landsec in September 2015 Skills and experience Skills and experience Diana has over 25 years HR and Skills and experience 2.
Martin Greenslade Tim is a qualified solicitor and has organisational consulting experience.
Miles has more than 25 years experience Chief Financial Officer significant legal, compliance and AtLandsec, Diana has end-to-end in communications and public affairs.
commercial experience gained across responsibility for the articulation and Miles broad responsibilities cover Full biography on page 62 anumber of different sectors and delivery of a clear people strategy for sustainability, public relations both businesses both in the UK and overseas.
Landsec, including talent, reward, financial and business-to-business, Tim leads the Legal, Company Secretarial, organisational design and engagement.
internal communications, public affairs, Real Estate Information Management Since joining Landsec, Diana has investor relations and corporate 3.
Colette OShea and GDPR teams and is responsible for focused upon the key areas of talent marketing including brand and Managing Director, London Portfolio legal, compliance and governance and leadership, and has implemented a reputational management.
Full biography on page 62 activity across the Group.
He provides number of initiatives to evolve the culture Before joining Landsec, Miles was Head of advice and support to the Board and its of the business including, most recently, External Affairs, UK & Ireland, for General Committees and holds the Groups the Creating Experience Programme.
Electric, having previously held other senior relationships with its external law firms, Shehas previously held a number of 4.
Scott Parsons external affairs and relations positions and investor and shareholder bodies.
senior HR roles at J Sainsbury plc, and with them since he joined in 2005.
Prior Managing Director, Retail Portfolio Prior to joining Landsec, he was Group the Human Capital practice of Accenture.
to that, he spent six years with Merrill General Counsel and Company Secretary Full biography on page 62 Other current appointments Lynch where roles included Vice President, of Mothercare plc and previously Tim Diana is a non-executive board member Corporate Communications, followed held senior roles at Yum Brands Inc. and chair of the Remuneration Committee by Director of Public Affairs, EMEA.
and PepsiCo Inc. of HM Land Registry.
She has also recently Other current appointments Other current appointments been appointed to the Board of Trustees Miles is a board director of the Inspirasia Tim is on the executive committee of of the UK Green Building Council where Foundation and the Westminster Forum.
she is a member of the Personnel and Nomination Committees.
In addition, she is Management Committees Management Committees a member of the Business Leaders Council A member of the Groups Executive A member of the Groups Executive of TeachFirst, the educational charity.
Attends all Board and Investment Committee meetings.
Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Management Committees A member of the Groups Executive Committee meetings in his capacity as Company Secretary.
He also attends and Sustainability Committees.
Attends Investment Committee meetings and meetings of the Investment Committee.
both the Remuneration and Nomination Committee meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairmen.
Full Executive Committee biographies are available to view on our website: landsec.
com about our-management 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 64 Landsec Annual Report 2018
