Going Viability Concern Statement The Directors confirm they have a reasonable The Directors have assessed the viability of the pressure on rental values from the ongoing expectation that the Company has adequate Group over a five-year period to March 2023, impact of online retail and the expected resources to continue in operational existence taking account of the Groups current position economic slowdown.
InLondon, it is assumed for at least 12 months from the date of signing and the potential impact of our principal risks.
that prime rents deteriorate up to March 2021 these financial statements.
This confirmation and then slowly recover in the final two years on The Directors have determined five years to be is made after having reviewed assumptions the plan.
In Retail, rental values are assumed to the most appropriate period for the viability about future trading performance, valuation decline throughout the whole of our forecasting assessment as it fits well with the Groups projections, capital expenditure, asset sales period.
Where voids occur, these are expected development and leasing cycles, and is broadly and debt requirements contained within the to take longer to fill across the portfolio, aligned to the maturity of the Groups floating Groups current five-year plan.
The Directors reflecting the difficult market conditions.
Our financial planning also considered potential risks and uncertainties process comprises a budget for the next The fall in rental values, combined with an in the business, credit, market and liquidity risks, financial year, together with a forecast for the outward yield movement, results in a significant including the availability and repayment profile following four financial years.
Achievement decline in London capital values through to of bank facilities, as well as forecast covenant ofthe one-year budget has a greater level of March 2020, before a recovery from March 2021 compliance.
Based on the above, together with certainty and is used to set near-term targets onwards.
In Retail, it is assumed that yields available market information and the Directors across the Group.
Achievement of the five-year expand in all sectors through to March 2020 knowledge and experience of the Groups plan is less certain than the budget, but provides before flattening then slowly contracting from property portfolio and markets, the Directors a longer-term outlook against which strategic March 2021 onwards, resulting in severe capital continue to adopt the going concern basis decisions can be made.
The financial planning values declines through to March 2021 before in preparing the accounts for the year ended process considers the Groups profitability, a slow increase to March 2023.
31 March 2018. capital values, gearing, cash flows and other In this viability scenario, we assume that any key financial metrics over the plan period.
uncommitted forecast acquisitions, disposals These metrics are subject to sensitivity analysis, or developments do not take place.
Similarly, in which a number of the main underlying we assume no uncommitted debt refinancing assumptions are flexed to consider alternative takes place, and no new debt or bank facilities macro-economic environments.
Additionally, are raised or extended.
the Group also considers the impact of potential structural changes to the business in light of We have assessed the impact of these varying economic conditions, such as significant assumptions on the Groups key financial additional sales and acquisitions or refinancing.
metrics over the period, including profitability, net debt, loan-to-value ratios and available The Directors consider the key principal risks financial headroom.
The scenario represents that could impact the viability of the Group a significant contraction in the size of the tobe Customers, Market cyclicality and business over the five-year period considered, Investment and Development strategy.
We with net asset value falling by around 28% have considered the potential impact of these at the lowest point.
However, our assessment on the Groups ability to remain in operation is that such a scenario would not threaten and meet its liabilities as they fall due through the viability of the Group.
The Group would aviability scenario.
be required to renew or extend options for a The viability scenario assesses the impact of minimum of 759m of its debt facilities at the considerably worse macro-economic conditions end of the period considered, but the Directors than are currently expected: more specifically, consider this would be possible considering the asevere slowdown in the UK economy following Groups expected loan-to-value ratio.
failure to negotiate an agreement with the EU.
Based on this assessment, the Directors have In London, rental values are impacted by the areasonable expectation that the Group will expected economic slowdown and an increase continue in operation and meet its liabilities in the vacancy rate over the next few years.
asthey fall due over the period to March 2023.
In Retail, we assume continued downward This Strategic Report was approved by theBoard of Directors on 14 May 2018 andsigned on its behalf by: Robert Noel Chief Executive 58 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Governance Contents Governance 60 L etter from the Chairman 62 B oard of Directors 64 Executive Committee 65 G overnance at a glance 66 Leadership 70 L etter from the Chairman of the Nomination Committee 72 Effectiveness 76 L etter from the Chairman of the AuditCommittee 78 Accountability 84 Investor Relations 86 D irectors Remuneration Report Chairmans Annual Statement 88 R emuneration at a glance 90 A nnual Report on Remuneration 102 S ummary of Directors Remuneration Policy 105 P roposed Remuneration Policy 112 Directors Report Highlights Letter from Letter from Directors the Chairman the Chairman Remuneration page 60 oftheAudit Report Committee Chairmans Letter from the page 76 Annual Chairman of the Statement Nomination page 86 Committee page 70 Landsec Annual Report 2018 59
