Our strategy addresses Our strategy short-term opportunities and changes in our market sectors together with the big trends likely to affect us long term.
We focus on two key types of assets mixed Group strategy use buildings in London, and retail and leisure destinations in vibrant UK locations.
We act Our strategy is simple: we manage early in response to changes and trends in our our businesses through property markets.
And we help lead our industry forward on critical long-term issues.
Our business market cycles, adjusting key strategy is supported by a strong sustainability investment and development programme focused on creating jobs and activities ahead of changing opportunities, efficient use of natural resources, conditions to maximise returns and sustainable design and innovation.
We aim to be the best property company in Westgate Oxford: an extraordinary new destination Our strategy is designed to ensure we are the UK in the eyes of the people we rely on inthe heart of historic Oxford.
a sustainable business through the market our customers, communities, partners and cycles and changing consumer demand, employees using our experience to provide creating and protecting financial, physical them with great experiences.
For us, everything and social value over the long term.
Manage London Portfolio We get to know our customers well so we understand their changing needs and can Buy respond quickly.
This helps us to retain occupiers We aim to buy assets when values are falling and improve rental values, keeping our portfolio or low, or when we see a long-term opportunity attractive and resilient.
Were currently watching the market carefully, monitoring potential Sell acquisitions.
Our strong balance sheet and We sell assets when we see better ways to use access to capital mean we can buy when the capital.
We aim to sell when theres strong we spot the right opportunity.
demand for the space and ahead of a turn in the cycle from demand to supply.
We look to Develop add value through asset management or We start to develop early in the cycle so we refurbishment ahead of selling an asset.
benefit from lower construction costs, aiming to deliver completed schemes when demand To read about our London Portfolios is rising and supply is low.
Weve drawn our performance this year go to pages 26-29 Work and play at Nova, SW1 completed in April 2017. large speculative development programme to a close but have plenty of options for development and acquisitions.
Manage Retail Portfolio We are proactive managers, constantly looking to enhance our space in line with the changing Buy needs of our customers and communities.
We acquire when we see an opportunity to We continually refresh the customer mix in transform an under-managed property or land our destinations and work hard to create the into a great destination for shoppers and visitors.
most compelling blend of retail, leisure, food Develop and drink.
We create destinations where people want Sell to spend time and return frequently.
We help We dispose of an asset when we see opportunities retailers pursue multi-channel strategies and to use capital elsewhere to create better, more we use new technology to enhance the valuable space with greater appeal.
We fide-risk developments by seeking substantial pre-lettings before we To read about our Retail Portfolios start construction.
And we always contribute performance this year go to pages 30-33 to the local community, which helps to make Were now the UKs leading owner-manager our centres busy and well regarded.
16 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Our strategic response to the big drivers shaping our market 1 3 6 Evolving customer needs Economic uncertainty Sustainability as advantage Constantly looking to use our Keeping operational and financial gearing Continuing to realise value through leading experience to create great experiences at conservative levels for the time being our industry and the business community for our customers on sustainability Ensuring we have access to capital Focusing on well-connected locations in for acquisitions Building on our leadership position as London and dominant retail destinations the first property company to have an Continuing to grow our development in the UK approved science-based carbon target opportunities and options, timing our activity so we can deliver operational efficiencies Prioritising customers productivity, value carefully in line with the cycle for our business and our customers generation and cost per head over cost Staying alert to both the challenges and per sq ft Creating social value for our partners and the opportunities created by economic communities through our employment Being agile in our response to customers uncertainty, including the evolving space and educational programmes changing priorities, needs and and service requirements brought by Brexit expectations and other macro factors influencing Responding to climate change in order customers decisions.
to protect the long-term interests of our Becoming more of a service provider shareholders and business continuity for who works in ever closer partnership 4 our customers with key customers Ensuring all of our employees actively Developing a more flexible approach UK competitiveness think about and address sustainability to services and leases Ongoing investment in physical and social by delivering our Sustainability Matters Providing more serviced office options infrastructure wherever we develop and employee training programme within our portfolio manage major assets Setting high standards for partners through Creating greater physical flexibility, Sharing our strong belief in the positive our Sustainability Brief and Charter connectivity and technical resilience prospects of London and the UK Pioneering new systems and solutions, in our space Taking part in public debate and industry building on our ground-breaking work with Curating the best mix of customers groups to raise standards in the UK green gas and renewable electricity.
in each space and helping brands to construction and property sectors thrive together Creating jobs through the construction and Putting fresh air, light and other operation of assets, including candidates environmental elements at the heart of supported through our Community the experience we provide in our spaces Employment Programme Investing to ensure we understand Supporting students from disadvantaged fast-changing trends and technologies backgrounds through our education and respond in smart, innovative ways.
2 5 Balance of supply and demand Product innovation Progressing our pipeline of development Strengthening our customer-led culture opportunities in London through our Creating Experiences employee training programme Securing pre-lets on major development projects in the short term, in both London Working in partnership with customers to and Retail ensure we understand and respond to their deeper business priorities, opportunities Monitoring buying opportunities closely and challenges and being ready to act Investing in customer insight and forecasting Increasing asset management activity across our business to create more value Testing and exploring new ideas with from within the portfolios customers and partners Enhancing the experience for visitors in our Putting sustainable design and innovation retail assets to ensure they remain popular at the heart of our activity and relevant Improving construction and asset Bringing in new customers to our retail management processes and health and assets, including international brands and wellbeing standards through our Customer online retailers.
Improvement Groups, which bring together teams from Landsec and key customers and partners.
Landsec Annual Report 2018 17 Locations Our strategy We only buy and develop in thriving locations Our strategic choices continued or places with excellent potential.
Good To meet our objectives and respond to market transport links coupled with first-class buildings conditions we make a series of strategic choices.
are becoming more highly valued than We aim to create value These shape both our immediate, tactical fashionable postcodes.
response to opportunities and risks and our for the people who long-term positioning and priorities.
Finance matter most to us: our We look to enhance returns by using debt to Market help finance our investments and activity, using customers, communities We focus on two dynamic sectors of the UK our assets as security to drive down costs.
We real estate market offices, retail, leisure and may increase debt when we see substantial and partners including residential in London: and retail, leisure and opportunities to buy and develop.
We may shareholders and our residential outside London.
Being active in these decrease debt through sales if we see weaker two sectors rather than one provides us with demand and lower investment levels ahead.
greater financial stability as they work to different cycles.
Risk We address the risk that space will be left unlet Timing Our strategic objectives or let at low rents if supply outstrips demand We apply our experience and insight so we by owning assets with strong appeal, developing Our strategic objectives are agreed by the buy, develop, manage and sell assets at the early in the cycle and managing actively.
They form the starting point for our right point in the property cycle.
This often act early to mitigate risks related tochanges strategy and inform how we run and report means being prepared to act early when we in climate, legislation and resource availability.
Relationships Deliver sustainable long-term Scale We work to develop close relationships shareholder value We aim to maintain our financial and with ourcustomers, communities, partners operational size and strength.
This enables Maximise the returns from the and employees so we understand their us todeploy our capital if we want to acquire investment portfolio evolving needs and they trust us to meet or develop a number of major assets at the their expectations.
Maximise development performance Ensure high levels of customer satisfaction Attract, develop, retain and motivate high performance individuals Continually improve sustainability performance To see how we measure progress against ourstrategic objectives go to pages 20-21 18 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report We can take decisive action to improve things To see our Stakeholder Engagement Policy, for the better when we have control of assets.
Responsible Property Investment Policy Investing through the life-cycle andSustainability Brief go to landsec.
com We aim to buy, develop, manage and sell We aim to develop and manage buildings in a assets in a way that benefits those closest to sustainable and innovative way: make efficient us our customers, communities, partners use of natural resources: and create jobs and and employees.
We believe that responding to opportunities for the people who live near our peoples needs, and giving careful consideration assets, including disadvantaged groups who to the environment, economy and community, are furthest from employment.
helps us to create enduring financial, social We have a clear Stakeholder Engagement Policy and physical value over the long term.
that formally sets out our commitments, Where we acquire or develop, we work closely objectives, values and engagement process.
with customers and communities to ensure the new space meets their needs and expectations.
We manage most of the buildings we own byvalue which means we get to see how people interact with them and hear their views.
Asset life-cycle REFURBISH OR RETROFIT TO RE-LET INVEST REINVEST CAPITAL CAPITAL Sell Buy Develop Manage We sell an asset when we see We acquire an asset if it has the We develop when we see an We work with customers, an opportunity to deploy our potential to meet the evolving opportunity to create space communities and partners to capital more effectively elsewhere.
needs of our customers and that will appeal to customers, ensure our buildings operate communities, can be acquired enhance the area and create efficiently and to help increase Through our investment and at the right price, and is likely financial value for us.
activity, the building we sell to create financial value for us.
We design for the safety, health We redesign and refurbish space should perform at a higher level Our Responsible Property and wellbeing of occupants.
if we spot an opportunity to make than the building we bought Investment Policy defines the We also design for efficiency and it more attractive, useful and financially, socially and standards we set for acquisitions productivity.
We work with occupiers environmentally.
This should and guides us when making improve the public realm around to manage energy, waste and make it more valuable.
An asset may our buildings, including connectivity water as cost efficiency and We aim to build a positive legacy, not fit with our priorities due and wider infrastructure.
100% of the leaving a place in a better state to its location or environmental development activity creates electricity we buy for our managed than when we arrived.
That doesnt mean job opportunities, both during portfolio is from renewable sources to improve peoples lives, we we will only acquire assets that construction and when the and we collaborate with customers strengthen ourreputation and meet our current standards: development opens.
we may see an opportunity to To support our position as a Thinking about sustainability helps improve the assets performance sustainability leader in our industry us to protect the building from through investment and better external risks such as price and the wider business community, management.
volatility, changing regulation, we provide our partners with a supply issues and premature Sustainability Brief.
And it enables us out our aspirations and expectations and them to meet our business around sustainability, giving and sustainability commitments.
equal weight to social and environmental issues.
