Governance Board of directors Committee membership key Audit IT Nomination Remuneration Risk Committee Chairman Sir John Kingman Nigel Wilson Jeff Davies Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial officer Appointed October 2016 Appointed September 2009 as CFO: Appointed March 2017 appointed CEO June 2012 Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: John had a long Whitehall career: as Nigel was appointed as Chief Executive Jeff was appointed Group Chief Financial second Permanent Secretary to HM Officer in 2012 following three years Officer in March 2017.
He brings a wealth Treasury, he had responsibility for the serving as Group Chief Financial Officer.
of insurance experience, having Treasurys economics ministry functions, Nigel brings strong leadership skills with previously served as a senior partner for policy relating to business, financial previous appointments including of Ernst & Young LLP EY and led its services and infrastructure.
He was closely McKinsey & Co: Group Commercial European risk and actuarial insurance involved in the UK response to the financial Director of Dixons Group plc: Managing services.
Prior to joining EY in 2004, crisis, handling the resolution of Northern Director of Stanhope Properties plc: he held a number of senior actuarial roles Rock and leading negotiations with RBS, ChiefExecutive, Corporate of Guinness at Swiss Re Life & Health.
He is a Fellow Lloyds and HBOS on their 37 billion Peat Aviation GPA : Managing Director of the Institute of Actuaries.
He was the first Chief ofViridian Capital: and Deputy Chief Executive of UK Financial Investments Executive and Chief Financial Officer Ltd. From 2010 2012, John was Global atUBM.
Co-Head of the Financial Institutions Nigel was also Senior Independent Group at Rothschild.
Director SID of The Capita Group Plc John is non-executive Chair of UK Research from 2009 until 2012, and was SID and Innovation and is a World Fellow of Chairman of Halfords Group Plc from Yale University.
John led the independent 2006 until 2011. review for the Government of the work of In 2016 and 2017 Nigel was Chairman the Financial Reporting Council: the report ofthe Investment Associations review was published in December 2018. ofExecutive Pay and the governments John is also a director of Legal & General review of Mission Led Business.
In 2017 Investment Management Holdings Limited.
and 2018 he was a member of the governments Patient Capital Review External appointments: Industry Panel and a Commissioner in Royal Opera House Covent Garden theResolution Foundations Foundation Trustee Intergenerational Commission.
National Gallery Trustee Rothschild Senior Adviser Mark Zinkula Kerrigan Procter Chief Executive officer, LGIM Chief Executive officer, LGC Appointed September 2012 Appointed March 2017 Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Mark was appointed to the Board in Kerrigan was appointed to the Board September 2012, having been appointed in March 2017, and was appointed as Chief Executive Officer of LGIM in March CEO of LGC in January 2018.
Prior to that, he was CEO of Legal group-wide experience with in-depth & General Investment Management knowledge of the workings of the America LGIMA and played an integral Groups business divisions from his roles part in the establishment and successful as CEO of the LGR Business division expansion of LGIMA.
Prior to joining from 2013 to 2017, and head of solutions LGIMA, Mark was at Aegon Asset at LGIM from 2006 to 2012, where he Management where he was Global was responsible for Liability Driven Head of Fixed Income.
Investment and fund solutions for defined benefit and defined contribution pension On 31 May 2018, Mark announced his schemes across Europe and the US.
Prior intention to retire from Legal & General to joining the Group, he worked at RBS in in August 2019. the financial markets division where he External appointments: held several roles.
Kerrigan started his The Financial Reporting Council Limited career in 1994 with EY Corporate Finance Director before moving to Mercer.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries and has a PhD in number theory from Kings College, London.
52 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Board of directors Julia Wilson Henrietta Baldock Carolyn Bradley Philip Broadley Senior independent Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed October 2018 Appointed December 2014 Appointed July 2016 Appointed November 2011: Senior Independent Director from May 2016 Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Henrietta was appointed to the Board Carolyn was appointed to the Board in Philip was appointed to the Board in on 4 October 2018.
She has been Chair December 2014.
He has extensive insurance Skills and experience: of the Companys principal operating consumer-focused background having experience having spent over 14 years Julia was appointed to the Board in subsidiary, Legal and General Assurance worked at Tesco from 1986 until 2013. insenior roles in insurance including as November 2011 and became the Senior Society Limited LGAS, since 6 March During this time, Carolyn held a range of Group Finance Director at Old Mutual plc Independent Director in May 2016.
Henrietta has extensive knowledge senior positions in various roles including and prior to that as Group Finance has significant corporate finance, tax and of the financial services and insurance Chief Operating Officer, Tesco.
com, Director of Prudential plc.
She is the Group sectors through her 25 years experience Marketing Director, UK and as Group from St. Edmund Hall, Oxford, where he Finance Director of 3i Group plc, which in investment banking, most recently as Brand Director.
He is a includes responsibility for finance, Chairman of the European Financial Fellow of the Institute of Chartered investment valuations and treasury.
She Carolyn stepped down from the Board on Institutions team at Bank of America Accountants in England and Wales.
31 December 2018. has been a member of its Board since Merrill Lynch where she advised many 2008.
Previously, she was the Group External appointments: External appointments: boards in the sector on some of their AstraZeneca PLC Director of Corporate Finance at Cable & Marstons PLC Non-Executive Director most significant transactions.
Wireless plc, where she also held a Non-Executive Director The Mentoring Foundation Henrietta joined Bank of America Merrill Stallergenes Greer plc number of other finance-related roles.
Non-Executive Director Julia is a member of the Institute of Lynch in 2000 and served as its Vice Non-Executive Director Cancer Research UK Trustee President of Financial Institutions Group Eastbourne College Director & Trustee Chartered Accountants in England and Majid Al Futtaim Retail LLC Wales ACA and the Chartered Institute FIG, Managing Director and Head of London Library Treasurer Non-Executive Director European Financial Institutions Investment Oxford University Audit and Scrutiny of Taxation.
Cambridge Judge Business School Banking.
She started her career as a Committee Member Advisory Board Member External appointments: generalist adviser and has focused on 3i Group plc Director The Invicta Film Partnership No.
LLP Member External appointments: B&M European Retail Value SA The Leadership Trust Non-Executive Director Foundation Director SSP Group Plc Non-Executive Director Hydro Industries Director George Lewis Lesley Knox Toby Strauss Geoffrey Timms Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Group General Counsel Appointed November 2018 Appointed June 2016 Appointed January 2017 and Company Secretary Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: George was appointed to the Board on Lesley was appointed to the Board in Toby was appointed to the Board in Geoffrey has been the Group General June 2016.
Toby brings extensive Counsel since 1999 and, in addition, the experience of asset management following international, strategic and financial insurance experience to the Board Group Company Secretary since 2008. services experience having spent over 17 a 30-year career with the Royal Bank of following an executive career in UK Geoffrey is also a Director of CALA Canada RBC.
He has strong international years in senior roles in financial services, financial serviceswhich included Group Group Holdings Limited and the including with Kleinwort Benson, Bank of asset management experience in Canada, Director of Insurance and Chief Executive Bracknell Regeneration Partnership the US and other international markets: Scotland and British Linen Advisors.
of Scottish Widows at Lloyds Banking Limited.
Prior to joining Legal & General, Lesley previously served as Chair on the these skills are important as the Group Group and, prior to that, Chief Executive Geoffrey was a solicitor with Clifford seeks to develop its LGIM business globally.
Board of Alliance Trust PLC and as Senior of Aviva UKLife.
Independent Director at Hays plc.
Georges career began in accountancy at External appointments: Lesley was appointed as designated Arthur Andersen, Toronto.
He joined RBC Macmillan Cancer Support Trustee in 1986 and served in various financial and non-executive director for engagement Toric Limited Director with the Companys workforce, effective 4 wealth management roles.
George was a Pacific Life Re Limited Director member of RBCs Group Executive board October 2018, in line with the provisions of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code.
from 2007 through 2015, with responsibility for the wealth and asset management and External appointments: insurance businesses.
Thomas Cook Group plc Non-Executive Director External appointments: Ontario Power Generation Design Dundee Limited Chair Genus Plc Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Chair of Audit and Risk Committee Director, Chair of the Remuneration Committee AOG Group Non-Executive Director Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53
