Str Strat ategic r egic repor eport t Retirement ecosystem We meet our customers needs by providing a suite of products across all aspects of their retirement journey.
Together, our different business areas have the 3.1m unique opportunity to support individuals by offering a range of retirement solutions, which Our research indicates that there are now are, themselves, inter-connected: 3.1 million last time buyer households in the UK, with the number of homeowners Retirement income providing institutional DB who have considered downsizing rising payments through UK and US PRT businesses, from 32% to 39%.
Almost half 49% of as well as a range of individual annuities last time buyers said it was because there LGRI and LGRR.
were no suitable properties available.
Retirement savings supporting the growth of individuals retirement funds through our Personal Investing arm and our Workplace DC pension schemes LGIM.
Retirement borrowing helping to access property assets through our lifetime mortgage business LGRR.
9.4bn Retirement living investing in the building and provision of Later Living accommodation LGC.
In aggregate, in 2018 we have completed over 9billion of global pension fide-risking transactions.
Retirement Retirement income savings Retirement ecosystem 4.4bn We completed a 4.4 billion buy-in of the British Airwayspension scheme, covering Retirement Retirement nearly 22,000 customers the largest ever living bulk annuity policy with a UK pension scheme.
10 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Retirement ecosystem 711bn Were the UKs largest investment manager of pension scheme assets.
1,100 Through Inspired Villages, we now have seven retirement sites with a property portfolio 71bn of 1,100 apartments.
Were a leading manager of UK DC pensions with over 71 billion in assets 1.1m We provide pension income for over 63bn one million people.
We have over 63 billion in annuity assets.
3.1m We have over three million DC pension customers 30% Our market share of lifetime mortgages is approximately 30%.
$2.5bn US pension risk transfer assets built since 2015 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 11
