Strategic report Business area Investment Management Our investment management business is now nearly 50 years old.
Traditionally, we managed the assets of UK DB pension schemes and they remain a significant part of our business.
Now, however, were an increasingly diversified business with a wide range of clients across institutional, retail, workplace and direct markets in a growing number of global locations.
We champion active ownership of our clients assets and the incorporation of environmental, social and governance ESG factors because we believe responsibility in business is good for investors.
2018 overview In 2018 we continued to diversify our business, building on our strengths in the UK DB market to position the business to succeed in the defined contribution DC, retail, direct-to-consumer and international markets, especially the US.
By diversifying across channels, regions and investment capabilities, we were able to benefit in 2018 from positive fund flows from our DC, retail, DB solutions and international businesses.
Key highlights included the successful integration of our ETF business, following the completion of the acquisition of Canvas in March, which has extended our distribution capabilities in Europe.
We also continued to build out our Personal Investing platform and experienced continued strong growth in our workplace pensions business, where we now have more than three million people saving for retirement.
In the US, we are well-positioned for growth in the DB fide-risking market and have expanded our investment capabilities, including in index and multi-asset investments.
22 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Investment management Strategy and future plans We benefit from cost efficiencies underpinned by our investments in technology, while the increasing scale of our workplace, retail and direct assets give us attractive growth opportunities.
Weve based our strategy for success on three clear themes: Broadening our Addressing the Internationalising our core investment capabilities savings gap institutional strengths LGIM has continued to broaden its investment Were continuing to invest in engaging with In the UK were maintaining momentum capabilities to capture the structural shifts in pension scheme members and building in providing DB pension solutions, while demand in the asset management industry.
Weve enhanced diversifying into other markets and client We have a growing multi-asset business our personal investing digital platform and channels.
In the US were well positioned across the institutional, DC and retail are aiming to become a leading provider for growth in the defined-benefit fide-risking markets.
We are a leading active global of UK retail investments.
market and we have rounded out our credit manager and have a significant real investment capabilities to include index and assets capability.
Were also evolving our factor-based investments, multi-asset and factor-based investing and environmental, real assets.
In Europe we are expanding our social and governance ESG capabilities distribution capabilities, building on the to cater to evolving client needs and have integration of our ETF platform.
In Asia and seen considerable progress in making the Gulf we are seeking to grow our client responsible investing mainstream.
Legal & General Investment Management LGIM 13% 1tn Increase in total net flows Assets under management X X tn bn 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Assets inflows outflows Assets under management External net flows of 42.6bn were AUM once again grew well, once again strong, with continued increasing by 3% to over 1tn 2017: diversification across channels, 983bn driven by strong external regions and product lines.
UK net net flows of 42.6bn, offset to some flows of 22.9bn were significantly extent by the impact of the adverse higher than in 2017 2017: 10.5bn, market performance.
International with strong performances across AUM continued to perform well, both DB and DC channels.
International net flows totalled 19.6bn 2017: 33.0bn driven by the US and the Gulf.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 23 31.2 40.0 45.2 0.
983 1.015 Strategic report Legal & General Investment Management LGIM Operating profit Operating profit rose by 2% 2% despite difficult market conditions Growth in operating profit and a weak market performance, particularly in the second half of the year.
Asset management revenue X m increased by 4%, in line with the increase in average AUM.
However, the cost income ratio increased slightly to 52% reflecting lower than expected revenue and the investment in the operating environment of the business to manage risk and support future growth.
Workplace Savings delivered an operating profit of 3m compared to a break-even result in 2017 as the platform continues to achieve scale benefits as it grows.
2016 2017 2018 Broadening our investment capabilities Index Defined benefit business Were the fifth largest index manager globally, We are well positioned to succeed in the a leader in the UK and the largest European Its a fascinating time for changing DB market, where schemes need institutional factor-based manager.
We have the asset management to manage risk by using fixed-income and a strong heritage in managing insurance and industry in many ways.
pension assets and work closely with Legal & Within LDI we have supported our clients General Retirements teams in managing the We are becoming throughout their journey, taking them from annuity portfolio.
increasingly important traditional index strategies through to custom Real assets hedging against liabilities.
This journey leads to in allocating capital and We hold 27.1 billion in real asset investments.
deep, long-term partnerships and as a result there is much more Our three main growth opportunities are firstly, we are now the largest LDI manager in the UK.
expanding into emerging sectors in real estate: emphasis on stewardship Across the Legal & General group we have secondly, expanding private credit for our and engagement as we the capabilities to help DB schemes through clients: and thirdly, stepping into US real the whole fide-risking journey, including full or assets.
We create assets that serve the needs try to establish a partial schemes buyouts and buy-ins.
Solutions of businesses and communities whilst at the capitalist model to work assets have almost tripled from 170 billion same time delivering the investment more effectively for more in 2011 to 511 billion at the end of 2018, outcomes that best serve the needs of our representing over 50% of all group AUM.
Our real assets team works closely people.
The shift to with LGC and LGR to provide investment Active strategies individual responsibility returns for the pension annuity book and the Our active strategies demonstrate our groups balance sheet.
for retirement income strengths in providing diverse client solutions.
Were a market leader in both the UK and US An important focus in 2018 has been is also creating many at providing liability-aware credit solutions.
renewable energy, which not only challenges, for which we Weve reshaped our business to complement demonstrates our focus on ESG themes, but all must continue to strive our index equity expertise and are building also meets our need to generate attractive momentum in products like global high yield long-term secure income.
We also aim to for better solutions.
make a real contribution to the housing supply scarcity in UK cities, providing attractive levels Mark Zinkula of return through creating and owning Chief Executive Officer, LGIM build-to-rent properties.
24 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 366 400 407 Strategic report Investment management Financial wellbeing platform for DC pension members Our newly launched financial wellbeing platform can help people feel financially confident.
We want to help people who are saving for retirement to keep their short-term money worries under control.
The financial wellbeing hub has four key themes: 1.
Prepare for future life milestones retirement, homebuying, having a family and savings.
Addressing the savings gap building societies.
In Europe, we work with Workplace pensions DC pensions private banks and stockbrokers to market ICAV Understanding the risks In the UK our DC business offers investors and SICAV funds.
Last year, we added ETFs to We continue to invest in our systems, business processes a choice of pension funds through a platform our product suite following the acquisition of and people to ensure that we that offers both bundled services including Canvas.
We now have funds registered in 14 meet the expectations of our administration and unbundled investment countries and plan to expand our presence clients, comply with only.
Were a leading DC fund manager further, initially targeting Germany and Italy.
regulation and mitigate the with 71 billion of assets and over 3.1 million risks of loss or reputational Our personal investing business is strategically members across our schemes.
We also damage from operational important to LGIM.
We want to democratise have one of the largest and fastest growing failure and external events.
and popularise investment in the UK using our pensions MasterTrusts in the UK.
In 2018 Alongside ensuring robust competitive advantages of scale and price we continued to invest in technology to help internal controls so that funds through digital channels which can deliver are managed in line with auto-enrolled pension members understand a frictionless customer experience.
A key client mandates, delivering more about their benefits and options at component of our approach is to help fund performance and being retirement as well as helping them to customers access investments that interest responsive to client needs manage their fund choices.
them, so we focused on our Future World are key to attracting new funds under management Retail funds, personal investing and ETFs fund range in 2018 and will continue to and minimising fund Our retail business distributes our funds to diversify our offering.
We have delivered strong growth in recent years, building on our diverse product range comprising index, multi asset, real assets and active funds.
Through our competitive pricing and a strong service model, we have established a market-leading position in the UK, moving from outside the top 20 to a regular top-three provider.
LGIM was second in both gross and net retail sales in 2018.
In the UK, we offer unit trusts and ISAs through IFAs, and banks and Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 25 Strategic report Internationalising our core Asian investment management We are also building on our competitive institutional strengths In Asia we now look after over 10.9billion of advantages to deliver solutions in the DC and We now have offices in seven locations and assets, with offices in Hong Kong and Tokyo, the public DB channels, particularly in the clients in 29 countries.
Europe is becoming an giving us a manufacturing and distribution growing retirement income and ESG markets.
increasingly important market and in 2018 we capability in the region.
In Asia our investment Public funds are increasingly focused on ESG received authorisation for our management base is spread across fixed income, index, real investment strategies and we believe we can company to become operational in Dublin.
We concentrate on the add significant long-term value in this area.
We will continue to expand our European larger institutional markets of north Asia.
This business, building on the demographic and means sovereign wealth funds, pensions and welfare trends that are driving the growth of insurance in China, Hong Kong, Korea and pensions.
We are also well placed to support Taiwan and we have our first clients in $80tn the growing demand for ESG, credit and Singapore and Australia as well.
Global asset management market index capabilities.
Our continued US expansion In the Gulf we manage index, credit and Were well positioned for future growth in this some real assets for our clients, in a market $17 trillion market, building on our three dominated by sovereign wealth funds.
Our competitive advantages of a client-centric specialist team is based in London and has culture, investment excellence in fixed income built assets with compound annual growth of and LDI and a true solutions orientation.
Once again there is a growing We now manage assets across the full interest in ESG investments and we also see spectrum of fixed income and LDI solutions, opportunities as asset owners look to diversify driven by strong and consistent flows from their investments.
We have also broadened our investment capabilities to include index and factor-based investments, multi-asset and real assets.
Our index and factor-based proposition now has commercial traction across all key US client channels.
Institutional pensions assets of around $17 trillion in the US represent a huge opportunity for Legal & General.
26 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
