Strategic report Business area Insurance Our Insurance businesses continue to have the largest customer base ofall our business areas, looking after nine million people.
We started offering life insurance cover in 1836 and now have around four million UKretail life insurance customers, two million people in group protection schemes, one million US life insurance customers and nearly two million general insurance customers.
14% 81% growth in LGI new retail protection business premiums customers benefitting from straight-through processing Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 27 Strategic report Strategy and future plans Our strategy is to harness technology and drive innovation to transform our chosen markets.
We achieved our market leading position through the effective use of technology.
Now were continuing to invest in technology to make sure our customers enjoy an excellent experience and to build ever closer relationships with our distribution partners.
Investing Expanding our Working with partners in digital USoperations tobuild our businesses We have a relentless focus on using Were the largest provider in the US Embracing innovation means we can be at technology to deliver better value, term life assurance brokerage channel, the forefront of changes in the distribution improve customer experience and by number of policies.
Our vision is to be the best enhance risk management.
digital transformation to position us for company to partner with.
further new business growth and to increase profits.
Legal & General Insurance LGI 3% 308m Increase in gross written premiums Operating profit In 2018, our digital advances meant that X X oneperson could m m process the same levelof new business applications that it took five people to complete ten years ago.
Bernie Hickman CEO, Legal & General Insurance 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Gross written premiums Operating profit Gross written premiums grew by 3% Operating profit increased by 2% versus versus 2017 on a constant currency prior year.
basis 2% using actual FX rates to UK profit benefitted from one off model 2,580m.
In the US, GWP increased enhancement and assumption changes.
by 4% on a USD basis led by strong This was partially offset by lower new new business sales, particularly in business surplus due to higher strain the broker channel.
New business from the growth in Group Protection increased by 12% year on year to new business and a competitive UK $114m.
UK Retail Protection GWP Retail Protection market.
Group Protection GWP Denotes a scale break.
Throughout this annual report, grew by 1% as a result of 69% growth The US profit decreased due to higher all bar chart scales start from zero.
in new business partially offset by than expected claims in 2018 compared We use a scale break where charts the non-renewal of specific schemes to a favourable position in 2017. of a different magnitude, but the with an adverse claims experience.
same unit of measurement, are presented alongside each other.
UK and US Protection only 28 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 2,409 2,531 2,580 303 303 308 Strategic report Insurance 4% Number of employees working in UK firms who feel able to talk to their manager about depression.
Not a Red Card Our Group Protection business is working with the Not a Red Card organisation to remove the taboo of mental health and reduce the UKs high suicide rates which have a direct bearing on our life insurance businesses.
We are grateful for the support of renowned sporting personalities, business leaders and mental health experts.
In 2018 we won two awards for our work and launched our inaugural Not a Red Card mental health awards.
UK retail life insurance UK group protection US insurance We provide over 470 billion in life Our group protection business provides Our US business LGIA has remained a insurance cover and in 2018 paid out over employers protection for their employees and successful provider of term insurance, largely 638 million in life insurance and critical families, for both life and income protection.
We have 1.2 million illness cover claims, paying 96% of all customers and are the largest term life 2018 was a successful year for our group claims made.
assurance provider in the US brokerage protection business following the channel by number of policies and No 2 In 2018, we remained the UKs No 1 retail management actions implemented in 2017. by new business premiums.
life insurance provider, with a market share New business premiums increased by of 24% in the first three quarters of the In 2018, new business premiums increased 69% in 2018 to 83 million, with gross year.
We continue to benefit from being 12% to $114 million.
Operating profit however written premiums up 1% to 329 million, a large scale provider operating a reduced due to higher than expected claims reflecting improvements in our customer multi-distribution strategy.
versus a favourable prior year position.
service partially offset by the specific We continue to improve our product non-renewal of schemes with unfavourable Despite our market leading position we see proposition and distribution reach.
The perception of our substantial opportunities to diversify further expanded our partnership with Barclays, business from employee benefit and grow in the US.
We aim to accelerate the launching a new non-advised proposition in consultants improved markedly, with pace of digital transformation and develop new addition to renewing the existing advised scores from the annual Opinion Research distribution channels.
Corporation ORC survey showing an Fintech improvement from 38% to 50%.
Our digital advances mean that one person We have continued to grow our expertise can now process the same amount of new in the Fintech sector.
Were focusing on business applications that required five transforming our current markets, developing people ten years ago.
81% of new business solutions for adjacent markets and making applications are completed using straight targeted selective investments in start-up through processing.
Were transforming the housing ecosystem through our unique understanding of the industry as the UKs leading mortgage distributor and the first choice home survey and valuation provider for eight of the top 10 UK mortgage lenders.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 29 Strategic report Through Legal & General Surveying Services, Additionally in July 2018 we invested in In response to feedback from employers, we have built innovative new products.
Smartr365, a digital B2B mortgage broking Salary Finance have launched Salary Advance The traditional homebuyers survey has platform which supplies systems to the UK and, in partnership with HMRC, will launch a been rebuilt for the digital world and has mortgage intermediary market.
Smartr365 has Help To Save scheme in early 2019.
During launched as SmartrSurvey, which is sold a cutting-edge online fact find, which delivers the second half of 2018 Salary Finance through business partners and directly to a great customer experience, market-leading launched in the US and has a significant consumers.
In 2018, our surveying business CRM and efficient customer verification active pipeline to build on its current clients.
arranged 539,000 valuations and surveys processes.
The aim is to speed up the Growth opportunities for the business remain for homebuyers.
collection of critical data to condense the extremely positive and industry recognition of mortgage administration process from this Fintech is high for example, Salary New Fintech solutions have been applied weeks into hours.
It includes a customer Financewon Responsible Business of to Legal & General Mortgage Club with portal which helps to build and cement the Year at the Prince Charles Business in the development of SmartrCriteria and long-term engagement between advisers the Community Awards.
ClubHub providing instant mortgage search and their customers.
recommendations and online commission Our Fintech business also includes Investment assistance for brokers.
Legal & General Salary Finance, the award winning Start-up Discounts Online IDOL which continues to Mortgage Club facilitated 73 billion of of the Year, continues to grow rapidly.
In the grow its presence in the price comparison mortgages in 2018, up 12% 2017: 65 billion, UK, Salary Finance currently has more than market and is an excellent asset to deploy in through strong partnerships with top lenders 700,000 employees registered on the platform the financial technology market and product and mortgage brokers.
As the largest with an additional 300,000 expected by the platform space.
participant in the intermediated mortgage second quarter of 2019. market in the UK, were involved in one in five of all UK mortgage transactions.
General Insurance GI 11% 0m Increase in gross written premiums Operating profit X X m m 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Gross written premiums Operating profit Gross written premiums performed Operating profit decreased significantly well, increasing by 11% to 410m in to nil, with a combined operating ratio 2018.
We achieved growth across both of 104%.
This was materially impacted direct and partnerships channels by a number of severe weather related driven by strong new business sales claims, notably the Q1 freeze and a rise following the launch of SmartQuote in subsidence claims in H2 following Denotes a scale break.
Throughout this Annual Report, and a number of new distribution the sustained hot and dry summer.
all bar chart scales start from zero.
agreements which went live during Excluding the increase in weather and We use a scale break where charts the year.
The acquisition of Buddies subsidence related claims, operating of a different magnitude, but the completed early in 2018, which profit was 26m and combined same unit of measurement, are helped contribute to the 60% operating ratio was 97%.
30 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 326 369 410 52 37 0 Strategic report Insurance General Insurance We continue to attract significant interest Gross premiums increased by 11% to from potential distribution partners, who value Understanding the risks 410million 2017: 369million.
This includes our market leading, digital SmartQuote and In LGI, our exposure to mortality and morbidity risk 24million from our pet insurance business, a SmartClaim propositions.
We are actively mostly arises in our UK 60% increase compared to 2017.
The Buddies discussing a number of new opportunities Group Protection and US business, which was acquired in January 2018, including the very latest in Insurtech.
Term Insurance businesses, is now operating as an integral part of the Continuing digital innovation where the risks for us are General Insurance division.
the epidemic and poor Our SmartQuote solution, using technology underwriting.
We seek to Our direct business delivered gross premiums and big data for producing household reinsure our catastrophe of 148 million in 2018, representing 6% insurance quotes in approximately ninety risks and closely manage our growth on 2017 and now accounts for 36% seconds after asking only five questions, underwriting processes to of gross premiums.
is being used in our direct and distribution minimise the risk of error.
This has created a strong UK Retail Protection business In line with market experience, adverse pipeline of opportunities, including the recent is extensively reinsured, weather experience caused by the February win with The Co-operative Bank.
such that we retain low levels March 2018 freeze has had a negative impact of exposure to mortality and on operating profit.
We expanded our award-winning SmartClaim morbidity risks.
In GI we are system which makes the claim filing process exposed to the risk of Delivering on new distribution easy and fast for customers, leading to an weather events causing agreements Ease Score of around 80% in the most recent flooding, freezing or wind A new distribution agreement with analysis.
SmartClaim has reduced claims storm damage.
We manage The Co-operative Bank came into effect our exposure by maintaining processing times resulting in increased in May 2018 and the agreement with Pen a geographic spread of operational efficiency and improved fraud Underwriting went into effect in April 2018. business and reinsurance detection.
Were delighted that Legal & for more extreme events.
In November we announced a new three-year Generals SmartClaim was the winner of the partnership agreement with Asda: our first pet Insurance Times ClaimsTechnology Solution affinity.
The new three-year commercial of the Year awardin May2018.
agreement will mean we can offer our pet We were also awarded Home Insurance insurance product range for dogs and cats to Provider of the year at the 2018 Consumer Asdas customers through several distribution Moneyfacts Awards, a further endorsement channels including, phone, online via the Asda ofour digital and customer led proposition.
website, and price comparison websites.
Building our pet insurance business The UK pet insurance sector has continued to grow and is now worth over 1 billion in gross written premiums.
This gives us significant opportunity for further growth by combining specialist products and distribution expertise with Legal & Generals multi-channel distribution and broad customer base.
We have acquired UK-based pet insurance provider Buddies Enterprises Limited, who specialise in working with around 1,500 breeders and their customers.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 31
