Strategic report What we do We describe our business as three focused business areas which deliver our strategy.
Our strategic purpose is to improve the lives of our customers, to build a better society and to create value for our shareholders.
We always take a long-term business focus, whether its managing assets, understanding the changing patterns of how long people live or delivering solutions to meet our customers changing needs throughout life.
Business area Business area Investing and Annuities Investment Management We aim to provide reliable and secure We provide corporate and individual pension income for individuals and investment management services, corporate pension scheme members, looking after the investments of investing an increasing share of our assets many of the UKs biggest corporate in various types of direct investments.
Legal & General Investment Legal & General Management LGIM Retirement Institutional LGRI Defined benefit DB investment management We work with companies, pension fund trustees The UKs leading investment manager for DB pensions.
and their advisers to provide risk transfer solutions experts in LDI and equity index funds.
Workplace defined contribution DC pensions Were a market leader in auto-enrolled pensions Legal & General forUKcompanies, with over 3.1m members.
Retirement Retail LGRR Retail funds personal funds We work directly with individuals or through their We offer individual consumers a range of retail financial advisers to provide retirement income fundsthrough IFAs, wealth managers or online.
We are one of the leading providers of both lifetime mortgages and individual annuities in the UK.
International A growing strength in active fixed income, multi asset and real assets.
An increasing Legal & General Capital LGC presence in Asia, the Middle East and Europe.
We seek out direct investments to provide improved returns on retirement assets and the groups own funds.
This includes investments in future cities with Business area urban regeneration schemes and the development of clean energy, providing finance to SMEs and building multi-tenure housing.
Insurance We help people safeguard their families financial futures with life, critical illness, long-term sickness and general insurance.
Legal & General Insurance LGI We have provided life insurance since 1836.
We are the UKs No 1 retail life insurer and also offer workplace insurance cover.
In the US we provide term life insurance cover.
General Insurance GI We offer buildings and possessions, pet and travel insurance.
8 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report What we do Our ecosystems Our business areas work together to deliver our strategic purpose and to drive synergies across the group.
This collaborative approach is what we refer to as an ecosystem.
We have developed four ecosystems, which aim to address the significant needs of our What makes us different customers.
These are: Retirement We focus on meeting individuals Asset management full retirement needs.
LGRI, LGRR, LGIM and LGC work together to provide a complete suite Were one of the worlds largest of products and services aimed at those saving towards retirement as well as those already retired.
asset managers Housing We aim to address housing needs Our investment expertise enables us to cover by building homes of all types of ownership, a wide spectrum of asset classes for DB pension facilitating mortgage financing and providing equity release products, as well as offering schemes, helping them to match their liabilities household, life, critical illness and income and manage any credit risk.
Our capabilities in protection insurance products.
LGIM, LGC, investing also include managing funds for DC LGRR, LGI and GI combine strengths to support pension customers and ensuring that annuities customers comprehensive requirements.
are backed with sound investments.
Workplace We provide a range of savings, lending and protection products to employers and their employees.
Together, LGI and LGIM support a substantial offering of employee benefits.
Real assets We support the creation of real Longevity expertise assets through the provision of corporate credit, as well as infrastructure and real estate debt and Were a leading longevity equity investments.
These help to build jobs, andmortality expert businesses, towns and communities through our future cities programme.
LGIM, LGRI, LGRR and We have a deep understanding of longevity risk and LGC align to help customers and society.
the science of life expectancy, through a wide range ofexpertise across statistical analysis, demography More detail on the Retirement and Housing and actuarial modelling.
ecosystems, and the resulting positive impact of this collective way of working, is presented on pages 10-11 and 20-21.
Our unique space Combining asset management and risk expertise Were able to do this because we understand both the asset and liability side of financial services.
We believe no other company in the world can partner with clients on their full pensions fide-risking journey.
But we do much more than this.
Were the UKs biggest life insurer and we have a growing portfolio of direct investments that are improving the lives of people throughout society.
We also help over one million people manage their finances in retirement and help over three million people save for retirement in DC pensions.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 9
