Other information Directors report The Directors report required under the Companies Act 2006 Other than the above, the directors have no current intentionof issuing comprises this Directors report, and certain other disclosures in further share capital and no issue will be madewhich would effectively theStrategic Report and the Notes to the group consolidated alter control of the company without prior approval of shareholders in financialstatements, including: a general meeting.
an outline of important events that have occurred during the year Interests in voting rights pages 12 to 31 Information on major interests in shares provided to the company underthe Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR of the an indication of likely future developments pages 12 to 31 UKListing Authority is published via a Regulatory Information Service employee engagement page 36 and on the companys website: legalandgeneralgroup.
As at post-balance sheet events Note 41 31December 2018, the company had been advised of the following significant direct and indirect interests in the issued share capital of directors biographies pages 52 and 53 thecompany: Articles of Association Total The companys Articles of Association may only be amended Number interest byaspecial resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
of ordinary % of in issued 1 Thecompanys Articles of Association were last amended at shares of 2.5p capital share capital itsAGMheld on 26 May 2016.
Capital Group Companies Inc. 353,497,431 5.93 Indirect BlackRock Inc. 298,315,445 5.00 Indirect Conflicts of interest Invesco Ltd 297,898,241 4.99 Indirect In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Board has adopted a policy and procedure for the disclosure and authorisation if appropriate 1.
Using the voting rights figure as at 31 December 2018, as announced to the of conflicts of interest, and these have been followed during 2018.
London Stock Exchange on 2 January 2019, of 5,960,768,234.
Powers of directors No material changes to the interests have been disclosed between The directors as detailed on pages 52 and 53 may exercise all powers 31December 2018 and 5 March 2019. of the company subject to applicable legislation and regulation and the companys Articles of Association.
Dividend The company may, by ordinary resolution in a general meeting, Appointment and replacement of directors declare dividends in accordance with the respective rights of the With regards to the appointment and replacement of directors, the members, but no dividend can exceed the amount recommended by company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Companies Act the Board.
The directors propose a final dividend for the year ended 2006 and related legislation.
Directors may be appointed by an ordinary 31 December 2018 of 11.82 pence per ordinary share which, together resolution of the company or by the Board, in each case subject to the with the interim dividend of 4.60 pence per ordinary share paid to provisions of the companys Articles of Association.
The company may, shareholders on 27 September 2018, will make a total dividend for by way of special resolution, remove any director before the expiration the year of 16.42 pence 2017: 15.35 pence.
Subject to shareholder of his or her period of office.
The companys Articles of Association approval at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 6 June 2019 in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code require all the directors to shareholders on the share register on 26April 2019 provided that to retire from office at each Annual General Meeting of the company.
the Board of directors may cancel payment of the dividend at any Share capital time prior to payment in accordance with the Articles of Association, As at 31 December 2018, the companys issued share capital if it considers it necessary to do so for regulatory capital purposes.
comprised 5,960,768,234 ordinary shares each with a nominal value of Related party transactions 2.5 pence.
Details of the ordinary share capital can be found in Note 34 Details of related party transactions are set out in Note 38 to the to the group consolidated financial statements.
At the 2018 AGM, the company was granted authority by shareholders to purchase up to 595,873,486 ordinary shares, being 10% of the issued share capital of the company as at 31 March 2018.
In the year to31 December 2018, no shares were purchased by the company.
Thisauthority will expire at the 2019 AGM.
As such, a resolution is proposed in the Notice of AGM seeking shareholder approval to renewthis authority.
At the 2018 AGM, the directors were given the power to allot shares up to an amount of 49,656,123, being 33% of the issued share capital of the company as at 31 March 2018.
This authority will also expire at the 2019 AGM.
As such, a resolution is proposed in the Notice of AGM seeking shareholder approval to renew this authority.
Further resolutions are proposed, as set out in the Notice of AGM, that will, if approved by shareholders, authorise the directors to issue shares up to the equivalent of 10% of the companys issued share capital as at 31 March 2019 for cash without offering the shares first to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
Detailed explanatory notes to these resolutions are set out in the Noticeof AGM.
234 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Other information Directors report Rights and obligations attaching to shares The company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders The rights and obligations relating to the companys ordinary shares which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or are set out in the Articles of Association.
A copy of the Articles of voting rights.
Association can be requested from the Company Secretary at the Change of control companys registered office.
There are no agreements between the company and its directors or Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak and vote at employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment general meetings.
In a vote on a show of hands, every member present whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise in in person or every proxy present, who has been duly appointed by a the event of a takeover bid, except for those relating to normal notice member, will have one vote and on a poll every member present in periods.
The rules of the companys share plans contain provisions person or by proxy shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
under which options and awards to participants, including executive These rights are subject to any special terms as to voting upon which directors, may vest on a takeover or change of control of the company any shares may be issued or may at the relevant time be held and to any or transfer of undertakings.
The company has a committed 1 billion other provisions of the companys Articles of Association.
Under the bank syndicated credit facility which is terminable if revised terms Companies Act 2006 and the Articles of Association, directors have the cannot be agreed with the syndicate of banks in a 30-day period power to suspend voting rights and, in certain circumstances, the right following a change of control.
As at 5 March 2019, the company has no to receive dividends in respect of shares where the holder of those borrowings under this facility.
There are no change of control conditions shares fails to comply with a notice issued under section 793 of the in the terms of any of the companys outstanding debt securities.
The Companies Act 2006. terms of the companys agreements with its banking counterparties, under which derivative transactions are undertaken, include in some The Board can decline to register a transfer of any share which is not a instances the provision for termination of transactions upon takeover fully paid share.
In addition, registration of a transfer of an uncertificated merger depending on the rating of the merged entity.
There are no other share may be refused in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated committed banking arrangements either drawn or undrawn that securities rules and where the number of joint holders exceeds four.
incorporate any change of control conditions.
The Board may also refuse to register the transfer of a certificated shareunless: Use of financial instruments Information on the groups risk management process is set out on a t he instrument of transfer is duly stamped and is left at the companys pages 44 to 49.
More details on risk management and the financial registered office or such other place as the Board may from time to instruments used are set out in Notes 15 to 17 of the group consolidated time determine, accompanied by the certificate for the share to financial statements.
which it relates and such evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transfer or to make the transfer: Indemnities The company has agreed to indemnify, to the extent permitted by b the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share: law, each of the directors against any liability incurred by a director and in respect of acts or omissions arising in the course of their office.
c the number of joint holders does not exceed four.
Qualifying pension scheme indemnities as defined in section 235 of the Companies Act 2006 have been granted, to the extent permitted Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, all or any of the by law, to certain trustees of the companys pension schemes.
The rights attaching to an existing class of shares may be varied from time indemnities were in force throughout 2018 and remain so.
Copies of totime, either with the consent in writing of the holders of not less the deeds of indemnity are available for inspection at the companys than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class registered office and will also be available at the AGM.
excluding any treasury shares or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of Requirements of Listing Rule 9.8.
Information to be included in the annual report and accounts under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 may be found as follows: Shares acquired through the employee share schemes rank equally with all other ordinary shares in issue.
Zedra Trust Company Guernsey Relevant Listing Rule Page Limited, as trustee of the Legal & General Employees Share Ownership LR 9.8.
4R 12 235 Trust, held 0.42% of the issued share capital of the company as at LR 9.8.
4R 13 235 5 March 2019 in trust for the benefit of the executive directors, senior executives and employees of the group.
This includes shares held as nominee on behalf of Legal & General Share Scheme Trustees Limited, as trustee of the Legal & General Employee Share Trust which was wound up in 2017.
The trustee of Legal & General Employees Share Ownership Trust has waived the right of that trust to receive dividends on unallocated shares it holds.
The voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the trustee.
The trustee may vote or abstain from voting, or accept or reject any offer relating to shares, in any way it sees fit, without incurring any liability and without being required to give reasons for its decision.
Under the rules of the Legal & General Group Employee Share Plan the Plan, eligible employees are entitled to acquire shares in the company.
Plan shares are held in trust for participants by Link Market Services Trustees Limited, which held 0.24% of the issued share capital of the company as at 5 March 2019.
Voting rights are exercised by the trustees on receipt of the participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to the trustees, no vote is registered.
In addition, the trustees do not vote on any unawarded shares held under the Plan as surplus assets.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 235 Other information Political donations Directors interests No political donations were made during 2018.
The Directors report on remuneration on pages 72 to 101 provides details of the interests of each director, including details of current Forward-looking statements incentive schemes and long-term incentive schemes, the interests of The Directors report is prepared for the members of the company and directors in the share capital of the company and details of their share should not be relied upon by any other party or for any other purpose.
Where the Directors report includes forward-looking statements, these are made by the directors in good faith based on the information Annual general meeting available to them at the time of their approval of this report.
Such The Companys AGM will be held on Thursday, 23 May 2019 at 11am statements should be treated with caution due to the inherent at The British Medical Association, BMA House, Tavistock Square, uncertainties underlying such forward-looking statements.
Insurance Statement of directors responsibilities The company has arranged appropriate directors and officers liability The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and insurance for directors.
Accounts, including the Directors report on remuneration and the financial statements, in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Greenhouse gas disclosures GHG Global GHG emissions Data Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the group financial statements in accordance with International Financial JanDec JanDec Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU, tCO e Emissions from 2018 2017 2 and the company financial statements in accordance with United Scope 1 12,446.82 8,655.05 Kingdom UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice GAAP UK Scope 2 Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosures 28,981.83 32,573.30 Framework, and applicable law.
Under company law, the directors Total must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that From renewable tariff 24,428.85 30,392.44 they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and the Scope 3 Business travel 7,315.52 3,568.54 company and of the profit or loss of the group and the company for that Total CO scope 1,2, 3 2 period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are based on the scope of Legal & Generals UK CRC required to: energy efficiency scheme disclosed emissions, overseas property emissions and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: reported travel emissions 48,744.17 44,796.89 state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have been Intensity ratio: kgCO e 2 followed for the group financial statements and UK Accounting Emissions per policy 4.27 3.99 Standards, comprising FRS 101, have been followed for the company Fugitive emissions 856 1,591.31 financial statements, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: Please refer to our CSR report for further breakdown and analysis of emissions.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable, Methodology relevant, reliable andprudent: We have reported on the emission sources required under the assess the groups and companys ability to continue as a going Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report concern and whether the use of the going concern basis is Regulations 2013. appropriate, as well as disclose, if applicable, matters relating to going We have used the GHG reporting protocol to calculate our GHG concern: and emissions and applied the emission factors from the UK Governments prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2018. it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the company will continue in business.
Disability Our policies support the employment, promotion and career The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records development of disabled persons, as well as supporting employees that are sufficient to show and explain the group and the companys who become disabled during the course of their employment.
We make transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the reasonable adjustments, as required under the Equality Act 2010, for financial position of the group and the company and enable them to disabled employees, including seeking redeployment in the event that ensure that the financial statements and the Directors report on reasonable adjustments are not possible.
We offer appropriate training, remuneration comply with the Companies Act 2006, as regards to the including training in relation to equality, and will make adjustments to group financial statements and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for such internal control as they determine Independent auditors is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are Following a tender process in 2016, KPMG LLP were appointed as the free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error.
Companys external auditor commencing with the 2018 financial year and its appointment was approved by shareholders at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
Resolutions to reappoint KPMG LLP as auditor of the company and to authorise the directors to determine its remuneration are to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
236 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Other information Directors report The directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Disclosure of information to auditors group and the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the As far as each of the directors in office at the date of this directors prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
report is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by section 418 3 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the companys The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the auditors are unaware, and each such director has taken all the steps that groups and the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the he or she ought to have taken as a director to make himself or herself preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the legislation in other jurisdictions.
companys auditors are aware of that information.
The directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a Going concern whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information The Strategic report on pages 1 to 49 of this report includes information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups and the companys on the groups structure and business principles, the performance of the position and performance, business model and strategy.
business areas, the impact of regulation and principal risks and Each of the directors who held office at the date this report was uncertainties.
approved, whose names and functions are listed in the Board of The groups performance detailed on page 1 includes information on directors section, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the groups financial results, financial outlook, cash flow and net debt the companys financial statements, which have been prepared in and balance sheet position.
The consolidated financial statements accordance with UK GAAP UK Accounting Standards, comprising include information on the groups financial investments and investment FRS 101 Reduced Disclosures Framework and applicable law, property Note 11, derivatives Note 12, cash and cash equivalents give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position Note 14, asset risk Note 7, market, credit and insurance risks Notes and profit of the company 15 to 17 and borrowings Note 22. the group financial statements, which have been prepared in In line with IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements, and revised FRC accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view guidance on risk management, internal control and related financial and of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the group business reporting, management has taken into account all available the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and information about the future for a period of at least, but not limited to, performance of the business and the position of the group and the 12months from the date of approval of the financial statements when company, together with a description of the principal risks and assessing the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
uncertainties that it faces Details of the main risks affecting the group and how we manage and Fair, balanced and understandable mitigate them are set out in Managing risks on pages 44 to 49.
In accordance with the principles of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Having assessed the main risks and other matters discussed in Code, we have processes and procedures in place to ensure that the connection with the Group Board viability statement set out on page 47, information presented in the annual report is fair, balanced and in accordance with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code andthe understandable.
We describe these processes and procedures on FRC guidance, the directors considered it appropriate to adoptthe going page58.
concern basis of accounting when preparing the financial statements.
On the advice of the Audit Committee, the Board considers that the The Directors report and Strategic report were approved by the Board, annual report, as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable, and and signed on their behalf.
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position, performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board Critical accounting estimates, key judgements and significant accounting policies Our critical accounting estimates, key judgements and significant accounting policies conform with IFRS and are set out on page 122 ofthe consolidated financial statements.
The directors have reviewed G J Timms these policies and applicable estimation techniques and have confirmed Company Secretary them to be appropriate for the preparation of the 2018 consolidated financial statements.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 237
