Governance Executive Committee ExecutiveDirectors Other business unit Chief Executive Officers CEOs Nigel Wilson Group Chief Executive Officer See Board of directors pages 52 to 53.
Jeff Davies Chief Financial Officer See Board of directors pages 52 to 53.
Mark Zinkula Chief Executive Officer, Legal & General Investment Management Cheryl Agius Bernie Hickman Chris Knight See Board of directors pages 52 to 53.
Chief Executive Officer, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Executive Officer, Legal & Kerrigan Procter GeneralInsurance Legal & General Insurance General Retirement, Retail Chief Executive Officer, Legal & Cheryl is the Chief Executive Officer of Bernie is the Chief Executive Officer Chris is the Chief Executive Officer of General Capital See Board of directors pages 52 to 53.
Cheryl was previously of Legal & General Insurance.
Bernie Legal & Generals Retail Retirement Head of our UK Strategic Retirement joined Legal & General in 1998 from business.
Chris was previously the Chief Pension Risk Transfer business where Commercial Union now Aviva.
Between Financial Officer of Legal & Generals she was responsible for large pension risk 2005 and 2010 he was the Managing Retirement Division where he was transfer transactions and solutions for Director of Retail Protection during which responsible for driving the financial defined benefit pension schemes and time he launched the UK Protection results of the business.
Prior to this he back book transactions.
Prior to this UK digital platform, OLP Connect, which was the Finance Director of the Groups role, Cheryl set up our US Retirement provides market leading self-service UK Savings and Protection business.
business, securing our first landmark functionality and high levels of straight Chris is a qualified actuary, and has had a transaction for $430m in 2015.
Bernie became MD 29-year career in the UK and international joined Legal & General in 2011 having of Individual Retirement in 2014 and the financial services markets.
He joined previously worked for over 20 years in the CEO co-founder of Legal & General Legal & General in 2009. retirement and insurance industry.
Cheryl Home Finance in 2015, when he led the is a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries.
groups entry into the Lifetime Mortgage market, achieving a 25% market share within 18 months of launching.
He has also held the positions of Group Financial Controller, Investor Relations Director and Solvency II Managing Director.
Laura Mason Claire Singleton Chief Executive Officer, Legal & Chief Executive Officer, General Retirement, Institutional MatureSavings Laura has been CEO of Legal & Generals Claire was appointed Chief Executive Institutional Retirement business since Officer, Mature Savings in July 2018.
Laura joined Legal & oversees an area which looks after over General in 2011 where she was initially one million customers who have invested responsible for Annuity Investment 29 billion of assets across individual strategy.
Laura was a part of the senior pensions, bond or endowment products.
management team responsible for Claire joined Legal & General in 2011 from setting up Legal & General Capital LGC, US law firm Jones Day.
A Cambridge law where she served as Director of Direct graduate and qualified solicitor, she has Investment.
Laura is a qualified Actuary worked in a variety of legal roles within and spent eight years at Towers Watson the company, most recently as General as consultant to all the major UK Life Counsel, Corporate and Legal & General Insurers.
Laura has a First Class Honours Capital.
Claire has helped to build and Degree in Engineering Science from lead an outstanding legal team, delivering University of Oxford, and a PhD in significant value to our business.
Engineering Science Neural Networks and Signal Processing also from the University of Oxford.
54 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Executive Committee Additional Executive The role of the Committee members ExecutiveCommittee The Group Executive Committee Exco, chaired by the Group Chief Executive, brings together the heads of Legal & Generals business units with the executive committee members shown on these pages.
Exco is responsible for the day-to-day implementation of strategy agreed by the Board.
Exco meets regularly to ensure continued cooperation between the business units and the effective adoption of our culture, Simon Gadd John Godfrey Emma Hardaker-Jones a key focus for the group.
Exco also Group Chief Risk Officer Group Corporate Affairs Director Group HR Director monitors and manages risk, ensures efficient operational management and Simon Gadd is the Group Chief Risk John has worked in the City for over Emma joined Legal & General as Group adherence to compliance and addresses Officer.
Simon has had a varied career 30 years, providing advice on corporate HR Director in 2017.
Emmas previous key issues such as health and safety, with Legal & General since completing a affairs and communications to US, role was as Global HR Director and Board diversity andenvironmental and corporate mathematics degree at Oxford University.
European and Japanese financial Director at PA Consulting, co-leading the socialresponsibility.
He qualified as an actuary in 1991 and institutions.
He joined Legal & General as successful sale of 51% of PA Consulting roles undertaken since have included Group Communications Director in 2006, to The Carlyle Group in 2015.
Prior to PA defined benefit pension valuation, various becoming Corporate Affairs Director Consulting, Emma spent a number of pricing and marketing roles, general following the global financial crisis.
Since years as Group Head of Talent and management roles, and leadership of the then, his responsibilities have variously Resourcing at BP, driving change across pensions review.
Simon has led several included communications, public affairs the 100 countries in which BP operates.
different businesses within Legal & and policy, corporate social responsibility Emma has also held roles at Prudential General, including the Retail Protection and brand.
In 2016 he left Legal & General and the Bank of England and was the business, Group Protection business and to work in government as head of the co-founder of a dot com start-up, as MD of Annuities from 2006-2012.
Prime Ministers Downing Street Policy Skillvest.
Emma has significant Unit, returning to the company in international experience having worked in September 2017.
Europe, North America, Asia and Africa.
Stephen Licence Paul Miller Geoffrey Timms Group Chief Internal Auditor Group Strategy and M&A Director Group General Counsel & CompanySecretary Stephen is the Group Chief Internal Paul is Group Strategy and M&A Director.
Stephen joined Legal & General Paul joined Legal & General in June 2017 See Board of Directors pages 52 to 53. in 2014 having previously been Emerging from Goldman Sachs International where Markets Chief Internal Auditor at RSA he was Head of European Insurance Insurance where he was responsible for within the Investment Banking Division.
the Internal Audit activity in the Groups As an investment banker for nearly 20 businesses across Latin America, Asia, years, Paul advised companies and Middle East and Eastern Europe.
His 20 financial investors on strategy and years Internal Audit experience has mergers and acquisitions in life insurance, included Life, General and Healthcare property and casualty insurance and insurance in both Legal & General and asset management.
Whilst based in the Lloyds of London markets.
He was also UK he worked with clients across EMEA previously an audit consultant at the Europe, Middle East and Africa, North London Stock Exchange Group.
is a Chartered Member of the Institute ofInternal Auditors.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 55
