Strategic report Business area Investing and Annuities We want to give people secure and comfortable retirements by providing individuals and corporate pension scheme members with reliable pension income.
We use direct investments to help increase the returns on these pension assets and benefit wider society through socially responsible investing.
Groupwide direct investments 19.2bn Groupwide direct investments X bn 2016 2017 2018 Direct investments Across the group, direct investments DI reached 19.2bn, an increase of 34% or 4.8bn compared with 2017.
Growth was driven by our continued success in sourcing attractively priced assets to support both new and existing LGR business, with the portfolio up 29% at 15.7bn.
LGC DI increased by 0.9bn to 2.4bn, and LGI hold 1.0bn.
12 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 10.0 14.4 19.2 Strategic report Investing and annuities Legal & General Retirement What we do Our retirement businesses manage the retirement income of over one million people.
301m 4.8bn We have two main businesses.
Our UK retail Growth in operating profit Increase in total annuity assets business provides annuities and lifetime mortgages for individuals.
Our institutional X X m bn business helps defined benefit DB pension schemes manage risk, often by taking over the liabilities to pay pensioners regular annuity income.
We operate in the UK and the US.
We invest part of our 63 billion annuity assets directly into the UK economy.
These direct investments help us match our liabilities and enable us to invest the money from peoples retirement savings in a way which benefits society as a whole.
2018 overview 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 In 2018 we experienced very favourable market conditions, with almost 22 billion of liabilities being transacted in the pensions LGR operating profit Annuity assets Operating Profit grew 24% to 1.5 billion Total annuity assets increased risk transfer PRT market and record volumes 2017: 1.2bn, driven by higher new by 8% to 63.0 billion, driven of equity released in the lifetime mortgage business in PRT, individual annuities by 9.9 billion of annuity sales, market.
Both our retail and institutional and lifetime mortgages.
Higher mortality partly offset by the ongoing businesses benefitted from increased reserve releases and positive mortality impact of the run-off of existing new business volumes, as well as positive experience also contributed, with LGRI business over time.
Legal & General Retirement Institutional LGRI What we do Legal & General Retirement Institutional is our pension risk transfer business and works 99% 2tn closely with trustees of DB pension schemes Growth in new business Over 2tn of private scheme UK pension liabilities available and their sponsoring companies to ensure that X pension promises made to current and past bn employees are met.
We are a multi award-winning business 95% bringing together expertise in investment US DB pension liabilities still management, defined benefit pension available for transfer from $3.5tn DB market provision, an in-depth understanding of mortality trends and longevity risk, as well as excellence in payroll, administration and communication services.
Strategy and future plans 2018, as predicted by the industry towards the end of 2017, was a record-breaking year for 2016 2017 2018 the fide-risking market, with the largest volume of transactions ever written.
We expect to see LGRI new business a continuation of this trend in 2019.
Strong Total LGRI new business sales increased investment returns and improved funding by 99% to 9.4bn 2017: 4.7bn.
We had levels, coupled with revised views on mortality the largest ever bulk annuity buy-in with have led to an acceleration of schemes being British Airways 4.4bn and a buy-out able to fide-risk their arrangements and secure for Nortel Networks 2.4bn.
In the US their member benefits.
we completed 21 new deals totalling $0.8bn, bringing the total US sales to date to $2.5bn.
L&G Re also achieved new business sales of 143m during the year 2017: nil.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 13 4.6 809 4.7 1,247 9.4 1,548 54.4 58.2 63.0 Str Strat ategic r egic repor eport t Strategically, LGRI is well placed to meet the Our innovative approach Growth in the market is largely driven by increasing demand for pension fide-risking.
The Our 325 million buy-in transaction with the factors such as premium costs from the continued development of our administration BAA Pension Scheme in June was undertaken US government agency Pension Benefit and pricing platforms ensures that we can with the sponsor issuing a bespoke corporate Guarantee Corporation PBGC and increased scale our business to meet the demand for bond to support the transaction.
contributions in response to tax reform.
Plan quotes, transactions and the subsequent terminations are likely to accelerate as well We understand that this is the first time a increase in volumes of pension scheme hedged plans experience improves.
Were bond with this structure has been issued in member administration, if required.
already seeing an uptick in plan terminations the public debt market, making the buy-in for 2019 and expect an increasing amount Through LGIM, LGC and LGRR, we have one of the most noteworthy transactions in 2020 to 2021. access to a wide range of assets to back future in recent years.
The expansion of LGIMs real asset Customer service excellence capabilities, LGCs continued development and In 2018 our client services team paid over investment in real assets and the continued 750 million in pension payments to Trustees, Understanding the risks growth of LGRRs business will collectively answered almost 30,000 calls, and issued Over the years we have provide us with opportunities to source assets amassed considerable almost 15,000 retirement quotes to members.
in an ever more competitive market.
expertise in LGR in assessing In October, our team were awarded global and pricing for the risk of Key activities standard accreditation for the service we provide longevity and through LGIM We completed a number of significant to our customers from the Customer Contact we have extensive knowledge transactions in 2018, including the 4.4 billion of selecting and managing Association CCA, which is the industry buy-in with the British Airways BA sponsored the assets that back our benchmark for customer service excellence.
Airways Pension Scheme the largest UK promises.
As we grow our buy-in to date and the 2.4 billion buyout of Investing to make a positive difference direct investment portfolio, Nortel Networks UK Pension Plan.
We have To back our pension commitments, our combining the property market expertise of LGC and now completed four of the five largest dedicated Direct Investments and Real LGIM Real Assets with our transactions in the UK market.
Assets teams across the group have made credit assessment capability, over 19.2 billion of direct investments.
We also remain committed to supporting enables us to assess each Our investments include windfarms and pension schemes of all sizes and in 2018 transaction and its alignment other clean energy sources, as well as with our risk appetite.
we completed 10 transactions of less than investments in ports, airports, housing 50 million, including a 4 million buyout and transport projects.
US fide-risking business Our wide expertise, execution capabilities, Our US pensions fide-risking business, ability to deal with complex situations and benefitting from a scaled-up team, increased capacity to develop and offer innovative sales with $844 million in premiums, resulting solutions were important considerations in in premiums since launch of nearly $2.5 billion.
many of the more complex transactions.
At the end of 2018, we had over 50,000 4.4 billion buy-in with BAs Airways participants under our administration.
The US Pension Scheme represents a significant market opportunity, In September, we announced a 4.4 billion with $3.5 trillion of DB liabilities as of buy-in with BAs Airways Pension Scheme 30 September 2018. covering nearly 22,000 pensioners.
We estimate the total market volume for This important transaction included the 2018 to be around $27 billion, compared to conversion of existing longevity insurance into $23 billion in 2017.
We expect to see continued a bulk annuity demonstrating our ability to growth in the US PRT market despite relatively deal with a complex situation by drawing on flat funding levels as a result of the downturn the broad experience and capabilities of the in equity markets at the end of 2018. wider Legal & General group.
Longevity insurance for smaller schemes In August, we completed a 287 million longevity insurance contract with a mediumsized pension scheme.
Longevity insurance contracts have traditionally been the preserve of much larger schemes.
This transaction showed that we can offer longevity insurance as a realistic option for most pension schemes, including schemes The picture here shows Legal & General Retirements customer not yet ready to enter into buy-in or buyout, event where pension scheme but who want to manage their longevity risk.
members from previous workplace schemes had the opportunity to meet the team and discuss how their pension is administered by Legal & General.
14 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Investing and annuities Legal & General Retirement Retail LGRR What we do Legal & General Retirement Retail focuses on providing retirement lending and retirement 19% 18% income products.
Our lending business is now Growth in lifetime mortgages Growth in individual annuity sales four years old and helps retired people use the X equity in their homes to boost their retirement X m m finances.
Our retirement income business offers people who are retiring the security of buying annuities which provide a guaranteed, stable income.
Strategy and future plans Demographic changes will see LGRRs target market continue to grow, both in terms of the numbers of retirees and the levels of wealth they hold.
We are developing new, innovative products for individual annuities and lifetime mortgages.
In 2018 we focused on refining our enhanced annuity offering and expect this to 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 allow us to compete effectively in this growing Lifetime mortgages Individual annuity sales market segment.
The lifetime mortgages business has Individual annuity sales are up 18% Our leading lifetime mortgage business, which continued to grow with 1.2 billion at 795 million driven by our strong of sales 2017: 1.0bn, achieved competitive position in lifetime made 1.2 billion advances in 2018, currently through product innovation and annuities and small bulk has a market share of around 30%.
The Equity new partnership agreements.
transactions won as part of an Release Council said in January 2019 that total exclusive reinsurance arrangement lending activity for 2018 grew for a seventh negotiated with New Ireland.
consecutive year to reach 3.9 billion, up 29% Denotes a scale break.
Throughout this Annual Report, year-on-year.
all bar chart scales start from zero.
We use a scale break where charts of a different magnitude, but the same unit of measurement, are presented alongside each other.
2.4 billion buyout with Nortel Networks UK Pension Plan In October, LGRI completed a 2.4 billion buyout for the telecommunications company Nortel Networks UK Pension Plan covering around 15,500 pensioner members and around 7,200 deferred members: one of the largest buyouts ever completed in the market.
The Plans sponsor went into administration in 2009 and the Plan entered a Pension Protection Fund PPF assessment period.
Working with Legal & General, the Trustee has been able to secure benefits in excess of PPF levels and the Plan will not now enter the PPF.
We helped the Trustees secure a result that has a tangible and positive impact on the security of thousands of members retirement income.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 15 620 1,004 1,197 378 671 795 Str Strat ategic r egic repor eport t Help at hand from the Bank of Nanny and Grampy.
Pictured is Becca whose grandparents took out a Legal & General lifetime mortgage to help their granddaughter and her partner, Adam, buy their first home.
Becca said: We knew we wanted to buy our own house but it was a good few years off, if it hadnt been for Nanny and Grampys help.
My grandparents are gems: they mean the absolute world to me.
Its so nice that theyre so close to us theyre five minutes round the corner and we go there for Nannys roast on a Tuesday.
Key activities Lifetime mortgages Distribution Annuities Lifetime mortgage advances were up 19% Over the course of 2018, we took further steps 2018 was a successful year for our individual at 1.2 billion, which has been supported to help address the interest-only challenge.
We are top three in the UK through new product innovation and a This included new partnerships with Virgin individual annuity market and have almost number of strong distribution and partnership Money in August and NatWest in December.
tripled our market share in the past two years, agreements.
Our success in this market to This means we can offer their interest-only with a current market share of nearly 19%.
date has allowed us to achieve a market customers aged 55 and over our lifetime share of 30%.
mortgage range including OPLM, without We benefitted from improvements to our requiring affordability checks.
underwriting process and greater product We have now reached over 3 billion of total diversification.
2018 saw a revised approach lending since entering the market in 2015, These arrangements add to existing to underwriting individual annuity risks, where representing a significant milestone on our partnerships with Santander and The we built internal expertise to provide better journey to bringing later life lending into the Co-operative Bank, and are a tangible risk assessment and more individual pricing mainstream.
Legal & General Home Finance response to the FCAs call for more for customers.
This improved underwriting is now responsible for 1 in 3 new lifetime options from the mortgage industry for approach enabled us to grow our enhanced mortgage originations in the UK.
We have positioned ourselves as the These partnerships now make our range of A key development in 2018 was the research mortgage lender of choice for over 55s with a lifetime mortgages available to 38% of all UK we carried out with think-tank Demos to series of key product launches.
These include interest-only mortgage customers.
assess the impact of financial choices on the launch of the Optional Payment Lifetime These relationships with major lending brands, wellbeing in later life and ultimately improve Mortgage OPLM in April 2018, which as well as a buoyant later life lending market customer outcomes.
enables borrowers to make monthly interest and an increase in understanding of the payments.
Our Income Lifetime Mortgage, benefits of retirement lending, have which gives customers the ability to use their strengthened Legal & General Home housing wealth to provide a regular monthly Finances position as a leading lifetime income, was piloted in November 2018 and mortgage lender in the UK.
fully launched in January of this year.
Using housing equity to enhance retirement living is beginning to be seen by customers as a positive financial change.
In previous years, customers viewed equity release as a way of repaying debt.
It is now much more likely to be used for home improvements, holidays and as a gift for children and grandchildren.
16 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Investing and annuities Legal & General Capital LGC What we do Strategy and future plans Legal & General Capital has a strategically We use our long-term, patient capital to invest important position at the centre of the group, in real assets, primarily across the UK.
working directly with LGIM and LGRs Future Cities: We provide investment in businesses.
LGC uses shareholder capital to infrastructure, commercial and residential achieve three goals.
Firstly to deliver attractive property to create the cities of the future, financial returns for shareholders, secondly to with innovation in urban regeneration and deliver attractive investments for our annuity clean energy business and, finally, to grow third-party Homes: Investing in a multi-tenure portfolio opportunities for LGIM.
We are able to create of homes value for shareholders, provide stability for annuity customers and benefit communities SME Finance: We invest in early stage right across the UK.
enterprises and SMEs in the UK and Europe.
Breakdown of direct 63% 18% investment portfolio Growth in direct investments Growth in operating profit X X m m Future Cities 33% Housing 49% SME Finance 18% 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Direct investments Operating profit During the year we have made Operating profit increased further progress across our core by 18% led by growth in the focus areas of Future Cities, Direct Investment portfolio, Housing and SME Finance, with including full ownership of CALA.
total new investments and new Operating profit on the traded commitments of 1.3 billion, portfolio reduced following a including investments in the strategic reduction in the equity science and technology sector.
portfolio due to volatile equity Denotes a scale break.
The direct investments portfolio markets.
Profit before tax was Throughout this Annual Report, totalled 2.4 billion at the end of 49 million, reflecting negative all bar chart scales start from zero.
the year an increase of 63% investment variance in the We use a scale break where charts versus 2017. traded portfolio.
The net portfolio of a different magnitude, but the return of the direct investments same unit of measurement, are presented alongside each other.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17 1,137 1,450 2,359 257 272 322 Strategic report Direct investments across the group Regeneration projects Clean energy LGC, LGR and LGIM Real Assets have all We invest in many UK towns and cities We continue to invest long-term capital into developed direct investments.
LGC invest in through large scale regeneration in places the energy sector to accelerate the progress to Future Cities, Clean Energy and SME Finance.
such as Bracknell, Cardiff, Leeds, Salford, a low-cost, low-carbon economy, reducing the Newcastle and Manchester.
cost of power for consumers.
This includes Future cities renewable wind and solar power generation, We work with local authorities, government, Newcastle energy-efficient houses and buildings and universities and partners to deliver real estate In December 2016, we partnered with innovative technologies to control, manage and infrastructure developments and to invest Newcastle City Council and Newcastle and store energy.
in clean energy technologies of the future.
University to help build and finance the 350 million Helix development.
As one of SME finance New investments the biggest urban regeneration projects of its We invest in venture capital to support UK In September 2018, we established a kind in the UK, Newcastle Helix is set to create growth and, through our minority owned landmark 50:50 partnership with Bruntwood.
ft. of office and partner Pemberton, provide corporate lending We jointly invested 360 million of capital, research space, and 450 new homes.
property and intellectual assets into a new company, Bruntwood SciTech, with a business Leeds Total SME finance assets increased to plan to create 20,000 high value jobs.
This Were a major player in the regeneration of 414 million from 296 million in 2017. investment created the UKs largest property Leeds.
Thorpe Park Leeds is already home to Over the past two years we have committed platform dedicated to driving science and over 60 businesses employing around 4,500 102 million to the UK Venture Capital sector technology in UK cities.
The current development plan will through investments in eight venture provide new retail shopping, office space, We also invested in WiredScore, a rapidly managers.
These managers have now 300 new homes, a 113-acre public park with growing property technology company and invested in over 250 companies in the UK sports facilities and a new railway station.
global leader in digital connectivity certification and beyond.
WiredScore, New developments in London Our 40% owned private credit manager founded in New York in 2013, provides digital In July we exchanged contracts on our largest Pemberton had another successful year with connectivity ratings and accreditation for real build-to-rent BTR site to date, located in over 4 billion committed AUM across all estate globally.
Woolwich, south-east London, in partnership its funds.
This is our third BTR scheme in London, with existing developments progressing in Walthamstow and Croydon.
CALA Homes In 2018 we purchased the remaining share of CALA, bringing them fully into the Legal & General group.
CALA began building homes over 30 years ago and has a reputation for creating high-quality homes.
18 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Investing and annuities Bruntwood Crowthorne Clean energy We have created the UKs largest science Legal & General Homes is committed to delivering Our commitment to clean energy is shown by and technology partnership with Bruntwood, quality homes across all tenures.
We are building LGRs investments in three wind farms which dedicated to driving science and technology 1,000 new homes at our 250-acre, Bucklers Park have the capacity to provide enough power to growth in regional cities.
service over two million homes.
Housing Later living accommodation Other direct investments Were delivering housing of all forms of tenure.
We provide later living accommodation LGR has a range of investments such as clean These include build-to-sell, build-to-rent, through partnering with Inspired Villages energy, transport and commercial property.
affordable housing and specialist housing for Group and Guild Living, developers of later The Hornsea Project One financing will enable the elderly through CALA Homes.
Inspired Villages the construction of what will become, once Groups development portfolio currently has Our build-to sell developments include both operational, the worlds largest offshore around 1,100 homes and Guild Living is a CALA Homes and Legal & General Homes.
windfarm project, powering over one million partnership with global experts in architecture, homes.
It will be located 100 km off the CALA Homes development operations and wellness for later north-east coast of Britain, with 174 UK built We acquired the remaining 52.1% stake in living accommodation.
In 2018 we also entered into homebuilder CALA Homes.
CALA is on track Build-to-rent a joint venture in Dudgeon Offshore Wind Ltd, to deliver an annual capacity of 2,500 units and Our total investment capability for the located off the east coast of England, producing revenue of around 1 billion in 2020, with the build-to-rent sector currently stands at around enough electricity to power 410,000 homes.
capability to build in excess of 3,000 units each 1.5 billion.
We have around 3,000 homes year.
CALA has seen revenues grow from We have continued our investment in transport under construction or in planning, with sites 228 million in 2013 to 880 million in 2018. over 2018, with financing for HS1 and in Bristol, Birmingham, Manchester, Salford, Edinburgh Airport, together with Los Angeles Legal & General Homes Glasgow, Bath, Brighton, Leeds and across Airport LAX in the US.
Our housebuilding arm, Legal & General London.
We aim to have 6,000 homes in Homes, has a housing pipeline of over planning, development or operation by the In 2018 we purchased four Government-leased 3,000 new homes.
end of 2019. offices for 388 million, bringing LGRs total investment in these assets to over 1 billion.
Affordable homes HMRC continues as our main tenant.
We In 2018, we launched our affordable housing worked closely with developers and HMRC arm to address the overwhelming need for to structure these leases.
affordable housing across the UK, and we 20,000 recently achieved the milestone of becoming This year we made a number of commercial High value jobs projected in a registered provider of social housing.
mortgage loans totalling nearly 600 million.
Highlights included the financing of the Modular homes new Amazon HQ in Shoreditch, London, In 2018 we delivered our first precisiontogether with loans secured on the engineered modular homes development in 2 million Microsoft HQ in Reading and the Shell HQ Bucklers Park in Crowthorne, near Bracknell.
Homes which can be powered from on Londons Southbank.
our three wind farm investments.
We continue our investments in other sectors, focussing on secure returns and the opportunity to have a positive impact on the daily lives of people and their environment.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 19
