Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 79 Directors report Corporate governance statement Change of control The Corporate Governance report found on pages 50 to 78 together The Company is not party to any significant agreements which take with this Directors report of which it forms part, fulfils the requirements effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company of the Corporate Governance Statement for the purpose of the Financial following a takeover bid.
There are no agreements between the Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR.
Company and its Directors or employees providing compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Profit and dividends Directors indemnities The consolidated income statement shows a statutory profit before tax for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 5,960 2017: 5,275 million.
The Directors of the Company, including the former Director who retired The Directors have recommended a final dividend for 2018, which is during the year, have entered into individual deeds of indemnity with the subject to approval by the shareholders at the AGM, of 2.14 pence per Company which constituted qualifying third-party indemnity provisions share 2017:2.05 pence per share totalling 2,288 for the year 2017: for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006.
The final dividend will be paid on 21 May 2019. the Directors to the maximum extent permitted by law and remain in force.
The deeds were in force during the whole of the financial year The final dividend in respect of 2017 of 2.05 pence per ordinary share or from the date of appointment in respect of the Director appointed was paid to shareholders on 29 May 2018, and an interim dividend for in 2018.
Deeds for existing Directors are available for inspection at the 2018 of 1.07 pence per ordinary share was paid on 26 September 2018: Companys registered office.
Further information on dividends is shown in note 44 on page 234 and is incorporated by reference.
The Company has also granted deeds of indemnity by deed poll and by way of entering into individual deeds, which constitute qualifying The Board continues to give due consideration at each year end to third-party indemnity provisions to the Directors of the Groups the return of any surplus capital and for 2018, the Board intends to subsidiary companies, including to former Directors who retired during implement a share buyback of up to 1.75 billion, equivalent to up to the year and since the year end, and to Group colleagues subject to 2.46pence per share.
This represents the return of capital over and the provisions of the Senior Managers and Certification Regime.
Such above the Boards view of the current level of capital required to grow deeds were in force during the financial year ended 31 December 2018 the business, meet regulatory requirements and cover uncertainties.
and remain in force as at the date of this report.
The share buyback programme is intended to commence in March 2019 Qualifying pension scheme indemnities have also been granted to the and is expected to be completed during 2019.
Given the total ordinary Trustees of the Groups Pension Schemes, which were in force for the dividend of 3.21 pence per share and the intended share buyback, whole of the financial year and remain in force as at the date of this report.
the total capital return for 2018 will be up to 5.67 pence per share, an increase of 27 per cent on the prior year, equivalent to up to 4.0billion.
Power of Directors in relation to shares The Company intends to use the authority for the repurchase of ordinary The Board manages the business of the Company under the powers set shares granted to it at the 2018 AGM to implement the proposed share out in the articles of association, which include the Directors ability to buyback.
Details of this existing authority are set out under Power of issue or buyback shares.
The Directors were granted authorities to issue Directors in relation to shares.
and allot shares and to buyback shares at the 2018 AGM.
Shareholders will be asked to renew these authorities at the 2019 AGM.
The authority Appointment and retirement of Directors in respect of purchase of the Companys ordinary shares is limited to The appointment and retirement of Directors is governed by the 7,219,629,615 ordinary shares, equivalent to 10 per cent of the issued Companys articles of association, the UK Corporate Governance Code ordinary share capital of the Company as at the latest practicable date and the Companies Act 2006.
The Companys articles of association prior to publication of the 2018 AGM circular.
may only be amended by a special resolution of the shareholders in a The Company undertook a share buyback programme, between general meeting.
8 March 2018 and 24 August 2018, repurchasing in aggregate Amanda Mackenzie has been appointed to the Board since the 2018 1,577,908,423 ordinary shares for an aggregate consideration of AGM and will therefore stand for election at the forthcoming AGM.
In 1billion aggregate nominal value of the shares 157,790,842.30 as a the interests of good governance and in accordance with the provisions means by which to return capital to shareholders, given the amount of of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all other Directors will retire, surplus capital.
The 2018 buyback also assisted in the normalisation of and those wishing to serve again will submit themselves for re-election ordinary dividends, and gave the flexibility that a buyback programme at the forthcoming AGM.
All of the repurchased shares were cancelled, and together Biographies of current Directors are set out on pages 52 to 53.
Details of represented 2.22per cent of the called up share capital of the Company the Directors seeking election or re-election at the AGM are set out in at completion of the programme.
Further information in relation to the the Notice of Meeting.
2018 share buyback programme is provided on page 49.
Board composition changes Conflicts of interest Changes to the composition of the Board since 1 January 2018 up to the The Board has a comprehensive procedure for reviewing, and as date of this report are shown in the table below: permitted by the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys articles of association, approving actual and potential conflicts of interest.
Directors Joined the Board Left the Board have a duty to notify the Chairman and Company Secretary as soon as Amanda Mackenzie 1 October 2018 they become aware of actual or potential conflict situations.
Changes Deborah McWhinney 31 December 2018 to commitments of all Directors are reported to the Nomination and Governance Committee and the Board and a register of potential conflicts and time commitments is regularly reviewed and authorised by Directors and Officers liability insurance the Board to ensure the authorisation status remains appropriate.
Throughout 2018 the Group had appropriate insurance cover in place Stuart Sinclair is a Senior Independent Director at QBE UK Limited, a to protect Directors, including the Directors who retired or resigned general insurance and reinsurance company.
Lord Lupton is a senior during the year, from liabilities that may arise against them personally in advisor to Greenhill Europe, an investment bank focused on providing connection with the performance of their role.
financial advice on significant mergers, acquisitions, restructurings, As well as insurance cover, the Group agrees to indemnify the Directors financings and capital raising to corporations, partnerships, institutions to the maximum extent permitted by law.
Further information on and governments.
The Board has recognised that potential conflicts the Groups indemnity arrangements is provided in the Directors may arise as a result of these positions.
The Board has authorised the indemnities section.
potential conflicts and requires Mr. Sinclair and Lord Lupton to recuse themselves from discussions, should the need arise.
80 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report continued Branches Going concern The Group provides a wide range of banking and financial services The going concern of the Company and the Group is dependent on through branches and offices in the UK and overseas.
successfully funding their respective balance sheets and maintaining adequate levels of capital.
In order to satisfy themselves that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue to operate for Research and development activities the foreseeable future, the Directors have considered a number of key During the ordinary course of business the Group develops new dependencies which are set out in the risk management section under products and services within the business units.
principal risks and uncertainties: funding and liquidity on page 34 and Information incorporated by reference pages 147 to 152 and capital position on pages 139 to147.
Additionally, the Directors have considered the capital and funding projections of The following additional information forms part of the Directors report, and is incorporated by reference.
Accordingly, the Directors conclude that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in Content Pages operational existence for a period of at least 12 months from the date of Group results Summary of Group results 37 to 43 the approval of the financial statements and therefore it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Ordinary dividends Dividends on ordinary shares 234 Directors Board of Directors 52 to 53 Viability statement biographies The Directors have an obligation under the UK Corporate Governance 1 Directors in 2018 Board of Directors 52 to 53 Code to state whether they believe the Company and the Group will be Directors Directors remuneration report 82 to 104 able to continue in operation and meet their liabilities as they fall due over emoluments a specified period determined by the Directors, taking account of the Internal control Financial reporting risk 107 current position and the principal risks of the Company and the Group.
and financial risk Risk management and 105 to 159, In making this assessment, the Directors have considered a wide range of management Financialinstruments 241 to 252 and information, including: 255 to 268 the principal and emerging risks which could impact the performance Information Future developments 2 to 35 of the Group: includedin the Greenhouse gas emissions 24 to 25 the 2017 Group Strategic Review, which sets out the Groups customer strategic report additional information and business strategy for the three year period from 2018 to 2020 Supporting people with 22 to 23 inclusive: and disabilities the Groups four year operating plan which comprises detailed customer, Engaging colleagues 17 financial, capital and funding projections together with an assessment of Disclosures required Significant contracts 237 to 238 relevant risk factors for the period from 2019 to 2022 inclusive.
under Listing Dividend waivers 234 In particular, the Board considered a range of possible impacts arising from Rule9.8.
4R the uncertain economic and geopolitical outlook, notably the implications of the possible outcomes of the EU exit negotiations.
The Groups four Principal risks Funding and liquidity 34 and anduncertainties 147 to 152 year operating plan also incorporated the impact of the IFRS9 Financial Instruments and the continuing low interest rate environment.
Capital position 139 to 147 Group, divisional and business unit operating plans covering a period Share capital Share capital and restrictions on 229 of four years are produced and subject to rigorous stress testing on andcontrol the transfer of shares or voting an annual basis.
The planning process takes account of the Groups rights business objectives, the risks taken to seek to meet those objectives and Special rights with regard to the 229 the controls in place to mitigate those risks to remain within the Groups control of the Company overall risk appetite.
Employee share schemes 229 exercise of voting rights The Groups annual planning process comprises the following key stages: 1 Deborah McWhinney also served as a director during the year, retiring from the Company on The Board reviews and revises the Groups strategy, risk appetite and 31December 2018. objectives in the context of the operating environment and external market commitments.
Substantial shareholders The divisional teams develop their operating plans based on the Boards objectives ensuring that they are in line with the Groups Information provided to the Company by substantial shareholders strategy and risk appetite.
pursuant to the DTR is published via a Regulatory Information Service.
The financial projections and the underlying assumptions in respect As at 31 December 2018, the Company had been notified by its of expected market and business changes, and future expected legal, substantial shareholders under Rule 5 of the DTR of the following accounting and regulatory changes are subject to rigorous review and interests in the Companys shares: challenge from both divisional and Group executives.
% of issued share capital with In addition, the Board obtains independent assurance from Risk rights to vote in all circumstances at 1 Division over the alignment of the plan with Group strategy and the Interest in shares general meetings Boards risk appetite.
This assessment performed by Risk Division also 2 BlackRock Inc. 3,668,756,765 5.14% identifies the key risks to delivery of the Groups operating plan.
3 Harris Associates L. P. 3,551,514,571 4.99% The planning process is also underpinned by a robust capital and 1 Percentage provided was correct at the date of notification.
This framework allows the Group to 2 The most recent notification provided by BlackRock Inc. under Rule 5 of the DTR identifies assess compliance of the operating plan with the Groups risk appetite.
i an indirect holding of 3,599,451,380 shares in the Company representing 5.04 per cent The scenarios used for stress testing are designed to be severe but of the voting rights in the Company, and ii a holding of 69,305,385 in other financial plausible, and take account of the availability and likely effectiveness instruments in respect of the Company representing 0.09 per cent of the voting rights of the Company.
BlackRock Inc. s holding most recently notified to the Company under Rule 5 of of mitigating actions that could be taken by management to avoid or the DTR varies from the holding disclosed in BlackRock Inc. s Schedule 13-G filing with the reduce the impact or occurrence of the underlying risks.
In considering US Securities and Exchange Commission dated 5 February 2019, which identifies beneficial the likely effectiveness of such actions, the conclusions of the Boards ownership of 4,598,344,792 shares in the Company representing 6.5 per cent of the issued share capital in the Company.
This variance is attributable to different notification and regular monitoring and review of risk and internal control systems, as disclosure requirements between these regulatory regimes.
discussed on page 64, is taken into account.
Further information on 3 An indirect holding.
stress testing and reverse stress testing is provided on page 110.
No further notifications have been received under Rule 5 of the DTR as The final four year operating plan, Risk Division assessment and the at the date of this report.
results of the stress testing are presented to the Board for approval.
Once approved, the operating plan drives detailed divisional and Group targets for the following year.
The Directors have specifically assessed the prospects of the Company and the Group over the first three years of the current plan.
The uncertain global economic and political environment, including the longer-term impact of the UKs plans to leave the EU, together with Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81 the pace of regulatory change mean that the assumptions supporting Omissions the fourth year of the operating plan are likely to be less reliable.
As Emissions associated with joint ventures and investments are not a result, the Board considers that a three year period continues to included in this disclosure as they fall outside the scope of our present a reasonable degree of confidence over expected events and operational boundary.
The Group does not have any emissions macroeconomic assumptions, whilst still providing an appropriate associated with heat, steam or cooling and is not aware of any other longer-term outlook, although the remaining period of the operating material sources of omissions from our reporting.
plan contains no information which would cause different conclusions to Independent auditor and audit information be reached over the longer-term viability of the Company and Group.
Each person who is a Director at the date of approval of this report Information relevant to the assessment can be found in the following confirms that, so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit sections of the annual report and accounts: information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and each The Groups principal activities, business and operating models Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken and strategic direction are described in the strategic report as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit onpages1to35: information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that Emerging risks are disclosed on pages 108 to 109: information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in The principal risks, including the Groups objectives, policies and accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. processes for managing credit, capital, liquidity and funding, are Resolutions concerning the re-appointment of  provided in the risk management section on pages 115 to 159: and LLP as auditor and authorising the Audit Committee to set its remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
The Groups approach to stress testing and reverse stress testing, including both regulatory and internal stresses, is described on page 110.
Statement of directors responsibilities Based upon this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to continue Directors remuneration report and the financial statements in in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next three accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires years to 31 December 2021. the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the Group and parent Company Greenhouse gas emissions financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting The Group has voluntarily reported greenhouse gas emissions and Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company environmental performance since 2009, and since 2013 this has been law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they reported in line with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of Our total emissions, in tonnes of CO equivalent, are reported in the the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company 2 strategic report on page 25. and Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Deloitte LLP has provided limited level ISAE 3000 Revised assurance Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then over selected non-financial indicators as noted by.
Their full, apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates independent assurance statement is available online at that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable IFRSs as www.
adopted by the European Union have been followed.
Methodology The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and The Group follows the principles of the Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard to calculate our Scope1, disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the 2 and 3 emissions from our worldwide operations.
The reporting period is 1 October 2017 to 30 September 2018, which is different to that of financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial our Directors report January 2018 December 2018.
This is in line with Regulations in that the majority of the emissions reporting year falls statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for within the period of the Directors report.
Emissions are reported based on an operational boundary.
The scope of reporting is in line with the taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
GHG Protocol and covers Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions.
Reported Scope 1 emissions cover emissions generated from gas and oil A copy of the financial statements is placed on our website at used in buildings, emissions from UK company-owned vehicles used for www.
The Directors are responsible for the business travel and emissions from the use of air conditioning and chiller maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the refrigerant plant.
Reported Scope 2 emissions cover emissions generated UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements from the use of electricity, calculated using both the location and marketmay differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Reported Scope 3 emissions relate to business Each of the current Directors who are in office as at the date of this travel undertaken by colleagues and emissions associated with the report, and whose names and functions are listed on pages 52 to 53 of extraction and distribution of each of our energy sources electricity, gas this annual report, confirm that, to the best of his or her knowledge: and oil.
A detailed definition of these emissions can be found in our 2018 the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in Reporting Criteria online at www.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true Intensity ratio and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and Group: and Oct 2017 Oct 2016 Oct 2015 Sept 2018 Sept 2017 Sept 2016 the management report contained in the strategic report and the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and GHG emissions CO e per mof 2 performance of the business and the position of the Company underlying income Location Based 13.1 15.5 19.4 and Group, together with a description of the principal risks and GHG emissions CO e per mof 2 uncertainties that they face.
underlying income Market Based 6.2 16.4 19.4 The Directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken Location based intensity levels have been restated for 2015-2016 and 2016-2017 to reflect as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the changes to emissions data only, replacing estimated data with actuals: underlying income figures for those years have not changed.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors This year, our overall location based carbon emissions were 244,407 have also separately reviewed and approved the strategic report.
tCO e: a 15 per cent decrease since 2017, and 57 per cent against our 2 On behalf of the Board 2009 baseline.
Reductions achieved are attributable to our Environmental Action Plan EAP, launched in 2010, which has delivered a reduction in gas and electricity consumption through an extensive energy management programme, alongside decarbonisation of the UK electricity grid.
Additionally, we are now disclosing market based emissions figures.
Malcolm Wood Company Secretary For 2018, this is equal to 115,467 tCO e a comparative decrease 2 19 February 2019 of 62percent year on year and 79% against 2009 baseline.
Further Lloyds Banking Group plc reductions in market emissions are attributable to the purchase of solar, Registered in Scotland wind, hydro and biomass Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin Company number SC95000 REGOs equivalent to total UK electricity consumption in 2018.
