20 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Responsible Business Helping Britain Prosper Plan As part of Helping Britain Prosper, we believe we have a responsibility to help address some of the social, economic and environmental challenges that the UK faces.
We manage this through our Helping Britain Prosper Plan.
Launched in 2014 and revised annually, the As a UK focused retail and Plan focuses on the areas in which we can commercial financial services make the biggest difference.
company, we recognise our In 2018 we set specific targets aligned to our responsibility to help address the 3 year strategy.
It continues to unite and economic, social and environmental inspire our colleagues and for 2019, we have included a specific sustainability metric, challenges that the UK faces.
We alongside the six existing priority metrics, remain fully committed to Helping highlighted in bold below.
Antnio Horta-Osrio Group Chief Executive visit lloydsbankinggroup.
com prosperplan 49 ICONS ICONS 17 ICONS: BLACK WHITE VERSION HELPING BRITAIN PROSPER PLAN 2019 NO ZERO GOOD HEALTH QUALITY GENDER CLEAN WATER ICONS 49 POVERTY HUNGER AND WELL BEING EDUCATION EQUALITY AND SANITATION 1 Area of focus 2018 2019 2020 UN Sustainable ICONS achieved targets targets Development Goals 17 ICONS: BLACK WHITE VERSION AFFORDABLE AND DECENT WORK AND INDUSTRY, INNOVATION REDUCED SUSTAINABLE CITIES RESPONSIBLE page 21 Helping Britain get a home 12.4bn 10bn 30bn CONSUMPTION CLEAN ENERGY ECONOMIC GROWTH AND INFRASTRUCTURE INEQUALITIES AND COMMUNITIES AND PRODUCT I O N NO ZERO GOOD HEALTH QUALITY GENDER CLEAN WATER Amount of lending committed to help people buy their first home ICONS ICONS 49 49 POVERTY HUNGER AND WELL BEING EDUCATION EQUALITY AND SANITATION ICONS ICONS CLIMATE LIFE BELOW LIFE PEACE AND JUSTICE PARTNERSHIPS STRONG INSTITUTIONS ACTION WATER ON LAND FOR THE GOALS 2 17 I 17 I CC OO NN SS : B : B LA LA CC KK W W HH IT IE V TE V ER ER SS IO IO NN AFFORDABLE AND DECENT WORK AND INDUSTRY, INNOVATION p REDUCEDag e 21 SUSTAINABLE CITIES RESPONSIBLE Helping people save for the future 7.4bn 32bn 50bn CLEAN ENERGY ECONOMIC GROWTH AND INFRASTRUCTURE INEQUALITIES AND COMMUNITIES CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCT I O N THE GLOBAL GOALS NO NO ZERO ZERO GOOD GOOD HEAL HEAL TH TH QUA QUA LIT LY ITY GEND GEND ER ER CLEAN CLEAN WA W T A E T R ER Growth in assets that we hold on behalf of customers in retirement For Sustainable Development PO PO VER VER TY TY HUNGER HUNGER AND WELL AND WELL BEING BEING EDUC EDUC ATION ATION EQU EQU ALI ALI TY TY AN A D N D S A S N AIN TAT ITAT IOIN ON and investment products When an icon is on a square, that square must be proportional 1 x 1.
The white icon should be contained by its defined colour, or black CLIMATE LIFE BELOW LIFE PEACE AND JUSTICE PARTNERSHIPS background.
ACTION WATER ON LAND STRONG INSTITUTIONS FOR THE GOALS 2 AFF AFF ORD ORD ABLE AND ABLE AND fide fide CENT W CENT W ORK ORK AN A D ND INDU INDU ST S R T Y R, INNO Y, INNO VA V TION ATION REDUCED REDUCED SU SU ST S A T IA NA INA BLE BLE CIT CI IT ES IES RES RES PON PON SIBLE SIBLE page 21 Supporting businesses to start up and grow 3bn 5bn 6bn ICONS 49 CLEAN E CLEAN E NE N RG ERG Y Y ECONOMI ECONOMI C GR C GR OW OW TH TH AND INFR AND INFR AS A TRU STRU CTURE CTURE INI E N QU EQU ALIT ALIT IES IES AND AND COMMUNI COMMUNI TIE TIE S S CONSUMP CONSUMP TIO TI N ON AND PRODUCT AND PRODUCT I O N I O N THE GLOBAL GOALS ICONS For Sustainable Development Increased amount of net lending to start-up, SME and ICONS 49 Mid Market businesses ICONS When an icon is on a square, that square must be proportional 1 x 1.
The white icon should be contained by its defined colour, or black 17 ICONS: BLACK WHITE VERSION CLI CMA LIMA TE TE LIF LE IF BE E BE LO LO WW LIF LIF E E PE P A E C A E AND JUSTICE CE AND JUSTICE PAR PAR TN TER NER SHIP SHIP S S background.
STS RT O R N O G N INS G INS TITUTIONS TITUTIONS AC A TIO CTIO N N WA W TER ATER ON O N LA LA ND ND FOR FOR THE THE GO G A O L A S LS 17 ICONS: BLACK WHITE VERSION NO ZERO GOOD HEALTH QUALITY GENDER C p LEAN a Wg ATEe R21 Building capability and digital skills 700,232 600,000 1.8m POVERTY HUNGER AND WELL BEING EDUCATION EQUALITY AND SANITATION TH TE HE GL G O LB OA BL AGO L GO AL A S LS NO ZERO GOOD HEALTH QUALITY GENDER CLEAN WATER Number of individuals, SMEs and charities trained in digital skills, For F or Su S stai ustai nable nable fide D five el v opm elopm ent ent POVERTY HUNGER AND WELL BEING EDUCATION EQUALITY AND SANITATION including internet banking WW he hn a en a n i n i co cn i on i s o s o n a s n a s qu qa ura er, t e, t ha ht s at s qu qa ura e m re m us ut b st b e p e p rorp oo pro tr io tin oa nl 1 x 1 al 1 x 1.. Th Te w he w hih te i ite i co cn s on s ho hu olu d b ld b e c e c on otn atia nie nd b ed b y i y i ts d ts d efi en fie nd c ed c olo olu oru, o r, o r b r b lalc ak ck AFFORDABLE AND DECENT WORK AND INDUSTRY, INNOVATION REDUCED SUSTAINABLE CITIES RESPONSIBLE ba bc ak cg krg ou rou nd nd.. CLEAN ENERGY ECONOMIC GROWTH AND INFRASTRUCTURE INEQUALITIES AND COMMUNITIES CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCT I O N AFFORDABLE AND DECENT WORK AND INDUSTRY, INNOVATION REDUCED SUSTAINABLE CITIES RESPONSIBLE page 22 Tackling social disadvantage across Britain 3,113 2,500 2,500 ICONS 49 CLEAN ENERGY ECONOMIC GROWTH AND INFRASTRUCTURE INEQUALITIES AND COMMUNITIES CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCT I O N ICONS Number of charities we support as a result of our 100m commitment to the Groups independent charitable Foundations CLIMATE LIFE BELOW LIFE PEACE AND JUSTICE PARTNERSHIPS STRONG INSTITUTIONS ACTION WATER ON LAND FOR THE GOALS 17 ICONS: BLACK WHITE VERSION CLIMATE LIFE BELOW LIFE PEACE AND JUSTICE PARTNERSHIPS STRONG INSTITUTIONS ACTION WATER ON LAND FOR THE GOALS THE GLOBAL GOALS NO ZERO GOOD HEALTH QUALITY GENDER CLEAN WATER pages For Sustainable Development Championing Britains diversity 35.3% 36.7% 40% POVERTY HUNGER AND WELL BEING EDUCATION EQUALITY AND SANITATION 2223 THE GLOBAL GOALS For S49 ustainable Development 49 Percentage of senior roles held by women ICONS ICONS When an icon is on a square, that square must be proportional 1 x 1.
The white icon should be contained by its defined colour, or black ICONS ICONS b W ah ce kn a grou n ind co. n is on a square, that square must be proportional 1 x 1.
The white icon should be contained by its defined colour, or black Percentage of roles held by Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic 9.5% AFFORDABLE AND 9.7% DECENT WORK AND INDUSTR10 Y, INNOVA% TION REDUCED SUSTAINABLE CITIES RESPONSIBLE background.
CLEAN ENERGY ECONOMIC GROWTH AND INFRASTRUCTURE INEQUALITIES AND COMMUNITIES CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCT I O N colleagues 17 ICONS: BLACK WHITE VERSION 17 ICONS: BLACK WHITE VERSION NO ZERO GOOD HEALTH QUALITY GEND NO ER CLEAN ZERO WATER GOOD HEALTH QUALITY GENDER CLEAN WATER POVERTY HUNGER AND WELL BEING EDUCATION EQU PO ALI VER TTY Y AN HUNGER D SANITATION AND WELL BEING EDUCATION EQUALITY AND SANITATION Percentage of senior roles held by Black, Asian and Minority 6.4% 7.2% 8% CLIMATE LIFE BELOW LIFE PEACE AND JUSTICE PARTNERSHIPS Ethnic colleagues STRONG INSTITUTIONS ACTION WATER ON LAND FOR THE GOALS 2 THE GLOBAL GOALS AFFORDABLE AND DECENT WORK AND INDUSTRY, INNOVATION REDUCED SU AFF STA ORD INAABLE AND BLE CITIES fide RES CENT W PONSIBLE ORK AND INDUSTRY, INNOVATION REDUCED SUSTAINABLE CITIES RESPONSIBLE For Sustainable Development pages Helping the transition to a sustainable low carbon 2.6m 3.5m 5m CONSUMPTION CONSUMPTION CLEAN ENERGY ECONOMIC GROWTH AND INFRASTRUCTURE INEQUALITIES AND CLEAN E COMMUNI NERG TIE Y S ECONOMIC GROWTH AND INFRASTRUCTURE INEQUALITIES AND COMMUNITIES AND PRODUCT I O N AND PRODUCT I O N 2425 economy When an icon is on a square, that square must be proportional 1 x 1.
The white icon should be contained by its defined colour, or black Average number of homes that could be powered as a result background.
of our support of UK renewable energy projects CLIMATE LIFE BELOW LIFE PEACE AND JUSTICE PAR CLI T MA NER TE SHIPS LIFE BELOW LIFE PEACE AND JUSTICE PARTNERSHIPS ACTION WATER ON LAND STRONG INSTITUTIONS FOR ACT TIO HE N GOALS WATER ON LAND STRONG INSTITUTIONS FOR THE GOALS THE GLOBAL GOALS THE GLOBAL GOALS For Sustainable Development For Sustainable Development 1 figures are all cumulative excluding tackling social disadvantage across Britain and championing Britain's diversity.
When an icon is on a square, that square must be proportional 1 x 1.
The white icon should be contained by its defined colour, or black The white icon should be contained by its defined colour, or black background.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 21 Partnering for progress Helping Britain get a home In 2018 we led a consultation on the new As the largest lender to the UK housing sector, we Essential Digital Skills Framework for the are committed to supporting home ownership Department for Education as their sole across the UK and are working to make it an evaluation provider.
This work provided the affordable reality for millions of people, lending business case for the Governments Digital 12.4 billion to first time buyers in 2018.
Skills Entitlement: free digital skills training for all adults from 2020.
Helping people We are a leading member of the UK save for the future Governments Digital Skills Partnership, We recognise the importance of savings to advisors to the Secretary of State for Digital, and chair the Department for Digital, Culture, build financial resilience and help to tackle Media and Sports Digital Enterprise Delivery disadvantage, so were making saving for the future as easy as possible by improving Group.
We have played a central role in implementing a Charity Digital Code of choice, flexibility and control.
In 2018 we grew Practice, with local authorities now adopting the assets we hold on behalf of customers our Digital Champions model.
We have in retirement and investment products by also worked closely with national and local 7.4billion.
governments like Greater Manchester Combined Authority and Welsh Assembly to Supporting business drive change.
to start up and grow Lloyds Bank Academy Supporting UK businesses of all types is In November we launched the Lloyds Bank key to Helping Britain Prosper.
Initially piloted in Manchester, the helped more than 124,000 businesses start Academy provides basic and workplace skills up, increased the amount of net lending to Developing Britains through online and face-to-face courses.
start up, SME and Mid Market businesses Developed with our charitable Foundations, by 3billion and doubled our financial academia, industry and Government, the manufacturing talent investment at the Lloyds Bank Advanced Academy will scale nationally in 2019 and our Manufacturing Training Centre AMTC.
existing initiatives will be closely aligned to Britain is renowned for its manufacturing extend our reach and impact.
Thesector accounts for 10percent of UK GDP, for 44 per cent of all and digital skills UK exports and directly creates 2.7 million Our ambition is to enhance capability and jobs.
Yet there is a lack of qualified workers.
digital skills, helping 1.8 million people with The shortfall could reach 220,000 by 2020 skills training by 2020 alongside investing so it is vital to train new talent.
Working with We are helping to address this.
In 2018, over 50 partners, in 2018 we provided digital we doubled our financial investment at skills training to over 700,000 individuals the Lloyds Bank Advanced Manufacturing andorganisations.
Training Centre in Coventry to 10million Digital skills over 10 years and committed to train Using a blend of transactional and attitudinal 3,500apprentices, graduates and data we provide the UK's largest study of the Inspiring the next engineers by 2024.
We have already digital capability of individuals, SMEs and created 178 apprenticeships and trained charities.
The Lloyds Bank Consumer Digital 80 graduates and 295 engineers, including Index 2018 shows that 21 per cent of the UK digital generation many women and individuals from a Black, lack basic digital skills, including 10percent of Asian and Minority Ethnic background.
A further 8 percent We are building digital talent through our are entirely offline.
42 per cent of SMEs and More than 250 Lloyds Bank customers #ReDiscover initiative.
Launched in July 48per cent of charities lack the skills to benefit 2018 #ReDiscover brings a new digital have been supported through our from the time and costs savings associated with partnership with the Manufacturing edge to learning, helping children aged11 digital capability.
The Lloyds Bank Business and to 14 to think and explore, meet digital Technology Centre MTC, with around Charity Digital Index 2018 revealed that the UK 70 of them undertaking a bespoke professionals, undertake work placements, loses 84.5 billion in annual revenue due to a and build future digital needs into their programme to improve efficiency and lack of SME digital capability.
productivity or adopt new technology.
By holding school events and coTo combat these challenges we have several creating lesson plans we have inspired over key initiatives: 800 students to date.
23,000 colleagues volunteered to become Digital Champions supporting local A career at the MTC has allowed communities: we delivered Digital Knowhow me to work on high profile and Having a 5 minute chat with a workshops to over 3,000 organisations challenging manufacturing student today has changed her covering fraud and digital marketing with an projects, applying all the skills Ive online toolkit signposting key resources: we outlook on the future.
Thats what co-created a digital curriculum and delivered learnt, and also learn new ones.
events in schools to inspire over 800 students Rishi Chohan Rachel and teachers with our ReDiscover programme: MTC Graduate 2018 Colleague volunteer and colleague volunteers hosted over 1,000code clubs in schools.
22 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Responsible business continued Ethnicity Tackling social We have a comprehensive Ethnicity Strategy disadvantage across Britain to help us meet our goals, which focus on As one of the UKs largest corporate attracting and retaining talented BAME donors, we use our scale to reach millions of colleagues: building cultural awareness people and help tackle social disadvantage at all levels: and increasing visibility of in communities across the UK.
Our four authentic role models from a wide range of independent charitable Foundations are ethnic backgrounds.
By the end of the year fundamental to our vision of tackling social 6.4per cent of senior managers were BAME disadvantage.
They cover the UK and the colleagues, compared with 5.6 per cent Channel Islands, partnering with small and in 2017, while BAME colleagues made up local charities to help people overcome 9.5percent of our total workforce, compared complex social issues and rebuild their lives.
Our total community investment in 2018 was To achieve this, activities in 2018 included: 56 million.
This includes our colleagues developing our Authentic Leadership time, direct donations, and the money we Programme for BAME senior managers give to our Foundations, which receive a and our Career Development Programme share of the Groups profits annually.
The for BAME middle managers: actively Taking a joined up Foundations supported over 3,000 charities promoting our Race, Ethnicity and Cultural in 2018, providing help for some of the Heritage Network, which now has around mostdisadvantaged and vulnerable people 4,000members: and promoting our Ethnicity approach to tackling in Britain.
In October, we signed the UK Governments Race at Work Charter In addition to funding, we support the domestic abuse and already meet and exceed its principle Foundations through volunteering, and requirements.
In 2018 we won the overall more than 370 colleagues are also active as In partnership with our independent Outstanding Employer Award at the inaugural mentors to charities supported by each of charitable Foundations, were providing Investing in Ethnicity Awards.
This year, we ran a pilot with more than just traditional funding.
Our the Lloyds Bank Foundation for England and Foundations are helping us work with Gender diversity Wales to recruit some of our senior leaders as charities they support to develop a deeper We remain committed to having women charity trustees and launched a Community understanding of the challenges faced fill 40 per cent of our senior management Forum through which colleagues support by customers affected by complex and roles by 2020 and have been included in charities.
Through these initiatives, our sensitive issues.
The Times Top 50 employers for women in Foundations help us better understand some 2018, for the seventh year running.
This year The charity Behind Closed Doors BCD of the social issues people may be facing we continued sponsoring Women of the helps people in Leeds exit harmful and we use these insights to help shape Future Ambassadors, connecting successful situations relating to domestic abuse.
women with female students, and launched Lloyds Bank Foundation for England our Sponsoring Leaders programme, and Wales provides financial support to Championing Britains enabling women in senior roles to champion help them deliver their vital services to the potential of women in more junior roles.
To deepen the support The promotion rate for the 100 colleagues they can provide, the Foundation matched We champion inclusion and diversity I&D who completed the programme in 2018 was BCD with a senior Group colleague, Dave to reflect the diverse communities we serve.
around five times that of non-participants.
Moore, who has joined them as a charity We were the first FTSE100 company to set From January 2019, the Group will be included mentor and valued Board member, helping a public goal on gender diversity and this in the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index for them become sustainable, develop their year became the first FTSE100 company to the first time.
offering and reach more people in need.
set public goals to increase Black, Asian and For more information about Gender Pay Minority Ethnic BAME representation at all see pages 82 to 104 levels.
Additionally, this year we enhanced our focus on mental health, as this is key to We were a top ten Trans-Inclusive employer economic prosperity and social inclusion, and and fifth employer overall in the Stonewall Top Dave is dynamic and energetic, therefore to Helping Britain Prosper.
100 2018, the highest ranked financial services and hes motivated the Board to We know that the most inclusive organisations company in the UK.
Through our Rainbow become more proactive.
Hes network colleagues raised almost 100,000 to are the most successful, so we welcome and encouraged a business-like value the unique difference of every colleague.
support key charities and we continued our approach, where we can more sponsorship for Stonewall Young Campaigners, 2018 has been a year of significant progress easily consider the long-term against our I&D objectives, which we know is empowering young people aged 16 to 21 to become campaigners for Lesbian, Gay, a source of pride for our colleagues: this year future, setting clear goals and 88per cent of them agreed in our annual survey Bisexual and Transgender equality.
a strategy for achieving them, that the Group is an inclusive place to work.
and hes supported the Board to Supporting people with disabilities Around 50 per cent of colleagues also belong become more strategic in their Traditionally, employment of people with to or support one of our five diversity networks.
Its been great disabilities has focused on making changes I ndicator is subject to Limited ISAE3000 revised to physical infrastructure or working having his support.
assurance by Deloitte LLP for the 2018 Annual practices.
We are moving the debate from Responsible Business Reporting.
Deloittes 2018 Louise Tyne accommodating disabilities to developing assurance statement and the 2018 Reporting Criteria Operational Director, BCD areavailable online at talent and careers.
We offer bespoke training, www.
com our-group responsiblecareer development programmes and business Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 23 recruitment process adjustments for colleagues and applicants with disabilities, including those who have become disabled while employed.
Training includes courses run with external disability consultants, which have been described as life changing by attendees.
We give full and fair consideration to applications from all candidates, offering guaranteed interviews for candidates declaring a disability, and meeting minimum role requirements.
We are unbiased in our assessment, selection, appointment, training and promotion of people.
In 2018 we retained our Business The Mental Health and Money Advice Service Disability Forum BDF Gold Standard, and hold Disability Confident Leader status with More than 8 million raised since 2017 has helped our the Department for Work and Pensions.
The charity partner, Mental Health UK, open the Mental Health BDF considers our workplace adjustment and Money Advice service the UKs first dedicated process for disabled colleagues to be ground I know I still have a way to advice service for people with mental health and money breaking, creating a best practice case study problems.
These two issues are often inter-related, so the go, but thanks to Mental that they have shared with around 400 other new service is urgently needed.
Health and Money BDF member organisations.
We are set to It comprises a public website providing information across achieve Autism Friendly Bank and Employer Advice I have improved a number of issues including benefits, debt problems and accreditation from the National Autistic Society my confidence and built managing mental health.
It also operates a referral only in mid-2019.
up some skills to better telephone advice service.
Mental Health & Wellbeing Since its launch in November 2017, the website As a Group we believe that a shift in mindset is has received around 180,000 views and more than Stephen needed amongst UK employers when it comes 1,000people have been referred for confidential advice.
Mental Health and Money to mental health.
We all have mental health More than 2,400 cases have been handled, with each Advice Service user as well as physical health and our approach client on average about 1,000 better off as a result.
By focuses on removing the stigma attached to November 2018 a total annual saving of over 1.3 million mental ill health, addressing it in the same way had been delivered.
as we would any physical condition: through a culture of conversation and support.
Our Mental Health Strategy supports Our Inclusion and Diversity data colleagues and leaders through a Mental Health 1 2018 2017 Resource Centre and this year we stepped Gender up mental health training for colleagues at all levels.
To date more than 40,000 colleagues Board Members Male 9 9 2 have completed training on Mental Health and Female 4 3 we are training 2,500 colleagues to become 3 Senior Managers Male 4,701 4,939 Mental Health Advocates by 2020.
We enrolled Female 2,573 2,544 200 leaders in our new Optimal Resilience 3 Leadership Programme, which covers personal, Colleagues Male 30,458 31,216 mental and physical wellbeing and are now Female 42,372 42,956 working on extending this to the next level of Ethnic Background 2,000 senior managers.
Percentage of colleagues from a BAME background 9.5% 8.3% Through a targeted communication campaign BAME managers 9.0% 8.3% and personal stories shared at all levels, we BAME senior managers 6.4% 5.6% have encouraged colleagues to freely discuss mental health, with the number of those who Disability 4 Percentage of colleagues who disclose they have a disability 1.7% 2.6% tell us they have mental health issues up by 22per cent over the past three years.
Sexual Orientation Percentage of colleagues who disclose they are lesbian, gay, We also extended the focus on mental bisexual or transgender 2.0% 1.7% health to our colleague wellbeing resources, increasing private medical benefit cover for 1 2017 reporting scope excludes MBNA colleagues, who became part of Lloyds Banking Group plc in June 2017, as their separate grading structure could not be aligned to LBG grades at that point.
mental health to match that of physical health.
Amanda Mackenzie joined the Board on 1 October 2018, and Deborah McWhinney retired Our employee assistance programme now from the Board on 31 December 2018. provides colleagues with access to counselling 3 Reporting scope: payroll headcount includes established and fixed term contract colleagues, parental leavers, MBNA and cognitive behavioural therapy, and colleagues and Internationals.
Excludes Leavers, Group Non-Executive Directors, contractors, temps, and agency staff.
our workplace adjustments programme 4 Percentage disclosure for disability has reduced due to the implementation of a new HR system in Nov 2018, with differing categories.
Not all disability data could be directly mapped across into the new system.
increasingly offers support for mental as well Diversity scope: Payroll headcount including parental leavers.
Excludes contractors, temps and agency staff.
Gender as physical types of disability.
information includes International colleagues and MBNA.
All other diversity information is UK Payroll only.
Senior Managers: Grades F. Managers: Grade D-E. Data source: HR system Workday.
Apart from gender data, all diversity Recognition that mental health is an issue for information is based on colleagues voluntary self-declaration.
As a result this data is not 100 percent representative: our our customers and the communities we serve, systems do not record diversity data for the proportion of colleagues who have not declared this information.
inspired us to create our Get the Inside Out advertising campaign to challenge mental health stereotypes.
24 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 R Re es spon pons sib ibl le e bu bus sin ine es ss s c con onti tinue nued d 2010.
To ensure this plan supports the UKs Our ambition Helping the transition to climate change priorities and our long term Our goal is to be a leader in supporting a sustainable low carbon strategy, we have a set of market leading the UK to successfully transition to a more targets to improve the sustainability of our own economy sustainable, low carbon economy.
We have operations and supply chain.
These include set ourselves seven ambitions anchored to the Following a Board level review of our reducing our operational waste by 70 per cent goals laid out in the UK Governments Clean approach to environmental sustainability, we by 2020 and 80 per cent by 2025 compared to Growth Strategy, as these align closely to our have developed a new sustainability strategy 2014 15, and reducing our CO e emissions by business priorities: 2 which focuses on the opportunities and 60per cent by 2030 and 80 per cent by 2050 Business: become a leading UK commercial threats related to climate change and the compared to 2009 www.
bank for sustainable growth, supporting our need for the UK to transition to a sustainable com our-group responsible-business clients to transition to sustainable business low carbon economy.
We models and operations, and to pursue new anticipate achievement of the 2050 target well This strategy supports the Task Force on clean growth opportunities before this date, driven by both our energy Climate Related Financial Disclosures TCFD Homes: be a leading UK provider of efficiency improvements, direct investment recommendations and incorporates an in renewable energy on our sites and through customer support on energy efficient, implementation plan to address them and sustainable homes purchasing Renewable Energy Guarantees achieve full disclosure within five years.
The of Origin REGOs to cover our UK electricity strategy maps to the key headings used Vehicles: be a leading UK provider of low consumption.
We are now able to state that intheTCFD framework.
emission green vehicle fleets 100 per cent of our UK electricity comes Pensions & investments: be a leading UK from renewable sources and to show our Strategy pension provider that offers our customers commitment to supporting the transition and colleagues sustainable investment Our commitment to the low carbon economy, we have joined choices, and challenges companies we the RE100 campaign, a collaborative, global The UK is committed to the vision of a invest in to behave more sustainably and sustainable, low carbon economy, and initiative uniting businesses committed to responsibly 100per cent renewable energy.
has placed clean growth at the heart of its industrial strategy.
This will require a radical Environmental section within Directors Insurance: be a leading UK insurer in Report see page 81 reinvention of the way people, work, live and improving the resilience of customers lives do business.
against extreme weather caused by climate Governance change We have a unique position within the UK We have established a dedicated governance economy with our purpose of Helping process to provide oversight and ownership Green bonds: be a leading UK bank in the Britain Prosper.
The successful transition of the sustainability strategy.
This includes green sustainable bonds market to a sustainable, low carbon economy that the Responsible Business Committee Our Own Footprint: be a leading UK bank is resilient to climate change impacts and RBC, a sub-committee of the Board, which in reducing our own carbon footprint and sustainably uses resources is of strategic meets quarterly and provides Board level challenging our suppliers to ensure our importance to us.
We support the aims oversight.
This committee is chaired by own consumption of resources, goods and of the 2015 Paris Agreement on Climate Sara Weller, Group Non-Executive Director services is sustainable Change, and the UK Governments Clean and includes the Chairman, Lord Blackwell GrowthStrategy.
For each ambition we will consider the as a member.
AtExecutive level, we have established a Group Executive Sustainability Governments targets and current plans.
Our approach We will use forward looking scenarios to Committee GESC, which is a sub-committee To meet our commitment, we will: of our Group Executive Committee GEC identify risks and opportunities over short, Take a strategic approach to identifying new medium and long term time horizons and and provides oversight and recommends opportunities to support our customers assess how they impact the resilience of decisions to the GEC.
The RBC, GEC and and clients and to finance the UK transition our strategy.
We are developing a series GESC have all been informed on key climate to a sustainable low carbon economy, of propositions against each ambition and related issues by external industry experts.
embedding sustainability into Group have defined an implementation plan to We have created a Group sustainability strategy across all activities achieve a leadership position within three team, supported by divisional Governance years.
We will work with Government and Identify and manage material sustainability Forums and working groups led by divisional other stakeholders on thought leadership to and climate related risks across the Group, Managing Directors.
This enables us to have help inform the creation of the policies and disclosing these and their impacts on the a coordinated approach to oversight, delivery market conditions required for large scale Group and its financial planning processes and reporting of the Group sustainability investment in the transition to a sustainable, in line with the TCFD recommendations strategy to the GESC, along with a mechanism low carbon economy.
To support these for keeping management and the Board Use our scale and reach to help drive propositions, we are equipping our business updated on climate related issues impacting progress towards a sustainable and resilient relationship managers and other colleagues the Group.
UK economy, environment and society with training and tools to have more informed through our engagement with industry, conversations on climate related issues.
As For the implementation of the TCFD Government, investors, suppliers and recommendations across the Group, we have part of our TCFD implementation plan, we will customers also develop a forward looking approach to established a senior executive group TCFD forum.
We aim to expand the consideration of systematically reporting material financial risk Embed sustainability into the way we do and opportunity aggregated across the Group.
sustainability and climate related issues into business and manage our own operations in relevant Board and governance committees a more sustainable way Improving our own environmental footprint including processes to monitor and oversee is an important foundation for our activity.
progress against goals and targets related Weve consistently reduced our environmental to climate issues.
We will also consider how impacts, thanks to the ambitious sustainability might be incorporated into our Environmental Action Plan we launched in remuneration policies.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 25 Risk Management Metrics and Targets Each division within the Group is responsible As part of our TCFD implementation plan we for identifying and prioritising relevant climate are developing our approach to reporting related risks and opportunities and integrating metrics and targets.
This will include a them into their risk management processes, long term reporting framework, enabling which determine materiality and classify risks us to track our performance against our into traditional risk categories.
This includes sustainability strategy, and disclose the identifying potential risks through horizon financial impact of climate change related scanning of changes in regulation, technology risks and opportunities.
We will define metrics and consumer demand.
Risks are classified linked to our green finance propositions and in terms of whether they impact the Group the carbon exposure of our activities.
Our in the short, medium or long term.
Examples targets will have specific time horizons against include possible changes in the sustainability defined baseline years and will consider of homes, how vehicles are powered, changes the level of historical and forward looking in UK energy mix, through to changes in the projections that can be made available.
We frequency and severity of extreme weather aim to develop this new reporting framework events.
The Group sustainability team in the first half of 2019 and will start to include facilitates collaboration across divisions to key quantified metrics in our next annual increase understanding of consistent issues, report.
as well as our risk, opportunities and financial We have made sustainability a focus area in impact on an aggregated basis.
our Helping Britain Prosper Plan and have During 2018, we reviewed our external sector defined metrics for it.
We disclose our instatements to confirm that they align to our house greenhouse gas emissions, as shown sustainability strategy and consider appropriate below, with supporting commentary detailed climate related risk.
We introduced a position in the directors report Environmental section Clean Growth statement for coal and revised statements within Directors Report see page 81 and our for defence, mining, oil and gas, power, and set of in house environmental targets on our Finance Initiative forestry.
For more information on our sector website www.
In 2018 we launched a 2 billion Clean .
In 2019, we will Growth Finance Initiative CGFI to Environmental section within Directors review these statements again, and consider help British businesses reduce their Report see page 81 developing statements for other sectors environmental impacts and benefit from Find out more about our set of in-house and topics.
We will review ways to embed the transition to a low carbon economy.
sustainability in the Groups key policies.
The CGFI aims to be the most inclusive com our-group responsible-business UK green funding proposition available,  Forward looking scenario analysis incentivising all types of businesses incorporating physical and transition risk will to invest in low carbon projects by be utilised across the Group to systematically providing discounted financing for identify risks and opportunities.
During 2018, capitalexpenditure or investment with a Commercial Banking undertook forward green purpose.
looking scenario analyses including business as usual and low carbon transition scenarios, identifying sectors with a higher level of climate related risk and opportunity.
Detailed assessments are now being undertaken CO e emissions tonnes on higher risk sectors to understand the 2 potential financial impact to our customers 1 Oct 17-Sept 18 Oct 16-Sept 17 Oct 15-Sept 16 and to the Group.
We will be completing 2 Total CO e market-based 115,467 303,065 340,261 2 further reviews of higher risk sectors in 2019 Total CO e location-based 244,407 286,892 340,261 to inform portfolio analytics, counterparty 2 risk and financial product development, Total Scope 1 48,461 51,419 53,023 while increasing the scope to also include 2 Total Scope 2 market-based 1,976 178,771 202,319 otherdivisions.
Total Scope 2 location-based 130,916 162,598 202,319 Total Scope 3 65,030 72,876 84,918 1 Restated 2017 2016 and 2016 2015 emissions data to improve the accuracy of reporting, using actual data to replace estimates.
2 Note our market based emissions are equal to location based for 2016 15.
This is in accordance with GHG protocol guidelines in absence of appropriate residual factors.
Emissions in tonnes CO e in line with the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard 2004.
We are now reporting to the revised 2 Scope 2 guidance, disclosing a market-based figure in addition to the location-based figure.
The measure and reporting criteria for Scope 1, 2, 3 emissions is provided in the Lloyds Banking Group Reporting Criteria statement available online at www.
com ResponsibleBusiness Scope 1 emissions include mobile and stationary combustion of fuel and operation of facilities.
Scope 2 emissions have been calculated in accordance with GHG Protocol guidelines, in both location and market based methodologies.
I ndicator is subject to Limited ISAE3000 revised assurance by Deloitte LLP for the 2018 Annual Responsible Business Reporting.
Deloittes 2018 assurance statement and the 2018 Reporting Criteria are available online at www.
com our-group responsible-business 26 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Responsible business continued Non-financial information statement This section of the strategic report constitutes Lloyds Banking Group's Non-Financial Information Statement, produced to comply with sections414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act.
The information listed is incorporated by cross-reference.
Reporting requirement Policies and standards which govern our approach Information necessary to understand our business and its impact, policy due diligence and outcomes Environmental matters Environmental statement Reflecting the needs of our stakeholders: Communities and environment, page 18 Helping the transition to a sustainable low carbon economy, pages24 to 25 1 Employees Ethics and Responsible Business Policy Reflecting the needs of our stakeholders: Colleagues, page 17 Ethical Policy Statement Championing Britains diversity, pages 22 to 23 1 Colleague Policy Code of Responsibility 1 Health and Safety Policy Respect for Human rights Human Rights Policy statement Reflecting the needs of our stakeholders: 1 Colleague Policy Suppliers, page 18 Pre-Employment vetting standards1 Championing Britains diversity, pages 22 to 23 1 Data Privacy Policy Anti-Slavery and Trafficking Statement Information and Cyber Security Policy 1 Social matters Volunteering standards Reflecting the needs of our stakeholders: Customers, page16 1 Matched giving guidelines Reflecting the needs of our stakeholders: Communities and environment, page 18 Helping Britain Prosper Plan, page 20 Helping Britain get a home, Helping people save for the future, Supporting business to start up and grow, Building capability and digital skills, page 21 Tackling social disadvantage across Britain, page 22 1 Anti-corruption Anti-bribery Policy Reflecting the needs of our stakeholders: and anti-bribery Anti-bribery policy statement Customers, page16 Anti-money laundering and counter terrorist Reflecting the needs of our stakeholders: 1 financing Policy Colleagues, page17 1 Fraud Risk Management Policy Description of principal risks and impact of business activity Helping the transition to a sustainable low carbon economy: Risk management, page 25 Risk overview 2018 themes, page 31 Our principal risks, pages 32 to 35 Description of the business model Our Business Model, Page 10 Non-financial key performance indicators Key performance indicators, pages 6 to 7 Our strategic priorities, pages 12 to 15 Helping Britain Prosper Plan, page 20 1 Certain Group Policies and internal standards and guidelines are not published externally.
The policies mentioned above form part of the Groups Policy Framework which is founded on key risk management principles.
The policies which underpin the principles define mandatory requirements for risk management.
Robust processes and controls to identify and report policy outcomes are in place and were followed in 2018.
