12 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our strategic priorities Leading customer experience In order to be the best bank for customers, directly to dedicated mortgage advisers, and Progress in 2018 we recognise that we must continue to enhancements that have enabled branch In 2018 we have made significant progress adapt to changes in customer behaviour, colleagues to spend more time meeting in enhancing our digital propositions technology-driven competition and customers complex needs.
and branch network to reflect changing regulation.
Our propositions must be customer preferences, while also Personalising our customer proposition reflective of heightened customer .
expectations for ease of access, Given our extensive insight, we are well positioned to meet the growing demand personalisation and relevance, as well as the Building a market leading digital experience needs created by changing life patterns.
As In a year in which we met more of our part of our overall response to this significant customers simple needs via mobile than any opportunity, we recently launched our Lend other channel for the first time, we have made KEY OBJECTIVES FOR 2018 TO 2020 a Hand mortgage proposition that meets a number of functionality enhancements the needs of borrowers without a deposit Remain number 1 UK digital bank with Open designed to put customers more in control of Banking functionality to get onto the housing ladder, while also their finances digitally.
offering market leading savings rates to Unrivalled reach with UKs largest branch network, We were the first large UK bank to meet the family members or other supporters who serving complex needs regulatory deadline for Open Banking.
We are willing to provide this deposit on their Data-driven and personalised customer have built on this success, launching our behalf.
In addition, the strength of our Club propositions API-enabled aggregation functionality in the Lloyds proposition has enabled strong fourth quarter.
Through this customers are deposit growth.
These and other initiatives now able to view their current accounts with us have enabled us to increase personalisation MEASURING PERFORMANCE alongside those held outside of the Group.
and to achieve growth of over 4 billion in underrepresented segments.
We have also launched enhanced security 15.7 million and anti-fraud features including location Digitally active customers based transaction searches and the ability Focus for 2019 to freeze and unfreeze cards via mobile, with We will build on these strong foundations by other functionality enhancements including continuing to enhance our digital functionality improved statement searches, smart alerts 4 billion to meet customers simple needs, while also and upcoming payment notifications.
ensuring that our branch network continues Balance growth in underrepresented segments to meet complex needs effectively.
In 2019, #1 branch network, serving complex needs we have already made our Open Banking Customers continue to prefer face-to-face capability available to all our Lloyds, Halifax contact for more complex needs.
We and Bank of Scotland mobile app customers, therefore remain committed to maintaining with the significant broadening of the range the UKs largest branch network as part of of products they are able to aggregate later our multi-channel proposition, while tailoring in the year putting them more in control of it to continue meeting these complex needs their finances.
In addition we will retain our effectively.
Highlights include the opening focus on using our significant data insight to of our flagship Halifax branch in Londons develop products that are more tailored to Oxford Street, 16 additional routes for our our customers specific needs.
mobile branch fleet, which now serves over 210 locations, the roll-out of remote advice functionality, with 270 branches now linking Our Remote Advice Video Interviewing service is an important element of how we 270 are improving the customer experience, branches now live with providing our customers with greater Remote Advice flexibility and convenience in how they can discuss and meet their complex needs.
In 2018, this service has gone from strength to strength, with an initial focus on our customers mortgage needs.
Approximately 38,000 customers have already taken the opportunity to discuss their mortgage needs in one of our 270 branch locations that currently offer this service or from the comfortof their own home through our home to hub offering.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 13 Our strategic priorities Digitising the Group Our market leading cost position and solutions, with around 100 applications Progress in 2018 customer franchise are sources of migrated to private cloud.
These investments We have made a strong start against our competitive advantage.
However, we must will deliver a more efficient, scalable and strategic objectives of driving additional not be complacent and must further digitise flexible infrastructure going forward and act operational efficiencies that will make banking the Group to drive additional operational as enablers for further investment in 2019 simpler and easier for customers.
We have efficiencies, improve the experience of our and beyond.
This leaves us well positioned to embraced technology developments, with customers and colleagues and allow us to deliver further enhancements for the benefit increasing levels of investment underpinning invest more for the future.
In addition, we of customers, colleagues and shareholders.
the progress made in modernising our IT and must continue to simplify and progressively data architecture and improving processes for Delivering for our customers transform our IT architecture in order to the benefit of both customers and colleagues.
use data more efficiently, enhance our The launch of our Open Banking aggregation capability and multiple functionality multichannel customer engagement and Increasing investment in technology create a scalable and resilient infrastructure.
developments throughout the year were To position the Group for success in a made possible by the replatforming of our digital world, we have embarked on one mobile app during 2018.
This replatforming of the largest transformation programmes KEY OBJECTIVES FOR 2018 TO 2020 placed our Lloyds, Halifax and Bank of in financial services.
Consistent with this, Scotland banking brands on the same we have increased our investment in Deeper end-to-end transformation targeting platform and has enabled us to react faster 70 per cent of our cost base technology by 24 per cent, placing us in the to change, doubling the frequency of new top quartile amongst peers.
Over two-thirds Simplification and progressive modernisation releases to the market.
This supported the roll of this spendrelated to enhancing existing of our data and ITinfrastructure out of a number of new features for customers capabilities and creating new ones, in line Technology enabled productivity improvements including push notifications and virtual with our chosen approach of simplifying and across the business assistants, both of which have been positively modernising our IT and data architecture in a received by customers to date, with strong progressive manner.
MEASURING PERFORMANCE Adopting new technologies In order to improve processes and deliver Focus for 2019 24% better outcomes for customers, we are We will further embrace technology while increasingly adopting new technologies.
Key Year on year increase in technology spend continuing to build our innovation pipeline highlights in the year include the introduction and collaborate with fintechs to accelerate of robotics for simple, repetitive tasks such as our transformation.
We will also make better performing customer rectifications, with the c. 100 use of our extensive customer data, creating resultant release of approximately 780,000 Applications migrated to private cloud a single record for each of our customers colleague hours creating additional capacity that allow us to deliver better insight driven to improve processes and propositions for propositions.
As a result, we will make customers.
In addition, we have introduced ongoing improvements to our customer machine learning capabilities in a number offering, leveraging our mobile app to deliver of areas, which has also led to significant new functionality to customers in a timely improvements to back office processes and manner and providing greater control and further operational efficiencies.
insight to customers than ever before.
In 2018, the Group also made targeted investments in both public and private cloud When you first hear of being a Digital Champion, you assume that you have to be a computer whizz Digital Champions are colleagues who but, in reality, its just pledge to improve the digital skills and financial capability of at least two doing the things we all individuals or organisations each year.
do every day, without Thousands of colleagues have already signed realising up.
Digital Champions are one way we are committed to Help Britain Prosper.
Numman Miah Digital champion Numman Miah volunteered at his local community centre at a session supporting those with limited IT skills.
Many of the attendees were unemployed improving their digital capabilities helps them in their 23,000 job searches.
Digital Champions Working as a Group Digital Champion is a source of joy for Numman, providing him with the opportunity to give something valuable back to his own community.
14 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our strategic priorities Maximising the Groups capabilities To better address our customers banking leading wealth proposition that will better Progress in 2018 and insurance needs as an integrated serve customer needs and accelerate the In 2018 we have continued to enhance and financial services provider and improve their development of our financial planning and leverage the Groups capabilities to meet overall experience, we will make better use retirement business.
our customers banking and insurance needs of our competitive strengths and unique We are excited by the potential that the more effectively.
combination of our significant customer Meeting our customers growing financial base, multi-channel distribution and digital planning and retirement needs capabilities with Schroders investment KEY OBJECTIVES FOR 2018 TO 2020 As the UKs sole integrated financial services and wealth management expertise and 50 billion growth in financial planning and provider we are unique in being able to show technology brings and have consequently retirement open book assets under administration and serve all of our customers financial needs set an ambitious target of becoming a top in one place.
In the year we have begun the three UK financial planning business within 1 million new pensions customers roll out of a Single Customer View capability, five years.
6 billion of additional net lending to start-ups, with over 3 million customers now able to SMEs and Mid Market customers Improving the experience of our view in one place the insurance and pension Commercial Banking clients products they hold with the Group alongside In Commercial Banking we have increased their more traditional banking products.
This MEASURING PERFORMANCE net lending by 3 billion and have exceeded single home for banking and insurance needs start-ups, SMEs and Mid Market clients builds on our Open Banking aggregation our sustainability target through support 3 billion capability and is supported by levels of digital for renewable energy projects capable Net lending to starts ups, SME and Mid Market engagement that significantly surpass those of powering over 2.6 million homes.
We customers of standalone insurers.
have also delivered improvements to the We have also made a number of client experience by simplifying our client improvements to our customer propositions, relationship model and enhancing our online including the expansion of our workplace 3 million functionality, with SME clients now able to pensions and savings offering following the Customers with access to Single Customer View check instantly whether they will be approved Zurich acquisition in 2017.
These and other for loans or overdrafts of up to 25,000 before developments have enabled us to achieve net they apply.
inflows of 13 billion open book assets under 13 billion administration in the year.
Focus for 2019 Open book assets under administration net We embrace innovation and are working with In 2019 we will extend the roll out of Single customerinflows external parties to develop potential solutions Customer View, with the expectation of that will enable customers to consolidate their reaching over 9 million customers by the end pension pots from multiple providers digitally, of the plan period, with other areas of focus making it quicker and easier for them to review including the further development and formal their retirement savings in one place.
launch of our wealth partnership, Schroders Personal Wealth.
We will also improve the Leveraging our partnership with Schroders digital banking experience of our Commercial to accelerate our Wealth strategy Banking clients, including significantly In October, we announced a strategic reducing the time to cash for unsecured partnership with Schroders to create a market lending to less than two hours.
The Group is uniquely placed in the UK to help customers throughout their whole life.
Single Customer View helps our customers see everything that is important to them, including their bank account, pension and other insurance products, in one place, whether that is online, in branch or over the phone.
2018 saw us help over 3 million customers engage with their I had to stop making insurance and pension products more contributions to my simply, alongside their banking.
In 2019 we pension, so seeing this want to reach many more customers and online alongside my help them to do more with us, like make bank account now has a top up to their pension or start a home reminded me I need to insurance claim.
take some action and start saving again Lloyds Banking Group customer Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 15 Our strategic priorities Transforming ways of working Our colleagues are crucial to the success Embracing new ways of working Progress in 2018 of our business.
In order to deliver our We are embracing new ways of working We recognise that our colleagues play a transformation during the current strategic and transforming the way in which change critical role in our transformation and have plan and beyond, our colleagues will require is delivered.
In particular, 15 per cent of made significant progress in providing them new skills and capabilities to reflect the change is now delivered using Agile, with the skills they will need in the future as changing needs of the business as it adapts with 6,600colleagues trained in these well as an improved working environment and to the evolving operating environment.
This allows us to build cross tools to deliver change more effectively.
At the the same time, colleague expectations of functional teams and increase collaboration, same time, we are simplifying and improving their employers are changing.
As a result, efficiency and expertise in our decisions and, our colleague proposition, responding to we are making our biggest ever investment through this, deliver products and services changing expectations towards employers.
in colleagues to ensure that we continue to that our customers really want, at a pace that attract, develop and retain these skills and ensures these remain relevant and timely.
Investing in our people capabilities, while fostering a culture that The ongoing improvement in the capabilities We are making the biggest ever investment in supports a way of working that is agile, trustof our people and the methods in which our people.
As part of this, we have increased based and reinforces the Groups values.
we work will drive a continued cultural shift training hours by over 50 per cent to 4.3 million across the organisation and will help us deliver hours, with over 1 million of these relating to our significant strategic transformation.
In developing key skills for the future.
We are KEY OBJECTIVES FOR 2018 TO 2020 addition, this will improve satisfaction and on course to deliver our target of cumulative make it easier to do business, while also 50 per cent increase in training and development to 4.4million training hours relating to skills for 4.4 million hours per year delivering a leading customer experience.
Up to 30 per cent change efficiency improvement In addition, we have brought our teams closer Focus for 2019 together, improving productivity and bringing We will continue to roll out Agile as we further benefits to our colleagues working MEASURING PERFORMANCE move towards our target of more than experience.
Over 32 per cent of colleagues 50percent of change delivered through are now located in modern, collaborative these methodologies by the end of this 1 million working environments, as we continue to strategic plan.
This combined with changes move to six strategic hubs across the UK.
Future skills training hours delivered that will bring our colleagues closer together, We are also reducing complexity to allow our boosting innovation and increasing simplicity, colleagues to spend more time focusing on will make it easier for our people to focus on 15% decisions that really matter.
Consistent with delivering greater value for customers.
We will this focus, we have started the migration of Change delivered using Agile also further up-skill our colleagues alongside 60 people processes and systems onto a targeted recruitment to ensure our colleagues single HR platform, leveraging cloud based have the required capabilities to deliver our technology, and completely redesigned transformation.
The attraction, retention and our performance management process, development of talent will be supported one of our key colleague journeys, reducing by further improvements to our colleague management time, bureaucracy and process, proposition, ensuring that this remains and focusing on meaningful colleague compelling and aligns to our culture.
32% of colleagues are now I genuinely feel much in co-located teams, more valued as a moving from 39 locations colleague than before to 6 strategic hubs the move.
Its great to see Lloyds Banking Group making such an investment in colleagues and its just a much more pleasant experience coming into the office Lloyds Banking Group colleague
