54 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Executive Committee Delivering our vision and managing a more agile organisation Executive Director members The depth of diverse experience and complementary skills in our management team strengthens our ability to adjust to changing market environments and deliver our strategy to become the best bank for customers, colleagues andshareholders.
Antnio Horta-Osrio Executive George Culmer Executive Director Juan Colombs Executive Director Director and GroupChiefExecutive and ChiefFinancial Officer and ChiefOperating Officer Antnio joined the Board as an George joined the Board as an Juan joined the Group as Chief Risk Executive Director in January ExecutiveDirector in May 2012.
Officer in January 2011 and joined 2011 and became Group Chief Read his full biography on page 53. the Board as an Executive Director in Executive in March 2011.
He became Chief full biography on page 53.
Read his full biography on page 53.
Other members and attendees 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 with lead coverage of UK banks.
Carla has as part of global operating environments such 1.
Carla Antunes Da Silva Group Strategy, over 18 years of financial analysis, strategy as Barclays, Capita and Indian headquartered Corporate Ventures and Investor Relations and management experience from her IT and business process outsourcing firms.
His Director GEC attendee time with JPMorgan, Deutsche Bank and experience spans systems integration, large Appointed: June 2018 GEC Credit Suisse Group.
Carla currently serves scale data analytics, enterprise application Skills and experience: Since joining the as a Non-Executive Director of Lloyds Bank platforms, software product development, IT Group in October 2015, Carla leads the Corporate Markets plc.
2018-2020 Group Strategic Review and, prior to that, the work on the Bank of the Future.
John Chambers Group Chief Information 3.
Kate Cheetham Group General Counsel Officer GEC attendee GEC attendee Carla is responsible for supporting senior management with strategic decision making Appointed: June 2018 GEC Appointed: July 2017 GEC such as recommendations on mergers, Skills and experience: John was appointed Skills and experience: Kate was appointed acquisitions disposals, joint ventures and as the Groups Chief Information Officer Group General Counsel in January 2015.
Kate partnerships and also manages the Groups in September 2017.
During the course of joined the Group in 2005 from Linklaters, relationships with shareholders, analysts his career, John has been responsible for where she was a corporate lawyer specialising and the wider investment community.
Carla delivering large scale IT solutions, building in M&A transactions.
Before her current joined from Credit Suisse where she headed teams that can operate at scale and working role, Kate held a number of senior positions the European Banks equity research team, Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 55 including Deputy Group General Counsel ensuring we are ready to meet the future the Group Stephen was Chief Risk Officer at and General Counsel for Group Legal.
Kate expectations of our customers.
Barclays Corporate and prior to that was Chief is a trustee of the Lloyds Bank Foundation for Credit Officer for the UK Retail and Corporate 8.
David Oldfield Group Director, England and Wales and is a Non-Executive business in Barclays.
In a 21-year career at Commercial Banking Director of Scottish Widows.
Barclays, Stephen undertook a variety of roles in the front office and risk.
He was also Appointed: May 2014 GEC 4.
Paul Day Chief Internal Auditor GEC a member of the Group Risk Executive team Skills and experience: David was appointed as attendee and a Chair of Group Credit Committees.
Group Director for the Commercial Banking Stephen is also the Groups Executive Sponsor Appointed: September 2016 GEC division in September 2017 responsible for for Gender Diversity and Equality.
Skills and experience: Paul joined the Group supporting corporate clients from SMEs and as a contractor in September 2016 and was mid corporates through to large corporates 12.
Jennifer Tippin Group People and formally employed by the Group in June and financial institutions.
He joined from Deloitte where he was a his career with Lloyds Bank in 1986 on the Appointed: July 2017 GEC partner in the UK Financial Services practice graduate entrant programme and has held and led the UK Financial Services Internal a number of key leadership roles across Skills and experience: Jen was appointed Audit business.
Paul has specialised in internal all Divisions of the Group since that time.
as Group People and Productivity Director and external audit roles across financial Immediately prior to his current role he was in July2017 and is responsible for leading services for over 20 years, including 10years Group Director Retail and Consumer Finance, the people function, property, sourcing, in various leadership roles in Barclays Internal responsible for the Lloyds, Halifax, Bank of divestment and development teams and Audit.
Scotland, Lex Autolease and Black Horse managing the Groups cost base.
Prior to Brands including the retail branch networks, her current role, Jen held the roles of Group 5.
Antonio Lorenzo Chief Executive, Scottish customer products and telephone banking, Customer Services Director and Managing Widows and Group Director, Insurance in addition to Retail Business Banking and Director, Retail Business Banking.
Jen and Wealth UK Wealth businesses.
David is a Fellow of has enjoyed a career spanning multiple the Chartered Institute of Bankers.
He is also industries, including banking, engineering Appointed: March 2011 GEC Group Executive Sponsor for Disability.
Jen is a Non-Executive Skills and experience: Antonio joined the Director of Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets Group as head of the Wealth and International 9.
Jakob Pfaudler Group Director, plc and a Non-Executive Director of the Kent division and Group Corporate Development, Community Banking GECattendee Community NHS Foundation Trust.
leading the Groups strategic review and Appointed: September 2017 GEC subsequent programme of reducing 13.
Andrew Walton Group Corporate Affairs non-core assets and exiting international Skills and experience: Jakob was appointed Director locations.
From 2013, he assumed the role Group Director, Community Banking in Appointed: December 2018 GEC of Group Director, Consumer Finance & September 2017.
From 2015 to 2017 he was Group Corporate Development, leading the Chief Operating Officer for the Retail Bank Skills and experience: Andrew joined the divisions growth strategy whilst completing and prior to this he was Managing Director Group as Group Corporate Affairs Director, the sale of TSB.
At the end of 2015 he was of Asset Finance.
Other previous roles taking on responsibility for internal and appointed Chief Executive, Scottish Widows include Chief Operating Officer for Wealth & external communications, reputation and Group Director, Insurance and during International, Managing Director International management and public affairs.
Prior to 2017 he also assumed responsibility for Retail and International Banking and Lloyds, Andrew was Senior Managing Director the Wealth Division.
Antonio is also Group Wholesale Banking Operations Director.
and Global Head of Financial Services for the Executive Sponsor for Emerging Talent.
Strategic Communications segment of FTI Jakob joined the Group in 2004 having spent Antonio joined the Group from Santander, Consulting.
six years with McKinsey & Company, in their where he had worked in a number of different London office.
Prior to McKinsey, Jakob spent 14.
Malcolm Wood Company Secretary leadership roles and jurisdictions since time with Goldman Sachs and Oliver Wyman.
He was part of the management team Jakob is also a Non-Executive Director of that completed the take-over of Alliance & Appointed: November 2014 GEC Scottish Widows.
Leicester and Bradford & Bingley and was Skills and experience: Malcolm joined the Chief Financial Officer of Santander UK.
Janet Pope Chief of Staff and Group Group as Company Secretary in November Before Santander, Antonio spent over nine Director, Responsible Business and Inclusion 2014.
Read his full biography on page 53. years at Arthur Andersen.
Vim Maru Group Director, Retail Skills and experience: Janet joined the Group in 2008 to run the Savings business.
She was Appointed: September 2013 GEC previously Chief Executive at Alliance Trust Skills and experience: Vim was appointed Savings, prior to which she was EVP Global Group Director, Retail in September 2017.
He Strategy at Visa International.
Janet spent joined the Group in June 2011 as Managing 10years at Standard Chartered Bank where Director, Customer Products.
Vim is also a she held a variety of roles including Retail UK Finance Board member, leading on Retail Banking MD for Africa and non-executive Banking.
Previously Vim worked for over directorships at Standard Chartered Bank 12 years at Santander, in a range of roles in Zimbabwe, Kenya, Zambia and Botswana.
Corporate Strategy, Mergers & Acquisitions, Janet is Chair of the Charities Aid Foundation the Life Division and most recently held the Bank and a Non-Executive Director of position of Director, Retail Products.
She is also the Groups Executive Sponsor for Sexual 7.
Zaka Mian Group Director, Transformation Orientation and Gender Identity.
Appointed: August 2016 GEC Skills and experience: Zak joined the Group 11.
Stephen Shelley Chief Risk Officer in 1989 as a Business Analyst in IT and has Appointed: September 2017 GEC carried out multiple roles involving Retail Skills and experience: Stephen was appointed CIO, Head of IT Architecture and leading Chief Risk Officer in September 2017.
He the Digital Transformation programme.
He joined the Group in May 2011 as Chief Credit was appointed Group Director, Digital and Officer for Wholesale, Commercial and Transformation in 2016 and his responsibilities International.
In October 2012 he became increased in September 2017 as the Group Risk Director, Commercial Banking Risk Director, Transformation.
He is responsible and was also a member of the Commercial for the digital transformation of the Group, Banking Management Group.
Prior to joining including all IT and business change, and
