52 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 1 Board of Directors Comprising Directors with the right mix ofskills and experience, the Board is collectively responsible for overseeing delivery of theGroups strategy.
1 2 3 4 NG Re RB Ri A NG Re RB Ri A NG Re Ri A Ri 2 3 5 6 7 8 A Ri Re RB Ri A NG Ri Re RB Ri 9 10 11 12 NG Re RB Ri 13 A NG RB Member of Audit Committee M ember of Nomination and M ember of Responsible Governance Committee Business Committee Re Ri Member of Remuneration M ember of Board Risk Committee Chairman Committee Committee 1 Deborah McWhinney served as a Director throughout the year and retired from the Board on 31 December 2018.
2 Amanda Mackenzie is to be appointed to the Remuneration Committee with effect from 1 March 2019.
3 Nick Prettejohn is to be appointed to the Nomination and Governance Committee with effect from 1 March 2019.
Experience across a range of sectors, 1.
Simon Henry Independent Director including banking, asset and investment Appointed: June 2012 Board, April 2014 Appointed: June 2014 management, manufacturing and utilities Chairman Skills and experience: Extensive experience as chairman in a range Skills and experience: Deep international experience in board level of industries Deep financial services knowledge including strategy and execution Strong board governance experience, insurance and banking Extensive knowledge of financial markets, including investor relations and remuneration Significant experience with strategic planning treasury and risk management Anita was previously Chairman of Victrex and implementation Qualification as an Audit Committee Financial plc, the Senior Independent Director of Regulatory and public policy experience Expert Aberdeen Asset Management and IMI plc, an gained from senior positions in Downing Street, Strong board governance experience, Executive Director of Abbott Mead Vickers, Regulators and a wide range of industries including investor relations and remuneration a Non-Executive Director of Northumbrian Credibility with key stakeholders Simon was formerly Chief Financial Officer Water and has held various investment and Strong leadership qualities marketing roles at Scottish Provident and the and Executive Director of Royal Dutch Shell plc.
He was also previously Chair of the Royal Bank of Scotland.
Lord Blackwell is an experienced Chairman European Round Table CFO Taskforce and and Non-Executive Director within the External appointments: Chairman of Croda a Member of the Main Committee of the financial services sector having previously International Plc and a Non-Executive Director 100Group of UK FTSE CFOs.
been Chairman of Scottish Widows Group.
was previously Senior Independent Director External appointments: Non-Executive 3.
Alan Dickinson Independent Director and Chairman of the UK Board for Standard Director of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Appointed: September 2014 Life and Director of Group Development at Limited, Independent Director of PetroChina Skills and experience: NatWest Group.
His past Board roles have Company Limited, Member of the Defence also included Chairman of Interserve plc, and Highly regarded retail and commercial banker Board and Chair of the Defence Audit Non-Executive Director of Halma plc, Dixons Committee, UK Government, Member of the Strong strategic, risk and core banking Group, SEGRO and Ofcom.
He was Head of Advisory Panel of CIMA and of the Advisory experience the Prime Ministers Policy Unit from 1995 to Board of the Centre for European Reform.
Regulatory and public policy experience 1997 and was appointed a Life Peer in 1997.
Alan has 37 years experience with the Royal 5.
Lord Lupton CBE Independent Director External appointments: Governor of the Bank of Scotland, most notably as Chief and Chairman of Lloyds Bank Corporate Yehudi Menuhin School and a member of the Executive of RBS UK.
More recently, Alan was Markets plc Governing Body of the Royal Academy ofMusic.
a Non-Executive Director of Willis Limited Appointed: June 2017 and Chairman of its Risk Committee.
Anita Frew Deputy Chairman and Skills and experience: was formerly Chairman of Brown, Shipley Senior Independent Director Extensive international corporate experience, & Co. Limited, a Non-Executive Director Appointed: December 2010 Board, especially in financial markets of Nationwide Building Society where he May 2014 Deputy Chairman, May 2017 Strong board governance experience, was Chairman of its Risk Committee and a Senior Independent Director including investor relations and remuneration Governor of Motability.
Skills and experience: Regulatory and public policy experience External appointments: Chairman of Significant board, financial and general Significant experience in strategic planning Urban&Civic plc.
management experience and implementation Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53 Lord Lupton was Deputy Chairman of Significant experience in strategic planning and member of the Groups Management BaringBrothers, co-founded the London and implementation Committee.
He was a Non-Executive Director office of Greenhill & Co. and was Chairman of Santander UK and subsequently its Experience in consumer analysis, marketing of Greenhill Europe.
He is also a former Nonand distribution Chairman of Trustees of Dulwich Picture Executive Director of the Court of the Bank of Stuart is a former Non-Executive Director Gallery, a Trustee of the British Museum, England.
of TSB Banking Group plc, TSB Bank plc, Governor of Downe House School and a External appointments: Non-Executive LV Group, Virgin Direct and Vitality Health member of the International Advisory Board Director of EXOR N. V. Fundao formerly Prudential Health.
Until recently he of Global Leadership Foundation.
He became Champalimaud and Sociedade Francisco was the Interim Chairman of Provident Financial a Life Peer in October 2015 and is a former Manuel dos Santos in Portugal, a member of plc.
He was also a former Senior Independent Treasurer of the Conservative Party.
He served the Board of Stichting INPAR Management Director of Swinton Group Limited.
In his on the House of Lords Select Committee Enable and Chairman of the Wallace Collection.
executive career, he was President and Chief onCharities.
Operating Officer of Aspen Insurance after 11.
George Culmer Executive Director External appointments: Senior Advisor to spending nine years with General Electric as andChief Financial Officer Greenhill Europe and Chairman of the Chief Executive Officer of the UK Consumer Appointed: May 2012 Board Trustees of the Lovington Foundation.
Finance business then President of GE Capital Skills and experience: China.
Before that he was Chief Executive 6.
Amanda Mackenzie OBE Independent Extensive operational and financial expertise Officer of Tesco Personal Finance and Director including strategic and financial planning and Director of UK Retail Banking at the Royal Appointed: October 2018 control Bank of Scotland.
He was a Council member Skills and experience: of The Royal Institute for International Affairs Worked in financial services in the UK and Extensive experience in responsible business Chatham House.
overseas for over 25 years Considerable customer engagement External appointments: Senior Independent George was an Executive Director and Chief experience Director and Chair of the Risk & Capital Financial Officer of RSA Insurance Group, the Strong digital technology experience Committee at QBE UK Limited formerly QBE former Head of Capital Management of Zurich Insurance Europe Limited.
Financial Services and Chief Financial Officer Significant marketing and brand background of its UK operations as well as holding various Amanda was a member of Avivas Group 9.
Sara Weller CBE Independent Director senior management positions at Prudential.
He Executive for seven years and Chief Marketing Appointed: February 2012 is a Non-Executive Director of Scottish Widows.
Prior to her Skills and experience: External appointments: None.
current role, Amanda was seconded from Aviva Background in retail and associated sectors, as Executive Adviser to Project Everyone, to 12.
Juan Colombs Executive Director including financial services help launch the United Nations Sustainable andChief Operating Officer Strong board governance experience, Development Goals.
She has over 25 years of Appointed: November 2013 Board, January including investor relations and remuneration commercial business practice, including director 2011- September 2017 Chief Risk Officer, roles at British Airways AirMiles, BT, Hewlett Passionate advocate of customers, the September 2017 Chief Operating Officer Packard Inc, British Gas and Mothercare plc.
community, financial inclusion and the Skills and experience: development of digital skills External appointments: Chief Executive of Significant banking and risk management Business in the Community The Princes Considerable experience of boards at both experience Responsible Business Network, a Life Fellow executive and non-executive level International business and management of the Royal Society of Arts and Fellow of the Saras previous appointments include experience Marketing Society.
Managing Director of Argos, various senior Juan is responsible for leading a number positions at J Sainsbury including Deputy 7.
Nick Prettejohn Independent Director of critical Group functions and driving the Managing Director, Chairman of the Planning andChairman of Scottish Widows Group transformation activities across the Group Inspectorate, Lead Non-Executive Director at Appointed: June 2014 in order to build the Bank of the Future.
He the Department of Communities and Local Skills and experience: was previously the Chief Risk Officer and an Government, a Board member at the Higher Deep financial services experience, Executive Director of Santanders UK business.
Education Funding Council, a Non-Executive particularly in insurance Prior to this, he held a number of senior risk, Director of Mitchells & Butlers as well as a control and business management roles In-depth regulatory knowledge and number of senior management roles for across the Corporate, Investment, Retail Abbey National and Mars Confectionery.
experience and Risk Divisions of the Santander Group.
External appointments: Non-Executive Governance experience and strong He was previously the Vice Chairman of the leadership qualities Director of United Utilities Group and International Financial Risk Institute.
Chair of their Remuneration Committee Significant experience in strategic planning External appointments: None.
and a member of their Nomination and implementation Committee, Lead Non-Executive Director Nick has served as Chief Executive of Lloyds 13.
Malcolm Wood Company Secretary at the Department for Work and Pensions, a of London, Prudential UK and Europe and Appointed: November 2014 Governing Council Member of Cambridge Chairman of Brit Insurance.
He is a former NonSkills and experience: University and Trustee of Lloyds Bank Executive Director of the Prudential Regulation Foundation for England and Wales.
Malcolm was previously General Counsel Authority and of Legal & General Group Plc and Company Secretary of Standard Life as well as Chairman of the Financial Services 10.
Antnio Horta-Osrio Executive Director after a career as a corporate lawyer in private Practitioner Panel and the Financial Conduct and Group Chief Executive practice in London and Edinburgh.
He has a Authoritys Financial Advice Working Group.
Appointed: January 2011 Board, March 2011 wealth of experience in governance, policy He was previously a Member of the BBC Trust Group Chief Executive and regulation.
He is a Fellow of the Institute and Chairman of the Britten-Pears Foundation.
Skills and experience: of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators External appointments: Chairman of Reach and a Member of the Corporate Governance Extensive experience in, and understanding plc formerly Trinity Mirror plc and of their Council and the GC100.
Malcolm is an of, both retail and commercial banking built Nomination Committee.
He is also Chairman attendee of the Group Executive Committee.
over a period of more than 30 years, working of the Royal Northern College of Music and a both internationally and in the UK member of the Board of Opera Ventures.
Drive, enthusiasm and commitment to 8.
Stuart Sinclair Independent Director customers Appointed: January 2016 Proven ability to build and lead strong management teams Skills and experience: Antnio previously worked for Citibank, Extensive experience in retail banking, insurance and consumer finance Goldman Sachs and held various senior management positions at Grupo Santander Governance and regulatory experience before becoming its Executive Vice President
