106 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk management framework and is embedded into our policies, authorities and limits, to Risk management is at the heart of our strategy guide decision-making and risk management.
The Board is responsible to become the best bank for customers.
for approving the Groups risk appetite statement at least annually.
GroupBoard-level metrics are cascaded into more detailed business Our mission is to protect our customers, appetite metrics and limits.
colleagues and the Group, whilst enabling Group risk appetite includes the following areas: sustainable growth in targeted segments.
This is Credit the Group has a conservative and well-balanced credit portfolio achieved through informed risk decision-making through the economic cycle, generating an appropriate return on equity, inline with the Groups target return on equity in aggregate.
and superior risk and capital management, supported by a consistent risk-focused culture.
Regulatory and legal the Group complies with all relevant regulation and all applicable laws including codes of practice which have legal The risk overview pages 30 to 35 provides a summary of risk management implications and or legal obligations.
It highlights the important role of risk as a strategic differentiator, key areas of focus for risk during 2018, and the role of risk Conduct the Groups product design and sales practices ensure that products are transparent and meet customer needs.
management in enhancing the customer experience, along with an overview of the Groups Risk Management Framework, and the principal Operational the Group has robust controls in place to manage risks faced by the Group and key mitigating actions.
operational losses, reputational events and regulatory breaches.
Itidentifies and assesses emerging risks and acts to mitigate these.
This full risk management section provides a more in-depth picture of how risk is managed within the Group, detailing the Groups emerging risks, People the Group leads responsibly and proficiently, manages its people approach to stress testing, risk governance, committee structure, appetite resource effectively, supports and develops colleague talent, and meets for risk pages 106 to 114 and a full analysis of the primary risk categories legal and regulatory obligations related to its people.
pages114 to 159 the framework by which risks are identified, managed, Capital the Group maintains capital levels commensurate with a prudent mitigated and monitored.
level of solvency, and aims to deliver consistent and high quality earnings.
Each risk category is described and managed using the following standard Funding and liquidity the Group maintains a prudent liquidity profile headings: definition, exposures, measurement, mitigation and monitoring.
and a balance sheet structure that limits its reliance on potentially volatile sources of funding.
The Groups approach to risk Governance the Group has governance arrangements that support the The Group operates a prudent approach to risk with rigorous effective long-term operation of the business, maximise shareholder value management controls to support sustainable business growth and and meet regulatory and societal expectations.
Through a strong and independent risk function Riskdivision, a robust control framework is maintained to identify Market the Group has robust controls in place to manage its inherent andescalate current and emerging risks, support sustainable growth market risk and does not engage in any proprietary trading, reflecting the withinGroup risk appetite, and to drive and inform good risk reward customer focused nature of the Groups activities.
Model the Group has embedded a framework for the management To meet ring-fencing requirements from 1 January 2019, core UK retail of model risk to ensure effective control and oversight, compliance with financial services and ancillary retail activities have been ring-fenced from all regulatory rules and standards, and to facilitate appropriate customer other activities of the Group.
The Group Risk Management Framework and outcomes.
Group Risk Appetite apply across the Group and are supplemented by risk management frameworks and risk appetites for the sub-groups to meet Governance and control sub-group specific needs.
In each case these are aligned to the Group The Groups approach to risk is founded on a robust control framework position.
The Groups Corporate Governance Framework applies across and a strong risk management culture which are the foundation for the Lloyds Banking Group plc, Lloyds Bank plc, Bank of Scotland plc and delivery of effective risk management and guide the way all employees HBOS plc.
It is tailored where needed to meet the entity specific needs of approach their work, behave and make decisions.
Lloyds Bank plc and Bank of Scotland plc, and supplementary Corporate Governance is maintained through delegation of authority from the Board Governance Frameworks are in place to address sub-group specific down to individuals through the management hierarchy.
Senior executives requirements of the other sub-groups LBCM, Insurance and LBG Equity are supported by a committee based structure which is designed to ensure Investments.
See our revised Group governance arrangements and Group open challenge and support effective decision-making.
restructure to comply with ring-fencing on page 58.
The Groups risk appetite, principles, policies, procedures, controls and Risk culture reporting are regularly reviewed and updated where needed to ensure Based on the Groups conservative business model, prudent approach they remain fully in line with regulations, law, corporate governance and to risk management, and guided by the Board, the senior management industry good-practice.
articulates the core risk values to which the Group aspires, and sets the The interaction of the executive and non-executive governance structures tone at the top, with a strong focus on building and sustaining long-term relies upon a culture of transparency and openness that is encouraged by relationships with customers through the economic cycle.
The Groups both the Board and senior management.
code of responsibility reinforces colleague accountability for the risks they Board-level engagement, coupled with the direct involvement of senior take and their responsibility to prioritise their customers needs.
management in Group-wide risk issues at Group Executive Committee level, ensures that escalated issues are promptly addressed and Risk appetite remediation plans are initiated where required.
We define our risk appetite as the amount and type of risk that the Group Line managers are directly accountable for identifying and managing risks is prepared to seek, accept or tolerate in delivering our Group strategy.
in their individual businesses, ensuring that business decisions strike an appropriate balance between risk and reward and are consistent with the Group strategy and risk appetite are developed in tandem.
planning aims to optimise value within our risk appetite parameters and deliver on our promise to Help Britain Prosper.
Clear responsibilities and accountabilities for risk are defined across the Group through a three lines of defence model which ensures effective The Groups risk appetite statement details the risk parameters within independent oversight and assurance in respect of key decisions.
The statement forms part of our control Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 107 Financial reporting risk management Risk decision-making and reporting systems and internal controls Risk analysis and reporting enables better understanding of risks and returns, supporting the identification of opportunities as well as better The Group maintains risk management systems and internal controls management of risks.
relating to the financial reporting process which are designed to: An aggregate view of the Groups overall risk profile, key risks and ensure that accounting policies are appropriately and consistently management actions, and performance against risk appetite is reported applied, transactions are recorded accurately, and undertaken in to and discussed monthly at the Group Risk Committee with regular accordance with delegated authorities, that assets are safeguarded and reporting to the Board Risk Committee and the Board.
liabilities are properly stated: enable the calculation, preparation and reporting of financial, prudential Rigorous stress testing exercises are carried out to assess the impact of a range of adverse scenarios with different probabilities and severities to regulatory and tax outcomes in accordance with applicable International Financial Reporting Standards, statutory and regulatory requirements: inform strategic planning.
enable annual certifications relating to maintenance of appropriate tax The Chief Risk Officer regularly informs the Board Risk Committee of the accounting by the Senior Accounting Officer in accordance with the 2009 aggregate risk profile and has direct access to the Chairman and members Finance Act: of Board Risk Committee.
ensure that disclosures are made on a timely basis in accordance with statutory and regulatory requirements for example UK Finance Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure: US Sarbanes Oxley Act and, as far as possible, consistent with best practice: ensure ongoing monitoring to assess the impact of emerging regulation and legislation on financial, prudential regulatory and tax reporting: and ensure an accurate view of the Groups performance to allow the Board and senior management to appropriately manage the affairs and strategy of the business as a whole and each of its sub-groups.
The Group has a Disclosure Committee which assists the Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer in fulfilling their disclosure responsibilities under relevant listing and other regulatory and legal requirements.
In addition, the Audit Committee reviews the quality and acceptability of the Groups financial disclosures.
For further information on the Audit Committees responsibilities relating to financial reporting see pages 70 to 73.
Table 1.1: Exposure to risk arising from the business activities of the Group The table below provides a high level guide to how the Groups business activities are reflected through its risk-weighted assets.
Details of the business activities for each division are provided in the Divisional Results on pages 27 to 29.
Commercial Insurance and Central 1 2 Retail Banking Wealth items Group bn bn bn bn bn Risk-weighted assets RWAs Credit risk 74.5 74.7 0.6 11.7 161.5 3 Counterparty credit risk 4.7 2.5 7.2 Market risk 2.0 0.1 2.1 Operational risk 19.8 4.6 0.6 0.5 25.5 Total excluding threshold 94.3 86.0 1.2 14.8 196.3 4 Threshold 10.1 10.1 Total 94.3 86.0 1.2 24.9 206.4 1 As a separate regulated business, Insurance excluding Wealth maintains its own regulatory solvency requirements, including appropriate management buffers, and reports directly to the Insurance Board.
Insurance does not hold any RWAs, as its assets are removed from the Banking Groups regulatory capital calculations.
However, in accordance with Capital Requirements Directive and Regulation CRD IV rules, part of the Groups investment in Insurance is included in the calculation of threshold RWAs, while the remainder is taken as a capital deduction.
2 Central Items include assets held outside the main operating divisions, including assets relating to Group Corporate Treasury which holds the Groups liquidity portfolio, and other supporting functions.
3 Exposures relating to the default fund of a central counterparty and credit valuation adjustment risk are included in counterparty credit risk.
4 Threshold RWAs reflect the proportion of significant investments and deferred tax assets that are permitted to be risk-weighted instead of deducted from common equity tier 1 CET1 capital.
Significant investments primarily arise from the investment in the Groups Insurance business.
Principal risks The Groups principal risks are shown in the risk overview pages 32 to 35.
The Groups emerging risks are shown overleaf.
Full analysis of the Groups risk categories is on pages 114 to 159.
