10 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our business model How we create value, and what sets us apart We are a simple, low-risk,... with several evolving, customer focused UK financial distinctive competitive services provider... strengths... OUR PURPOSE UKs largest digital bank, branch reach and Helping Britain Prosper customer franchise with leading integrated Our success is interwoven with the UKs prosperity and we aim propositions to Help Britain Prosper through creating a responsible business Our scale and reach across the UK means that our customer that focuses on customers needs, and delivering long-term franchise extends to around 26 million customers, with 15.7 million sustainable success.
We are uniquely positioned to deal with customers' banking and investment needs.
OUR AIM Best bank for customers, colleagues Prudent, low risk participation choices with and shareholders strong capital position Doing the right thing for our customers, colleagues and Being low risk is fundamental to our business model.
Our low risk shareholders by meeting their financial needs, helping them appetite is reflected through the low level of non-performing loans succeed, improving our service proposition and creating value and run-off assets, as well as our relative credit default swap spread.
for them, is fundamental to our business model and the longOur financial strength has been transformed in recent years with our term sustainability of the business.
capital position amongst the strongest in the sector worldwide.
OUR PRODUCTS Market leading efficiency through tech-enabled Our product range is driven by our customers needs and is productivity improvements informed through comprehensive customer analysis and insight.
Our simpler operating model and focus on operational Lending Mortgages, credit cards, motor finance, personal and efficiency provide a cost advantage, which benefits both business loans customers and shareholders.
Deposit taking Current accounts and savings accounts Rigorous execution and management discipline Insurance Home insurance, motor insurance and protection focusing on key skills of the future Investment Pensions and investment products Experience of delivering change and transformation in recent Commercial financing Term lending, debt capital markets and years provides benefit as we further transform the business.
private equity Multi-brand, multi-channel customer proposition Risk management Interest rate hedging, currency and liquidity with data driven customer experience Operating in an integrated way through a range of distribution OUR BUSINESS AREAS Our business areas are structured according to the products channels ensures our customers can interact with us when and how they want.
and the services we provide to best serve our customers' financial needs.
We currently have three business areas: Offering our services through a number of recognised brands enables us to address the needs of different customer segments Retail more effectively.
Commercial Banking Insurance and Wealth pages 27 to 29 EXTERNAL As a large, UK focused financial As previously discussed on pages 08 to 09, the main external challenges we face are: services provider we face several Evolving and uncertain economic environment, including EU exit uncertainty external and internal challenges High levels of regulation Evolving customer needs Responding to technology innovations Managing pressure from increased competition Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information E S I M I X A M T R A N S Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 11... that underpin our clear strategy to transform the Group for success in a digital world...
In February 2018, we launched our new three year strategy to transform the Group for success in a digital world.
We identified four strategic priorities focused on the financial needs and behaviours of the customer of the future and are investing more than 3 billion in these strategic initiatives over the plan period.
OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES pages 12 to 15 Leading customer Maximising the experience Groups capabilities Driving stronger customer relationships Aligning the Groups capabilities as the through best-in-class propositions while UK's sole integrated financial services continuing to provide our customers provider to deepen customer relationships LEADING CUSTOMER with brilliant servicing and a seamless and grow in targeted segments.
EXPERIENCE experience across all channels.
Digitising the Group Transforming ways Deploying new technology to improve of working our efficiency and make banking simpler Enhancing colleague skills and processes, and easier for customers.
investing in agile working practices and embracing new technology to drive better outcomes for customers.... enabling us to Help Britain Prosper and deliver for all our stakeholders.
Successful implementation of our strategy will ensure we Help Britain Prosper and deliver sustainable success for all stakeholders including customers, colleagues and shareholders.
KEY STAKEHOLDER OUTCOMES Customers Shareholders Colleagues Market leading digital proposition with Sustainable and low risk growth Enhanced customer focus culture UKs largest branch network Market leading efficiency Transformed ways of working Single home for our customers banking Superior returns and lower cost of equity Enhanced colleague skills and capabilities and insurance needs Strong capital generation and attractive Compelling colleague proposition Personalised customer propositions distribution policy Better experience across channels pages 16 to 18 INTERNAL We also face a number of internal challenges: Operating as efficiently as possible while remaining the best bank for customers Ensuring we have the right people and culture to meet evolving customer needs Ensuring IT systems are effective and resilient and that we are prepared for the threat of cyber risk F O R M E S I T I G I D
