100 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Other remuneration disclosures This section discloses the remuneration staff.
The Committee reviews the policy with the close participation of the Groups awards made by the Group to Material annually and Committee pays particular Risk team, to embed performance measures Risk Takers MRTs in respect of the 2018 attention to the top management population, across the Groups reward structure which performance year.
Additional information including the highest paid colleagues in each are challenging and reflect Group and summarising the Groups remuneration division, those colleagues who perform senior divisional achievement in addition to personal policies, structure and governance is also management functions for the Group and contribution.
These disclosures should be MRTs.
Further details on the operation of the The use of a balanced scorecard approach read in conjunction with the disclosures Remuneration Committee can be found on to measure performance enables the for Executive Directors contained in the page 96 of the DRR.
Remuneration Committee to assess the Directors Remuneration Report DRR on The Group has a robust governance performance of the Group and its senior pages 82 to 99, and together comply with executives in a consistent and performanceframework, with the Remuneration Committee the requirements of Article 450 of the Capital reviewing all compensation decisions for driven way.
The Groups remuneration policy Requirements Regulation EU No.
575 2013 supports the business values and strategy, Executive Directors, senior management, CRR.
The remuneration principles and senior risk and compliance officers, high based on building long-term relationships practices detailed in the DRR apply to MRTs with customers and colleagues and managing earners and any other MRTs.
This approach to and non-MRTs in the same way as to Executive governance is cascaded through the Group the financial consequences of business Directors other than where stated in this decisions across the entire economic cycle.
with the Group People Committee having disclosure.
oversight for all other colleagues.
Further detail can be found in the DRR.
In The Group has applied the EBA Delegated particular, see pages 86 to 87, 89, 92 to 94 and Regulation EU No 604 2014 to determine Governance and risk 97 to 99 of the DRR.
which colleagues should be identified management as MRTs.
MRTs are colleagues who are Design and structure of An essential component of the approach considered to have a material impact on the to remuneration is the governance process remuneration Groups risk profile, and include, but are not that underpins it.
This ensures that the policy limited to: When establishing the remuneration policy is robustly applied and risk is managed and associated frameworks, the Group Senior management, Executive Directors, appropriately.
is required to take into account its size, members and attendees of the Group In addition to setting the overall remuneration organisation and the nature, scope and Executive Committee GEC and their policy and philosophy for the Group, the complexity of its activities.
For the purpose respective executive level direct reports: Remuneration Committee ensures that of remuneration regulation, Lloyds Bank Non-Executive Directors colleagues who could have a material impact plc is treated as a proportionality level I firm on the Groups risk profile are provided and therefore subject to the more onerous Approved persons performing with appropriate incentives and reward to remuneration rules.
significant influence functions SIFs and encourage them to enhance the performance Remuneration is delivered via a combination or all colleagues performing a senior of the Group and that they are recognised for of fixed and variable remuneration.
Fixed management function their individual contribution to the success of remuneration reflects the role, responsibility Other highly remunerated individuals the organisation, whilst ensuring that there and experience of a colleague.
Variable whose activities could have a material is no reward for excessive risk taking.
The remuneration is based on an assessment impact on the Groups risk profile Remuneration Committee works closely with of individual, business area and Group the Risk Committee in ensuring the Group performance.
The mix of variable and fixed Performance Share GPS plan outcome is Decision making process for remuneration is driven by seniority, grade and moderated.
The two Committees determine role.
Taking into account the expected value remuneration policy whether the proposed GPS outcome and of awards, the performance-related elements The Group has a strong belief in aligning performance assessments adequately of pay make up a considerable proportion the remuneration delivered to the Groups reflect the risk appetite and framework of the of the total remuneration package for MRTs, executives with the successful performance Group: whether it took account of current whilst maintaining an appropriate balance of the business and, through this, the delivery and future risks: and whether any further between the fixed and variable elements.
of long-term, superior and sustainable adjustment is required or merited.
The The maximum ratio of fixed to variable returns to shareholders.
It has continued to Group and the Remuneration Committee are remuneration for MRTs is 200 per cent, seek the views of shareholders and other key determined to ensure that the aggregate of which has been approved by shareholders stakeholders with regard to remuneration the variable remuneration for all colleagues is 98.77percent of votes cast at the AGM on policy and seeks to motivate, incentivise appropriate and balanced with the interests of 15May 2014. and retain talent while being mindful of the shareholders and all other stakeholders.
Remuneration for control functions is set in economic outlook.
An essential component The Remuneration Committees terms of relation to benchmark market data to ensure of the Groups approach to remuneration is reference are available from the Company that it is possible to attract and retain staff the governance process that underpins it.
This Secretary and are displayed on the Groups with the appropriate knowledge, experience ensures that the policy is robustly applied and website, www.
An appropriate balance between risk is managed appropriately.
These terms fixed and variable compensation supports The overarching purpose of the Remuneration are reviewed each year to ensure compliance this approach.
Generally, control function Committee is to consider, agree and with the remuneration regulations and were staff receive a higher proportion of fixed recommend to the Board an overall last updated in November 2018. remuneration than other colleagues and remuneration policy and philosophy for the aggregate ratio of fixed to variable the Group that is defined by, supports and Link between pay and remuneration for all control function staff does is closely aligned to its long-term business not exceed 100 per cent.
Particular attention performance strategy, business objectives, risk appetite is paid to ensure remuneration for control The Groups approach to reward is intended and values and recognises the interests of function staff is linked to the performance relevant stakeholders.
The remuneration to provide a clear link between remuneration of their function and independent from the and delivery of its key strategic objectives, policy governs all aspects of remuneration business areas they control.
and applies in its entirety to all divisions, supporting the aim of becoming the best bank for customers, and through that, for business units and companies in the Group, including wholly-owned overseas businesses shareholders.
To this end, the performance management process has been developed, and all colleagues, contractors and temporary Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 101 The table below summarises the different remuneration elements for MRTs this includes control function staff and non-MRTs.
Base salaries are reviewed annually, taking into account Applies to: individual performance and market information.
Further Senior Management, Executive Directors, members Base salary information on base salaries can be found on page 97 of the attendees of the GEC and their respective direct reports DRR.
Approved Persons performing SIFs and or all colleagues performing a Senior Management Function Other MRTs Non-MRTs Non-Executive Director fees are reviewed periodically by the Applies to: Board.
Further information on fees can be found on page 94 Non-Executive Directors NEDs Fees of the DRR.
The fixed share award, made annually, delivers Lloyds Banking Applies to: Group shares over a period of five years.
Its purpose is to Senior Management, Executive Directors, members Fixed share ensure that total fixed remuneration is commensurate with attendees of the GEC and their respective direct reports award the role, responsibilities and experience of the individual: Approved Persons performing SIFs and or all colleagues provides a competitive reward package: and is appropriately performing a Senior Management Function balanced with variable remuneration, in line with regulatory Other MRTs requirements.
The fixed share award can be amended or Non-MRTs withdrawn in the following circumstances: to reflect a change in role: to reflect a Group leave policy e. g. parental leave or sickness absence : termination of employment with the Group: if the award would be inconsistent with any applicable legal, regulatory or tax requirements or market practice.
Further information on fixed share awards can be found on page 97 of the DRR.
Core benefits for UK-based colleagues include pension, Applies to: private medical insurance, life insurance, car or car allowance Non-Executive Directors NEDs Benefits eligibility dependent on grade and other benefits that may Senior Management, Executive Directors, members be selected through the Groups flexible benefits plan.
Further attendees of the GEC and their respective direct reports information on benefits and all-employee share plans can be Approved Persons performing SIFs and or all colleagues found on pages 97 to 98 of the DRR.
Benefits can be amended performing a Senior Management Function or withdrawn in the following circumstances: Other MRTs to reflect a change to colleague contractual terms: Non-MRTs to reflect a change of grade: termination of employment with the Group: to reflect a change of Reward Strategy benefit provision: if the award would be inconsistent with any statutory or tax requirements.
Details of NEDs benefits are set out on page 99 of the DRR.
The Group Performance Share GPS plan is an annual Applies to: discretionary bonus plan.
The plan is designed to reflect Senior Management, Executive Directors, members Short-term specific goals linked to the performance of the Group.
The attendees of the GEC and their respective direct reports variable majority of colleagues and all MRTs participate in the GPS plan.
remuneration Approved Persons performing SIFs and or all colleagues arrangements Individual GPS awards are based upon individual contribution, performing a Senior Management Function overall Group financial results and Balanced Scorecard ratings Other MRTs over the past financial year.
The Groups total risk-adjusted Non-MRTs GPS outcome is determined by the Remuneration Committee annually as a percentage of the Groups underlying profit, modified for: Group Balanced Scorecard performance Collective and discretionary adjustments to reflect risk matters and or other factors.
The Group applies deferral arrangements to GPS and variable pay awards made to colleagues.
GPS awards for MRTs are subject to deferral and a holding period in line with regulatory requirements and market practice.
Further information on the GPS plan can be found on pa ges 93 and 98 of the DRR.
Eligibility based on seniority, grade and role 102 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Other remuneration disclosures continued The Group Ownership Share GOS plan is a core part of the Applies to: reward strategy and an important tool for aligning the Groups Senior Management, Executive Directors, members Group reward strategy to the long-term performance of the business.
attendees of the GEC and their respective direct reports Ownership Share Through the application of carefully considered, stretching Plan Approved Persons performing SIFs and or all colleagues target measures, the Group can ensure that awards are performing a Senior Management Function forfeited or restricted where performance does not meet the Other MRTs desired level.
Non-MRTs The GOS pays out in shares based on performance against Group financial and other non-financial strategic targets measured over a three-year period.
Shares are released over a minimum three to five-year period and are then subject to a holding period MRTs only in line with regulatory requirements and market practice.
Further information on the GOS plan can be found on pages98 and 99 of the DRR.
Deferral, vesting At least 40 per cent of MRTs variable remuneration above MRTs vested variable remuneration including variable and performance certain thresholds is deferred into Lloyds Banking Group remuneration subject to a holding period can be recovered adjustment Shares.
For all MRTs, variable remuneration is deferred in line from colleagues up to seven years after the date of award with the regulatory requirements for three, five or seven years, in the case of a material or severe risk event clawback.
This depending on MRT category.
At least 50 per cent of each period may be extended to ten years where there is an release is subject to a 12 month holding period.
ongoing internal or regulatory investigation.
Clawback is used alongside other performance adjustment processes.
For all colleagues, any deferred variable remuneration amount is subject to performance adjustment malus in accordance Further information on deferral, vesting and performance with the Groups Deferral and Performance Adjustment Policy.
adjustment can be found in the DRR on pages 94 and 99.
Guaranteed Guarantees, such as sign-on awards, may only be offered in Applies to: variable exceptional circumstances to new hires for the first year of Senior Management, Executive Directors, members remuneration service and in accordance with regulatory requirements.
attendees of the GEC and their respective direct reports Any awards made to new hires to compensate them for Approved Persons performing SIFs and or all colleagues unvested variable remuneration they forfeit on leaving their performing a Senior Management Function previous employment buy-out awards will be subject to Other MRTs appropriate retention, deferral, performance and clawback Non-MRTs arrangements in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements.
Retention awards may be made to existing colleagues in limited circumstances and are subject to prior regulatory approval in line with applicable regulatory requirements.
Shareholding Executive Directors: see DRR page 91.
Applies to: requirement Senior Management, Executive Directors, members All other MRTs and non-MRTs: 25 per cent to 100 per cent of attendees of the GEC and their respective direct reports the aggregate of base salary and fixed share award depending on grade.
Approved Persons performing SIFs and or all colleagues performing a Senior Management Function Other MRTs Non-MRTs Termination Executive Directors and GEC members: see page 96 of the Applies to: payments 2016 DRR.
Senior Management, Executive Directors, members attendees of the GEC and their respective direct reports All other termination payments comply with the Groups contractual, legal and regulatory requirements and are Approved Persons performing SIFs and or all colleagues made in such a way as to ensure they do not reward failure or performing a Senior Management Function misconduct and reflect performance over time.
Other MRTs Non-MRTs Eligibility based on seniority, grade and role Requirement based on seniority and grade Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 103 Table 1 Analysis of high earners by band 2018 2017 Material Risk Material Risk 1,2 3 Number of Material Risk Takers paid 1 million or more Takers Takers 1.0m 1.5m 30 35 1.5m 2.0m 8 11 2.0m 2.5m 7 2 2.5m 3.0m 1 1 3.0m 3.5m 2 3 3.5m 4.0m 4 4 4.0m 4.5m 4.5m 5.0m 5.0m 6.0m 6.0m 7.0m 7.0m 8.0m 1 1 1 Converted to Euros using the exchange rate 1 0.89135 average exchange rate 1 December 2018 31 December 2018 based on the European Commission Budget exchange rates.
The exchange rate used for 2017 was 1 0.88293.
2 Value of LTIP Group Ownership Share awards based on expected value at grant pre the application of the EBA discount factor.
3 Total number of Material Risk Takers earning more than 1m has decreased from 57 in 2017 to 53 in 2018.
4 2018 and 2017 data has been calculated using methodology consistent with EBA guidelines.
Table 2 Aggregate remuneration expenditure Material Risk Takers 1 Analysis of aggregate remuneration expenditure by division Retail and Group Community Commercial Insurance & Functions & 1 Banking Banking Wealth Services Total m m m m m Aggregate remuneration expenditure 22.7 62.1 10.8 95.6 191.2 1 Chief Operating Office comprises People and Productivity, Group Transformation, Chief Information Office and Chief Security Office.
Group Functions comprises Risk, Finance, Legal, Strategy, Group Corporate Affairs, Group Internal Audit, Company Secretariat and Responsible Business.
Table 3 Fixed and variable remuneration Material Risk Takers Analysis of remuneration between fixed and variable amounts Remuneration m Awarded in relation to the 2018 performance year Management body Executive Non-Executive Senior 2 Directors Directors Management Other MRTs 2018 Total Number of employees 3 10 147 120 280 Total fixed remuneration 5.8 61.6 36.0 103.4 Fixed Remuneration m Of which: Cash based 3.9 54.6 34.4 92.9 1 Of which: Shares 1.9 7.0 1.6 10.5 Total variable remuneration 6.0 57.0 24.7 87.7 Variable Of which: Upfront cash based 0.3 0.2 0.5 3 Remuneration Of which: Share based 6.0 56.7 24.5 87.2 m Of which: Deferred Vested 0.9 20.3 13.3 34.5 Unvested 5.1 36.4 11.2 52.7 Total remuneration 11.8 118.6 60.7 191.2 1 Released over a five year period.
2 Senior Management are defined as Group Executive Committee GEC members attendees excluding Group Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors and their direct reports excluding those direct reports who do not materially influence the risk profile of any in-scope group firm.
3 Values for LTIP Group Ownership Share awards based on expected value at the date of grant pre the application of the EBA discount factor.
104 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Other remuneration disclosures continued Table 4 Total outstanding deferred variable remuneration Remuneration m Total outstanding deferred variable remuneration at 31 December 2018 Management body Executive Non-Executive Senior Directors Directors Management Other MRTs 2018 Total Number of employees 3 10 147 120 280 Variable Total outstanding deferred variable remuneration 26.2 116.1 40.4 182.7 Remuneration Of which: Vested 5.9 16.7 7.4 30.0 m Of which: Unvested 20.3 99.4 33.0 152.7 Table 5 Other payments awarded in relation to the 2018 performance year Guaranteed bonuses Sign-on awards Severance payments Number of Total Number of Total Number of Total awards made m awards made m awards made m Management body Senior management Other Material Risk Takers Table 6 Deferred remuneration Analysis of deferred remuneration at 31 December 2018 Of which: Total amount of Total amount of outstanding outstanding remuneration Total amount of amendment Total amount of deferred 1 2 Remuneration deferred and retained exposed to ex-post explicit during the year due to exremuneration paid out in the m remuneration and or implicit adjustment post explicit adjustments performance year 3 Management body 26.2 26.2 1.7 Senior management 116.1 116.1 12.7 Other Material Risk Takers 40.4 40.4 9.6 1 Deferred in this context refers only to any unvested remuneration.
2 Retained refers to any variable remuneration for which the deferral period has ended but which is still subject to a holding period before release.
3 Reference to the Management Body relates to Executive Directors only.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to receive variable remuneration.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 105 Risk management All narrative and quantitative tables are Further information on risk management unaudited unless otherwise stated.
The canbe found: audited information is required to comply Risk overview 30 with the requirements of relevant International Note 52: Financial risk management 255 Financial Reporting Standards.
com The Groups approach to risk 106 The Group supports the recommendations Emerging risks 108 made in the report Enhancing the Risk Capital stress testing 110 Disclosures of Banks issued by the Enhanced Disclosure Task Force of the Financial Stability How risk is managed 110 Board in October 2012.
Risk governance 112 Full analysis of risk categories 114 Supporting green transport in London A new fleet of hybrid and electric buses is arriving on the streets of London, with funding provided through our Clean Growth Finance 50m Initiative CGFI.
Metroline, one of the capitals largest bus providers, asset finance facility to has used a 50 million asset finance facility to fund its fleet renewal fund Metrolines fleet programme, in line with London Mayor Sadiq Khans plans to renewal programme make London the worlds greenest global city.
Targets have been set by Transport for London to operate low-emission transport across the city and reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 60 percent before 2025.
Metroline is one of a number of businesses that have accessed discounted funding to support low carbon projects through the CGFI.
