Governance Directors Report Directors Report The Directors of the Company are pleased to present their Annual Share rights Report to shareholders, together with the financial statements for the The rights and obligations attached to the Companys ordinary shares are set out year ended 31 December 2018 with comparatives for the year ended in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from 31 December 2017.
Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Group Company Secretary.
The following sections of the Annual Report are incorporated into this Directors No shareholder shall be entitled to vote at a general meeting, either in person or Report by reference: by proxy, in respect of any share held by him or her unless all monies presently payable by him or her in respect of that share have been paid.
In addition, no The information that fulfils the requirements of the Strategic Report including shareholder shall be entitled to vote, either in person or by proxy, if he or she has the Financial Review can be found on pages 257 been served with a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 Board of Directors on pages 5961 concerning interests in those shares and has failed to supply the Company with the requisite information.
Results The Group made a profit before taxation from continuing operations, before Other than restrictions considered to be standard for a UK listed company there amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-underlying items for the are no limitations on the holding or transfer of ordinary shares in the Company, year, of 865 million 2017: 750 million.
After taking into account amortisation of both of which are governed and regulated by the Companys Articles of purchased intangible assets and non-underlying items, the profit of the Group Association and applicable legislation and regulation.
The Company is not aware before taxation for the year from continuing operations was 685 million of any agreements between holders of shares that may result in restrictions on 2017: 564 million.
Profit after taxation from continuing operations for the the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
Corporate Governance Statement During the year there were no businesses classified as discontinued operations.
The Companys Corporate Governance Report and the reports of the Audit, During the prior year the discontinued profit before taxation, before amortisation Nomination and Risk Committees are set out on pages 6281 and are, together of purchased intangible assets and non-underlying items for the year, was nil.
with the information on share rights set out above, incorporated into this After taking into account amortisation of purchased intangible assets and Corporate Governance Statement by reference.
non-underlying items, the profit of the discontinued operations for the prior year was 23 million.
Loss after taxation from discontinued operations for the prior Articles of Association year was 25 million.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
The Companys Articles of Association Dividends contain provisions relating to the appointment and removal of Directors.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend for the year of 43.2 pence 2017: 37.2 pence per share which is expected to be paid on 29 May 2019 to Substantial Shareholders shareholders on the register on 3 May 2019.
Together with the interim dividend of As at 1 March 2019 the Company had been notified of the following interests 17.2 pence 2017:14.4 pence per share paid in September 2018, this produces amounting to more than 3% in the issued share capital of the Company in a total dividend for the period of 60.4 pence 2017: 51.6 pence per share estimated accordance with DTR 5 of the FCAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules: to amount to 210 million 2017: 179 million.
Qatar Investment Authority 10.3% Blackrock Inc 6.9% Share capital As at 31 December 2018, the Company had 350,604,102 ordinary shares in issue The Capital Group Companies, Inc 6.8% 79 86 with a nominal value of 6 pence each, representing 100% of the total issued Lindsell Train Limited 5.0% share capital.
Authority to Purchase Shares The Company holds 2,434,685 of its ordinary shares in Treasury.
Therefore, The authority for the Company to purchase in the market up to 34,673,675 of its the total number of voting rights in the company is 348,169,417.
The figure ordinary shares representing 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as 348,169,417 may be used by shareholders as the denominator for the at the latest practicable date before publication of the Notice of the Companys calculations by which they will determine if they are required to notify their last AGM granted at the Companys last AGM, expires on the date of the interest in, or a change to their interest in, the Company under the FCAs forthcoming AGM.
Shareholders will be asked to give a similar authority to Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
purchase shares at the forthcoming AGM.
During the year, the Company issued 72,763 new ordinary shares and transferred 1,359,900 ordinary shares out of treasury, to settle employee share scheme awards.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 101 Directors Report continued Authority to Issue Shares Environment Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and without prejudice to As a Group, we recognise that we must use resources in ways that deliver the any rights attached to any existing shares or class of shares, any share may be long-term sustainability and profitability of the business and have a positive issued with such rights or restrictions as the Company may by ordinary impact on the environment.
We are taking such factors into account in developing resolution determine or, subject to and in default of such determination, as products and services that support these aims through companies listed on our the Board shall determine.
The Groups primary greenhouse gas GHG emissions arise from energy, waste and water in our offices and data centres around the world, from staff travel, Authority to Allot Shares and indirectly from our supply chain.
We are aware of the risks and opportunities The authority conferred on the Directors at last years AGM to allot shares in the for our business arising from climate change, and have developed measures to Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 7,996,448 representing 33.3% address them.
We will actively monitor these changes so we can adapt and of the issued share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at the respond as necessary.
latest practicable date before publication of the Notice of the Companys last AGM or, in connection with a pre-emptive offer to existing shareholders by way of a During the reporting period, we achieved an 18% reduction in our absolute carbon rights issue, up to a maximum nominal amount of 15,992,897 representing emissions and a 16% reduction in Carbon Emissions per Full Time Employee FTE.
66.6% of the issued share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at This is a slower rate of change to 2017, where LSEG achieved a 43% reduction in the latest practicable date before publication of the Notice of the Companys last carbon emissions per FTE.
This was due to significant action in 2017, where 64% AGM, expires on the date of the forthcoming AGM.
Shareholders will be asked to of the Groups electricity was moved to production by 100% natural renewable give a similar authority to allot shares at the forthcoming AGM.
Directors interests We are taking an active approach to emissions management, with our Directors interests in the shares of the Company as at 31 December 2018, global Environmental Management Group measuring GHG impacts across according to the register maintained under the Companies Act 2006, are set out in our property portfolio, including managed offices where possible.
We report the Directors Remuneration Report on page 97.
No company in the Group was, beyond the mandatory reporting guidelines to include Scope 3 emissions.
during or at the end of the year, party to any contract of significance in which any Performance is reported quarterly via our intranet, and we annually disclose Director was materially interested.
verified emissions on our website, in our CS and Annual Reports, and in response to CDP Carbon Disclosure Project and DJSI.
The Groups ESG performance is Directors indemnity also assessed by FTSE4Good.
Details of qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 in force during the course of the year ended 31 In June 2017, the Financial Stability Boards Task Force on Climate-related December 2018 can be found on page 67.
Such qualifying third-party indemnity Financial Disclosures TCFD released its reporting recommendations.
The Group provisions remain in force as at the date of approving this Directors Report.
signed the TCFD statement of support, affirming its commitment to support the recommendations, and sees them as an important step in driving improved global Employees consistency in voluntary global reporting standards.
More information on how the Information on the Companys wider responsibilities in relation to employees Group aligns to TCFD can be found in our wider responsibilities on page 38. including the Companys approach to human rights and diversity is given on page 3840, a description and the outcomes relating to the Companys employee Global 2018 GHG Emissions engagement survey Have Your Say can be found on page 39, and information on tCO e Tonnes of carbon 2 the Groups share schemes is provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on 1 dioxide equivalent 2018 2017 % change pages 9091.
The Company provides an induction programme for new 2,3 Total Group Carbon Footprint 17,864 21,866 18 employees, including training employees on health and safety and a range of 2 per m 0.201 0.235 15 development programmes for all employees to develop their skills and knowledge.
per FTE 3.36 3.98 16 The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment from persons per m Revenue 8.37 11.2 25 with a disability where the candidates particular aptitudes and abilities are 4 Scope 1 1,414 1,919 26 consistent with and adequately meet the requirements of the role.
The Group 5 Scope 2 7,132 11,694 39 encourages and assists employees with a disability with training, career 6 Scope 3 8,792 7,320 20 development and promotion opportunities, and where existing employees become disabled, our policy is to provide continuing employment and training Scope 3 Electricity Transmission and Distribution 527 932 43 wherever possible.
Where changes to working practices or structure affect staff, 1.
2017 figures have been updated on receipt of annual emissions factor guidance and or actual staff are consulted and given the appropriate support.
All employees are provided data from suppliers with information on matters of concern to them in their work, through regular 2.
All Group totals and electricity breakdowns use market-based Scope 2 emissions factors briefing meetings and internal publications.
To inform employees of the economic 3.
Group Carbon Footprint includes tenant consumption.
Detailed section data excludes tenants 4.
Scope 1 includes combustion of fuel and operation of facilities including Natural Gas, Diesel, LPG, and financial factors affecting our business, regular updates are posted on our Fugitive Emissions and Fleet Vehicles intranet and engagement events are hosted, such as Townhall style meetings 5.
Scope 2 is purchase of electricity by the Group for its own use The Group does not purchase heat, with members of our Executive Committee, providing a briefing of specific areas steam or cooling 6.
Scope 3 includes emissions from Air Travel, Rail Travel, Waste, Water and Scope 3 Electricity of the business.
Transmission and Distribution In addition to monitoring our environmental impact, we have set environmental targets for the next financial year and long-term science-based targets that include energy, water, waste and travel.
More information on these as well as full details of emissions and reporting methodology can be found in our CS report.
102 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Governance Directors Report Political Donations Significant agreements During the year the Group did not make any political donations to EU or non-EU The following are significant agreements to which the Company is a party that organisations or incur any political expenditure.
take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid It remains the Companys policy not to make political donations or to incur SwapClear political expenditure: however, the application of the relevant provisions of the LCH, along with a number of investment banks, is party to an agreement for the Companies Act 2006 is potentially very broad in nature and, as last year, the Board clearing of OTC interest rate swaps in relation to the SwapClear business.
Such is seeking shareholder authority to ensure that the Group does not inadvertently arrangements contain certain provisions that entitle the banks to terminate the breach these provisions as a result of the breadth of its business activities, agreement on a change of control of the Company although the Board has no intention of using this authority.
As with previous years the Board is proposing that shareholders pass a resolution at the forthcoming Facility Agreement AGM to authorise the Group to: The Company has entered into 2 syndicated, committed, revolving facility agreements dated 9 November 2015 and 11 December 2017: which provide an make political donations to political parties and independent election aggregate 1.2 billion of flexible financing capacity.
The facilities are partially candidates not exceeding 100,000 in total: drawn and sized to provide comfortable headroom to the Group.
The terms of make political donations to political organisations other than political parties not the above agreements are consistent and appropriate for an investment grade exceeding 100,000 in total: and borrower including change of control provisions which, if triggered, allow the Facility Agent, upon instructions from the majority lenders, to cancel the facility incur political expenditure not exceeding 100,000 in total, and declare all outstanding loans under the agreement, together with accrued interest and all other amounts accrued, due and payable provided that in any event the aggregate amount of any such donations and expenditure made or incurred by the Group shall not exceed 100,000.
Notes The Company has issued to the wholesale fixed income market 250 million of Notwithstanding the Companys policy not to make political donations, we Sterling notes due in 2019, and under its Euro Medium Term Notes Programme recognise the rights of our employees to participate in the political process.
Their the value of which the Company increased from 2 billion to 2.5 billion during rights to do so are governed by the applicable laws in the countries in which we the course of 2018, three 500 million tranches of euro notes due in 2024, 2027 operate.
For example, in the US under the Federal Election Campaign Act, US and 2029.
The notes contain a redemption upon change of control provision employees can establish non-partisan political action committees known as which, if triggered by the combination of a change of control and, within 120 PACs that encourage voluntary employee participation in the political process.
days thereafter, a credit rating downgrade to non-investment grade, allows note PACs are a common feature of the US political system and operate independently holders to exercise their option to require the Company to redeem the notes and of any political party or candidate.
pay any accrued and unpaid interest due Retail Bond Issue LSEG US Holdco, Inc. operates a PAC for US employees.
Consistent with US law, The Company has issued 300 million in Sterling denominated retail bonds, LSEG US Holdco, Inc. pays for the PACs administrative expenses: providing such under the Euro Medium Term Notes Programme referred to above, which are due support is not considered to be a political donation or expenditure under US law.
The retail bonds contain change of control provisions which, if triggered, accordance with the applicable law the PAC is funded entirely by voluntary by the combination of a change of control and, within 120 days thereafter, a contributions from eligible employees.
All decisions on the amounts and credit rating downgrade to non-investment grade, allow the holder of these recipients of contributions are directed by a steering committee comprising bonds to have the option to require the Company to repay early or to purchase employees eligible to contribute to the PAC.
the bonds of that holder at their face value together with the accrued interest During the year, a total of US$19,000 was donated to political organisations by the Employee Share Plans LSEG US Holdco, Inc. employee operated PAC.
All LSEG US Holdco, Inc The rules of the Companys employee share plans set out the consequences contributions will be reviewed for legal compliance and will be publicly reported in of a change of control of the Company on employees rights under the plans.
accordance with US election laws.
Generally such rights will vest on a change of control and participants will become entitled to acquire shares in the Company although in certain circumstances the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to defer vesting and to require rights to be exchanged for equivalent rights over the acquiring companys shares London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 103 Directors Report continued Events since the balance sheet date The business plan makes certain assumptions about the performance of the core On 30 January 2019 the Group acquired a 4.92% equity interest in Euroclear revenue streams and segments, using existing product lines as well as Holding SA NV share capital for 242 million.
The transaction was funded from assumptions on take up of new product lines, assumptions on appropriate levels existing cash and debt facilities.
of investment to support expected performance, known inorganic activity, the ability to refinance debt as required, and expected returns to shareholders.
On 25 February 2019, the Group acquired a 7.3% equity interest in Nivaura Limited for 2 million, a UK based FinTech specialising in developing end-to-end automation The plan is stress tested using a selected group of severe but plausible downside and distributed ledger technology solutions for capital raising and administration.
scenarios as determined relevant by the Group Risk Committee, over the full 3-year plan period.
Impacts on the performance of core revenue streams and Employee Benefit Trust segments are modelled through business inputs, with appropriate mitigating As at 31 December 2018, the trustee of the London Stock Exchange Employee factors also considered.
Benefit Trust, which is an independent trustee, held 573,672 shares under the terms of the trust for the benefit of employees and former employees of the The impact on the Groups cash-flows, liquidity headroom, and debt covenants are Company and its subsidiaries.
The trust is a discretionary trust and the shares detailed throughout the 3-year period in each scenario.
No scenario over the are held to meet employees entitlements under the Companys share plans.
3-year period leads to a breach in Group covenants or an inability to meet the Employees have no voting rights in relation to the unencumbered shares while Groups obligations through insufficient headroom.
Further, a reverse stress test they are held in trust.
The trustee has full discretion to exercise the voting rights has been completed, to evaluate the financial impacts required to breach the attaching to the unencumbered shares or to abstain from voting.
Shares acquired Group Risk Committees risk appetite.
by employees through the Companys employee share plans rank equally with the ordinary shares in issue and have no special rights.
FURTHER INFORMATION Branches outside the UK Stress testing capabilities are detailed in the risk Certain of the Companys subsidiaries have established branches in a number management oversight supplement that can be of different countries in which they operate.
Financial Risk Management The use of financial instruments by the Group and the Groups Financial Risk Going Concern Management have been specifically considered by the Directors, and relevant The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future disclosures appear in Principal Risks and Uncertainties, on pages 4857 of this development, performance and position and its objectives and policies in Annual Report, and in the Notes to the Financial Statements, on pages 133137 managing the financial risks to which it is exposed and its capital are set out in the of this Annual Report, and in each case are incorporated by reference into this Strategic Report on pages 257.
The Directors statement in relation to going Directors Report.
concern is set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 105.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors Future developments In accordance with Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors The Executive Management team monitors future development and market confirm, in the case of each Director in office at the date the Directors Report is trends affecting the Group and its subsidiaries on an ongoing basis.
Details of approved as listed on pages 5961, that: these developments and trends and the potential implications for the Group can so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the be found in the Market trends and our response section of the Annual Report Companys auditors are unaware pages 1417. he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in Auditors order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditors will be establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information proposed at the AGM.
Financial viability statement Strategic Report In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, the Directors confirm that they The Strategic Report pages 257 was approved by the Board on 28 February have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue to operate and meet 2019 and signed on its behalf.
its liabilities, as they fall due, for the next 3 years.
A period of 3 years has been chosen for the purpose of this viability statement, in line with the Groups business By Order of the Board plan.
The Directors assessment has been made with reference to the Groups current position and prospects, the Groups 3-year business plan, the Groups risk appetite and the expected impact of a selected group of severe but plausible downside scenarios.
Lisa Condron Group Company Secretary 1 March 2019 104 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018
