t D r a a t d i a n g a n a d n d I a N n i n a F v l O e y s R t t i M m c s e A n t T o t I d O i n e N f c o i S s r i E a m o n R t a s V S d I C g C E n i S d I a T r S T E N I Y T O I I N C L T U L A T I E A R M N O R T P N P O S What we do our business model London Stock Exchange Group LSEG is a How we add value These allow our buy-side and sell-side customers to global financial markets infrastructure Our businesses are formed of interconnected operate more effectively, enabling increased trading provider which operates in multiple regions business strategies: 1 Information Services: 2 Risk and investment activities.
to meet our customers evolving needs.
and Balance Sheet Management: and, 3 Capital Headquartered in London and with significant Formation.
Group Technology provides IT systems 3.
Capital Formation operations around the world in North America, and support across the Group.
Our presence across Supporting access to capital, enabling Italy, France and Sri Lanka, the Group employs the financial markets infrastructure value chain businesses and economies to fund innovation, approximately 4,600 people.
Our Global enables us to provide a platform for serving generate wealth and create jobs presence is also reflected in the geographical customers across multiple activities, meeting a wide Our Primary Markets provide choice and connections distribution of our income, with 40% in range of their needs.
The model below shows our between a wide range of issuers and investors, Sterling, 30% in Euro, 28% in US Dollar and businesses and the key connections between them: enabling domestic and international companies to 2% in other currencies.
Information Services provide liquid and deep access to financial securities The Group plays a vital economic and social Supporting clients investment decisions to enable improved price formation, transparency role within the global economy through its Our Information Services Division provides customers and trading efficiency.
interconnected businesses, enabling companies to with an extensive range of valuable information, access funding for growth and development, make analytics and data products, that inform investment 4.
Group Technology informed investment decisions and manage financial decisions and capital allocation, including indices, Our Group Technology Services support risks.
In turn, on a broader macro-economic basis, data on pricing, trading and valuations.
the Groups 3 business segments this provides greater efficiency in accessing and It delivers financial markets infrastructure IT to managing capital, helping to fund innovation, 2.
Risk and Balance Sheet Management various businesses within the Group.
This IT generate wealth and create jobs.
The markets partner for post trade comprises resilient, secure, high performance trading services globally platforms, post trade platforms, real time market The Group offers a full range of central counterparty data, hosting and other infrastructure products and CCP clearing services and collateral management services.
It also provides these services to third solutions that provide strong risk management parties around the world.
capabilities and capital efficiency benefits.
Our activities across the financial markets value chain TECHNOLOGY & OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE 10 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 O F O L A E U L D T I A I P W O r T & - N o I P d a S R t P U u I a O A y c S d A n R C t K a G g c p T l & n e m i a A d o B r c a i A n r t d D g L e d A t d s n i a N t L a C a E S H E E T M A N A G E M E N T Strategic Report What we do our business model What makes us different from our competitors NEED HELP?
In addition to operating businesses across the value chain, our business model incorporates 2 key approaches Like any industry, global financial markets that differentiate us from competitors in the global financial markets infrastructure industry: infrastructure has its own unique language.
For that reason, we have included a glossary Open Access Customer Partnership on pages 176178.
Open Access is the principle that lies at the heart of We believe that aligning our strategy, services and free and fair markets, and is enshrined in MiFID II products to the needs and interests of our customers is central to supporting long-term value We believe customers should have the choice of creation, enabling innovation in products which can where they place their business.
In particular, we be rapidly adopted support non-discriminatory access to trading and clearing infrastructures as we believe this provides In some businesses we are joint owners with our greater market efficiencies by reducing customers, which helps ensure continued relevance fragmentation and barriers to service uptake and uptake of the business within the operating landscape, and development goals targeted to We provide access to all of our markets and products address customer needs for a wide range of users, including those that may offer competing services to parts of the Group.
Examples: Access to our services is not conditional on taking a Several of our operating companies such as LCH, suite or bundle of different services.
This open access Turquoise, CurveGlobal and MTS are owned and approach is in contrast to most other exchanges and governed in partnership with our customers who capital markets infrastructure providers have varying minority shareholder interests in each.
Examples: These customers play an active role in shaping LCH provides clearing services to a number of the services offered by these businesses for the non-Group owned equities, derivatives and fixed benefit of all users.
income trading venues such as BrokerTec, Euronext and Cboe Europe Equities.
The next 2 pages provide details on the products, customers and sources of revenue for the business FTSE Russell also licenses its indices to other segments that we report.
exchange operators globally, such as CME, Cboe and SGX, enabling them to list and trade derivatives products based on our indices.
What we need to operate our businesses and deliver value CAPITAL ALLOCATION FRAMEWORK We are committed to investing in and developing a number of aspects of our business to meet Group-wide We use an established internal capital allocation opportunities and offer client solutions that make our services more attractive to customers: framework to help us determine the most effective use of capital, to support growth in the business.
This Data and analytics Regulatory expertise includes investment in new products and services Our proprietary data and the resulting insights Many of the markets we operate are highly regulated and also acquisitions to further enhance Group generated across our businesses deliver and subject to ongoing regulatory change.
The returns from such investments are value-add products and services that strengthen proven expertise in operating transparent, efficient benchmarked against alternative uses of capital, our customers ability to make informed risk, and well governed market infrastructure in regulated including distribution of cash to shareholders.
markets globally, providing services that are trusted, independent and resilient.
See page 47 for more detail about our capital Risk management management approach.
The management of risk is fundamental to Customer trust maintaining our role as a diversified global financial Our network of customers and their ongoing markets infrastructure provider in order to maintain input to, and support for, our businesses are stakeholder confidence in our businesses.
vital to our ability to provide efficient financial markets infrastructure across the value chain Technology and underpin our customers success.
Secure and stable high-performing technology is critical to the operation of the Groups businesses.
People and Culture We continue to invest in our technology in order to Our people are at the heart of what we do we are maintain and enhance the quality, resilience and committed to attracting, developing and retaining efficiency of our platforms, while also creating exceptional talent and capabilities in order to deliver innovation to serve our customers.
We are also committed to developing a culture that reflects our values of Partnership, Integrity, Innovation and Excellence.
See pages 3640 for details on how we support employees and ensure that our culture supports the delivery of our strategy.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 11
