Executive P Ex ag ec eu He tiva ed m in ana g gement team management team The Executive Committee manages the business on a day-to-day basis.
The team meets regularly to review a wide range of business matters, including financial performance, development of strategy, setting and monitoring performance targets, reviewing projects, corporate culture and other initiatives.
Profiles of the Executive team are provided as at January 2019 for further information on David Schwimmer, David Warren and David Schwimmer Group Chief Executive Officer.
Raffaele Jerusalmi, who are also members of the Board of Joined the Group in August 2018.
Directors, see their biographies on page 59.
Mark Makepeace was Group Director of Information Services and CEO of FTSE Russell during 2018.
He stepped down in January 2019 and was succeeded by Waqas Samad.
David Warren Group Chief Financial Officer.
Raffaele Jerusalmi Chief Executive Officer of Borsa Italiana S. p. A. and Director of Capital Markets.
Joined the Group in October 2007.
20 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Strategic Report Executive management team Chris Corrado Diane Ct Group Chief Operating Officer and Chief Group Chief Risk Officer.
Joined the Group in November 2015.
Diane was previously Aviva Plcs Chief Finance Operations Officer.
Chris joined from MSCI where he was responsible for technology, Prior to this, she held the position of Avivas Chief Audit Officer.
data services and programme management.
He has over 30 Diane has many years experience holding senior positions years of global experience in managing technology platforms within Aviva and other leading organisations, including Standard and transformational change in the financial services industry.
He has also worked for high-growth technology companies including eBay, AT&T Wireless and Asurion.
Catherine Johnson Daniel Maguire Group General Counsel.
Chief Executive Officer of LCH Group.
Catherine advises the Board and senior executives on key legal Daniel has wide experience in risk management, regulatory matters and strategic initiatives.
In addition to her role as Group strategy, product management and development, programme General Counsel, she was previously also head of the Groups delivery and sales and operations management.
He was Regulatory Strategy team.
Catherine qualified as a lawyer at previously Global Head of SwapClear and also ForexClear and Herbert Smith in 1993.
Listed Rates at LCH, and most recently LCH Group COO.
Nikhil Rathi Waqas Samad Chief Executive Officer of London Stock Exchange Group Director of Information Services and Chief plc and Director of International Development.
Executive Officer of FTSE Russell.
Nikhil joined from the UK Treasury, where he held a number of Waqas has spent more than 20 years in financial services, most senior positions, including Director of the Financial Services recently as CEO of Benchmarks at FTSE Russell and leading the Group, representing the UK Governments financial services firms expansion in fixed income through the acquisition of the interests internationally, and Private Secretary to the UK Citi Fixed Income Indices and The Yield Book businesses.
Prime Minister for 3 years from 2005 to 2008.
Previously he was CEO of Barclays Risk Analytics & Index Solutions, and before that at Deutsche Bank and at Credit Suisse in a variety of index research, quantitative and technology roles.
He is the current chairman of Index Industry Association.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 21
