LondonMetric Property Plc 104 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Report of the Directors Report of the Directors Martin McGann Finance Director Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company will be I am pleased to present the Report of held at the Connaught, Carlos Place, Mayfair, London W1K 2AL at 10 am on 11 July 2018. the Directors together with the audited The Notice of Meeting on pages 148 to 151 sets out the proposed VIVKQIT [ I MUMV [ NWZ PM aMIZ MVLML resolutions and voting details.
h5IZKPh The Board considers that the resolutions promote the success ofthe Company, and are in the best interests of the Company The Corporate Governance report and its shareholders.
The Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions as they intend to do WV XIOM[h W NWZU[ XIZ WN in respect of their own beneficial holdings, which amount in aggregate to 24,126,315 shares representing approximately 3.5% PQ[hZMXWZ of the existing issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 29 May 2018.
Additional information which is incorporated into this report by reference, including information required in accordance with theCompanies Act 2016 and Listing Rule 9.8.
4R can be found onthe following pages: Review of business and Throughout the Strategic report future developments on pages 01 to 60 Principle risks Risk management section of Strategic report on pages 48 to 59 Viability statement Page 60 Directors details Directors biographies on pages 64 and65 Directors interests Remuneration report on page 102 Employee involvement Responsible Business report on page 45 and engagement Greenhouse gas emissions Responsible Business report on page 44 Financial instruments Note 14 on page 134 Financial risk Note 14 and Risk management on managementpolicies pages 132 to 133 Interest capitalised Note 5 on page 125 Details of long term Remuneration report on pages 99 to 101 incentive schemes and on page 93 Shareholder waivers Report of the Directors on page 105 ofdividends Related party transactions Note 19 on page 136 Post balance sheet events Note 20 on page 136 All other subsections of LR 9.8.
Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018105 Company status and branches Of the total dividend for 2018 of 7.9p, Shares held in the Employee 7.25p was payable as a PID as required BenetTrust LondonMetric Property Plc is a Real by REIT legislation, after deduction Estate Investment Trust REIT and The Trustees of the LondonMetric Long of withholding tax at the basic rate the holding company of the Group, Term Incentive Plan hold 3,323,482 of income tax.
The balance of 0.65p which has no branches.
It is listed shares in the Company in trust to satisfy waspayable as an ordinary dividend onthe London Stock Exchange with awards under the Companys Long which is not subject to withholding tax.
Term Incentive and Deferred Bonus plans.
The Trustees have waived their Investment properties Principal activities and right to receive dividends on shares businessreview A valuation of the Groups investment held in the Company.
properties at 31 March 2018 was The principal activity of the Group undertaken by CBRE Limited and continues to be property investment Substantial shareholders Savills Advisory Services Limited on the and development, both directly and The Directors have been notied basis of fair value which amounted through joint venture arrangements.
that the following shareholders to 1,842.0 million including the The purpose of the Annual Report is to have a disclosable interest of 3% or Groups share of joint venture property provide information to the members of more in the ordinary shares of the as reected in notes 9 and 10 to the Company which is a fair, balanced Company at the date of this report: these accounts.
and understandable assessment of the Number Share capital Groups performance, business model Shareholder ofshares % and strategy.
A detailed review of the As at 31 March 2018, there were BlackRock Inc 52,983,154 7.60 Groups business and performance 697,216,196 ordinary shares of 10p in during the year, its principal risks issue, each carrying one vote and Rathbones 48,754,039 6.99 and uncertainties, its business all fully paid.
The Company issued model, strategy and its approach to Troy Asset 34,654,720 4.97 4,833,765 ordinary shares under the responsible business is contained in the Management terms of its Scrip Dividend Scheme Strategic report on pages 01 to 60 and in the year.
Since the year end the Standard Life 33,109,728 4.75 should be read as part of this report.
Company issued a further 218,858 Aberdeen ordinary shares in relation to the third The Annual Report contains certain quarterly dividend scrip alternative.
Cohen & Steers 31,064,082 4.45 forward looking statements with respect Inc to the operations, performance and There is only one class of share in issue financial condition of the Group.
By their and there are no restrictions on the Ameriprise 25,676,634 3.68 nature, these statements involve risk size of a holding or on the transfer FinancialInc and uncertainty because they relate to of shares.
None of the shares carry future events and circumstances which The Vanguard 24,900,197 3.57 any special rights of control over the can cause results and developments Group Inc Company.
There were no persons with to differ from those anticipated.
significant direct or indirect holdings in Woodford 22,481,579 3.22 The forward looking statements reect the Company other than those listed Investment knowledge and information available assubstantial shareholders opposite.
Management at the date of preparation of this Annual The rules governing appointments, Report.
Nothing in this Annual Report replacement and powers of Directors should be construed as a profit forecast.
Directors are contained in the Companys The present membership of the Board Results and dividends Articles of Association, the Companies and biographical details of Directors Act 2006 and the UK Corporate The Group reported a profit for the year are set out on pages 64 and 65.
These include of 186.0 million 2017: 63.0 million.
powers to authorise the issue and The first two quarterly dividends for 2018 The interests of the Directors and their buy back of shares by the Company.
totalling 3.7p per share were paid in the families in the shares of the Company The Companys Articles can be year as Property Income Distributions are set out in the Remuneration amended by Special Resolution in PIDs.
Committee report on page 102. accordance with Companies Act 2006.
The third quarterly dividend of 1.85p The Board appointed Suzanne Avery Purchase of own shares was paid following the year end on as a Director on 22 March 2018.
The Directors In accordance with the UK Corporate The Company was granted authority have approved a fourth quarterly Governance Code and in line with at the Annual General Meeting in dividend of 2.35p per share payable previous years, all of the Directors 2017 to purchase its own shares up on 11 July 2018 to shareholders on the will offer themselves for election and to an aggregate nominal value of register at the close of business on re-election by the shareholders at the 10% of the issued nominal capital.
8 June 2018, of which 1.7p will be paid forthcoming AGM on 11 July 2018.
That authority expires at this years AGM as a PID.
and a resolution will be proposed for The powers of Directors are described its renewal.
No ordinary shares were The total dividend charge for the year in their Terms of Reference, which are purchased under this authority during to 31 March 2018 was 7.9p per share, available on request.
an increase of 0.4p or 5.3% over the previous year.
LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Report of the Directors continued Directors and Officers liability The environment Going concern insurance Details of our approach to responsible The principal risks and uncertainties The Company has arranged Directors business and its aims and activities can facing the Groups activities, future and Officers liability insurance cover be found on the Companys website development and performance are in respect of legal action against www.
com, where a onpages 48 to 59. its Directors, which is reviewed and full version of the annual Responsible The Groups financial position, cash renewed annually and remains in force Business report can be downloaded.
ows and liquidity, borrowings, at the date of this report.
An overview of our responsible business undrawn facilities and hedging are activity can be found on pages 40 to described in note 14 to the accounts Employees 47 of this report.
and in the Financial review on pages At 31 March 2018 the Group had The Group recognises the importance 38 to 39.
of minimising the adverse impact of its The Company promotes employee The Directors have reviewed the operations on the environment and the involvement and consultation and current and projected financial position management of energy consumption invests time in ensuring staff are of the Group, making reasonable and waste recycling.
informed of the Groups transactions, assumptions about future trading activities and performance through The Group strives to improve its performance, property valuations and internal email communication of environmental performance and planned capital expenditure.
As part of corporate announcements and regularly reviews its management system this review, the Group has considered periodic updates by the Chief and policy to ensure it maintains its its cash balances and undrawn Executive.
The Groups interim and commitment to environmental matters.
facilities, future capital commitments, annual results are presented to all staff itsdebt maturity prole and the Greenhouse gas reporting by the Executive Directors.
Staff receive longterm nature of tenant leases.
regular briengs, presentations and In accordance with Schedule 7 of the On the basis of this review, and after email communication on other Large and Medium-Sized Companies making due enquiries, the Directors relevant matters affecting them as and Groups Accounts and Reports have a reasonable expectation that employees, including this years Regulations 2008, information regarding the Company and the Group have pension auto enrolment, exible the Companys greenhouse gas adequate resources to continue working practices, responsible business emissions can be found on page44.
in operational existence for the activities and health and safety.
Accordingly, Suppliers Certain employees are eligible to they continue to adopt the going The Group aims to settle supplier participate in the annual bonus and concern basis in preparing the accounts in accordance with their LTIP arrangements, helping to develop financial statements for the year to individual terms of business.
an interest in the Groups performance 31 March 2018. and align rewards with Directors The number of creditor days Disclosure of information to auditor incentive arrangements.
outstanding for the Group at 31 March 2018 was 15 days 2017: 15 days.
So far as the Directors who held office The Company operates a nonat the date of approval of this Directors discriminatory employment policy and Charitable and political report are aware, there is no relevant full and fair consideration is given to contributions audit information of which the auditor applications for employment made by During the year, the Group made isunaware and each Director has people with disabilities, having regard charitable donations of 25,170 taken all steps that he or she ought to their skills and abilities, and to the 2017: 35,695.
No political donations to have taken as a Director to make continued employment and training of were made during the year 2017: nil.
himself or herself aware of any relevant staff who become disabled.
audit information and to establish that Provisions on change of control The Company encourages the the auditor is aware of that information.
continuous development and Under the Groups credit facilities, the Auditor training of its staff.
It is the policy lending banks may require repayment of the Company that the training, of the outstanding amounts on any Deloitte LLP is willing to be reappointed career development and promotion change of control.
as the external auditor to the Company of disabled persons should, as far and Group.
Their reappointment The Groups Long Term Incentive Plan as possible, be identical to that of has been considered by the Audit and Deferred Share Bonus Plan contain other employees.
Committee and recommended to the provisions relating to the vesting of Board.
A resolution will be proposed The Company provides retirement awards in the event of a change of atthe AGM on 11 July 2018. benets for its employees excluding control of the Group.
Non Executive Directors and complied On behalf of the Board There are no agreements between on 1 October 2017 with its auto the Company and its Directors or enrolment obligations.
employees providing for compensation Further information relating to for loss of office or employment that Martin McGann employees can be found on occurs specifically because of a Finance Director page45of the Strategic report.
takeover bid, except for the provisions 30 May 2018 within the Companys share schemes as noted above.
