Strategic Report Technology Services Technology Services Revenue FURTHER INFORMATION Market trends and our response for Technology Services can be found on pages 1417.
Profitability of 65m each segment can be found in the Financial Review on pages 4147.
A glossary of terms can be found on 2017: 91m pages 176178.
Key Summary Introduction With an expected launch in H1 2019, LSEG Technology Technology revenues increased by 7% on an LSEG Technology provides the Group and its will implement the Millennium Exchange matching organic and constant currency basis, but were customers, including banks, specialist trading firms engine as the underlying technology for ATOM down by 28% on a reported basis to 65 million and other capital market venues with resilient, Groups new digital asset exchange venue, AAX.
2017: 91 million largely due to the disposals high-speed, low latency trading platforms, post trade of Exactpro and MillenniumIT ESP platforms, real time market data and surveillance The Group continues to assess opportunities and products and services.
risks arising from emerging technologies throughout New shared services office opened in Bucharest, FinTech, working with regulators, industry Romania, to compliment the Groups centre LSEG Technology consortiums and specialist tech firms in areas such in Sri Lanka Our cash equity and retail bond markets run on as distributed ledger and blockchain technology, LSEG Technology successfully implemented the latest version of the Millennium Exchange machine learning, big data and cloud computing.
Settlement and Central Securities Depository trading platform.
This technology has reduced our functionality for Singapore Exchange SGX in 2018 cost base and enabled customers to benefit from The Group has adopted a cloud-first strategy, enhanced functionality and our co-location services.
leveraging the potential of cloud technologies to This has allowed us to meet the needs of our reduce operational costs, deliver system scalability customers quickly and cost effectively.
We have and support our global footprint, with one of these implemented solutions for over 40 organisations initiatives implemented for Monte Titoli in 2018.
also continue to rationalise our data management through big-data technologies, a common data LSEG Business Services Limited BSL, our shared architecture and consistent governance model.
services company, provides a range of resilient and efficient technology and corporate services In 2018 the Group developed client-led enhancements Group-wide.
In addition to reducing costs by to the Millennium Exchange platform including an leveraging low-cost centres, BSL encourages Auto-RFQ market model.
The average daily volume of Group-wide process standardisation and besttransactions for 2018 was 72 million practice adoption.
The BSL shared services model 2017: 53 million.
is scalable and has been expanded to reflect our growing global business as 2018 saw the introduction Through our Millennium Exchange technology, of a new near-shore Romanian delivery centre in our UK cash equity trading platform continues to Bucharest complementing the Groups existing exhibit good technical performance, with the trading shared services centre in Sri Lanka.
The global systems available with 99.99% uptime during the expansion and integration will continue to enable year 2017: 100%.
On 7 June, LSE identified a the Group to utilise the full range of our services, technical software issue that was preventing some including data and analytics capabilities internally, members from entering orders into the pre-open as well as for our customers.
To preserve the integrity of the market, LSE decided to delay the market open LSEG Technology successfully implemented by an hour.
Settlement and Central Securities Depository functionality for Singapore Exchange SGX in 2018.
In December 2017 and January 2018, LSEG Built upon the same technical and hardware completed the divestments of MillenniumIT framework as a clearing module implemented at SGX ESP and Exactpro respectively.
in 2017, this functionality provides a fully integrated and complementary set of post trade solutions which enables SGX to align to global market practices with the introduction of T 2 into the Singapore market.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 35
