LondonMetric Property Plc 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Effectiveness Nomination Committee report Patrick Vaughan Chairman, Nomination Committee Membership & Attendance Tenure Meetings I am pleased to present the Nomination Member Date appointed years attended Committees report for the year to Patrick Vaughan 1 11 2012 5 3 3 Alec Pelmore 25 1 2013 5 3 3 h5IZKPh Philip Watson 25 1 2013 5 3 3 James Dean 14 7 2016 2 3 3 This year the Committees main focus Bracketed numbers indicate the number of meetings the member was eligible to attend.
has been the composition and diversity Tenure is measured from date of appointment to the Committee and as at 31 March 2018, rounded to the nearest whole year.
of the Board and succession planning Highlights this year for the Non Executive Directors Considered Board composition, succession and diversity which led to the appointment in Led the appointment process for a new Non Executive 5IZKP WN :]bIVVM MZa I[ I Director and recommended Suzanne Avery to the Board and Audit Committee 6WVh-`MK] Q M, QZMK WZ IVL UMUJMZ Recommended the extension of the Chairmans appointment WNh PM ]LQ h WUUQ MM for a further three years, with a six month mutual break option Led external Board and Committee performance evaluation Recommended the election and re-election of Directors totheBoard at the AGM Responsibilities of the Committee The principal responsibilities of the Committee are to: Review and evaluate the size, structure and composition of the Board and its Committees, including the diversity and balance of skills, knowledge and experience of each Make recommendations to the Board regarding Board and Committee membership changes Consider succession planning for Directors and other senior executives Lead the process for new Board and Committee appointments to ll Board vacancies Promote the Companys policy on diversity at Board level and in the wider organisation Lead the Board and Committee performance evaluation exercise Assess the time commitment required from Non Executive Directors Consider the annual election and re-election of Directors to the Board Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 75 Chairmans Introduction It is responsible for identifying and During the year the Committee recommending candidates to ll Board continued its review of Board It has been another busy year for the vacancies and leads the selection composition and succession in light Committee, whose main focus has process ensuring it is formal, rigorous ofNon Executive Directors tenure been the composition and diversity and transparent.
The Committee drives succession This led to the appointment in March In March 2018, following a rigorous planning for Directors and other 2018 of Suzanne Avery as a Non recruitment process, we were senior executive positions and Executive Director of the Board and delighted to welcome Suzanne ensures that the refreshment process member of the Audit Committee.
Avery to the Board and Audit is properly planned and managed Committee.
The appointment improves The remaining balance of to maintain stability and mitigate the balance of Board skills and independent Non Executive Directors business disruption.
continues to meet the requirements of the Code and proposed changes Meetings and activities Suzanne brings complementary recommended by the FRC and has and relevant financial, banking, The Committee met three times the correct balance of skills and sustainability and real estate skills as during the year to consider and make knowledge to lead the Company former Managing Director of Real recommendations to the Board in going forward.
Estate Finance Group and Sustainability respect of: at RBS.
The Committee also reappointed The appointment and Patrick Vaughan for a further three year The appointment and induction reappointment of Non Executive term with a six month mutual break process for Suzanne are discussed Directors to the Board and option, as they value his leadership, indetail on page 77. its Committees contribution and commitment to The externally led performance The Committee also led the the business.
evaluation of the Board and Companys three yearly externally The Board is committed to a phased its Committees facilitated evaluation of Board and refreshment of the Non Executive Committee performance in the year.
The election and re-election of Directors and this will be considered Directors attheforthcoming AGM The Committee concluded following further next year by the Committee as Its own terms of reference the review that the Board continued the length of service of some members tooperate as an effective and and Committee chairs approaches Succession planning cohesive team, led by knowledgeable thebest practice limit.
The Committee continues to focus and respected Executive Directors who The Executive Directors consider on succession planning and talent created an inclusive and collegiate succession planning below Board development at Board and senior atmosphere of transparency and trust.
level and are committed to nurturing, management levels to ensure there is Further details of the Board evaluation developing and retaining high a pipeline of experienced and suitable findings and recommendations can performing individuals to ensure people in the organisation to support befound on pages 78 to 79. a clear talent pipeline of future the Companys longer term plans.
leaders exists for Board and senior Composition of the Committee It ensures that the ongoing refreshment management positions.
of Board members is properly Throughout the year the Committee Staff appraisals are undertaken on planned and managed to maintain comprised of four Non Executive an annual basis and provide a forum stability in its operations and avoid Directors and was chaired by Patrick to discuss targets, progress and business disruption.
Vaughan as set out in the table on future prospects.
In reviewing succession planning for Although there are no immediate both Executive and Non Executive Role of the Committee vacancies at Board level and Directors, the Committee considers The Committees role is to ensure the execution of the Companys strategy the leadership needs of the Company Board and its Committees continue isnot dependent on any one individual, and the balance and diversity of to have the right balance of skills, we recognise the need to develop our Board skills and experience It is mindful experience and knowledge to internal talent and for contingency of the Code requirements that a independently carry out their duties plans for unforeseen absences.
rigorous review of any Non Executive and provide strong and effective appointment whose term exceeds six leadership to enable the Company to years be undertaken.
deliver its strategy, having due regard to the interest of its shareholders and other key stakeholders and to the benets of diversity.
LondonMetric Property Plc 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Effectiveness continued Diversity Although it does not deem quotas Gender Diversity appropriate given the size of the The Board recognises the importance Company and has not set targets, of a diverse and balanced Board there is an ongoing commitment to and the benets this brings to Female 42% strengthen female representation the organisation in terms of skills, at Board level and within the senior knowledge and experience.
We will continue The Board strives to operate in a to monitor carefully our diversity Employees working environment of equal going forward.
opportunity and promotes a culture Ultimately, all appointments to the of mutual respect and inclusion Male 58% Board and senior management throughout the organisation.
team are based on merit as an Diversity on the Board, and in senior appointment on any other basis would teams, brings wider perspectives and not be in the best long term interests of enables more effective discussions and the Company.
Female 25% The Board acknowledges the During the year, we appointed one challenges faced by the real estate female Non Executive Director and two sector in improving gender diversity members of staff, one male and one as recruitment is dependent on the Senior female reinforcing our commitment.
availability of suitable candidates and management there continues to be fewer female Diversity is promoted at every level applications to join the sector.
of recruitment and across a range of Male 75% criteria including skills, knowledge, The Board supports initiatives to experience, gender, age, disability, promote gender diversity in the real sexual orientation, educational estate sector and during the year has background and ethnicity.
However, become a member of the Real Estate over the last five years staff numbers Balance group whose objective is to have fallen by nearly 30% which, along Female 18% improve gender diversity at Board and with high retention rates in key roles, senior management level by promoting has reduced our ability to shift the and supporting the development of a diversity balance.
We are proud of our female talent pipeline.
low level of staff turnover which signies Directors Gender diversity at Board, senior a loyal and content workforce, but management and in the Company recognise that this constrains the pace Male 82% as a whole is reected in the charts of change.
At the date of this report, During the year the Chairman, Finance female representation at Board level Director and senior managers met was 18%, up from 9% last year.
with members of the 30% Club Investor All charts reect the composition of the The Board is also mindful of the group to discuss the importance of Company and Board as at 31 March 2018 Parker Review regarding ethnic and diversity considerations for Board cultural diversity on UK boards and its and executive appointments and recommendation that each FTSE 250 succession planning.
board should have at least one director The Chairman confirmed the from an ethnic minority background Boards support for greater female by 2024. representation on listed company The Committee will take this into boards and the aspirational targets consideration when making ofthe Hampton Alexander review and future appointments.
supports the 30% Club which aims to achieve a minimum of 30% of women Further information on the Companys on boards and senior leadership teams commitment to developing and by 2020. supporting employees and to promoting diversity and inclusion at LondonMetric is contained on page 45.
Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 77 Board appointment Induction Programme Following the review of Board composition and refreshment, and Key induction events included with particular focus on diversity, the the following: Committee began the search for a One to one meetings with the new Non Executive Director.
In the Executive Committee, Company past, the Company has employed Secretary and senior managers search agencies to assist with Board from property and finance to appointments, however having understand the day to day identied the required skills and operations of the business, risk attributes, it decided to explore internal appetite and culture recommendations which had the Suzanne Avery right cultural t in the first instance and Provision of past Board and Non Executive Director and member to only approach a search rm to Committee papers, minutes and of the Audit Committee facilitate the search if no candidates finance reports could be identied.
Estimated cost Guidance and information A comprehensive induction savings of 50,000 were made by not on annual Board timetables, programme was arranged for using a third party search agency.
governance processes and Suzanne Avery, who joined as a new regulatory procedures including All Directors were asked to nominate Non Executive Director in the year.
share dealing candidates, with a strong preference for a female candidate and with One to one meeting with the financial experience to improve Companys external audit partner the gender diversity and relevant Property tours to be arranged skills of the Board.
However it was acknowledged that ultimately the search should be for the best Staff are encouraged to develop and Professional development candidate irrespective of gender.
broaden their experience and skills Oversight of the training needs of A shortlist of four candidates was and to engage with Board members individual Directors is the responsibility created and reviewed by the by way of presentations, property of the Nomination Committee Nomination Committee.
Suzanne Avery tours or one to one discussions on Chairman.
However, Directors are also was chosen following an extensive specic issues.
expected to identify and develop their interview process including the own individual training needs, skills Further details of employee Chairman, Executive and Non and knowledge and ensure they are development including sponsorship Executive Directors, as the preferred adequately informed about the Groups of MBAs and participation in Young appointee given her personal strategy, business and responsibilities.
Property Professionals groups can attributes, values, skills and experience.
They are encouraged to attend relevant be found in the People section of seminars and conferences and receive Suzanne brings complementary the Responsible Business review technical update material from advisors and relevant financial, banking, onpage45.
and are offered training and guidance sustainability and real estate skills as at the Companys expense.
Time commitment former Managing Director of Real Estate Finance Group and Sustainability The Committee considers the time During the year, training and at RBS.
commitment required of the Directors information updates were provided and other external appointments they through presentations at Board Board induction have.
Before taking on any additional and Committee meetings by senior On appointment, the Company external commitments Directors must management and the external arranges a tailored induction seek the prior agreement of the Board auditors.
Specic brieng papers were programme for all new Directors to help to ensure possible conicts of interest provided on the Groups hedging them develop an understanding of the are identied and to confirm they strategy and interest rate swap business including its culture, strategy, will continue to have sufficient time recoupon, renancing of the Helaba governance structure, stakeholders, available to devote to the business and unsecured debt facilities, re risk portfolio, nances, risks and controls.
ofthe Company and full their duties.
assessments, Responsible Business The induction includes the provision of update, stakeholder engagement and Executive Directors are required a detailed Company information pack, the likely impact of new accounting to devote almost all their working site visits, introductions and one to one standards on revenue, financial time to their executive role at meetings with senior management instruments and leases.
LondonMetric although certain and advisors.
Non Executive Directors are Details of the Induction Programme All Directors are expected to attend encouraged to familiarise themselves for Suzanne Avery is given in the case all meetings of the Board and of the with the Groups business through study above.
Committees on which they serve regular communications with the andthe Annual General Meeting.
Executive Directors and senior management between formal meetings and site visits.
LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Effectiveness continued Board performance and evaluation Outcome of 2018 externally facilitated performance evaluation The Board committed to undertaking an external review of its performance The key findings and recommendations from the 2018 external Board and that of its Committees.
evaluation review are listed below.
The Board discussed and agreed the recommendations and progress will be reported at future meetings.
The Nomination Committee appointed Independent Audit Limited IAL in Key findings December to undertake this review following a tender process in which Most Board members have worked together, in various guises, for a number three rms were shortlisted.
IAL has no of years and Directors are engaged and passionate about the business connection with the Company.
The Board benets from a knowledgeable group of Non Executive Directors The process involved a comprehensive who provide relevant and complementary skills in property, investment, review of Board, Committee and finance and retail other financial documents and reports followed by a series of one There is a high calibre and motivated executive team, led by a respected to one meetings with the Directors, Chief Executive who has the confidence of the Non Executive Directors Executive Committee and Company Secretary and the observation of a full The Non Executive Chairman is greatly respected and praised by Board meeting.
his colleagues for his skill in running meetings, creating an inclusive and collegiate atmosphere and for his extensive experience and A detailed report of IALs findings was business acumen sent to the Chairman and presented at the Board meeting in March 2018.
The relationship between the Chairman and Chief Executive is particularly IAL discussed their findings, proposals strong, supportive and mutually respectful.
Together they promote a culture and implementation plans with of trust and openness and are not afraid to bring both good and bad news the Board.
Non Executive Directors show a high degree of confidence inthe Executive Directors Overall the results were extremely positive.
The review concluded There is notably frequent interaction between all Directors outside of the that the Board has many strengths boardroom, maintaining a culture of ongoing dialogue and continues to operate to a high standard.
The Executive Directors keep the Non Executives informed of developments and the Non Executives provide frequent input and challenge in one to The Chairman was praised for one meetings creating an inclusive and collegiate atmosphere and for his experience, Recommendations business acumen and judgement.
The Directors agreed that the To facilitate a more balanced debate in the boardroom, variations to Chairman and Chief Executive had a the format, agenda, seating arrangements, attendees and location very strong, supportive and respectful of meetings could be explored.
The Board is encouraged to foster working relationship and promoted a more debate in the boardroom to complement the extensive debate culture of transparency and trust.
among individuals Not withstanding these strengths, the Consider holding one off site meeting each year, ensuring the length, review guarded against complacency format and location are conducive to good discussions and recommended that the Directors continued to improve its processes.
Encourage Non Executive Directors to stay in touch with the wider organisation by arranging more meetings with senior managers and The Board welcomed IALs mentoring those senior managers identied as having high potential recommendations for continued development to its practices Consider if more could be done to help the Non Executive Directors have and procedures and will contact with a range of stakeholders, for instance by attending more site continue the implementation of visits to customers those recommendations.
Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 79 Progress against 2017 targets Progress against the recommendations from last years internally facilitated review is set out below.
Recommendation Progress Consideration of Review of Board composition undertaken in the Board size, skills and year leading to the appointment of a second experience given female NonExecutive Director with financial, changes to Code banking, sustainability and real estate experience tocomplement the existing skill set After consideration and debate, it was decided not to reduce the complement of Non Executive Directors at present as all members of the Board continue to make a valuable individual contribution, bringing complementary skills and knowledge Continued focus on Recruitment of Suzanne Avery as a Non Executive Board refreshment Director recognised the benets of diversity and and diversity to complementary skill sets complement culture Continue to promote 18% of Board members are female up from 9% diversity at all levels lastyear 25% of senior management positions are lled bywomen Succession planning The Chairmans letter of appointment has been for the Chairman extended for a further three years to 31 March 2021 with a six month mutual break option More time devoted One Board meeting in the year devoted to strategy tostrategy debate with presentations from two senior managers The review of individual Directors Re-election of Directors was outside the scope of the Following the Board evaluation and external review.
appraisal process the Committee concluded that each of the Directors The Chairman will undertake one seeking election and re-election to one meetings with each of the continues to make an effective Directors and the Senior Independent contribution to the Board and has Director will lead a review of the the necessary skills, knowledge, Chairmans performance in the experience and time to enable them coming year.
to discharge their duties properly The Company is committed to inthecoming year.
undertaking a further external Therefore the Board, following reviewinthree years time with internal the advice of the Committee, reviews in the intervening years.
recommends the election and re-election of all Directors at the forthcoming AGM.
Patrick Vaughan Chairman of the Nomination Committee 30 May 2018
