Strategic Report Information Services Information Services Revenue FURTHER INFORMATION Market trends and our response for Information Services can be found on pages 1417.
Profitability 841m of each segment can be found in the Financial Review on pages 4147.
A glossary of terms can 2017: 736m be found on pages 176178.
FTSE Russell 75% Real Time Data 11% Other Information 14% Key Summary Introduction Revenues for the year increased by 14% to The Information Services Division ISD provides 841 million 2017: 736 million with the full financial market participants with timely, reliable year contribution of The Yield Book, and up 9% and accurate market information.
ISD offers a wide US$16tn on an organic and constant currency basis driven range of services, including global indices, real time Assets benchmarked to FTSE Russell indices by growth across FTSE Russell pricing data, product identification, analytics solutions, reporting and reconciliation services.
FTSE Russell revenue for the year increased by 15% Information Services continues to be a key area to 631 million 2017: 546 million, and up 8% on of strategic focus and growth for LSEG.
an organic and constant currency basis Other Information Services revenues increased by ISDs revenue growth for 2018 has been driven 22% to 116 million 2017: 96 million, driven by largely by FTSE Russell including the full year strong performance in UnaVista following the contribution of The Yield Book, UnaVista benefiting implementation of MiFID II from clients increased reporting requirements following the introduction of MiFID II and SEDOL Worldwide assets benchmarked to FTSE Russell recurring licence growth.
indices increased to US$16 trillion Global ESG partnership formed with Sustainalytics Looking towards 2019, FTSE Russell will continue to develop new FTSE Russell ESG indices using the to work with its clients to seek to meet increasing new Sustainalytics ESG Risk Ratings industry demand for innovation in multi-asset data, index and analytics solutions.
L Lo on nd do on S n St to oc ck E k Ex xc ch ha an ng ge G e Gr ro ou up p A Annu nnua al l R Rep epo or rt t D fide ecem cemb ber er 2 20 01 18 8 23 23 Information Services continued FTSE Russell FTSE Russell is a leading provider of indices for the ETF assets under management FTSE Russell is a global multi-asset index leader growing ETF market, with US$606 billion AUM benchmarked to FTSE Russell indices that provides innovative benchmarking with benchmarked to its indices at the end of the year US$ bn year end approximately US$16 trillion assets benchmarked.
The ETF market saw good FTSE Russells offering forms part of the entire 624 growth in the first 9 months of the year with AUM 606 investment process and calculates a wide range of increasing to US$663 billion, before falling with indices for investors to benchmark markets across 452 markets in the final quarter.
Despite this, asset 381 different asset classes, styles and strategies covering 369 managers continued to expand into the ETF space, 98% of the global investable equities market.
FTSE with 82 new ETFs launched benchmarked to FTSE Russell also provides analytics and data solutions to Russell indices.
assist customers in their risk management and asset allocation.
It has built global relationships and is FTSE Russell is a leading innovator and provider of used by the majority of the worlds top financial smart beta or factor-based index solutions, with ETF 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 institutions and their clients.
assets benchmarked to FTSE Russell smart beta indices at the end of the year with US$184 billion FTSE Russells sales teams now form a single global Across the industry, we continue to observe high AUM 2017: US$190 billion.
Fixed income ETFs team that is closely aligned and highly engaged with levels of activity, interest and adoption amongst benchmarked to FTSE Russell indices have seen customers.
Technological integration is on track with asset owners and ETF issuers for the implementation strong growth across the year, with US$58 billion completion targeted for 2019.
FTSE Russell has also of our global equities and fixed income indices and, AUM at the end of the year 2017: US$48 billion.
completed the re-branding of all former Citi Fixed increasingly, smart beta solutions, in particular for Income indices, including the FTSE World factors, carbon objectives and broader environmental, 2018 saw several ESG related achievements including Government Bond Index WGBI.
social and governance ESG investing.
This year we new product launches and important client adoption.
have seen passive ESG growth including in ESG ETF Some highlights include the Taiwan Bureau of Labor Achievements for the year have included the launch issuance, integration into listed real estate indices, Funds BLF, one of the largest public-sector funds in of various custom fixed income indices, following and formed a partnership with Sustainalytics.
The Asia, selected the FTSE4Good TIP Taiwan ESG Index the acquisition of Citi Fixed Income Indices.
An Yieldbook Analytics product development work for a new US$1.4 billion passive mandate.
In the UK, example includes the FTSE Goldman Sachs Treasury continued throughout 2018 to support FTSE the Merseyside Pension Fund adopted a Smart Inflation Protected USD Bond Index, which was also Russells multi-asset index strategy, including the Sustainability index combining climate and risk selected by Goldman Sachs to launch an ETF.
In April, planned provision of FTSE Russell equity and fixed premia factors.
FTSE Russell also acquired the remaining minority income indices into The Yield Books upcoming interests to assume 100% ownership of FTSE TMX Custom Index Tool.
An important product launch was the development Global Debt Capital Markets Limited.
Going forward, of FTSE EPRAs Nareit Green Indexes, a climate our continued work in the fixed income space will At LSEGs June 2017 Investor Update event, a target risk-adjusted extension to the FTSE EPRA Nareit create opportunities to expand the product offering was set for FTSE Russell to achieve double-digit growth Global Real Estate Index Series, the worlds leading in composite and multi-asset benchmarks, the first continuing to 2019.
In 2018, revenues increased by series of listed real estate benchmarks.
Vanguard of which, the FTSE Market Based Allocation Index 15% to 631 million 2017: 546 million with the launched 2 US ESG ETFs based on the new FTSE series, was launched in February 2019. addition of The Yield Book and due largely to Global Choice Index Series.
These reflect the shift continued strong demand for our benchmarks towards including climate risk and ESG factors within Following a consultation with market participants, including data and analytics as well as ETFs, benefiting investment mandates.
FTSE Russell established a transparent and evidence from the markets move towards passive investing.
driven country classification framework for its global Revenues were up 8% on an organic and constant FTSE Russell also formed a global ESG partnership fixed income benchmarks.
The new process identifies currency basis, slightly behind our growth target.
We with Sustainalytics, a leader in ESG and corporate objective criteria to calibrate Market Accessibility remain confident of achieving our target in 2019. governance research, ratings and analysis, to provide Levels, which will be incorporated into the choice to the market and to complement existing methodology of FTSE government benchmarks, Approximately 65% of FTSE Russells revenue in-house capabilities.
Plans were announced to including the FTSE WGBI.
China is likely to be added to comes from index data subscriptions, including develop new FTSE Russell ESG indices using the fixed income Watch List for possible inclusion in licences, data services and analytics.
The remaining Sustainalytics ESG Risk Ratings, with the first product FTSEs global bond indices.
In the annual equity 35% comes from asset-linked fees, with revenues focused on the Russell Series expected to launch in country classification review, FTSE Russell announced based on benchmarked assets under management the first half of 2019.
China A shares will be assigned to Secondary Emerging AUM for ETFs and passive funds, and from contracts market status and FTSEs global equity benchmarks traded on index derivatives.
Saudi Arabia and Kuwait were also announced earlier in the year to be reclassified to The integration of 2 acquisitions made in 2017, Secondary Emerging from previously Unclassified.
The Yield Book and Citi Fixed Income Indices, US$606bn an analytics platform and fixed income index ETF assets benchmarked to FTSE Russell indices business, and Mergent, a global provider of business and financial company information, has seen good progress with all staff and processes embedded within the Group.
24 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Strategic Report Information Services FTSE Russell indices are licensed globally for Other Information derivatives trading across Europe, North America UnaVista and Asia, demonstrating the Groups open access UnaVista is LSEGs technology platform for approach.
During the year, 234 million derivative regulatory reporting, reference data and analytics, 174,000 contracts based on FTSE Russell indices were traded, providing business solutions designed to help firms Terminals up 11% on the previous year, with lower volumes reduce operational and regulatory risk across all in the US offset by strength in Asia led by the SGX asset classes.
UnaVista processed an average of traded FTSE China A50 Index Futures.
34 million reports per day, as it helped clients meet the new reporting requirements under MiFID II.
FTSE International Limited has received regulatory approval from the FCA to be authorised Following the success of the Partner Programme 430,000 as a Benchmark Administrator under the European launched last year, UnaVista has extended the RNS announcements Benchmark Regulation EU BMR.
We will continue programme with a new pillar for consultancy firms.
to engage with regulators to ensure a smooth In collaboration with MTS, UnaVista is offering a transition through the UKs withdrawal from the regulatory reporting solution for the upcoming European Union, regardless of the outcome of the Securities Financing Transactions Regulation SFTR.
negotiations between the European Commission and the UK Government.
To continue offering its services in the EU following the UKs withdrawal from the European Union, UnaVista Real Time Data has applied for trading licences in Amsterdam.
Our Real Time Data service provides primary reference data for UK and Italian markets.
Its tick-by-tick data, Reference Data showing the full depth of the order book, is used by SEDOL is the Groups global, multi-asset class traders, brokers and fund managers globally, while numbering system which provides reference data real time prices are licensed to display on websites.
and unique identification codes for global equity, derivatives and fixed income securities.
The SEDOL In 2018, Real Time Data expanded its global reach, Masterfile Service database provides clients with offering data on European securities to a broad access to reference data on over 70 million securities.
Professional terminal usage across the Group declined to 174,000 from 180,000 Following the integration of Mergent, using data in the prior year, with UK at 69,000 2017: 69,000 and acquired in 2017, the Group has been able to issue Italy at 105,000 2017: 111,000 with the reduction an additional 1.5 million SEDOL identification codes largely in lower yield terminals.
This decline has been to fixed income securities.
partially offset by focusing on enterprise licensing and the use of non-display applications, including London Stock Exchange LEI Limited is a fully accredited algorithmic black-box trading and trading products Local Operating Unit LOU for the global allocation of where the prices are pegged to the LSEG trading prices.
These codes uniquely identify every legal entity or structure, in any jurisdiction, which is party to a financial transaction.
LSE and Borsa Italiana terminals An LEI is required under several global regulations and thousands year end UnaVistas technology is used to allocate and maintain 211 207 the codes.
Since launching in 2013, we have become 200 131 132 180 the second largest LOU globally and have allocated 128 174 111 c. 165,000 LEIs across 6 continents 2017: c. 150,000.
105 Growth in recent years is largely due to MiFID II increasing reporting obligations.
76 75 72 69 69 Regulatory News Service Regulatory News Service RNS is the leading specialist provider of regulatory disclosure 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 distribution services to UK listed and AIM companies.
In 2018, more than 430,000 announcements were LSE terminals processed by RNS 2017: 310,000, covering the Borsa Italiana terminals majority of UK company announcements.
RNS operates as a Primary Information Provider and is regulated by the FCA.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 25 25
