LondonMetric Property Plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our business model How we generate sustainable income and create value.
See pages 01 to 09 Our key stakeholders How our story creates income and value We anticipate changes in shopping habits and pivot People our portfolio to those sectors which benefit from these Our success is dependent on changes.
As a result of our actions, we are strongly employing a talented, motivated positioned in distribution, retail and leisureproperty.
and diverse team with strong property expertise.
Occupiers We engage with occupiers across Distribution all of our activities to provide real estate solutions that deliver mutually % beneficial outcomes and assist them 69 in meeting their business needs.
of portfolio Our portfolio is Contractors and suppliers aligned to modern Total property return in 2018 Delivering developments and asset services on time, on budget and in shopping habits adherence with our standards is of % high priority.
13.7 We select high quality and robust 360 bps out performance contractors who have a proven ofIPD AllProperty track record and we work in See page 02 collaboration with them.
Investors and Joint Ventures Development activity in 2018 We value our good relationships with investors and debt providers toensure we have a wide access 578,000 sq f t tocapital markets.
We manage, We also work closely with our enhance and joint venture partners to full their Additional income business objectives.
create property Local communities in a responsible 3.1m We recognise the importance of from occupier transactions way supporting and properly engaging in 2018 with local communities.
See page 06 We work closely with local authorities, residents and businesses to ensure that our activities We improve the quality and attractiveness of consider and bring benets to our assets through fide-risked asset management local communities.
See the Responsible Business review on pages 45 to 47 Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 23 Value created Total shareholder return 5years In a yield starved environment, we are a true REIT adopter where we focus on sustainable and growing income.
We believe that income will be an % increasingly important component of total returns 119 and we look to improve the quality and length of our income to maximise returns to shareholders.
Total accounting return WAULT % 15.5 12.4 years EPRA EPS growth Only 6% of income We focus on expires over 3 years % sustainable and 3.7 LFL income growth growing income Dividend growth % 4.3 % 5.3 See page 04 Sustainable improvements Investment % 28 384.9m Our expertise of portfolio BREEAMVery Good and relationships Occupancy shape our Community benets % decisionmaking 98 345 See page 08 permanent jobs created by our occupiers on our recent developments Our people are highly talented and have strong relationships with retailers and the property sector which have been built up over many years.
This gives us unrivalled knowledge and we are a trusted partner.
As a result, we are able to access attractive opportunities and make the right propertydecisions.
