LondonMetric Property Plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our marketplace Real estate remains an attractive investment class supported by a resilient economic backdrop and an increasing needfor real income returns.
However, in a complex and highly dynamic world, real estate has to be t for purpose tonavigate a rapidly evolving environment.
Economic backdrop The need for income The UK economy remains relatively There remains a lack of clarity on robust.
GDP growth remains resilient the UKs future relationship with the % and is forecast to be around 2% over European Union which could impact the next few years.
Interest rates remain on near term investment decisions.
60 at historic lows and ination is set to fall The economy has remained resilient back to around 2%.
With evidence of to this distraction and with greater Global population aged 65 real wage ination and unemployment clarity around Brexit, this could and older growth to 2030 trending towards 4%, consumer improve current uncertainty.
spending is set to pick up.
Demographic shifts and longevity Real estate remains an attractive of life are having a profound investment class in this economic impact on the search for income.
environment, delivering a positive % Pension freedoms together with yield arbitrage and positive real 2.
0 pa reduction in Annuity rates have led returns.
Overseas capital continues many to seek alternative sources tobe attracted to UK real estate.
GDP growth remains resilient of income.
over next two years Real income returns require an income ahead of the prevailing Economic forecasts % ination rate.
Many traditional investment classes cash, bonds, 3.1 equities do not deliver this and, 2.7 as a result we are seeing a rise of 2.4 alternative investment classes.
2.1 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 1.9 1.9 1.9 1.8 1.8 1.8 1.7 Real Estate Investment Trusts REITs that invest in the right real estate are 1.2 1.2 1.1 an attractive investment proposition 0.6 in this environment providing reliable, sustainable and growing income with the potential for long 2016 2017 2018f 2019f 2020f term capital appreciation.
GDP 10 year gilt CPI ination Household spending Source: Capital Economics Modern shopping habits and changes in technology The compounding impact of retailers and newly established technological change continues to ecommerce retailers.
The structural Online is forecast to continue to grow shift in shopping habits continues with same store sales stagnating.
to have a ripple effect through Responding to these shifts, occupiers many businesses as ecommerce are upgrading their supply chains becomes an increasingly driving tomeet consumer demands.
force of growth amongst traditional % % - 1 3 1 Online sales year on year Store sales year on year Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 21 Supply & demand imbalance Real estate requirements The logistics and fullment real Technological advancements heightened demand for well located estate market is a direct beneciary and changes in shopping habits and specified logistics and fullment of the shifts in shopping habits.
are resulting in a need for t for accommodation in or close to urban CBRE estimate that 18.5 million sq ft purpose, modern real estate to centres.
Urban logistics property, of Grade A distribution space was maximise supply chain efficiencies.
however, is in short supply given the taken up in the 12 month period Retailers have two principle routes alternative use that these locations against the five year average of to market: retail stores and online.
have and consequently there is a c. 13.8 million sq ft. Q1 2018 was Modern and efficient logistics and demand supply imbalance.
a record quarter with 10 million fullment space is required to deliver The store network remains an sq ft of take up across 28 deals to the consumer regardless of route integral part of a retailers business.
dominated by online, 3PLs and Post and logistics has to seamlessly provide However store portfolios need & Parcel operators.
Online retail led for both store and home delivery.
to shrink and reect the way in occupiers have accounted for 23.7% Increased parcel deliveries and which people choose to shop.
of total take up in the last two years rising retailer promises to deliver to Convenience-led retail remains a compared to 0.6% and 0.9% in 2012 your home, place of work and soon growing sector as top up shopping and 2013 respectively.
anywhere of your choice, is resulting in trips complement online shopping.
The development market has responded with c. 19.4 million sq ft of current development activity.
However 64% is pre-let and developers remain risk adverse.
Total supply of new and grade A stands at c. 15 million sq ft, representing c. 10 months supply based on the last12 months take up.
% 23.7 Online retail occupiers have accounted for 23.7% of total take up in the last twoyears Driving investment markets Outlook The shift in consumer behaviour Prime retail yields v prime distribution we have witnessed in recent years is accelerating.
We believe it is % critical to invest in real estate that is 8 t for purpose, aligned to structural 7 shifts and offers strong income characteristics.
Our strong occupier 6 relationships help shape our decision 5 making to navigate arapidly 4 evolving market.
3 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 Shopping centre prime Distribution prime Retail Warehouse prime Source: CBRE The structural shifts supporting leases with contractual uplifts given accelerating growth, together with the importance of distribution to their the favourable demand supply operations.
This long dated income dynamics, have attracted large with bond like characteristics is very inward real estate investment into appealing and is delivering strong risk the logistics and fullment sectors.
adjusted total returns for owners of Occupiers continue to sign up to long distribution real estate.
