Governance Complying with provisions of the Code Complying with the provisions of the Code The Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate A.
2 Division of Responsibilities governance and business integrity in all its activities.
Throughout The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are distinct and separate with a the year, the Company has complied with all principles of the Code.
The Chairman is responsible for the running and leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chief Executive Officer The Code sets out guidance in the form of main principles and more has delegated authority from, and is responsible to, the Board for managing the specific provisions for good governance in relation to Board leadership, Groups business with the power for further delegation in respect of matters which effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and relations with are necessary for the effective running and management of the Groups business.
Further information on the Code, its applicability, the The current key responsibilities of both the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer principles and their provisions can be found on the Financial Reporting as well as the Senior Independent Director were reviewed during the year by the Councils website, at www.
This table forms part of the Board and are summarised below: Corporate Governance Statement on page 101 of the Directors Report.
Chief Executive Officer Leading and promoting the Companys purpose, culture, values and behaviours A.
Leadership throughout the business and externally and ensuring employees act in A.
1 Role of the Board accordance with these The Board is the principal decision-making forum for the Group and is responsible to shareholders for achieving the Groups strategic objectives and delivering Demonstrating Leadership and Commitment in relation to the principles set out sustainable growth in shareholder value.
Directors act in a way they consider will in the Code of Conduct and requiring compliance from employees at all levels promote the long-term success of the Company, by constructively challenging Leading and promoting the profitable and sustainable development of the and supporting the development of the Groups strategy, for the benefit of Group in accordance with the strategy and direction set by the Board shareholders as a whole, with regard to the interests of the Groups employees, the impact of the business on the community and environment and the interests of Running the Groups business and providing leadership to the executive other stakeholders.
The Board manages the overall control of the Groups affairs management of the Groups businesses and chairing the Executive Committee with reference to the formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
This With the support of the Executive team, proposing and developing the Groups schedule is available on the Companys website at www.
com aboutstrategy, multi-year financial plan, budget and overall commercial objectives for   governance.
approval of the Board The Board views the brands and reputations of its subsidiaries as important Together with the Executive team implementing the decisions of the Board and, assets of the Group.
Accordingly, protection of the brand and reputation of where applicable, of its Committees the Group, including ensuring that subsidiaries continue to meet local legal Providing information and advice on succession planning to the Chairman, the and regulatory requirements, is also a key part of the Boards role as is setting Nomination Committee and as applicable members of the Board particularly the culture and values of the Group.
The matters considered by the Board in in respect of the Executive Directors and their direct reports 2018 are summarised on page 64.
Acting as the primary representative of the Company in its engagements with Board Committees its stakeholders The Company ensures that all Committees are provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
All Committees have written terms of reference which are available from the corporate responsibility section on the Companys website at www.
The matters considered by the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Risk Committees are summarised in the reports of those Committees.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 69 Complying with the provisions of the Code continued A.
4 Non-Executive Directors Leading the Board and ensuring it is effective and setting clear expectations Non-Executive Directors are required to challenge constructively and help develop concerning the companys purpose, culture, values and behaviours and the proposals on strategy, scrutinise the performance of management in meeting style and tone of Board discussions.
Ensuring the Board monitors and assesses agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance.
They the Executives performance against these culture values and behaviours.
should satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and that Promoting the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and defensible.
throughout the Group and specifically at Board level Non-Executive Directors are responsible for determining appropriate levels of Promoting the Companys Code of Conduct at Board level and with the remuneration for executive directors and have a principal role in appointing and, Companys wider stakeholders where necessary, removing executive directors, and in succession planning.
The Ensuring that all directors are enabled to play their full part in bringing their Board should appoint one of the Independent Non-Executive Directors to be the skills and experience to the Board.
Encouraging active engagement by all Senior Independent Director Mr Paul Heiden is the Senior Independent Director.
the members of the Board The responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director include meeting major Running the Board and ensuring clear structure for, and the effective shareholders as an alternative contact to the Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief running of, the Board and its Committees including regularity, frequency Financial Officer.
A summary of the Senior Independent Directors responsibilities and length of meetings can be found at: www.
com  Being the guardian of the Boards decision-making processes and through  governance.
the Chief Executive ensuring effective implementation of Board decisions Ensuring that the Board as a whole is enabled to play a full and constructive B.
Effectiveness part in the review and approval of the Groups strategy, multi-year financial B.
1 The Composition of the Board plan, budget and overall objectives There is a strong non-executive element on the Board, and the Non-Executive Directors provide deep corporate experience and knowledge which they apply to Chairing the Nomination Committee and, in that role, initiating change and their understanding of the Group and its strategy.
succession planning in Board appointments in order to retain and build an effective and complementary Board, and facilitate the appointment of The Board has concluded that all Non-Executive Directors are independent in effective and suitable members and chairs of Board Committees character and judgement, more information on how the Board assesses Ensuring that there is effective communication by the Company with its independence can be found on page 65. shareholders and other key stakeholders, principally by the Chief Executive Officer and other Executive management and also, as appropriate, by the B.
2 Appointments to the Board Chairman himself and the Senior Independent Director, and ensuring that The Board has a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment the members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of the of new Directors to the Board.
The Board has established a Nomination Committee shareholders, the employees and other stakeholders which leads the process for Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board.
The Report from the Nomination Committee on pages 7273, outlines Ensuring that the performance of the Board as a whole, each of its Committees, the changes to the Board that took place during the year.
The Board normally uses and each individual Director as regards their Board and or Committee role s, an external search consultancy for appointments.
is formally and rigorously evaluated on a regular basis and at least annually.
Acting on the results of such evaluation by recognising the strengths and B.
3 Commitment addressing the weaknesses of the Board and feeding back to each director the The other significant commitments of the Board are set out on pages 5961. results of the reviews and ensuring appropriate action plans are put in place and The Board is satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties and time implemented as a result of the Board evaluation commitments as Directors of the Company.
Taking the lead in preparing objectives for the Board annually by gathering inputs from all Board members and for monitoring the Boards success in B.
4 Development meeting those objectives Directors are encouraged to continually update their skills and knowledge of the business, and briefings are regularly given at Board meetings on particular parts Setting clear performance objectives covering style of management and of the business.
The Board also continued its practice of undertaking formal visits outcome-based objectives for the Chief Executive annually at the start of each to its overseas businesses so that the Directors can experience key aspects of the year and obtaining the Boards agreement to these.
Agreeing with the Chief Groups operations first hand.
Executive Officer annual performance objectives similarly for Executive Directors Making certain that the Board determines the nature and extent of the Each new Director joining the Board is offered an induction programme covering significant risks the company is willing to embrace in the implementation the key business areas of the Group and including meetings with members of the of its strategy Executive Committee, other senior managers and external advisers.
Directors are encouraged to meet with executives on an ongoing basis to better understand A full list of the responsibilities for the Chairman of the Group and the Group Chief each of the business areas together with the Groups governance, financial and Executive Officer can be found at: www.
70 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Governance Complying with the provisions of the Code B.
5 Information and Support D. Remuneration The Directors have full access to the advice and services of the Group Company D. 1 The Level and Components of Remuneration Secretary, who is responsible for advising the Board on corporate governance The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 82100 outlines the activities matters.
Directors also have access to independent professional advice if they of the Remuneration Committee during 2018 and the implementation of the judge it necessary to fulfil their responsibilities as Directors.
Remuneration Policy during 2018 including salary, bonus and share awards and payments for loss of office paid to Directors.
6 Evaluation subject to a binding shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM and was passed with over The Board conducts an annual evaluation of its effectiveness and acts on the 98% support.
It is available on the Groups website at: www.
com investorresults of the review.
During the year the Board carried out an internal review of relations shareholder-services agm-information.
There have been no its own effectiveness and that of its Committees and Directors.
The evaluation changes to the policy during the financial year.
Under Schedule 8 of The Large process was conducted by the Group Company Secretary using a detailed and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment questionnaire.
The results of that review are detailed on page 66 of the Corporate Regulations 2013, the Remuneration Policy Report must be approved by a binding Governance Report.
shareholder vote at least once every 3 years.
7 Re-Election D. 2 Procedure Each Director is subject to election at the first AGM following their appointment.
The Board has delegated responsibilities to the Remuneration Committee In line with the Code, all Directors are subject to annual re-election.
including the remuneration of the Chairman and Executive Directors.
C. Accountability E. Relations with Shareholders C. 1 Financial and Business Reporting E. 1 Dialogue with Shareholders A statement of the Directors responsibilities regarding the financial statements, The Company maintains an active shareholder engagement programme, including the status of the Group and Company as a going concern is set out on managed through the Groups IR function.
The IR programme provides regular page 105 of this report.
An explanation of the Groups strategy and business opportunity for contact with existing and potential shareholders, as well as model, together with relevant risks and performance risks and performance sell-side analysts that produce investment research relating to the Group.
IR metrics are set out on pages 1017.
A further statement is provided on page 105 activities include meetings, calls, presentations and information releases on a confirming that the Board considers that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken regular basis throughout the year, based around the Groups financial reporting as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information calendar and following major corporate events and news flow.
For more detail on necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and Companys position, the Groups IR activities, please see page 67 of the Corporate Governance Report.
performance, business model and strategy.
E. 2 Constructive Use of General meetings C. 2 Risk Management and Internal Control The Groups AGM provides the opportunity for all shareholders to meet the The Board has overall responsibility for the sponsorship of a strong risk culture Directors and to put questions to the Board.
Procedures for the AGM and any across the Group and for determining the nature and extent of the principal risks General Meeting are compliant with the Code, with voting by way of a poll to it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
It approves the Risk ensure all shareholders views are taken into account.
Appetite each year as part of the strategic business objectives, and ensures there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating, and managing the principal risks faced by the Company.
The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Risk Committee including oversight of internal Risk Management processes.
The report from the Risk Committee can be found on pages 8081.
In accordance with paragraph C. 2.2 of the Code an explanation of how the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company is included in the section headed Financial viability statement on page 104.
Audit Committee and Auditors The Audit Committee Report on pages 7479 sets out details of the composition of the Committee, including the expertise of members, and outlines how the Committee has discharged its responsibilities during 2018.
The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Audit Committee, including oversight of the Groups financial reporting processes and management of the external auditor.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 71
