Our wider responsibility The Group fulfils vital economic and social roles in enabling To develop and achieve the Group CS objectives and targets, the Group CEO businesses and economies to fund innovation, manage risk and create established a Group CS Committee in 2011, appointing its Chair, and the Group jobs.
As such, integrity and trust remain at the core of what we do.
Each pillar lead then established dedicated working teams drawn from business areas across the group, which are integral to the Below, we summarise our approach to Corporate Sustainability CS, governance of the overall CS programme.
This framework allows us to set including non-financial reporting disclosures, and highlight some of coherent objectives with Group-wide impact.
This is applied to all CS initiatives the developments over the past year.
We have also produced a to identify the issues most relevant and important for the Group by crossseparate, detailed 2018 CS report, which can be viewed at www.
referencing items against this framework internally, and externally against the com  .
UN Sustainable Development Goals SDGs and Global Reporting Initiative GRI materiality definitions.
Our Approach Our CS approach underlies our corporate purpose, and has 2 core objectives: By involving representatives from the business areas, ESG factors can be directly fed into product development and formation of services across the Group.
Further To play an essential role in supporting global financial stability and information on how ESG considerations are tied to our business model and sustainable global economic growth operations can be found in our CS report.
To ensure our corporate behaviour and actions are consistent with good practice while generating long-term value creation We have seen good progress in our CS performance with our external CS ratings remaining in the top quartile when ranked against peers in the Dow Jones Our CS strategy is defined by 6 impact areas that direct the Groups focus in all CS Sustainability Index DJSI.
As our business expands and diversifies, we continue activities, which are executed through 4 pillars: our markets: our services: our to review our approach to sustainability.
Our objectives for each of our 6 impact people: and our communities.
areas are set out in the Looking Ahead section of our CS Report.
CS Impact Framework CS Strategy Convene Grow Disclose Transition Develop Sustain We leverage our We will help small and We will provide We work with issuers We will employ We will help the less position at the centre medium-sized investors with and investors to and invest in the advantaged in of capital markets to enterprises SMEs information and tools provide solutions that development of a communities facilitate dialogue and raise capital and fund to assess the ESG accelerate and highly diverse global worldwide to develop catalyse action investments to create performance of manage the transition workforce to business skills and towards the employment companies to enable to a low carbon and deliver on our to support the development of worldwide incorporation into sustainable economy sustainable vision environment sustainable finance engagement and investment CS Pillars Our Markets Our Services Our People Our Communities Supporting the sustainable growth Enabling informed investment Recruiting and developing diversified Empowering people, of companies for long-term decisions and transparent talent to fulfil their potential enriching communities economic prosperity markets operations Risks Environment We continue to assess the materiality of ESG and related risks to LSEG and look to As a Group, we recognise that we must use resources in ways that deliver the further integrate these considerations into our Enterprise-wide Risk Management long-term sustainability and profitability of the business and have a positive framework in 2019.
While we recognise the importance of Environment, Human impact on the environment.
We are taking such factors into account in Rights and Anti-bribery and corruption ABC risks, these are not currently developing products and services that support these aims through companies considered principal risks for the Group.
Certain matters in relation to our listed on our markets.
The Groups primary greenhouse gas GHG emissions arise employees are identified as principal risks for the Group.
In 2018, further steps from energy, waste and water in our offices and data centres around the world, have been taken to mitigate this risk.
More information on our principal risks can from staff travel, and indirectly from our supply chain.
We are aware of the risks be found on pages 48 57, and details of the principal risks arising from and opportunities for our business arising from climate change, and have employees can be found on page 57. developed measures to address them.
We will actively monitor these changes so that we can adapt and respond as necessary.
During the reporting period, we achieved an 18% reduction in our absolute carbon emissions and a 16% reduction in carbon emissions per Full Time Employee FTE.
This is a slower rate of change to 2017, where LSEG achieved a 43% reduction in carbon emissions per FTE.
This was due to significant action in 2017, where 64% of the Groups electricity was produced by natural renewable energy sources.
36 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Strategic Report Our wider responsibility Managing our environmental impact Global 2018 GHG Emissions Our Environmental Management Group EMG guides the Groups environmental tCO e Tonnes of carbon 2 strategy, and is responsible for setting Group-wide targets, and managing and 1 dioxide equivalent 2018 2017 % change continually seeking to improve our environmental performance.
The EMG 2,3 Total Group Carbon Footprint 17,864 21,866 18 reports performance quarterly via our Intranet and annually discloses verified 2 per m 0.201 0.235 15 emissions on our website, in our CS and Annual Reports, and in response to CDP per FTE 3.36 3.98 16 Carbon Disclosure Project and DJSI.
The Groups ESG performance is also per m Revenue 8.37 11.2 25 assessed by FTSE4Good.
4 Scope 1 1,414 1,919 26 Its responsibilities also include: 5 Scope 2 7,132 11,694 39 6 Scope 3 8,792 7,320 20 Increasing efficiency and reducing consumption in areas including energy, water and paper usage, waste management and business travel Scope 3 Electricity Transmission and Distribution 527 932 43 Ensuring that environmental considerations are incorporated in the Groups 1.
2017 figures have been updated on receipt of annual emissions factor guidance and or actual purchasing policy and procurement decisions, including new developments, data from suppliers 2.
All Group totals and electricity breakdowns use market-based Scope 2 emissions factors projects and materials 3.
Group Carbon Footprint includes tenant consumption.
Detailed section data excludes tenants 4.
Scope 1 includes combustion of fuel and operation of facilities including Natural Gas, Diesel, LPG, Engaging with clients, suppliers and community partners to promote Fugitive Emissions and Fleet Vehicles environmental best practice 5.
Scope 2 is purchase of electricity by the Group for its own use the Group does not purchase heat, steam or cooling 6.
Scope 3 includes emissions from Air Travel, Rail Travel, Waste, Water and Scope 3 Electricity David Warren, the Groups CFO, reports to the Board on environmental issues.
Transmission and Distribution Methodology and Verification In addition to monitoring our environmental impact, we have set environmental We report all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 targets for the next financial year including energy, water, waste and travel, Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
These sources fall as well as long-term science-based targets out to 2030.
More information on these within our consolidated financial statement.
We do not have responsibility for as well as full details of our emissions and reporting methodology can be any emission sources that are not included in our consolidated statement.
Progress against The Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions disclosed here and, in the Directors Report have 2020 Target 2020 Target been externally verified by SGS against the requirements of the WRI WBCSD Reduction of 70% GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
Conduct of the Reduce tCO e by 20% per m Revenue and 2 per m Revenue and reduction of 63% verification met the requirements of ISO 14064-3:2006.
Full details and the Overall per FTE per FTE verification statement are available on our website.
Reduce tCO e and Reduction of 88% tC0 e 2 2 Water by 20% per and reduction of 30% Our emissions are calculated using GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and 3 Data Centres m Revenue m per m Revenue Reporting Standard revised edition and UK Government Environmental Reduce tCO e and Reduction of 61% tCO e 2 2 3 Reporting Guidelines: including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting Water by 20% and reduction of 57% m guidance.
We use DEFRA UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for our UK Offices per m Revenue per m Revenue sites, and for extrapolated data, business travel, water and waste.
Local GHG Reduce tCO e by 20% Reduction of18% per m 2 per m Revenue and Revenue and increase of Protocol emissions factors are used to calculate energy emissions for Business Travel per FTE 1% per FTE international sites where available.
Reduce Total Waste by Reduction of 74% per Waste and Paper 20% per m Revenue m Revenue London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 37 Our wider responsibility continued Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures TCFD Supporting the call for more effective climate-related financial disclosures to inform longer-term investment decision, in June 2017 LSEG signed a statement of support for the recommendations of the TCFD established by the Financial Stability Board.
The table below, by cross-referencing relevant disclosures, summarises LSEGs current TCFD alignment.
References GOVERNANCE Information on LSEGs governance Board oversight of the Group Group Corporate Responsibility around climate-related risks Corporate Responsibility Policy Policy: Governance section.
and opportunities Group CFO reports to LSEG LSEG CS Report 2018: Board on environmental matters Environment section, page 31 Group CS Committee includes a number of Executive Committee members including an LSEG Board member EMG responsible for setting Group-wide targets, and managing and continually seeking to improve our environmental performance STRATEGY Information on the impacts of Impact of low-carbon transition LSEG CS Report 2018: climate-related risks and opportunities and rise of green industries Environment section, page 3134 on LSEGs business, strategy and monitored by FTSE Russell through FTSE Russell Green Revenues financial planning Green Revenues data model data model LSEG sets targets for business operations for 2020 and 2030 RISK MANAGEMENT Information on how LSEG identifies In 2018, LSEG further aligned its LSEG 2018 CDP Response: and manages climate-related risks approach to climate-related risks Risk and Opportunities Section, and opportunities with the TCFD questions C2.1C2.3.
framework, following a review by a specialist consultancy METRICS AND TARGETS Metrics and targets used by LSEG to Physical risk metrics are associated LSEG CS Report 2018: assess and manage relevant with LSEG environmental Environment section, pages 3134 climate-related risks and opportunities programme targets LSEG CS Report 2018: Transition risks metrics: levels of Our Markets section, pages 1416 ESG disclosures on our markets FTSE Russell Report Investing in Transition opportunities metrics: the Global Green Economy: busting exposure of our markets to the common myths, 30 May 2018. green economy Social Recruitment and Retention People Attracting, developing and retaining the skills we need to deliver our strategy is LSEG fully recognises its responsibilities to its people and their importance to our vital to the Group.
In 2018, reflecting our commitment to diversity and inclusion, business model as noted earlier in this report on page 11 and by the Chairman we increased the proportion of female candidates being recruited from 31% in and CEO.
The Group continues to nurture a culture that reflects its values of 2017 to 37% in 2018.
The proportion of employees moving roles within the Group partnership, innovation, integrity and excellence and supports colleagues also increased, from 14% to 23%, as we sharpened our focus on internal mobility professional development.
We have taken a number of steps to understand how across the Group.
our people at all levels of seniority currently view our culture, and have used the insights gained to improve our assessment and development of leaders and our Our Graduate and Early Career Programme continues to help fuel our growth and engagement with employees.
We now have almost 100 graduates on programmes globally, and this year hosted over 150 internships across 6 countries and added new locations.
We also continue to support both diversity and wellbeing across all our global Gender diversity was a focus of pipeline development at this level too: throughout locations.
In 2018, we made progress via several initiatives outlined below across 2018, events were held to encourage women into finance and technology, resulting Recruitment, Professional Development, Learning, Employee Engagement, in 44% female representation across the global graduate and intern classes.
While this is a multi-year effort, we believe these initiatives will reap rich rewards and support a culture that fully embraces our Our graduate programmes provide structured learning and professional Groups values.
development opportunities through traditional classroom training, mobile learning, networking opportunities, on the job experience and formal industry The LSEG Board receives updates on matters relating to employees, including qualifications.
In 2019, we will also pilot a Spring week programme for first year through the CEOs reports to the Board.
See the Boards report on Corporate students studying STEM science, technology, engineering and mathematics Governance on pages 62 68 for further information.
subjects to encourage broader engagement.
More detail on the breakdown of our employees can be found on page 35 of the CS report.
38 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Strategic Report Our wider responsibility Professional Development In the UK, the Colleague Forum supports all UK-based employees and is Futures, our global Career Framework, was launched across all divisions and co-chaired by the CEOs of LSE plc and LCH Ltd.
It meets regularly to discuss functions in 2018.
It objectively and transparently sets out the skills, knowledge and and contribute to a number of key business initiatives and business change behaviours required for every role in the organisation, from entry-level Associate programmes, including people-focused initiatives launched as our Wellbeing roles through to those on our Group Executive Committee.
The launch of Futures is programme.
ACTIVE, an initiative launched by the Colleague Forum, simplifies an important milestone for LSEG, providing clarity and reinforcing our values.
access to our existing colleague sports and leisure clubs and we are exploring As a single consistent framework it will enable us to track diversity and help us to expansion to other key Group locations in 2019. increase internal mobility, creating the conditions for more cross-divisional moves.
Diversity and Inclusion In addition to connecting employee behaviours with Group values, Futures LSEG is committed to a culture based on collaboration and innovation.
Diversity allows us to calibrate individual performance against like-skilled peers.
Data and Inclusion D&I is critical to this as it helps to create an environment in which available for performance assessments now includes 360-degree feedback for all opinions and ideas can be heard.
It is also an important element in attracting Executive Committee members and Have Your Say feedback for Managing and retaining talented people.
Developing our D&I approach supports the Groups Directors: and we have further plans for developing a Group-wide culture of focus on developing a single, unified culture and builds on our core values.
Colleagues are recruited and supported in their careers regardless of age, gender, We continue to invest in leadership skills in order to maintain a strong nationality, culture or personal characteristics.
We strive to inspire people in all their succession pipeline and strengthen our leadership group.
During 2018, senior diversity to pursue careers with the Group, and we encourage industry-wide change leaders participated in elite external development programmes such as to promote equal opportunity.
In 2018 we conducted disability access audits, and Wavelength Connect, while in some divisions we also invested in internal introduced parent carer support.
In 2019 we also plan to provide dedicated space leadership team programmes.
and resources for prayer and reflection.
All colleagues complete inclusion awareness e-learning on joining the Group and in 2018 we expanded our manager The Mentor Exchange, our internal mentoring programme launched in 2016, was training to embed modules which build the skills to champion inclusive leadership extended from the UK, Italy and US to France and Sri Lanka: we now have 800 and equal opportunity for all.
The programme supports our diversity agenda, as well as our emphasis on developing and retaining colleagues within the Group.
Gender Diversity LSEGs Women Inspired Network WIN, now in its fourth year, continues to Female Male nurture female talent at all levels across our offices in Canada, France, Italy, LSEG plc Board 3 10 Malaysia, Sri Lanka, the UK and US.
More information on WIN can be found in the 1,3 LSEG Subsidiary Boards 22 116 CS report on page 22.
In addition, 50 LSEG colleagues have joined the 30% Club 2,3 Executive Committee and Leadership Teams 134 295 cross-company mentoring scheme to date.
All other colleagues 1,435 2,723 Total colleagues 1,569 3,018 Learning Opportunities 1.
Mix of employees and Non-Executive Directors Throughout 2018 our learning management system, The Learning Exchange, 2.
Executive Committee and Leadership Teams in LSEG successfully delivered blended solutions across all LSEG locations including our 3.
The LSEG Subsidiary Board members and the members of the Executive Committee and recently opened Bucharest office.
The Learning Exchange reaches all LSEG Leadership Teams together comprise the Senior Managers for the purposes of section 414C 18 c 11 of the Companies Act 2006 colleagues globally, enabling them to access content and sign up for courses.
Note: Figures as of year ended 31 December 2018.
To meet business needs, core offerings are focused on supporting line managers A report on gender pay gap was published in March 2019.
The report can be in managing change, coaching and developing their teams.
A practical and found here: www.
com  corporateflexible delivery approach was consistently adopted, maximising impact by responsibility providing real time, in-house webinars and delivering courses by video conferencing as well as face to face.
This enabled colleagues from every LSEG Wellbeing location to participate and encouraged everyone to take ownership of their career.
The 2018 global employee survey showed that the Group is making progress on the Wellbeing initiatives it introduced in 2017.
High percentages of respondents Employee Engagement reported feeling supported, comfortable about being themselves at work and well Employee engagement continues to be of paramount importance to the Group, able to balance work and home life.
and we are committed to acting on the results of our regular Have Your Say global employee surveys.
In 2018 more than 3 quarters of colleagues 76% took time to In 2018 we signed up to the Time to Change Employer Pledge, affirming our share their views, and our engagement index of 75 was driven by a strong sense of commitment to support mental wellbeing in the workplace.
This was reflected in pride in LSEG as an employer.
the programme of events we ran throughout the year, including the Wellbeing Speaker Series in which specialists in Sleep, Resilience and Nutrition shared their Following the 2018 survey, we have identified 4 key areas of focus for 2019: insights with colleagues.
Vision and Purpose, Collaboration, Leadership and Career Development.
We believe action in these areas will enable us to increase engagement levels, We are taking steps to improve access to flexible working for our colleagues.
support collaboration and optimise career development within the Group.
Our Workplace Choice programme continues its phased rollout with positive We expect to launch the next global employee survey during 2019. feedback on productivity, team relationships, client service, engagement and work-life balance.
Giving colleagues the opportunity to meet with LSEGs leaders and help shape the Groups future success is important to us.
To facilitate this, we have a variety of colleague forums, employee engagement committees and representative bodies in place globally.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 39 Our wider responsibility continued Reward All Group-level policies are approved by the Executive Committee as a minimum and LSEGs reward strategy focuses both on the short term, through an annual bonus other Committees and Boards as defined in the Enterprise-wide Risk Management scheme linked to our global performance management approach, and on the Framework.
Policies are subject to annual review, which may be approved by the medium term through share schemes aimed at senior management and the Policy Owner and Executive Sponsor if there are no material changes.
The Long-Term Incentive Plan, details of which can be found on page 92, aligns the performance and reward of senior management with the Polices are implemented and managed in accordance with the Enterprise-wide Groups ongoing performance and growth.
Risk Management framework and 3 lines of defence operating model.
All Group Policies are published on Bond, the internal online intranet site, available to all Sharesave, our employee share ownership scheme, is available to all permanent staff.
Material Policy breaches are reported to the Board, the Executive Committee employees across France, Hong Kong, Italy, Malaysia, Sri Lanka, the UK and the and relevant sub-Committees.
Colleagues can save up to 500 or equivalent per month, with the option after 3 years of using their accumulated savings to buy LSEG shares.
Given their relevance for our industry and associated risks, we provide below a brief comment on the outcomes of the following policies, deemed to be most During 2018, more than 580 employees across 5 countries benefitted from relevant to our corporate sustainability processes: Sharesave maturities including share price appreciation of c. 120%, reflecting the Financial Crime Groups performance over the previous 3 years.
Participation was extended further, with almost 1,000 employees joining the 2018 scheme, which increased Anti-bribery and Corruption overall participation to 54% of eligible employees.
Group Information Security Community Business Continuity Management LSEG works to ensure that as our global reach expands, we continue to benefit the communities we operate in.
To achieve this, we have an active programme of In the case of all policies stated above, compliance with which is regularly engagement with governments, inter-governmental agencies and regulators to monitored, the outcome is that there have been no breaches material to LSEG in promote ESG disclosure and sustainable practices.
More details on these policies can be found on page 38 of the CS report.
communities and the environment where we have a significant presence.
Our Code of Conduct and Corporate Responsibility policy, both published on London Stock Exchange Group Foundation provides a primary channel for the www.
com, are underpinned by LSEGs values and behaviours and a number Groups charitable giving as well as a focal point for staff engagement with local of policies that embed sustainability into our day to day operations.
In 2018, the Group donated 1,254,000 to the LSEG Foundation, and 207,000 directly to a number of charities.
The Foundations approach and LSEG relies on the skills and decision-making capabilities of our employees positioning is aligned with the overall Group CS strategy, while recognising the and their adherence to the highest behavioural standard to ensure the quality global reach of LSEGs business model, more information on this can be found in of our product and service offering.
All new and existing LSEG employees are the CS report on page 27.
UNICEF remains the Groups global charity partner and provided with training on the Groups core policies, including all the key regulatory we continue to support the community investment programme.
New charity and legal requirements.
The Group has maintained a 100% completion rate across partners were selected in France and Italy in 2018, more information on these all compliance training delivered in the 2018 period.
partners can be found in the CS Report under Our Communities.
Human Rights Governance LSEG adheres to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, LSEG remains committed to upholding the highest standards of corporate together with the International Labour Organization Conventions and governance and business integrity throughout our operations.
In 2018, we Recommendations within our working environment in each location where we have again complied with all the UK Corporate Governance Codes provisions.
The Group strongly supports these conventions which promote freedom Our Board will continue to ensure that it provides effective leadership and of association and equality and abolish forced labour and child labour.
Human promotes uncompromising ethical standards.
For further information on rights considerations are also included in our Supplier Code of Conduct and Group governance see pages 6971.
Given the size and scope of our businesses, we face a wide and expanding Our updated risk assessment and research in 2018 has again indicated that LSEG universe of risks.
Our presence in Post Trade services provides direct and indirect operates in an industry where the risk of modern slavery and human trafficking is exposure to financial market volatility.
We also face technology risks including inherently low.
However, we operate as a global business and therefore recognise cyber threats, as well as macro-economic, political, and regulatory risks.
Pursuing the risks of partnering with a varied spectrum of global suppliers and of slavery our growth strategy in this dynamic environment requires best-in-class risk occurring deeper in those complex supply chains.
Our governance and risk management structures have evolved to meet this need see pages 48 and 62 for further details.
The Group has a zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery.
Our 2018 Slavery and Human trafficking statement which will be published on our website on the Policies 29th March 2019, describes the steps taken during 2018 to improve our supply A Group-wide Policy Framework has been established.
Each policy chain management and procurement processes and procedures.
Suppliers that contains the following: make up the top 75% of spend were reviewed for modern slavery risks in 2016.
Risk definition and identification The most recent version of our modern slavery statement can be found at: Risk Appetite and Tolerances www.
com    Minimum Standards and Risk Management Activities 40 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018
