LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 KKW]V IJQTQ a Audit Committee report Rosalyn Wilton Chairman, Audit Committee Membership & Attendance Tenure Meetings 1 IU XTMI[ML W XZM[MV PM ]LQ Member Date appointed years attended Committees report for the year to Rosalyn Wilton 25 3 2014 4 5 5 Andrew Livingston 31 5 2016 2 5 5 h5IZKP Andrew Varley retired 30 September 2017 25 1 2013 n a 2 2 PMh WUUQ MM KWV QV]M[ W XTIa I SMa Alec Pelmore 25 1 2013 5 5 5 oversight and assurance role, assisting Suzanne Avery 22 3 2018 0 0 0 the Board and ensuring shareholder and Bracketed numbers indicate the number of meetings the member was eligible to attend.
Tenure is measured from date of appointment to the Committee and as at 31 March 2018, rounded to the nearest whole year.
W PMZ [ ISMPWTLMZ QV MZM[ [ IZM XZW MK ML Highlights this year by monitoring the processes that support Review of significant issues, accounting judgements and VIVKQIT ZMXWZ QVO IVL KWV ZWT estimates including six monthly property valuations Ongoing review of risk management and internal control processes including consideration of Brexit and cyber risk Review of going concern, viability and longer term prospects ofthe Company Considered likely impact of adopting new IFRSs on revenue, financial instruments and leasing Assessed the Directors duty under S172 Companies Act 2016 to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its members as a whole whilst having regard to wider stakeholders Oversight of the effectiveness of the audit process External evaluation of its own performance and review ofitstermsof reference Responsibilities of the Committee Monitors the integrity of the financial reporting process and scrutinises the full and half year financial statements Considers and challenges the key financial judgements made by management Reviews the risk management framework and ensures risks are carefully identied, assessed and mitigated Reviews the performance, independence and effectiveness of the external auditor and audit process Reviews the viability statement and going concern basis of preparation Considers whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 previous partner who was no longer Chairmans introduction financial experience as a former considered independent and retired.
Chairman of the Risk Committee at The role of the Audit Committee is to AXA UK Limited.
It considers that the review and report to the Board on The Committee has considered the Committee as a whole has the relevant financial reporting, internal control and provisions of the Code concerning property and financial competence risk management and the external going concern and longer term to enable it to discharge its duties and audit process.
viability and has advised the Board on the appointment of Suzanne Avery the statements made in the Report of This year we welcomed Suzanne brings complementary financial, the Directors on page 106 and in the Avery to theCommittee.
Suzanne has banking, sustainability and real estate Risk management section of this report extensive financial, banking and experience through the senior positions on page 60. property experience, serving previously she has held.
as Managing Director of Real Estate We have also scrutinised the processes Meetings Finance Group and Sustainability in place to ensure that, taken as at RBS, and brings diversity and a a whole, the Annual Report is fair, The Committee follows an annual fresh approach.
balanced and understandable and programme to ensure it gives full have advised the Board to make its consideration to matters of particular The Committee has continued to statement on page 107.
Our review importance and its terms of reference.
focus on risk management and has process is described on page 87. undertaken its annual comprehensive The Committee met five times last review of principal risks and the internal During the year the Company received year, with meetings aligned to the control framework as discussed on a letter from the Financial Reporting Companys financial reporting page 82.
We are mindful of the need Council FRC concerning its review timetable.
Meetings are attended to ensure that emerging and evolving of the 2017 Annual Report.
The object by the Committee members and, risks are considered.
This year we of the FRCs review was not to verify by invitation, the Groups external considered specic risks relating to that the information in the Annual auditor, independent property cyber security, political uncertainty and Report was correct but rather to valuers CBRE Ltd and Savills Advisory the impact of Brexit on the Company.
consider compliance with reporting Services Limited, the Finance I can confirm that no significant requirements.
I am very pleased to Director and senior management.
weaknesses in the control processes report that no questions or queries were Time is allocated for the Committee were identied this year.
However a few improvements to to meet the external auditor and disclosures on alternative performance property valuers independently of This year, we considered the Directors measures and IFRS 13 fair value management.
In addition to formal duty to its wider stakeholders under measurements were noted and have Committee meetings, the Chairman S172 Companies Act 2016 having been taken into consideration in the has regular contact and meetings received a report from the Finance preparation and review of this years with the Audit Partner and Finance Director.
The Company has undertaken Annual Report.
This is considered more helpful its first investor Responsible Business and and effective than waiting for the employee satisfaction surveys along All Committee members will be scheduled meetings.
with its biennial tenant satisfaction attending this years Annual General survey.
It has introduced exible Meeting and engagement with and The May and November meetings are working arrangements for staff, feedback from investors is welcomed scheduled to precede the approval increasing its focus and commitment to and encouraged.
and issue of the full and half year its wider stakeholders.
Separate meetings Membership are held with the Companys The Committee challenged the During the year the Committee property valuers to challenge significant financial judgements made comprised of four Non Executive the valuation process and review by management, including those their independence.
At the March Directors until Andrew Varley retired concerning the largest balance sheet meeting, the Committee reviewed on 30 September 2017, as previously item being the valuation of investment risk management and internal control announced.
For the remainder of the property.
Our review is described on processes and considered the year year until March 2018 it comprised pages 83 to 85. end audit plan.
the remaining three Non Executive We received a report from the Finance Directors, chaired by Rosalyn Wilton.
The Chairman of the Committee Director on the potential impact of Suzanne Avery was appointed to the reports to the Board on the matters new accounting standards on revenue, Board and Committee on 22 March considered and conclusions reached financial instruments and leasing and 2018.
Members have no day to day after each Committee meeting.
are satisfied that management are involvement with the Company or links fully prepared to comply with the The Committee is satisfied that it with the external auditor.
receives sufficient, reliable and Biographies of the Committee timely information and support from We have also considered the members which set out the relevant management and the Companys independence and effectiveness skills, knowledge and sector external auditor to allow it to full of the external audit process and experience they bring can be found on its obligations.
have recommended that Deloitte pages 64 and 65. be reappointed at the AGM in July.
The Board is satisfied that Rosalyn This year we welcome a new lead audit Wilton brings recent and relevant partner, Georgina Robb, to replace the LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 KKW]V IJQTQ a KWV QV]ML Activities during 2018 During the year, the work undertaken by the Committee has included the consideration, review and approval ofthe following: Financial reporting Risk management External audit Interim and year end results Annual assessment of the Groups Scope of the external auditplan announcement and Annual Report principal risks including Brexit and The independence and objectivity Accounting treatment of significant cyberrisk and comprehensive of Deloitte LLP transactions and areas of review of the riskregister Performance of the external judgement which could have a Risk appetite and dashboard auditor and effectiveness of the material impact on the financial reviewed at each Board meeting auditprocess statements The adequacy and effectiveness of Evaluation of key audit findings Developments in new accounting the Groups internal control and risk Auditors fee proposal standards on revenue, financial management systems Reappointment of external auditor instruments and leasing The appropriateness of the going External audit tenure Processes undertaken to ensure that concern assumption and the level Review of non audit services and the financial statements are fair, of stress testing undertaken ratio of fees balanced and understandable The Viability statement and longer Directors duty under S172 term forecast Companies Act 2016 Audit Committee report Property valuation Other The property valuation process and Committees composition and member changes the appropriateness of the interim Annual review of Committees own terms of reference and constitution and year end individual valuations External performance evaluation The independence and Annual review of the need for an internal audit function competence of the external valuers The Groups whistle blowing arrangements and anti-bribery and corruptionpolicies The system is designed to give the Board The Audit Committee carries out an Risk management confidence that the risks are managed annual review of the risk register and andinternalcontrols or mitigated as far as possible.
However, reports its findings to the Board.
The Company has a culture of it should be noted that no system can risk awareness and management The risk register was last updated in eliminate the risk of failure to achieve embedded into its decision March 2018 and presented to the Audit the Companys objectives entirely and making processes.
Committee at their planning meeting.
can only provide reasonable but not The Board is ultimately responsible absolute assurance against material for establishing and maintaining misstatement or loss.
Risk register the Companys framework of risk The Board undertakes a robust management and internal control and The risk register identies the assessment of the principal and for determining the nature and extent following for each key strategic, emerging risks facing the business at of the principal risks which may affect economic, transactional and each meeting, including those that its strategic objectives.
It recognises financial risk facing the business: could threaten the business model, that risk is inherent in running the future performance, solvency and Signicance and probability of business and understands that effective liquidity.
It has adopted a risk dashboard each risk risk management is critical to the as a standing agenda item which Controls and safeguards in place decision making process and ultimate highlights changes in the Companys to manage and minimise each risk success of the Company.
exposure to current and emerging risks Movements in the Groups The risk framework and ongoing and the mitigation thereof.
exposure to the risk since the processes in place to identify, evaluate The Board has delegated responsibility last review and manage the principal risks and for reviewing the effectiveness of the risk Allocated owner of the risk and uncertainties facing the Group are management framework and internal management of safeguards described in the Risk management control environment and compliance section on pages 48 to 59. with the Code to the Audit Committee.
Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 A key part of the risk management significant financial judgements Management confirmed that they process is the identication were not aware of any material The Committee monitors the integrity and assessment of risks which misstatements and the auditor of the financial information published are the responsibility of the confirmed they had not found any in the interim and annual statements Executive Committee assisted by material misstatements in the course and considers the extent to which oftheir work.
suitable accounting policies have been adopted, consistently applied Short reporting lines and operating After reviewing reports from and disclosed.
management and following its from one office ensures the Executive discussions with the auditor and Directors have close involvement in It pays particular attention to valuers, the Committee is satisfied that day to day matters allowing early matters it considers to be important the key financial judgements have identication of risks and development by virtue of their size, complexity, been appropriately and adequately of mitigation strategies.
level of judgement and potential addressed by the Executive Directors, impact on the financial statements The Audit Committee monitors and reviewed by the external auditor and and remuneration.
reviews the effectiveness of the reported in these financial statements.
Groups internal controls including all The significant matters considered by The Committee is also satisfied that the material, financial, operational and the Committee, discussed with the processes used to determine the value compliance controls.
external auditor and addressed during of the assets and liabilities have been the year are set out in the table on It receives an annual internal control appropriately reviewed, challenged pages 84 to 85. evaluation questionnaire which is and are sufficiently robust.
completed by senior management Further details can be found in note 1 The significant matters considered by and other reports provided by the to the financial statements.
the Committee during the year are external auditor.
The Committee has considered a set out in the table on pages 84 to 85 Based on its review and assessment, the number of other judgements made should be read in conjunction with Audit Committee is satisfied that there by management, none of which were the Independent Auditors report on are no significant weaknesses in the material in the context of the Groups pages 109 to 113 and the significant Groups internal control structure and results or net assets.
accounting policies disclosed in an effective risk management system note 1 to the financial statements on These included judgements is in place, and has reported these page 118. concerning the recoverability of findings to the Board.
financial assets, the valuation of It concluded that risks were properly derivative instruments, the disclosure of categorised, understood and acted alternative performance measures and upon as necessary.
Internal control framework The key elements of the Groups internal control framework are as follows: A dened schedule of matters reserved for the Boards attention A documented appraisal and approval process for all significant capital expenditure A comprehensive and robust system of financial budgeting, forecasting and reporting Short term cash ow forecasting that is considered weekly by the Executive Committee An integrated financial and property management system An organisational structure with clearly dened roles, responsibilities and limitsof authority that facilitates effective and efficient decision making Close involvement of the Executive Directors in day to day operations including regular meetings with senior management on all operational aspects of the business Disciplined monthly meetings of the Executive, Investment, Asset Management and Finance Committees The maintenance of a risk register and risk dashboard highlighting movements in principal and emerging risks and mitigation strategies A formal whistle blowing policy LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 KKW]V IJQTQ a KWV QV]ML significant financial judgements Property valuations Area of focus Reporting Issue The Committees role The property valuation is a significant Property valuations are inherently All of the Groups investment properties part of the Groups reported subjective as they are based on and those held in joint ventures are performance being the largest assumptions and judgements made externally valued by two independent line item on the balance sheet at by the external valuers which are property valuers, CBRE and Savills.
1,842.0million including share of underpinned by recent market The Committee met twice during the jointventures.
transactions and may not prove year with the property valuers, as part tobeaccurate.
It is a key determinant of the Groups of the interim and year end reporting profitability, net asset value, total These include future rental growth process, to challenge and assess the property return, and drives an element and yield assumptions, committed integrity of the valuation process, of variable remuneration and is expenditure on developments, letting methodologies and outcomes.
therefore a key area of focus.
and vacancy assumptions, rent free The key judgements applied to each periods and leaseincentives.
It is an ongoing business risk, as property valuation and any issues raised reected within Risk management with management were considered onpages 56 to 57 of this report.
and discussed, to ensure that undue influence had not been placed on For further details on property the valuation process and the valuers valuations refer to notes 1 and 9 remained independent and objective.
Revenue recognition Area of focus Reporting Issue The Committees role Total revenue for the year, which There is a risk of overstatement or The Committee received reports from primarily consists of rental income deferral of income in order to meet management and the external auditor generated from the investment performance and remuneration targets on the timing of revenue recognition property portfolio, was 92.7 million or expectations.
for property and lease transactions including share of joint ventures.
completing in the year, lease incentives Complex items include the accounting and surrender payments.
Consistency Certain transactions are non standard for rent free periods and capital of accounting treatment with previous in nature and include unusual or incentives, which vary between years was considered, including in complex terms requiring management lease contracts and are considered relation to thefollowing: to make judgements as to whether, when property is acquired, sold or as and to what extent, revenue should developments complete as well as berecognised in theyear.
Significant transactions Area of focus Reporting Issue The Committees role During the year, the Group transacted Some transactions were large and significant property acquisitions on 636.5 million of property or complex in nature and required and disposals were reviewed by the acquisitions and sales, as discussed in management to make judgements Committee to the extent that there detail in the Property review on pages when considering the appropriate were unusual terms and conditions 26 to 33. accounting treatment including orjudgement in relation to timing.
how and when a transaction should The Committee, in conjunction with be recognised and the fair value of the external auditor, received and theconsideration.
challenged managements accounting Complexities considered this year proposals in relation to: included corporate acquisitions and sales, rental top up payments, conditionality and deferred .
Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Conclusion Supporting market evidence was The Committee challenged yield and ERV The Committee confirmed to the provided to enable the Committee to assumptions and discussed the impact Board that the external property benchmark assets and conclude that the on values of committed expenditure valuation included within the financial assumptions applied were appropriate.
on developments, letting assumptions, statements had been carried out vacant space, rent free periods and appropriately, independently This year the Committee probed and leaseincentives.
and in accordance with industry debated any valuations which required valuationstandards.
a greater level of judgement or particular As part of their audit work, Deloitte issues with the valuers, including property use valuation specialists to assess and under development and valuation challenge the valuation approach, movements that were not broadly in line assumptions and judgements.
They with the IPD benchmark.
meet independently with the valuers and report their findings and conclusions totheCommittee.
Conclusion The timing of recognising rental income The accounting for surrender premium The Committee considered the arising on developments at Stoke, received at Leicester options available, challenged Crawley, Huyton, Tonbridge and the judgements made and were Launceston thatcompleted in the year satisfied that revenue had been appropriately recognised in the The accounting for rent free periods and nancialstatements.
lease inducements including at Speke, Coventry and Launceston Conclusion The corporate acquisition of The timing of recognition of acquisitions The Committee concurred with the 14distribution assets for 117 million and disposals based on the transfer approach adopted by management of risks and rewards of ownership, in eachcase.
The corporate disposals of a retail park including the disposal of the Morrisons in Milford Haven and an office in Marlow store at Loughborough which for 84 million exchanged before the year end with All transactions were considered in adeferred completion substance to be property acquisitions and disposals and not business combinations under IFRS 3 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 KKW]V IJQTQ a KWV QV]ML Independence External audit Non audit services The Committee recognises the Deloitte LLP was appointed as importance of auditor objectivity and external auditor following a formal The Companys policy on non audit independence and understands that tender process in 2013.
Current UK services stipulates that they are this could be compromised by the regulations require rotation of the assessed on a case by case basis by provision of non audit services.
lead audit partner every five years, a the Executive Directors who observe formal tender of the auditor every ten All taxation services and remuneration thefollowing guidelines: years and a change of auditor every advice is provided separately by Pre approval of fees by the 20 years.
PwC and corporate due diligence Executive Directors up to a limit is undertaken by BDO LLP.
This year A new lead partner, Georgina of 100,000 or referral to the BDO LLP has also been appointed Robb, was appointed following the Audit Committee for review to undertake the external audit of conclusion of last years audit during and approval a number of the Groups subsidiary which she shadowed the team and Proposed arrangements to company accounts.
maintain auditor independence However, there may be certain Oversight Conrmation from the circumstances where, due to Deloittes Deloitte presented their audit plan for auditors that they are expertise and knowledge of the the year at the planning meeting in acting independently Company or real estate sector, it is March.
The key audit risks and area of Certain services are prohibited appropriate for them to undertake non judgement were highlighted and the from being undertaken by the audit work.
level of audit materiality agreed.
external auditors including The table below sets out the fees bookkeeping, preparing Deloitte presented detailed reports payable to Deloitte for each of the past financial statements, design of their findings to the Committee three years.
The three year average and implementation of financial before the interim and full year results.
ratio of non audit fees including the information systems, valuation, The Committee questioned and cost of the interim review to audit remuneration and legal services challenged the work undertaken and fees is less than 20%, supporting the the key assumptions made in reaching Committees conclusion that Deloitte their conclusions.
Having undertaken its review, in the remains independent and that the opinion of the Audit Committee, the Effectiveness level on non audit fees is not material.
2018 audit was appropriately planned, The Committee has assessed the Deloitte has confirmed to the executed and of a high quality.
performance, independence, Audit Committee that they remain objectivity and fees of the external There continues to be a good working independent and have maintained auditor through discussions with relationship between management internal safeguards to ensure the the Finance Director and senior and Deloitte, who remain independent objectivity of the engagement partner management team and through a and objective.
and audit staff is not impaired.
review of the audit deliverables.
They have also confirmed that they In making its assessment, the have internal procedures in place to Committee considers the qualications, identify any aspects of non audit work expertise and resources of the audit which could compromise their role as partner and team as well as the quality auditors and to ensure the objectivity of and timeliness of the audit deliverables.
It reviewed the extent to which the audit plan was met, the level Audit and non audit fees to Deloitte of independent challenge and 2018 2017 2016 scrutiny applied to the audit and Year to 31 March 000 000 000 the depth of understanding of key accounting judgements.
Audit fees 115 153 153 Review of interim results 27 26 26 It considered the interaction with and feedback from senior management Other non audit fees 2 on the audit process, focusing on the Total 144 179 179 early identication and resolution Ratio of non audit fees including interim review of issues and judgements and the to audit fees 25% 17% 17% quality and timely provision of audit clearance reports for review.
The results Audit fees paid to the external auditor in respect of joint ventures totalled 47,000 at share 2017: 17,000 at share.
of the audit debrief meeting held between senior management and the audit team are relayed to the Audit Committee along with any areas identied for improvement.
Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Auditor reappointment Following their review, the Committee The report was written in was satisfied that the going concern straightforward language and The external audit was last tendered basis of preparation remained without unnecessary repetition in 2013 and in accordance with the appropriate and recommended the current regulation the Company is The use of any alternative Viability statement be approved by required to re-tender the audit at least performance measures had the Board.
The Committee believes been adequately explained Deloitte remains effective in its role The Boards conrmation on going and reconciled to the financial and has recommended to the Board concern is set out on page 106 and statements and had not been that they be appointed for another its Viability Statement is set out on given more prominence than a year.
A resolution to this effect will be page60.
corresponding measure under IFRS proposed at the AGM in July.
The Audit Committee is satisfied Fair, balanced and understandable There are no immediate plans to rethat the Annual Report met At the request of the Board, the Audit tender the audit.
However, given that this requirement.
Committee considered whether the 2019 will be Deloittes sixth consecutive 2018 Annual Report was fair, balanced Committee effectiveness year in office, the Committee will and understandable and whether it consider whether to re-tender the audit During the year the Board, led by the provided the necessary information over the next two financial years.
Nomination Committee, carried out for shareholders to assess the Groups an externally facilitated evaluation The Company has complied with position, performance, business model of its performance and that of the provisions of the Statutory Audit and strategy.
Services for Large Companies Market In reaching this decision the Investigation Mandatory Use of The Directors felt the Audit Committee Committee received a report from the Competitive Tender Processes and continued to run smoothly, at a high Finance Director on the procedures in Audit Committee Responsibilities Order standard and was very well supported place and adopted by management 2014 during the year.
by the Finance Director, senior finance in the preparation of the Annual team and the external auditors.
Internal audit Report, which, as in previous years, included the following: The Chairman was commended The requirement for a dedicated for her ability to probe and provide internal audit function was reviewed The establishment of a team of senior the appropriate level of challenge by the Audit Committee during the managers drawn from finance, and scrutiny.
year and was not felt to be necessary investor relations and property with or appropriate given the size and clear responsibilities for preparation Terms of reference relatively simple structure of the Group, and review of relevant sections of The Committee considers its own terms the close day to day involvement of the report of reference on an annual basis taking the Executive Directors and the internal Regular team meetings were held into account changes to legislation.
This is kept during the drafting stages to ensure under regular review.
They were last reviewed and updated consistency of tone and message, in March 2018 and can be found on the balanced content and appropriate Going concern and viability Companys website.
linking of the various sections Although the statements on going Regulatory and technical updates concern and viability are a matter for were provided by and discussed the whole Board, the Audit Committee with the external auditor as part reviewed the appropriateness of Rosalyn Wilton of a technical brieng workshop preparing the financial statements on a Chairman of the Audit Committee attended by relevant staff in 30 May 2018 going concern basis and whether the February 2018 business was viable in accordance with The Chief Executive provided early the Code.
input to and agreed the overall Its assessment included a review of message and tone of the report the principal risks and risk appetite, The Executive Directors were closely the chosen period of assessment, involved in the initial drafting process headroom under loan covenants, and reviewed their respective undrawn debt facilities and the draft sections level of stress testing of financial An extensive verication exercise forecasts undertaken.
was undertaken to ensure factual Particular attention was paid to the accuracy and consistency time horizon chosen to assess the throughout the report Companys viability and its longer The final draft report was reviewed by term prospects.
the Audit Committee and discussed with the Finance Director and senior management before being presented for Board approval
