G Go ov five er rn na anc nce e B Boa oar rd o d of D f Di ir re ec ct to or rs s Board of Directors Board structure as at 31 December 2018 Chairman, who was independent on appointment 1 Senior Independent Director 7 other Independent Non-Executive Directors 3 Executive Directors Director Changes During The Year Sir Donald Brydon CBE David Schwimmer David Schwimmer was appointed as Chief Executive Chairman of the Company and the Nomination Group Chief Executive Officer.
Officer and Executive Director on 1 August 2018.
Appointed to the Board in August 2018.
Appointed to the Board in June 2015 and subsequently Chairman in July 2015.
Key areas of experience: Market structure, corporate finance, The following Directors were appointed as capital markets, mergers & acquisitions, emerging markets.
Independent Non-Executive Directors during the Key areas of experience: Industry and finance, governance, David brings significant knowledge of market structure and year: Marshall Bailey OBE 25 September 2018, chair, pensions.
investment banking to the Board.
Professor Kathleen DeRose 28 December 2018 Donald is currently Chairman of The Sage Group plc.
Relevant past experience: Prior to joining the Group in August and Ruth Wandhfer 22 October 2018.
Donald brings to the Board his wealth of experience gained on 2018, he spent 20 years at Goldman Sachs where he held a the boards of a number of listed companies across a wide range number of senior roles, most recently as Global Head of Market of sectors, as well as his significant knowledge and Structure and Global Head of Metals & Mining.
During his tenure, The following Directors stepped down during the understanding of the Finance and Insurance industries, gained he also served as Chief of Staff to Lloyd Blankfein, who was then year: Professor Lex Hoogduin 25 September 2018, from his time as Chairman and Chief Executive of both BZW President and COO of Goldman Sachs, and also spent 3 years in Investment Management Ltd and AXA Investment Managers SA Russia as Co-Head of Russia CIS.
David Nish 30 November 2018 and Mary Schapiro and acting Chief Executive, BZW.
Prior to joining Goldman Sachs, he practiced law at Davis 11 October 2018.
Relevant past experience: Donald has also held the post of Polk & Wardwell.
Chairman at: Smiths Group plc, the London Metal Exchange, Other current appointments: NonExecutive Director at Additionally, on 1 January 2019 Don Robert was Taylor Nelson Sofres plc, Amersham plc, AXA Investment the Center for New American Security not-for-profit.
Managers SA, Royal Mail Group plc and The London Institute of appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Banking & Finance formerly ifs School of Finance and is a Director and will become Chairman at the end of former Director of Aberdeen UK Tracker Trust plc, Allied Domecq the Companys AGM on 1 May 2019, a copy of his plc, AXA UK plc and Scottish Power plc.
Biography is also included in this section of the Other current appointments: Donald is currently Chairman of the charity Chance to Shine and Chairman of the Science Annual Report.
He is also a Trustee Board Member of the Foundation for Science and Technology and Chair of the Medical A short biography is provided for each Board Director Research Council legacy body.
More detailed biographies for the Board of London Stock Exchange Group plc are available on the companys website at: www.
Committee membership key David Warren Raffaele Jerusalmi Group Chief Financial Officer.
Executive Director, Chief Executive Officer of Borsa Audit Nomination Appointed to the Board and as Group CFO in July 2012.
Italiana and Director of Capital Markets.
Remuneration Risk Appointed to the Board in June 2010.
Group Executive Committee Chairman Key areas of experience: Accounting, corporate finance, investor relations, mergers and acquisitions, strategy, Key areas of experience: Capital markets, corporate finance, treasury management.
fixed income, equity and derivatives trading.
David brings significant international financial management Raffaele brings significant experience in capital markets and in expertise to the Board.
fixed income, equity and derivatives trading to the Group.
Relevant past experience: David was appointed Group CFO He has worked for Borsa Italiana S. p. A. for over 20 years and is Borsa in July 2012 and also served as Interim CEO and Group CFO from Italianas Chief Executive Officer as well as the Groups Director of 29 November 2017 to 31 July 2018.
Prior to being appointed Capital Markets.
Raffaele also holds a number of other internal CFO of London Stock Exchange Group, David was Chief Financial senior positions within the Group including: the Vice Chairmanship Officer of NASDAQ from 2001 to 2009 and Senior Adviser to of Monte Titoli, MTS and CC&G and Chairman of Elite S. p. A.. the CEO of NASDAQ from 2011 to 2012.
Other senior roles David Relevant past experience: Prior to joining Borsa Italiana, has held have included: Chief Financial Officer at the Long Raffaele was Head of Trading for Italian Fixed Income at Credit Island Power Authority of New York and Deputy Treasurer of Suisse First Boston.
Raffaele was also a member of Credit Suisses the State of Connecticut.
proprietary trading group in London as well as representing Other current appointments: None.
Credit Suisse First Boston on the Board of MTS S. p. A..
Prior to joining Credit Suisse, he was Head of Trading for the fixed income and derivatives divisions at Cimo S. p. A. in Milan.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 59 Board of Directors continued Committee membership key Audit Nomination Remuneration Risk Group Executive Committee Chairman Jacques Aigrain Marshall Bailey OBE Independent Non-Executive Director and Independent Non-Executive Director.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Appointed to the Board in September 2018.
Appointed to the Board in May 2013.
Key areas of experience: Banking and capital markets, Key areas of experience: Client management, corporate insurance, and government regulation.
finance, corporate governance, post trade and clearing, Marshall has almost 30 years experience in the financial services investment management, mergers and acquisitions, strategy.
sector and substantial experience of leading complex Jacques brings significant expertise and knowledge of global international committees and boards.
In addition to being a post trade and clearing and investment management to the member of the LSEG Board, he is also currently Chairman of the Board.
He also holds a PhD in Economics from the University of Group subsidiary, LCH Group Holdings Limited.
Relevant past experience: Marshall was previously an Relevant past experience: Jacques was Chairman of LCH Group Independent Director on the Board of UK Financial Investments Holdings Limited from 2010 to 2015.
He has also been a Ltd UKFI, the government body overseeing the UK Non-Executive Director of Resolution Ltd, a Supervisory Board governments ownership of financial assets after the 2008 member of Deutsche Lufthansa AG, a Non-Executive Director of financial crisis.
He also had an active role in setting codes of the Qatar Financial Centre Authority and a Non-Executive conduct for the Fixed Income Currencies and Commodities Director of Swiss International Airlines AG a subsidiary of FICC markets, working with the Market Participants Group of Deutsche Lufthansa AG.
Jacques was also Chief Executive Officer the Bank for International Settlements BIS.
Marshall of Swiss Re from 2006 to 2009. volunteers on the Board of the CFA Society of the UK, as well as the East End Community Foundation in Tower Hamlets.
He was Prior to 2001 when he joined Swiss Re, Jacques spent 20 years previously a Non-Executive Director of Chubb European Group with J. P. Morgan Chase, working in the New York, London and and stepped down from this role at the end of 2018.
Other current appointments: Marshall is Chairman of the Other current appointments: Jacques is currently a Senior Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
He is also Chairman of Advisor at Warburg Pincus LLC, Chairman of LyondellBasell CIBC World Markets Plc in London and he is the Representative Industries NV, Chairman of Self Trade Bank S. A. U. and a for the Public Investment Fund in Saudi Arabia on the Board of Non-Executive Director of WPP plc.
the National Commercial Bank in Jeddah.
Professor Kathleen DeRose Paul Heiden Independent Non-Executive Director.
Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Appointed to the Board in December 2018.
Appointed to the Board in June 2010.
Key areas of experience: FinTech, financial markets, asset management.
Key areas of experience: Corporate finance and accounting, technology and engineering, corporate governance and risk, Having spent 30 years working in global finance and asset commercial manufacturing and supply chain.
management, Kathleen brings significant FinTech and global financial market expertise to the Board.
Paul is a chartered accountant and provides the Board and the Audit Committee with relevant financial expertise, gained Relevant past experience: Kathleen previously held a number through a long career of senior finance and management roles of senior roles at Credit Suisse Group AG from 2010-2015 across a wide range of business sectors.
including: Managing Director Head of Business Strategy and Solutions, Investment Strategy and Research, Private Banking Relevant past experience: Paul was previously a Non-Executive Wealth Management.
Prior to that she was Managing Director Director of United Utilities Group plc, Bunzl plc and Filtrona plc Head of Global Investment Process, Asset Management.
and Non-Executive Chairman of A-Gas Orb Limited, Talaris Topco Limited and Intelligent Energy Holdings plc.
Other roles Kathleen has undertaken have included: Managing Partner, Head of Portfolio Management and Research at Hagin Paul was Chief Executive Officer of FKI plc from 2003 to 2008, Investment Management 2006 to 2010 and Managing Director, Executive Director of Rolls-Royce plc from 1997 to 1999 and Head of Large Cap Equities at Bessemer Trust 2003 to 2006.
Group Finance Director of Rolls-Royce plc from 1999 to 2003.
He Prior to 2003, Kathleen also held a number of roles at Deutsche also held previous senior finance roles at Hanson plc and Mercury Bank 1991 to 2003, where she became a Managing Director of Communications.
the Bank, and at JPMorgan Chase formerly Chase Manhattan Other current appointments: Paul is a Non-Executive Director Bank 1983 to 1991. of Meggitt plc a position he will retire from on 25 April 2019.
In addition to her senior executive positions, Kathleen served as a board member of EDGE Economic Dividends for Gender Equality from 2014 to 2015, and she was founding Chair of Evolute Group AG from 2016 to 2017.
Other current appointments: Kathleen is a NonExecutive Director of Evolute Group AG, and a Clinical Associate Professor of Finance at The New York University Leonard N. Stern School of Business where she leads the FinTech programme and is the Fubon FinTech Director.
60 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Governance Board of Directors Stephen OConnor Val Rahmani Don Robert Independent Non-Executive Director and Independent Non-Executive Director.
Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman of Chairman of the Risk Committee.
Appointed to the Board in December 2017. the Company with effect from 1 May 2019.
Appointed to the Board in June 2013.
Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2019.
Key areas of experience: Technology, technical risk Key areas of experience: OTC derivatives, risk management, management, innovation, corporate governance, strategy.
Key areas of experience: Data and analytics, technology, capital markets, clearing, corporate finance.
international business, financial services, mergers and acquisitions.
Val brings significant expertise and knowledge of technology Stephen brings international expertise in clearing and counterparty and technical risk management to the Board gained from almost Don is currently Chairman of Experian plc he will step down at risk management to the Board.
He has worked extensively with 30 years with IBM and 4 years as CEO of a cyber security start up.
the later of the conclusion of Experians AGM in July 2019 or when global regulators in the area of financial services market reform.
a successor is in place and a Non-Executive Director of the Court Val has wide-ranging experience as a senior executive in the of Directors, Bank of England he will step down on 1 May 2019.
Relevant past experience: Stephen was Chairman of the technology sector fulfilling the role of general manager, International Swaps and Derivatives Association from 2011 to board member, start up mentor, management consultant Don brings to the Board a strong track record in the global 2014.
Stephen also worked at Morgan Stanley for 25 years, where and public speaker.
Val holds a DPhil in Chemistry from the financial services sector and a deep understanding of he was a member of the Fixed Income Management Committee University of Oxford.
technology, data and analytics as well as regulatory knowledge and held senior roles including Global Head of Counterparty gained from his Bank of England role.
Relevant past experience: Val is a former Non-Executive Portfolio Management and Global Head of OTC Client Clearing.
Director of Aberdeen Asset Management plc and Teradici Relevant past experience: Don joined Experian plc in 2001.
Stephen was a member of the High-Level Stakeholder Group for the Corporation.
Prior to his appointment as Chairman in 2014, he was Group UK Governments review of the Future of Computer Trading in Chief Executive Officer from 2006 to 2014 having previously held Other current appointments: Val currently serves as a Financial Markets and served as Vice-Chairman of the Financial various other senior roles including Chief Executive Officer of Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit Committee at Stability Boards Market Participants Group on Financial Benchmark Experian North America.
She is also a Non-Executive Reform.
Stephen was formerly a member of the US Commodity Director of Computer Task Group Inc, where she chairs the Previous senior roles include: President of Credco, Inc. Chairman Futures Trading Commission CFTC Global Markets Advisory Compensation Committee and serves as a member of the Audit of the US Consumer Data Industry Association, Director and Committee.
He was a Non-Executive Director of OTC DerivNet Ltd and Governance Committees.
Val is a Non-Executive Director and Trustee of the National Education and Employer Partnership from 2001 to 2013 and was Chairman from 2001 to 2011. member of the Compensation Committee of the private Taskforce, Non-Executive Director First Advantage Corp and Other current appointments: Stephen serves as Chairman of company Entrust Datacard and a Non-Executive Director of the Senior Independent Director at Compass Group plc.
He is a member of the Scientific early stage company, Rungway.
Val runs the Innovation Panel Other current appointments: Chairman of Achilles Group Advisory Board of the Systemic Risk Centre LSE.
Stephen is for Standard Life Aberdeen.
Limited and Chairman of Validis Holdings Limited.
Don is a also a Non-Executive Director of the FICC Market Standards Visiting Fellow at Oxford University.
Board Limited and HSBC Bank plc where he became Chairman of the bank in August 2018.
Andrea Sironi Ruth Wandhfer Independent Non-Executive Director.
Appointed to the Board in October 2016.
Appointed to the Board in October 2018.
Key areas of experience: Finance, financial risk management, Key areas of experience: Banking, financial services, FinTech banking regulation.
Andrea provides significant banking and finance experience to Ruth brings to the Board significant knowledge of both the the Board.
business and banking regulatory landscape in addition to considerable expertise in regulatory and technology change Relevant past experience: Andrea was an Independent within complex businesses.
Non-Executive Director of UniCredit Group until February 2019.
He was a Non-Executive Director of Banco Popolare Societ Ruths career spans more than 17 years in financial services which Cooperativ, SAES Getters S. p. A. and Cogentech S. c. a. r. l..
He has includes a decade spent at the global investment bank, Citi.
been the Vice Chairman of Banca Aletti & C S. p. A. from April Relevant past experience: Ruth was previously Global Head 2009 to October 2012.
He has also been a Member of the Fitch of Regulatory & Market Strategy for Citi Treasury and Trade Academic Advisory Board from June 2006 to June 2010.
Solutions from 2012-2018, having previously held other Other current appointments: Andrea is the Chairman of Borsa senior roles since joining Citi in 2007.
Italiana S. p. A. a subsidiary of the London Stock Exchange Group.
Prior to joining Citi, Ruth worked for the European Banking He is also Vice President of Bocconi University, Italy, where he Federation from 2003-2007 where she was a Policy Adviser for was Rector from 2012 to 2016 and where he is currently also a Securities Services and Payments.
Professor of Banking and Finance.
Ruth has held a number of industry board and working group positions in the UK and Europe.
Other current appointments: Ruth is a Non-Executive Director of Pendo Systems Inc. and Permanent TSB Group Holdings PLC.
She is a Member of the Advisory Board of the European Association for Biometrics and a Founding Member of the Global Blockchain Business.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 61
