Market trends and our response Through its 3 core business activities: 1.
Globalisation and growing global wealth The Group also continues to optimise its resources Information Services: Risk and Balance Sheet Global wealth and redistribution locally, to support the Groups increasingly global Management: and Capital Formation, the As global wealth continues to grow, total AUM is operations.
This has included the development of 1 Group supports global economic growth by expected to almost reach US$145 trillion by 2025 deeply specialised capability centres, such as the providing financial markets infrastructure and the distribution of global wealth has continued to expansion of our office in Colombo, Sri Lanka and the to facilitate safe, effective and transparent shift significantly between different regions of the opening of a new office in Bucharest, Romania to 2 global capital allocation, trading and globe throughout 2018. support the delivery of the Groups core business investment decisions, and associated risk activities globally.
Growth of Emerging Markets Developing markets are expected to increase their Credit Suisse Global Wealth Our customers are global and range from the worlds share of the worlds assets, driven by double-digit reports 20142018 largest financial institutions to retail investors and growth in AUM for emerging markets such as Total wealth by region US$ tn SMEs: all participants share exposure to the Asia-Pacific 11.8% and in Latin America 10.4% dynamically evolving financial markets landscape between 2020 and 2025.
These growth rates are 317 280 which shapes customers needs and influences the expected to outstrip those of North America 4.0% 263 256 250 1. products and services that the Group provides.
and Europe 3.4% for the same period We observe a number of high level trends that Importance of global presence continue to impact the industry and shape our The pace of growth in these economies is expected to strategy and plans: continue outpacing those of developed markets, and contribute approximately 75% of the worlds GDP 1.
Globalisation and growing global wealth 3 growth over the next 5 years.
Changing investment behaviours Implications for LSEG 3.
Evolution of customers operating dynamics Africa Asia-Pacic China Europe The Group is a global financial markets infrastructure India Latin America North America 4.
Innovation and continued trend of M&A activity business with a growing global footprint that provides Source: Global Wealth Report 2018, Credit Suisse, 2018 a wide range of services to an increasingly global 5.
We continue to establish partnerships in strategically important regions to serve our global customers.
Some of our priorities are to deepen our relationships with key stakeholder groups across Asia, Africa and South America, to facilitate access to developing and rapidly growing markets.
Whilst we manage a global suite of financial market infrastructure assets, we seek to organise our Group appropriately for the future, with a key focus on delivering broader benefits and efficiencies for customers across our businesses and customer segments.
Asset & Wealth Management Revolution: Pressure on profitability, PWC, 2018 2.
Global Wealth Report 2018, Credit Suisse, 2018 3.
IMF DataMapper, International Monetary Fund 14 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Strategic Report Market trends and our response 2.
Evolution of customers operating dynamics The Group continues to focus on providing solutions Economic growth Buy-side cost challenges such as consolidated standardised information that Whilst economic growth in the US showed signs of Despite sustained AUM growth in 2018, fee pressures greatly helps our customers navigate their strength in 2018, other regions, including Europe in continued to have an impact on the buy-side, with operational challenges.
As we move into cost measures becoming increasingly prioritised.
2019, we expect signals of reduced economic growth As the focus shifts towards managing their cost As customers continue to seek services which help globally to remain, with further geopolitical base, there may be significant opportunities to drive them manage capital and operational constraints, uncertainty to be expected.
Financial assets across a cost reductions and efficiencies for the buy-side.
there is scope for collaborative and innovative broad spectrum globally appeared to underperform in solutions, where LSEG can be central in shaping the 2018.
Following a sustained period of positive returns, Sell-side efficiencies and future of financial markets infrastructure.
Our there is potential for a low return and high volatility revenue improvements partnership approach leaves us well positioned to environment to emerge more prominently in 2019.
After several years of strategic pruning and operating play a leading role in addressing customer challenges model reform in response to regulatory-driven across the industry.
Changes to investment preferences and products change, the sell-side is beginning to focus on driving The markets investment preferences are continuing growth again.
Pressures on sell-side revenues show Coalition IB Index revenues by business to shift in response to the current market conditions.
signs of abating in response to cyclical drivers, and US$ bn Passive and alternative investment AUMs are we expect technology and innovation to become key expected to more than double by 2025, to US$10 competitive advantages for banks as they continue 165 160 156 1 151 151 trillion and US$21 trillion respectively.
As such, to face challenges, particularly as they target areas of 43 40 37 41 41 ETFs continue to grow in popularity as a low-cost significant cost and inefficiencies, such as OTC alternative investment vehicle, and ESG products are derivatives post trade processing.
45 50 43 42 46 becoming a more mainstream consideration in investment decision making, whilst the increased Implications for LSEG 77 76 70 68 64 accessibility of private capital is driving deeper The Group understands the criticality of operational private capital pools and creating alternative market and capital efficiencies for its customers so that they structures which are becoming increasingly can more effectively direct their efforts, investment 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 popular with investors.
decisions and capital resources to their core, value-creating activities.
We continue to invest in Fixed Income, Currencies and Commodities Implications for LSEG developing offerings that extend such benefits for our Equities Investment Banking Division FTSE Russells scalable model, global presence and customers, for example, the extension of LCHs core Source: Coalition IB Index Report FY2018 2019 sales capabilities position LSEG well for the expected clearing offering across multiple asset classes and Note: Coalition Index tracks the performance of the 12 growth areas.
We continue to realise value from the uncleared markets via SwapAgent.
largest investment banks globally integration of Mergent and The Yield Book, which have expanded the Groups ability to provide customer solutions across multiple asset classes and enhance the data and analytics capabilities which underpin our offerings.
The Group has also sustained its focus on extending its offering in response to the evolving demands of the market.
In 2018, the Group formed numerous collaborative partnerships seeking to deliver new and innovative offerings in the passive and alternative investment space.
This included FTSE Russells recent partnership with Sustainalytics to broaden the ESG offering available for customers.
Asset & Wealth Management Revolution: Pressure on profitability, PWC, 2018 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 15 Market trends and our response continued 4.
Innovation and continued trend of 5.
Regulatory change Cross-border market access M&A activity During 2018, significant regulatory initiatives that As G20 mandates continue to be implemented and Data insights, tech and innovative the Group has highlighted in previous reports, revised, focus has increased across jurisdictions on business models impacting various businesses, continued to take cross-border market access to financial market The value potential from data insights is shaping shape.
Other regulatory initiatives increased in infrastructure products and services.
In the EU, EMIR the way our customers operate, creating a need for prominence and are now a significant focus for us.
2.2, EU BMR, MiFID II R and other financial services enhanced data management, quality and analytics to All of these initiatives have evolved in the context of files contain third country provisions that could deliver greater value from the available data sources.
the uncertainty in relation to the UK referendum impact EU participant access across non-EU clearing, Our industry is facing significant technological decision to leave the European Union Brexit which trading, benchmarks and other global products and transformation, with increasing adoption of emerging has driven increased focus on cross-border market services.
In the US, the CFTC has proposed several technologies.
As customers continue to seek products access across many of our products and services.
revisions to expand cross-border derivatives markets and services that enable them to deliver a competitive access.
The UK will continue to evaluate its market advantage, financial market infrastructure providers On the following pages we provide our assessment access rules pending Brexit developments.
are investing in innovative capabilities to better meet of likely regulatory changes and their impacts their customers needs.
Implications for LSEG As a leading global financial market infrastructure Industry M&A activity Brexit Update business, market access rules impact how customers Throughout 2018, there have been ongoing LCH SA and CC&G benefit from the temporary across jurisdictions access our products and services.
acquisitions and partnerships across the industry as deemed permission by the Bank of England which LSEG promotes harmonisation and cross-border rules it continues to evolve.
We expect this trend to persist was confirmed publicly on 24th January 2019.
In that support open and global markets.
We remain through 2019 whilst greater activity is expected in addition, it was announced on 18 February 2019 closely engaged with authorities at the national and high-growth areas such as data, analytics and that LCH Ltd had been recognised by ESMA as a multilateral levels to promote open, cross-border emerging technologies where innovation and third country CCP under Article 25 of EMIR.
This access to our global offerings.
collaboration are driving the development of recognition will apply from 30 March 2019 until new solutions and enhanced customer benefits.
30 March 2020 in the absence of a withdrawal Benchmark regulation and LIBOR transition agreement with the UK in accordance with Article The EU Benchmark Regulation EU BMR came into Implications for LSEG 50 2 of the Treaty on European Union.
Building on the principles As our product diversity and geographic presence recognitions confirm LCH Ltd, LCH SA and CC&Gs agreed by IOSCO, the regulation impacts benchmark has increased, we have focused on developing ability to continue to offer all clearing services for users, contributors and administrators.
There are our capability to understand and respond to all products and services to all members and clients initiatives in other jurisdictions to review the regulatory client needs across the value chain.
after 29 March 2019 in a no-deal Brexit scenario.
Regulators have established a clear priority to move away from LIBOR Advances in data and technology may reinforce the Implications for LSEG and EURIBOR to introduce alternative reference rates current market structure or favour new entrants, so As part of a structured Brexit programme formed by in several major jurisdictions.
we have actively invested in developing emerging the Group, we continue to engage with UK and EU capabilities across the value chain through organic Brexit policy leads to advise on financial market Implications for LSEG initiatives, partnerships with leading researchers, infrastructure considerations.
Our key objectives are: FTSE Russell is a leading global benchmarks provider.
and the acquisition of minority shareholdings in 1 maintaining Londons position as a global financial FTSE International Limited has been authorised by AcadiaSoft, June 2018, and Nivaura, February 2019. hub: 2 providing continuity of cross-border financial the UKs Financial Conduct Authority FCA as a services: and 3 protecting against policies which Benchmark Administrator, under the BMR.
We view We actively assess and execute organic and may result in fragmentation of financial markets.
the BMR rule set positively as it raises standards inorganic growth opportunities that enhance our LSEG continues to maintain an ongoing dialogue with across the industry.
Regarding the interbank existing business, or create new opportunities in UK, EU and other authorities with respect to the need reference rate transitions, LCH is closely engaged complementary areas, to enhance our offering as a for contingency measures and on LSEG contingency with the relevant government authorities and the global financial markets infrastructure provider.
industry to fully support a smooth transition to selected alternative reference rates.
16 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Strategic Report Market trends and our response CCP Recovery and Resolution Sustainable Finance Emerging Technology Authorities across Europe, North America and other The Global Commission on the Economy and Climate For the financial services industry, regulators in major jurisdictions, as well as international standard estimated that US$90 trillion of investment is needed major jurisdictions are closely monitoring and setters, are working on further developing the by 2030 to achieve the Paris agreement.
Given the developing regulatory frameworks on emerging regulatory frameworks for the recovery and desire of some investors to integrate ESG factors into financial technology FinTech, specifically the resolution of CCPs.
In the rare scenario where CCPs investment strategies, asset managers across the potential uses of distributed ledger technology, face severe distress or failure, this global framework world are responding.
cloud computing and artificial intelligence.
will ensure that the critical functions of CCPs are There is continuous focus from regulators on preserved while maintaining financial stability.
Implications for LSEG the operational resilience of financial market We continue to actively contribute to this global infrastructures to ensure continuity of critical Implications for LSEG and regional debate, in particular the European business services and the overall resilience of Harmonisation of the requirements for CCP recovery Commission Sustainable Finance Action Plan and the the financial sector.
plans, and the introduction of resolution plans Technical Expert Group, and the UK Green Finance prepared by the resolution authorities should provide Taskforce and Institute.
In Italy, Borsa Italiana joined Implications for LSEG clarity on the impact on CCPs and identify the critical the Italian Observatory on Sustainable Finance.
Emerging technology related regulatory initiatives functions they must maintain in the unlikely event We have also contributed to the Canadian High Level have implications in various degrees to all Group of their failure.
LSEG will continue to assist the Expert Group.
At LSEG, we recognise we have a role to functions services, either as compliance obligations authorities and provide input for the development play through our businesses.
As our clients integrate or constituents of the services that we provide to of this framework including on the potential increase climate change and sustainability into their plans, our customers.
LSEG continues to monitor and of CCP resources.
we are supporting issuers to access capital and engage with regulators and leading industry investors choice in developing and implementing working groups on these issues for the Market Structure Reviews investment strategies.
MiFID II R is the widest ranging of the EU legislative initiatives in terms of its impact on the Group and its Open Access Operational resilience and cyber security customers.
The impact on LSEG includes rules on Open Access underpins provisions within MiFID II R Regulators, both at a national level and through market transparency, trading protocols and that change the way some clearing houses, trading the G7 cyber experts working group and other microstructures market data, transaction reporting, venues and index benchmark providers will need to multilateral bodies, and the industry are working SME Growth Markets, and Open Access for CCPs and provide their products.
The changes, which will to keep pace with the growing cyber threats facing benchmark providers.
In the US, there is growing apply when the relevant provisions of MiFID II R our markets through enhancements and further focus on both equity and fixed income market come fully into effect, require access to be provided development of resilience standards.
structure topics with a view to implementing changes, to potential users of trading, clearing and indices whilst there is a global regulatory scrutiny process on a non-discriminatory basis.
Implications for LSEG led by IOSCO into the rapidly growing ETF space.
As one of our top priorities, we continue to invest Implications for LSEG to ensure cyber resilience and compliance with Implications for LSEG Open Access remains a key principle that underpins regulations.
In addition to complying with The impact of MiFID II R has been broadly neutral, our strategy and business model and is fully aligned current cyber and data protection requirements, with the ability to offer customer solutions in areas with the way we currently operate.
Our clearing LSEG complies with significant data and cyber such as Turquoise block trading and Open Access services already accept clearing trades that originate operational controls and standards required under potentially providing opportunities across all Group from venues outside of the Group: some of our regulations.
LSEG continues to monitor and segments see section on Open Access.
We continue trading venues already provide choice of clearing engage with regulators and leading industry to follow the US debates closely given the potential through alternative CCPs outside the Group: and FTSE working groups on the development of regulatory impact on our growing US operations, as well as Russell provides index licences to several exchange frameworks and appropriate harmonisation the global focus on ETFs.
businesses that are competitors to our trading of standards across jurisdictions.
Open Access increases competition across a Capital Markets Union CMU range of services, to the benefit of investors and CMU is a plan introduced by the European market participants, and potentially provides the Commission EC that aims to create deeper and more Groups relevant businesses and partnerships with integrated European capital markets, enhance opportunities to launch new products and attract competition and remove barriers to retail investment.
new trading and clearing flows e. g. CurveGlobal.
Implications for LSEG CMU may increase activity across our capital markets and post trade businesses.
LSEG is closely following development of the relevant regulatory files such as the Prospectus Regulation, the EC proposals for a prudential regime for investment firms including market makers and initiatives to support SME growth markets.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 17
