CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors report The Directors present their report, together with the audited consolidated financial statements, for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Man Group plc is incorporated as a public limited company and Directors indemnities and insurance cover is registered in England with the registered number 08172396 The Company has maintained qualifying third-party indemnity the Company.
The Companys registered office is Riverbank House, provisions for the benefit of its directors during the year and these 2Swan Lane, London EC4R 3AD.
remain in force at the date of this report.
The indemnity is granted by the Company to new directors on their appointment and covers, Directors to the extent permitted by law, any third-party liabilities which they Details of the current directors, together with their biographies, may incur as a result of their service on the Board.
The Company can be found on pages 4547.
The following Board changes have arranges directors and officers liability insurance to cover certain occurred during the year: liabilities and defence costs which the Company indemnity does not meet.
Neither the indemnity nor the insurance provides any Zoe Cruz Appointed 1 June 2018 protection in the event of a director being found to have acted Nina Shapiro Retired 9 October 2018 fraudulently or dishonestly in respect of the Company.
Shares Details of the directors interests in the Companys shares are given Share capital on page 82 of the Annual Report.
Details of movements in issued share capital, together with the rights Powers of directors and obligations attaching to the Companys shares, are set out in Note 20 to the financial statements.
This Note also provides The Board is responsible for the management of the business of the information on the Companys unexpired authority to purchase its Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject own shares and details of the shares purchased by the Company to the provisions of relevant statutes and the Companys Articles of during the year.
A copy of the Articles is available on the Companys website and by request from the registered office of the Substantial voting interests Company.
The Articles may be amended by a special resolution of As at 31 December 2018, the Company had been notified of the the shareholders.
following voting interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company in accordance with DTR 5 of the FCAs Disclosure Guidance and Appointment, retirement and replacement of Transparency Rules.
Percentages are shown as notified, calculated directors with reference to the Companys latest total voting rights The appointment, retirement and replacement of directors are announcement prior to the date of the movement triggering the governed by the Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Code and notification.
Under the Articles, the Board has the power to appoint further directors during the year, but any director It should be noted that these holdings are likely to have changed so appointed must stand for reappointment at the next Annual since the Company was notified.
However, notification of any change General Meeting AGM.
In accordance with the Articles, one-third is not required until the next notifiable threshold is crossed.
of the Board must retire by rotation at each AGM and may stand for reappointment.
In practice, and in accordance with the UK Corporate Number of shares Percentage of notified to the issued share Date of Governance Code, all Board members retire and offer themselves for Shareholder Company capital notification reappointment at each AGM.
BlackRock, Inc. 83,046,394 5.06% 05 02 2018 The Articles give each director the power to appoint any person Silchester International to be his her alternate, such appointment being subject to Board Investors LLP 85,232,803 5.00% 13 04 2016 approval where the proposed alternate is not an existing director of the Company.
No changes to the above were disclosed to the Company in accordance with DTR 5 during the period 1 January to 28 February 2019 inclusive, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this report.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 90 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Restriction on voting rights Further disclosures Where shares are held in employee benefit trusts for the satisfaction Information fulfilling the further disclosure requirements contained of awards made under the Companys share schemes, under the in the Companies Act 2006, Schedule 7 of the Large and Mediumtrust deeds the trustees have discretion to vote or abstain from voting.
sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, and the FCAs Listing Rules and Disclosure Guidance and Share transfer restrictions Transparency Rules, where applicable to the Company, can be found On 1 January 2017, 5,650,862 ordinary shares in the Company, in the following sections of the Annual Report for the year ended which were issued as partial upfront consideration for the acquisition 31December 2018 which are incorporated into the Directors report of Aalto Invest Holding AG Aalto, became subject to share lock-up by reference: agreements.
Under the terms of such agreements, and with limited Pages exceptions, the shares could not be disposed of until 1 January 2019 second anniversary of the acquisition.
Future developments in the business 817 On 28 August 2018, 3,140,953 ordinary shares in the Company, Research and development activities 1217 which were issued in part settlement of an earn out payment made Dividend 26, 112, 146147 in connection with the acquisition of Aalto, became subject to share lock-up agreements.
Subject to a number of limited exceptions, Dividend waiver 123 the shares must not be disposed of until 1 January 2020 third Employment policy and employee 3437, 41 anniversary of the acquisition.
involvement The Board may decline to register a transfer of any share which Financial risk management and financial 117, 131133 is not a fully paid share.
In addition, registration of a transfer of an instruments uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances set out Corporate governance report 4457 in the Uncertificated Securities Regulations and where the number of joint holders exceeds four.
Internal control and risk management 29 statements Change of control Directors responsibility statement 92 The Companys employee share and fund product incentive Including disclosure of information schemes contain provisions whereby, upon a change of control of to the auditors the Company, outstanding options and awards will vest and become exercisable, subject to any prorating that may be applicable.
Carbon emissions reporting 41 In the event that the change of control of the Company relates to an internal reorganisation, the Board may determine, with the consent of the new controlling company, that in the case of share awards For and on behalf of the Board the outstanding options and awards will not vest and will be Rachel Rowson automatically surrendered in consideration for the grant of new Company Secretary equivalent awards or options in the new controlling company and 1 March 2019 that fund product awards will not vest but will continue to subsist.
Independent auditor The Companys auditor, Deloitte LLP, has indicated its willingness to continue in office and a resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company will be proposed at the 2019 AGM.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 91
