STRATEGIC REPORT What makes us different?
We believe that technology will Our Alpha Tech team is unified play a key role in the future of across the investment engines, Technology active management and, today, developing code in a single it is a key driver of innovation and environment for maximum At Man Group we use innovative technology returns for our business.
flexibility and portability across and quantitative techniques across our the business.
We seek to develop our own business and believe this enables us to technologies, including both We believe that our capabilities deliver results for clients.
software and hardware, as well today represent a small fraction as creating our own code and of what we will be able to do in algorithms.
We are also heavily five or ten years time.
We are engaged with the technology committed to being a leader community, through our in this area, and are continually contributions to the open-source investing in talent, technology and Python ecosystem, and and research as we strive to be hosting of technology forums.
at the forefront of the industry.
Our business has five specialist Our teams invest across a Strength through investment units, or engines, diverse range of strategies with which represent our capabilities.
highly specialised approaches, These engines house numerous from quantitative to discretionary diversification investment teams, working and alternative to long only, both independently and accessing a broad spectrum Man Groups investment managers collaboratively within the of asset classes across both have expertise across a diverse range framework of Man Group.
Each liquid and private markets.
team benefits from the strength of strategies to ensure the firm can offer and resources of the firms single products to meet differing investor appetite operating platform, enabling their focus to be on delivering for risk and reward.
We aim to develop long-term in key locations and developed Deep client partnerships with our clients, regulatory relationships in all through one key point of contact, of the markets in which we who has a deep understanding operate, Man Group has a relationships of their individual needs and can powerful level of insight into deliver bespoke solutions from investor preferences as well as The breadth of our investment strategies the broad range of strategies we regulatory requirements.
are a global firm and we want and the strength of our structuring our clients and distributors to capabilities mean that we have the Investor requirements vary interact with specialists who significantly across investor resources and experience necessary speak their language and types, geography and regulatory understand their needs.
to support a wide range of clients.
With a well established network of offices MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 8 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Quantitative investment management We go out of our way experience to create an excellent 30 years environment for the very best Quants and technologists.
technologists Luke Ellis 524 Chief Executive Officer at Man Group as at 31December 2018 Worldwide markets One of the strengths 650 different markets that of Man Group is the ManGroup operates in at breadth of investment 31 December 2018 teams, and the ability of the firm to bring Investment strategies them together to help 72 different investment clients.
strategies and solutions Sandy Rattray run across the Group at Chief Investment Officer 31December 2018 Breadth of our investment strategies Building relationships 71% with our clients is key of FUM from clients to our long-term invested in two products or more growth, particularly as an institutionally Global sales and focused business.
marketing employees Jonathan Sorrell 193 President at Man Group as at 31 December 2018 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 9
