STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Board of Directors Committee memberships R Remuneration N Nomination AR Audit and Risk Committee Chair Chairman Chief Executive Officer CEO Chief Financial Officer CFO President Lord Livingston Luke Ellis Mark Jones Jonathan Sorrell Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment of Parkhead September 2016 January 2017 June 2012 Date of appointment Committee memberships Committee memberships CFO: June 2012 December January 2016 None None 2016 Chairman: May 2016 Background and career Background and career Co-President: June 2016 Committee memberships Prior to his appointment to Before joining the Board, Mark President: September 2016 N R the Board, Luke served as served as Co-CEO of Man GLG Committee memberships President of Man Group from from 2013 and COO from 2010.
Background and career None 2012 with responsibility for the Mark joined Man GLG in 2005 Ian has been a serving member Background and career management of Man Groups from strategy consulting firm of the House of Lords since 2013 Jonathan joined Man in August investment businesses.
Before McKinsey where he worked and served as Minister of State 2011 as Head of Strategy and this, he was Head and CIO of across a range of industries.
for Trade and Investment from Corporate Finance.
He was Mans Multi-Manager Business 2013 to 2015.
Prior to this he Areas of expertise and CFO from June 2012 to and Non-Executive Chairman was Group Chief Executive contribution December 2016 and was of Man GLG Multi-Manager Officer of BT Group Plc, having Mark has significant appointed Co-President in activities.
Luke previously previously served as Chief management, financial and June 2016 and President in served as Managing Director Executive Officer of BT Retail operational experience gained September 2016.
Prior to joining of Man FRM from 1998 to and as Group Chief Financial through his previous roles at Man Group, Jonathan spent 13 2008, prior to which he was Officer.
Before joining BT, he Man Group.
This experience, years at Goldman Sachs where a Managing Director at was Chief Financial Officer of together with his extensive he worked in the Investment J. P. Morgan in London.
Ian is currently industry knowledge, has Management, Securities and Chairman of Dixons Carphone Areas of expertise and supported the development Investment Banking Divisions, plc and a non-executive director contribution of the Groups strategy and latterly leading investments in a of Belmond Ltd. Luke has a strong and varied offering to clients.
Since his broad range of alternative asset investment management appointment as CFO, Mark Areas of expertise and management firms.
background and extensive has brought a clear focus on contribution Areas of expertise and knowledge of Man Group from cost through the delivery of With over two decades of board contribution his role as President.
Since his challenging cost saving level FTSE 100 experience, Ian Jonathans experience of appointment as CEO, Luke has initiatives, led the work on our brings extensive knowledge and financial markets, particularly led the Group in diversifying its proposed corporate restructure understanding of successfully his extensive knowledge of the product range and increasing and successfully overseen growing a complex international alternative fund management its international presence.
a number of changes to the business and navigating industry and strong background He has also continued to structure of the Groups regulatory environments around in strategy and execution, has strengthen the Groups control Risk function.
He has a strong track supported the development focus through the creation of record of innovative leadership of Man Groups business, the Chief Administrative Officer that is invaluable to the Board including the M&A activity role and the appointment of and executive team.
Since being which has strengthened the a Chief Investment Officer for appointed as Chairman of Man Groups footprint in the US the Group.
Group, Ian has steered the and established a business Board through significant in private markets.
Since his change and streamlined certain appointment as President, Board Committee memberships Jonathan has designed and and delegations.
He has also executed a new strategy for brought a greater focus on Sales & Marketing, successfully strategic topics and different established Man Global Private stakeholder groups into regular Markets including the Board meetings.
integration of Aalto, and has continued to reposition, develop and grow Man FRM as an alternative asset management solutions provider.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board of Directors continued Senior Independent Director Independent Non-Executive Directors SID Richard Berliand Dame Katharine Zoe Cruz John Cryan Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Kate Barker January 2016 June 2018 January 2015 Date of appointment Chairman of the Remuneration Committee memberships Committee memberships April 2017 Committee: May 2016 R AR Committee memberships SID: May 2017 R Background and career Background and career Committee memberships Zoe held various senior roles John is Chairman of XCyber Background and career R N AR during a 25 year career at Group Limited, a cyber Kate is a business economist Morgan Stanley, including intelligence company based Background and career and was a member of the Bank serving as Co-President of the in the UK.
John was CEO of Richard held a number of senior of Englands Monetary Policy firm between 2005 and 2007 Deutsche Bank AG from July roles at J. P. Morgan over a 23 Committee from 2001 to 2010. and Global Head of Fixed 2016 to April 2018, having year career at the firm, including Prior to that, she was Chief Income, Foreign Exchange and previously served as co-CEO Global Head of Prime Services, Economic Adviser to the Commodities from 2001 until from July 2015.
Prior to his Global Head of Cash Equities and Confederation of British 2005.
Following her time at appointment as CEO, John Chairman of J. P. Morgans Market Industry.
Her previous roles Morgan Stanley, Zoe founded served on the Supervisory Structure practice.
Richard is include Senior Adviser to Credit Voras Capital Management in Board of Deutsche Bank AG, currently a member of the Suisse from 2010 to 2016 and 2009 and ran the firm as CEO chairing its Audit Committee Supervisory Board of Deutsche non-executive director of the until 2013.
Zoe is currently a and as a member of its Risk Brse AG.
Kate non-executive director of Ripple Committee.
Prior to his time at was awarded a CBE in 2005 for Areas of expertise and Labs Inc. She was also a Deutsche Bank AG, he held a services to social housing and a contribution non-executive director of Old number of senior roles at UBS DBE in 2014 for services to the Richard has a wealth of Mutual plc from 2014 until its AG over a career spanning British economy.
Kate is experience in the financial managed separation more than 25 years with the currently Senior Independent services sector gained through a completed in 2018. banking group, during which Director of Taylor Wimpey plc number of senior executive roles.
he served as Group CFO as Areas of expertise and where she is also Chair of its He also brings extensive well as Chairman and CEO of contribution Remuneration Committee.
experience from a diverse range UBS AG EMEA.
After serving With her senior level experience of international non-executive Areas of expertise and at UBS, John was President of within global financial positions which gives him a deep contribution Temasek, based in Singapore.
institutions, broad understanding of areas such as Kate has over 30 years understanding of the macro Areas of expertise and the current regulatory experience as a senior context for investment contribution environment, risk management business economist with management and strong US John has extensive knowledge and technology.
Richards focus broad-ranging knowledge of perspective, Zoe is a valuable of international financial markets on investor engagement through monetary and public policy and contributor to the development gained from experience at his role as Chairman of the the financial services sector.
of Man Groups business leading global financial Remuneration Committee and Kate brings to Man Group strategy and risk management.
institutions and brings significant SID has provided valuable strategic thinking and economic knowledge of the regulatory context to Board decisions, insight coupled with a strong environment in which Man specifically in relation to knowledge of financial markets Group operates.
and is a valuable advisor and contributor to the Board.
Board composition Board tenure Chairman 9.1% 03 years 36.3% Executive directors 27.3% 36 years 45.5% Non-executive 6 years 18.2% directors 63.6% MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 46 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Committee memberships R Remuneration N Nomination AR Audit and Risk Committee Chair Independent Non-Executive Directors Andrew Horton Matthew Lester Dev Sanyal Board Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment August 2013 May 2011 December 2013 experience Chairman of the Audit and Committee memberships Committee memberships Percentage of Board Risk Committee: July 2018 AR AR members with Committee memberships Background and career Background and career experience of: AR N Matthew was CFO of Royal Mail Dev has held a number of senior plc during the period of financial and line management Background and career preparation for privatisation and positions with BP in a global Andrew has served on the 100% for its first four years as a listed career spanning more than 25 Board of Beazley plc since entity.
Prior to that, he was years.
Dev is CEO, Alternative 2003, first as Group Finance Finance and investment Group Finance Director of ICAP Energy and Executive Vice Director and since 2008 as plc from 2006 to 2010 and held President, Europe & Asia CEO.
Prior to his time at a range of senior finance roles Regions at BP plc.
Beazley, Andrew held a number at Diageo, including Group of financial positions within ING, Areas of expertise and 10 0% Financial Controller and Group NatWest and Lloyds Bank.
Matthew is currently International business Dev has extensive knowledge Areas of expertise and a non-executive director of of capital markets, asset and contribution Capita plc where he is Chair of risk management, trading and Andrew has over 25 years of the Audit and Risk Committee.
foreign exchange gained from broad financial services He is also a non-executive 82% his role as BP Group Treasurer experience with extensive director of Barclays PLC where and Chairman of BP Investment exposure to operating at Board Risk management he is a member of the Board Management Ltd. With broad level.
With his banking, financial Audit and Board Risk international experience and markets, insurance and broad Committees.
wide ranging operational international experience, Areas of expertise and expertise, he is able to Andrew has made a significant 82% contribution contribute to the development contribution to Man Groups Matthew has extensive and execution of Man Groups Operations strategic development, risk financial, risk management and business strategy and global management, financial regulatory expertise.
reporting and increased has significant listed company international presence.
experience acquired through his role at ICAP plc and through the flotation of Royal Mail plc on the London Stock Exchange.
Matthews experience enables him to provide substantial insight into the Groups financial reporting and risk management processes.
Board gender diversity Board age range Male 81.8% 3544 18.2% Female 18.2% 4554 18.2% 55 63.6% MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued Board structure Roles and responsibilities Chairman President Leads the Board, sets its agenda and Leads and oversees the Groups Sales ensures it discharges its role effectively and Marketing capability globally Supports and constructively challenges Leads and oversees two investment the CEO, promotes effective relationships engines, Man Global Private Markets and between executive and non-executive Man FRM Board members, and creates a culture Has responsibility for and leads the of open debate development of the Groups corporate Leads, with the support of the Nomination strategy, including merger and acquisition Role of the Board Committee, effective Board succession activity The Boards core role is to planning and the search for and appointment of new directors, taking promote the long-term success account of the need for the development Senior Independent Director of the Company for the benefit of Board skills, experience and diversity Maintains a broad overview of the work of its shareholders.
Ensures that the Board maintains effective of the Board and its Committees engagement with shareholders and takes Provides a sounding board for and advice This requires us to: account of the interests of all stakeholders to the Chairman on any Board matters in its decision making Determine and review business including development and succession strategy and Man Groups Acts as a focal point for communications with the non-executive directors if required appetite for risk Leads the annual performance evaluation Monitor management of the Chairman performance in delivering Leads the search for the appointment that strategy Chief Executive Officer of a new Chairman Ensure that risk management Leads the development, for Board approval, Engages with shareholders as required of business strategy and managements measures and internal controls delivery against it are appropriate and effective Runs the business with appropriate Oversee and monitor the delegated authorities, risk management embedding of and adherence to and internal controls the Companys business values Communicates and embeds a shared purpose and set of business values and Ensure that the Companys builds management talent financial structure, resources, Develops an effective relationship with talent and culture will support the Chairman and leverages the knowledge Non-Executive Directors long-term growth of non-executive Board members Contribute and provide constructive Maintains an effective dialogue with challenge to the development of business In discharging this role, the Board shareholders on the Companys strategy strategy must also have regard to and and performance Contribute to the identification of principal engage with the interests of a wide business risks and the determination of risk range of stakeholders, including appetite employees, customers, suppliers Monitor and challenge management and broader communities, in order performance in delivering business strategy and objectives to build mutual trust and support Monitor and challenge the effectiveness of the long-term sustainability of the the internal control and risk management business.
Chief Financial Officer framework Manages the allocation and maintenance Monitor the Companys compliance with Role of the Board Committees of the Groups capital, funding and liquidity the Regulatory principles and requirements The Board delegates its formal in accordance with regulatory requirements impacting asset management and governance responsibilities Has responsibility for the preparation and distribution to three Board Committees integrity of the Groups financial information Review and challenge, prior to publication, and its regulatory reporting comprised exclusively of nonthe Companys financial statements and Leads the development of annual budgets announcements executive directors.
The main and Medium Term Plans for Board approval Keep Board composition and succession responsibilities of each Board Has responsibility for the Groups risk planning under review in light of changing Committee are detailed on the management within the Boards risk business needs and recommend any page opposite.
appetite statements changes considered appropriate Maintains an effective dialogue with Determine executive director remuneration shareholders and stakeholders on the policy and pay performance and financial structure of the Company MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 48 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Board Committees Board operation and delegation Matters reserved for the Board Audit and Risk Committee To discharge its role, the Board has reserved for itself certain key areas Reviews the integrity of the Companys financial reports and of decision including business strategy, risk appetite, major acquisitions statements, and recommends their approval to the Board and disposals, capital structure and funding, financial reporting and Reviews and reports to the Board on the effectiveness of dividend policy.
A full list of the Boards reserved matters is available ManGroups risk management and internal controls framework on our website.
Recommends to the Board the appointment of the external auditor and reviews their effectiveness and independence Board activity during 2018 Approves the Internal Audit plan and reviews the effectiveness Details of the Boards main activities and areas of focus during the of the Internal Audit function and managements response year are provided on pages 5051.
These align with the Boards to their findings role and reserved matters detailed above and demonstrate the part played by the Board in supporting and progressing the Companys See pages 5863 for the Audit and Risk Committee report strategic priorities.
An account of the Boards engagement with key stakeholder groups and consideration of their interests is given on pages 5253.
Remuneration Committee Board delegation to the CEO Determines and recommends to the Board the principles All business decisions and activities which are not reserved for and structure of the Directors Remuneration policy the Board and its Committees are delegated to Luke Ellis as CEO.
Approves the total annual compensation for individual Luke has appointed and runs the business through the Senior executive directors including salary, variable cash and deferred Management Executive Committee whose members have the bonus, and LTIP awards particular areas of responsibility shown below.
Approves the quantum of the Companys annual variable compensation pool and deferral policies Approves the total annual compensation for Executive Senior Management Executive Committee Committee members and Remuneration Code staff Member Areas of responsibility Reviews feedback from shareholders and oversees the Companys engagement on directors remuneration and Robyn Grew Man Groups Infrastructure Operations, reporting Chief Administrative Officer Technology, Compliance, Legal, HR and and General Counsel Facilities See pages 6789 for the Remuneration Committee report Mark Jones Capital, Financial reporting, Risk management Chief Financial Officer and relationships with Shareholders, and Executive Director Regulators, Banks and Auditors.
Nomination Committee Full biography on page 45 Keeps the Boards size, structure, composition and diversity under review in response to business needs and opportunities Sandy Rattray Man AHL, Man Numeric, Man GLG and Considers the skills, experience and knowledge required for Chief Investment Officer Man Solutions a particular Board appointment Conducts the search and selection process for new directors Jonathan Sorrell Global Sales and Marketing, corporate taking advice from independent search consultants President and Executive strategy and M&A, Man Global Private Director Markets and Man FRM.
Recommends to the Board preferred candidates for Board appointment Full biography on page 45 Reviews Board and senior executive development and succession planning to ensure continuity of resource The Committee meets weekly to maintain its broad operational See pages 6466 for the Nomination Committee report oversight of the business, discuss top level strategic and risk issues and develop proposals for Board review.
These meetings are supplemented by regular informal interaction and discussion to share Full Committee terms of reference, which are reviewed and approved and test views.
by the Board on a regular basis, can be found on our website.
Details CEOs operating authorities and procedures of the work of the Committees during the year are given in the In addition, to help manage and control the business on a day to day separate Committee reports.
basis, the CEO has implemented a framework of delegated authorities and procedures which applies throughout the firm.
This framework sets out authority levels and controls in respect of material business change, the development of Man Groups product range, non-budgeted expenditure, recruitment and compensation, legal agreements, financial guarantees and use of the Companys balance sheet.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 49 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued How the Board promotes the success of the business Key activities Developing and Reviewing risk appetite Monitoring and challenging Overseeing culture and reviewing strategy and risk management business performance people engagement Annual strategy review Reviewed risk governance and Discussed with the CEO at every Discussed with the CEO the 2018 Reviewed progress against prior appetite framework including meeting the likely impact of employee survey scores, the years areas of focus: Sales, business risk tolerance current macroeconomic and analysis of feedback and the Technology, GPM growth, Reviewed Mans principal risks market trends on Man Groups management actions planned in Numeric, FRM and Man Solutions and updates to its risk dashboard investment strategies, potential response Reviewed management proposals Conducted a full year review investor appetite and the retention Discussed with management and for a change to Man Groups of the effectiveness of its risk of client assets sought external advice on corporate structure management and internal Regularly reviewed internal profit emerging market practice in Discussed with industry experts controls forecasts against market respect of mechanisms being the further leveraging of Discussed with expert advisers consensus estimates to identify selected for Board engagement technology, data and artificial the current cyber threat to asset and assess any variance with staff in response to new UK intelligence in asset management management and the areas on Reviewed the assumptions Corporate Governance Code Reviewed peer case studies, which the Board should focus to underlying the 2019 Budget and requirements transferable learning and future oversee resiliency 2019 21 Medium Term Plan MTP Discussed with the CEO and market opportunities Reviewed and challenged the proposals business unit heads progress on Reviewed industry approach to annual update of Man Groups the embedding of business values Outcomes third party distribution and future Internal Capital Adequacy in employee behaviours, the Challenged management on development for Man Group Assessment Process ICAAP cultural impacts of staff changes future prospects for Man Groups document.
This included oversight and the positive outcomes of the Outcomes strategies and the broader asset of the embedding of management re-engineering of business teams Approved in principle, for further management industry.
Requested processes for monitoring changes Received regular updates on review, the corporate restructure a refreshed overview and in risk profile which might impact managements wide ranging described on page 5 discussion with an external Man Groups regulatory and diversity initiatives to create an Agreed further development and industry expert in early 2019 economic capital requirements inclusive working environment sharing of innovative quant Discussed concentration risk and across the business technologies across the firm Outcomes requested a further review of Sought further direct exposure Agreed changes in the measure concentration points at the 2019 Deep dive reviews of to members of the Executive and quantification of business risk Board strategy review investment managers Committee and senior and endorsed the development of Challenged 2019 budget Half yearly reviews of Man AHL management through Board an enhanced forecasting model to assumptions on performance strategies and operations presentations and in subsequent explore downside scenarios and costs Reviewed progress on Man GLG follow up discussions After full discussion of dashboard Requested further sensitivity strategies and operations changes, particularly in market analysis in respect of flows, Outcomes including a specific focus on ELS and key person risk, approved the diversification benefit and the Commended the overall positive Equity Long Short Boards principal risk and risk impact of a negative Brexit outcome of the 2018 employee Outcomes management disclosures in the Approved 2019 Budget and MTP survey.
Requested further data on Discussed changing income Annual and Interim Report see subject to ongoing review in the the scores for individual business attribution and areas of over under pages 3133 course of the year in the light of teams and regular updates on exposure Requested the creation of a cyber changing market conditions management actions taken in Supported managements risk dashboard to evidence and response exploration of new strategies and monitor the management of cyber Agreed with the CEO the need markets risk for regular report to the Audit for further regular discussion Supported continuing investment and Risk Committee and Board of people and business culture in machine learning and shared Approved the 2017 ICAAP Sponsored and participated platform architecture process and document which it in certain diversity events led Reviewed and challenged considered to be thorough and by staff progress on talent development, robust Agreed on the need for further management and retention review of management talent Brexit in Board meetings and Reviewed and agreed non-executive director meetings contingency plans to allow Man see Nomination Committee Group to maintain its EU business priorities for 2019 on page 65 after Brexit, subject to further review when the political outcomes were clearer MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 50 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Key areas of strategic focus Innovation and Strong client Returns to technology relationships shareholders Quant strategies Reviewed and discussed with the Dividends Review of and support for the Sales team the analysis of Man Recommended and approved build out of a quant equity Groups client universe, the final and interim dividends in line business offering new products focusing of resource on key target with the Companys published with sizeable and scalable relationships, the strategy to dividend policy potential increase the value of assets held Capital return Discussion of investment in new by clients in more than one Man Kept under review and tested markets to create additional Group product and the actions in throughout the year Man Groups capacity in existing quant place to protect assets perceived forecast surplus capital and strategies to be most at risk liquidity positions under various Expansion of Man AHLs machine Reviewed and discussed with scenarios learning to generate innovative Man Groups Consultant Relations Regularly assessed the merits of value-adding ideas from new team the opportunities and the use of any projected surplus areas of research strategy for expanding investment capital for further capital return to consultant coverage of Man Technology shareholders as opposed to its Groups products, achieving Board review of the re-engineering retention for potential value adding positive ratings and increasing of Man Groups Technology acquisitions consultant influenced assets resource to create separate Approved the launch of two share Corporate and Alpha Quant Responsible Investment RI buybacks of $100 million each development teams Discussed with Man Groups RI during the year Discussed Man Groups team the increasing importance Corporate Technology strategy of RI to institutional and other and the core programmes investors, the development of planned for 2018 ManGroups RI strategy and fund Discussed Man Groups Alpha framework and the raising of its Quant Technology strategy which RI profile within the investment includes the firm wide sharing of community platform infrastructure, the use of a common modelling language and the identification of opportunities for external partnering in the Fintech space Proportion of Board time spent on key activities 2018 Board meetings Board member Attendance Ian Livingston, Chairman 8 8 Kate Barker 8 8 Richard Berliand 8 8 2018 1&2 Zoe Cruz 5 6 John Cryan 8 8 Luke Ellis 8 8 2 Andrew Horton 7 8 Mark Jones 8 8 Developing and reviewing strategy 46% Matthew Lester 8 8 Reviewing risk appetite and risk management 12% Dev Sanyal 8 8 Monitoring and challenging business performance 29% 3 Nina Shapiro 5 5 Overseeing culture, people and stakeholder relationships 13% Jonathan Sorrell 8 8 1 Zoe Cruz joined the Board on 1 June 2018.
2 Owing to conflicting business commitments, Zoe Cruz and Andrew Horton were each unable to attend one meeting which had to be convened at short notice.
However, they received and reviewed the papers to be considered in advance and directed questions to the Chairman which were addressed in the meeting.
3 Nina Shapiro retired from the Board on 9 October 2018.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued Stakeholder engagement Shareholders Technology driven asset management teach-in The Board is committed to proactive and ongoing engagement with the Companys investors and is keen to understand the views On 23 April 2018 we held a Technology driven asset of major shareholders.
The Head of Investor Relations regularly management teach-in for investors and sell-side analysts.
attends Board meetings to report on changes in the share register The aim of the session was to get people to understand the and current areas of interest.
Copies of investment research way we think about technology in an asset management published on the Company are regularly circulated.
business and the way we use it at Man Group.
There were a Richard Berliand, as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, range of speakers from across the firm presenting throughout provides regular reports on shareholder views on Man Groups the morning, covering how the Group uses technology in Directors Remuneration policy and award decisions from his alpha generation, trade execution, portfolio construction, engagement with top shareholders and shareholder interactions with clients, back-office processes and in risk representative bodies.
The Chief Scientist at Man AHL also explained how we are using machine learning and artificial intelligence Institutional investors across the Group.
The Company has developed a comprehensive investor relations programme through which the Head of Investor The session received very positive feedback from the Relations, CEO and CFO maintain a continuous dialogue with attendees including the following comments: From a investors on performance, plans and strategic objectives.
This is technology standpoint, they are at the cutting edge in the achieved through one to one meetings throughout the year and industry true pioneers and In terms of investor events, participation in investor roadshows and investor conferences.
it was definitely top quartile.
The 2018 investor events calendar is set out opposite.
Key areas which the CEO and CFO have discussed with investors during the year have included: Investment performance across our range of strategies Calendar of investor events Flows, interaction with clients, client concentration, product innovation and margin trends Q1 2018 2017 year end results released Progress in the areas of Machine Learning and Artificial 2017 Annual Report published Intelligence UK investor roadshow London Proposed corporate restructure US investor roadshow Potential new acquisitions and capital management Morgan Stanley Annual European Financials Brexit and its potential impact on the Groups operations conference London Private investors Our private investors are encouraged to access the Companys Interim and Annual Reports, half-year and final results presentations Q2 2018 Q1 2018 Trading Statement released and quarterly trading statements on our website.
Other useful Technology driven asset management teach-in information such as historic dividend records and shareholder Shareholder engagement on 2017 Directors communications is also available.
Our website gives access to Remuneration report and AGM voting our Registrars Shareview website www.
co. uk Annual General Meeting through which shareholders can manage their individual account Goldman Sachs European Financial Services online.
Printed copies of our Annual and Interim Reports and conference Frankfurt other shareholder communications continue to be available on request for shareholders who prefer this method of delivery.
Q3 2018 2018 interim results released We are always keen to understand the views of and answer 2018 Interim Report published questions from private investors and offer a dedicated UK investor roadshow London shareholder mailbox shareholder@man.
US investor roadshow A separate mailbox is available for any AGM queries Barclays Global Financial Services Conference agm@man.
New York Shareholder meetings Bank of America Merrill Lynch Annual Banking We welcome shareholders to our AGM in May each year.
and Insurance Conference London At every AGM our shareholders are given an overview by the CEO of the progress of the business and our future plans and Q4 2018 Q3 2018 Trading Statement released outlook.
This is followed by the opportunity for shareholders to ask questions about the resolutions before the meeting and UBS European Conference London about the business more generally.
The CEOs presentation J. P. Morgan Best of British conference London is made available on our website after the meeting.
UK investor roadshow Edinburgh We look forward to meeting shareholders and providing a further business update at our 2019 AGM in May this year.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 52 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Staff Business partners supply chain Discussed with management the nature of Man Groups Regular interaction between Man Groups executive culture and the embedding of its business values and directors and key elements of its supply chain which largely their impacts comprise business and professional services organisations Sought feedback from business unit heads on staff Reviewed Man Groups engagement with its broader supply sentiment and the impacts of team and business change chain as part of the Boards annual approval of Man Explored in depth the outputs from the 2018 staff survey Groups Modern Slavery Transparency Statement and discussed the consistency of staff attitude and culture Considered, as part of the review of Man Groups proposed across different parts of the Group corporate restructure, any potential impacts on business Focused attention on ensuring staff awareness of the partner relationships, including Man Groups lenders under Companys whistleblowing procedures and their its Revolving Credit Facility effectiveness Discussed with management ways in which the Board Consistently introduced the diversity challenge into the might further develop its understanding of the interests of discussion of business strategy, resourcing and talent its service providers in line with 2018 Corporate Governance development, and pay Code requirements Received regular updates on progress on Man Groups diversity initiatives and participated in a number of employee led Drive network events Engaged directly with management, at Executive Committee level and below, within formal Board presentations and in follow up discussions Read more on pages 3437 Clients Communities Kept under review and sought expert external update on Maintained a keen awareness of the broad communities trends in investor appetite and long-term market direction of people within which Man Group operates and the needs Maintained a focus on investors increasing interest in of the pension funds and underlying individual beneficiaries Responsible Investment RI and reviewed the development which they serve of Man Groups RI fund framework and industry profile Received updates on the activities of and impacts of Kept updated by the Sales team on the development and grants made by Man Groups UK Charitable Trust which analysis of Man Groups client universe, the identification is focused on improving standards of literacy and of top clients and target groups and progress on strategies numeracy in local communities and more broadly to respond to their needs Approved a further increase in Man Groups ongoing Requested and received regular deep dive reviews of commitment to the UK and US Trusts to support and individual top clients and the development of their encourage further employee volunteering and involvement relationships with Man Group in charitable initiatives Read more on pages 13, 3840 Read more on pages 4243 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued Board strength and effectiveness Zoe Cruz worked through the induction following her appointment Board profile to the Board in June 2018.
To support her role as a Remuneration Man Groups Board is a highly skilled, committed and diverse Committee member, Zoe also received briefings from Richard group of individuals who are keen to further their knowledge of Man Berliand as Remuneration Committee Chairman, our Senior Reward Groups business and its challenges and contribute to its success.
Executive and our Remuneration Consultants, PwC, covering in The biographies set out on pages 4547 evidence the broad ranging particular the development of Man Groups Directors Remuneration financial services and other experience which non-executive Board policy and practice in response to industry developments and members bring to Man Groups business from leading positions in investor sentiment.
The pie charts on pages 4647 provide an analysis of the Boards diversity in terms of skills base, length of tenure, age group and gender.
Non-executive induction programme Board meetings The Board met formally eight times during the year, including for Business Strategic direction and priorities one full strategy day.
Meetings are normally attended by the Chief review Business strategy and market context Investment Officer and the Chief Administrative Officer.
They provide Risk appetite, principal risks, risk further detail and management perspective on business matters but governance framework and ICAAP do not take part in any decision making.
Non-executives seek every Overview of Man AHL, Man GLG, Man opportunity for direct engagement with management both within FRM, Man Numeric and Man GPM formal meetings and follow up discussions.
They ensure that regular Global Sales and Marketing review of individual businesses, top client relationships, people Budget and Medium Term Plan and technology are built into the Board programme.
Time is made Operations and Technology available for private discussion by non-executive directors at the end of regular Board meetings.
In addition, twice yearly non-executive Performance Review of financial and market sessions are scheduled to discuss, with input from the CEO, people and market performance issues, talent and executive succession.
positioning Recent analyst and media coverage Analysis of shareholder base and investor Board meetings are conducted on the basis that all written materials perceptions submitted are thoroughly reviewed in advance so as to minimise Shareholder engagement presentation and maximise discussion time.
Non-executives use their diverse experience to question and challenge proposals and Regulatory Overview of the Groups key compliance suggest an alternative perspective or approach.
Board debate and environment and regulatory policies decision making are structured in such a way as to allow all views Recent changes in regulatory landscape to be heard.
and impact of upcoming regulatory developments Board independence Hot topics and key priorities for regulators Our non-executive directors are fully independent and do not have including relevant thematic reviews any external appointments or interests which could conflict with those of the Company.
Board members are required to keep me People, Discussion of business principles updated on any changes in their external roles which might conflict culture and Key people and succession plans with their responsibilities as directors of Man Group so that any values People and Talent priorities including potential conflicts can be assessed by the Board.
An ongoing diversity and inclusion, engagement, schedule of directors external interests is maintained and formally staff development and performance reviewed by the Board at the end of each year.
HR structure and outsourcing arrangements Board induction Regulatory Board structure, processes and Our non-executive directors receive a comprehensive and tailored and Board dynamics induction to the business and, to the extent required, the asset governance Board interaction with the business management industry as soon as they are appointed.
The framework Listed company obligations, reporting programme is structured around one to one briefings with the and corporate governance framework executive directors, Executive Committee members, the Heads Directors duties and responsibilities of Group businesses and functions and the Company Secretary, covering their respective business objectives and challenges.
An outline of the programme, which is regularly updated in response to business change and director feedback, is given below with further detail available on our website.
We also arrange for new non-executives to meet their non-executive colleagues outside formal Board meetings to help build their understanding of the business and Board dynamics.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 54 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Board education and training Perspectives on Man Group A number of sessions, led by internal subject experts and external advisers, were organised within Board meetings to provide updates from a new non-executive on upcoming regulatory and political change.
The main topics director addressed and discussed were: 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code Gap analysis of requirements against Man Groups current practice Zoe Cruz Review and discussion of proposed Board response Independent Non-Executive Specific review of the alternative mechanisms available for further Director development of Board employee engagement Senior Managers and Certification Regime SMCR Impact of SMCR requirements and individuals identified as What have been your impressions of Man Groups Senior Managers Q business and Board?
Gap analysis against Man Groups current processes and Ive been impressed by the calibre, capability and breadth structures of knowledge of the Board.
They are a very strong team of Timeline and ownership within the business individuals and, as Ive seen from this years Board evaluation Agreed timetable for further updates in 2019 process, are willing to embrace and respond to developmental ideas which will help them grow stronger.
Im also impressed Brexit by the quality of people Ive met in Man Group more generally: Further update on the most significant impacts of Brexit on it has a high concentration of talent in a small population.
Man Group, including the need to maintain access to highly skilled EU talent Looking ahead, what do you see as the major In response to ongoing political uncertainty, review of plans Q challenges for the business and Board?
to safeguard the continuation of Man Groups investment First, without a doubt, it is to prepare for the likelihood of a management services for European clients and its distribution period of industry upheaval and prolonged market volatility services in Europe which I believe may lie ahead.
No one knows exactly what it Corporate restructure will look like and when it will come.
Given this challenge, the Regulatory process, requirements and timeline including Board needs to continue its stress testing of a whole range of Board approvals downturn scenarios and find a business model which will work Directors particular responsibilities for the restructure under and flourish in such a period.
the UKLA Listing and Prospectus rules Second, the Board needs to remain focused on succession Differences between Jersey and UK company law, including planning.
It currently has very strong and capable leadership directors duties under Luke and his executive team, but we must continue to Non-executive director briefings develop potential successors for him and the other top roles.
In addition to the above in house sessions, opportunities continued What do you think of Man Groups progress to be made available to non-executive directors to attend external Q on diversity?
seminars and workshops on topical business and regulatory issues I am impressed by the energy and resource which offered by professional services firms.
management have been investing in developing a culture which recognises and promotes the value of diversity and inclusion in its people.
Significant progress is being made by Man Group against the backdrop of an industry which has historically been very poor in this area.
As regards gender diversity, my previous experience was on a Board which had a much higher percentage of women than Man Group does, and I have noticed the difference.
Board dynamics, behaviours and the expression of views change as the number of women on a Board increases.
I welcome Man Groups firm focus on bringing further diversity, including gender diversity, into the Boardroom when new appointments are considered.
It will help create a different perspective, promote the articulation of different views and broaden our decision making.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued 2018 Board evaluation Evaluation cycle Following two internal evaluations in 2016 and 2017, a full external evaluation was carried out in 2018.
Clare Chalmers CC, who has no other connection with the Company, was selected to carry out this work and her findings and recommendations were reported to and discussed by the Board and its Committees in December.
The key stages of the evaluation process undertaken are set out below.
2018 Board evaluation process Phase 1 Engagement Phase 2 Briefing Phase 3 Board paper review CC selected to undertake the Chairman and Company CC reviewed a set of Man work.
Secretary briefed CC on the Groups Board papers to provide objectives of the review and insight into the quality of suggested areas of focus.
Phase 5 Interviews Phase 4 Board meeting observation CC conducted 1:1 interviews with CC attended the October Board Board members and Senior meeting to observe Board Management Executive Committee dynamics and individual director attendees covering both standard contributions.
topics and others aligned to individual roles and experience.
Phase 6 Feedback Phase 7 Presentation Phase 8 Board review meeting with Chairman to the Board of findings CC discussed overall findings CC attended the December Board discussed the evaluation with the Chairman and provided Board meeting to present and findings and agreed its priority confidential feedback on discuss her written report on the areas for focus in 2019. individual Board members.
Summary evaluation findings Board Committee evaluations The findings and recommended areas of focus arising from the Board strengths: evaluation of the Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Calibre and depth of experience Committees are discussed in the separate Committee reports.
Commitment to explore and challenge business issues and High quality information provided to support the Board to Review of individual director contributions discharge its role I discussed with each of my Board colleagues individually the evaluation feedback on their personal contributions to the Board Areas for development and focus: during the year.
These conversations identified areas where they Enhancing Board dynamics might bring additional benefit to the Board and explored Further oversight and discussion of Man Groups culture opportunities for further development in the role.
and people strategy Further focus on talent management and succession Richard Berliand, as Senior Independent Director, shared with me planning feedback from my colleagues on the evaluation of my leadership and management of the Board.
Further detail on the evaluation findings, including an assessment of progress made on areas of focus in last years evaluation and priorities for focus in 2019, is provided in the table on page 57.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 56 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Board evaluation assessment Areas of focus in 2018 Progress made Agreed 2019 actions Clear, succinct, high quality papers helped the Consider prioritisation of papers on the Agenda Quality of Board papers and Board fulfil its role.
Strategy papers proposing and provide further clarity on which are for presentations the corporate restructure were particularly information and which for decision.
Management effective, outlining options and risks and to adopt a clear structure for all papers, setting including follow up Q&A sections on issues out upfront their purpose and the action previously raised.
required from the Board, and ensure that detailed information is provided in an easy to understand manner.
High degree of commitment on the Board and Further development of the understanding of Board dynamics non-executive mutual respect between non-executive and mutual roles, needs and contributions between executive engagement executive teams.
Non-executives are keen to executives and non-executives to strengthen engage deeply in the business and executives their interaction and collective effectiveness.
follow up on issues raised by non-executives.
Further clarity to be given in requests made by Robust exchange of views in Board discussions non-executive directors for additional business with all opinions invited and expressed.
Consideration of people and culture Substantial time devoted to Board discussion Broader focus and more extensive Board of the output from the 2018 employee survey.
conversations, led by the CEO, on Mans people Feedback on staff behaviours and sentiment and culture.
Improve people oversight through given by the CEO and Senior Management the development of Board employee engagement Executive Committee SMExCo.
Better mechanisms in line with Governance Code knowledge of management below SMExCo requirements.
Drive forward the talent and through Board presentations and the annual succession agenda see Nomination Committee strategy meeting.
Consideration of stakeholder Excellent progress made on Board insight into the Continue annual Board review of Man Groups development of top Client relationships and fund client universe and its regular deep dive reviews interests investor needs and sentiment.
Board knowledge of individual Clients.
Introduce regular reporting on of key elements of Man Groups supply chain Man Groups engagement with and feedback from improved.
Good reporting on the work done by key service providers.
Continue Board reporting Man Group in local communities and the activities on the activities and focus of Man Groups role in of Man Groups charitable trusts.
the community and its employee volunteering.
Presentations by internal and external advisers Continue to keep the Board updated on industry Board education and training scheduled within Board meetings on regulatory and trends, regulatory impacts and business other business issues see page 55.
Regular updates developments through engagement with external from business unit heads on business progress and advisers and internal experts.
External expert overview of industry trends and long-term prospects.
Continued to be highly rated and effective.
Maintain proactive and reliable level of service.
Quality of company secretarial Very responsible and conscientious team.
and administrative support Lord Livingston of Parkhead Chairman Statement of compliance The Company has, throughout the year ended 31 December 2018, applied the principles of and complied with the provisions of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code except in relation to the following: Setting the Chairmans remuneration Provision D. 2.2 of the Code requires that the Remuneration Committee the Committee should have delegated responsibility for setting the remuneration of the Chairman.
The terms of reference of the Committee provide that the Committee has authority to recommend to the Board but not to approve the remuneration of the Chairman.
This is because the Board believes that, in order to provide transparency and allow the views of all the directors, executive and non-executive, to be taken into account, it is appropriate for all Board members to provide input into the determining of the Chairmans remuneration.
Other information Certain additional information in relation to the Companys share capital, the powers of the directors and amendments to the Articles of Association that is required to be disclosed in the Corporate Governance report pursuant to DTR 7.2.
6 may be found in the Directors report on pages 9091.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 57
