STRATEGIC REPORT Key performance indicators Our financial KPIs illustrate and measure the relationship between the investment experience of our clients, our financial performance and the creation of shareholder value over time.
Financial Adjusted core profit Adjusted management Investment performance Net Flows before tax fee EPS growth Target: 0%2% Target: 1%6% Target: $272m $473m Target: 5%12% met met not met met 1.9% 15.8% $359m 20.0% 2017 2017 2017 2017 1.0% 9.9% $237m 9.3% 2018 2018 2018 2018 What we measure 1 1 1 1 The asset weighted outperformance Net flows are the measure of our Adjusted core profit before tax is a Adjusted management fee EPS of Man Groups strategies compared ability to attract and retain investor measure of overall profitability and cash growth in the year measures the to peers gives an indication of the capital.
FUM drives our financial generation.
This measure excludes overall effectiveness of our competitiveness of our investment performance in terms of our ability legacy income streams in relation to business model, and drives both performance against similar to earn management fees.
guaranteed products and commission our dividend policy outlined on alternative investment styles offered income and profits from Nephila, so page 26 and the value generated by other investment managers.
better represents the core business of for shareholders.
As this incorporates both management and performance fee profits it reflects that performance fees, although volatile in nature, are a key earnings stream for Man Group and a significant component of value creation for shareholders over time.
How we performed We achieved asset weighted Net inflows of 9.9% in 2018 are above Adjusted core profit before tax of The adjusted management fee EPS outperformance versus peers of the target range, and indicative of the $237 million for the year ended growth of 9.3%, from 10.8 cents to 1.0% in 2018, and therefore achieved strong net inflows into our total return 31 December 2018 fell outside of 11.8 cents, was within the target the KPI target.
Further investment strategies, and smaller inflows into the target range, largely reflecting low range for 2018.
Adjusted performance information is provided absolute return, discretionary long only levels of performance fee generation.
management fee EPS growth is on page 13. and systematic long only strategies, For further information see page 23. largely driven by the higher net partially offset by small net outflows management fee revenues and from multi-manager solutions.
Net higher profits per share due to the flows of 15.8% in 2017 were at record impact of share repurchases which levels.
Further flows information is reduce the number of shares.
For provided on page 21. further information on EPS, see page 144.
Changes to our KPIs Asset weighted outperformance The net flows target range has been Adjusted core profit before tax The target range for adjusted versus peers replaces the 2017 updated to 1%-6% from 0%-10% in replaces the 2017 adjusted management fee EPS growth has investment performance KPI of prior year in order to better reflect management fee EBITDA margin KPI.
been updated from 0%-20% plus performance versus key strategies, industry trends and the market Profit margin and overall profitability RPI in 2017 to 5%-12%, which in order to ensure the relative environment to provide a more remain key priorities for the Board, and reflects attractive shareholder investment performance KPI reflects appropriate target.
continue to be reflected in adjusted returns and better represents the continued diversification of our core profit before tax.
a stretch target for the markets business.
This provides a more in which Man Group operates.
complete and balanced view across This target may be not met or Man Groups product base as it may be exceeded in a particular includes all strategies against which year depending on wider market relevant peer benchmarks are movements.
available weighted by FUM, as opposed to certain identified key strategies.
This measure is more dynamic and will change as the business continues to evolve, in line with Man Groups strategic priorities.
1 Details of the calculation of our alternative performance measures are provided on pages 142145.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 18 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Measure against our strategy Why we are Remuneration Innovative investment Executive director remuneration is directly linked changing our KPIs strategies to strategy and performance, with particular We have made some changes to Strong client relationships emphasis on matching rewards to results over our KPIs for the 2018 financial year, the long-term.
These changes Efficient and effective operations have been made in order to ensure our KPIs continue to reflect best Linked to strategy Returns to shareholders practice in alignment with the Groups A substantial portion of executive director business strategy and delivery of remuneration is linked to success in implementing shareholder value, which also aligns Further reading the Groups strategy.
Progress against the with changes to the Directors Groups strategic priorities and KPIs provide key Linked to Remuneration Remuneration policy see page 67. metrics for determining the short and long-term see page 67 variable pay.
See page 70 of the Directors Remuneration report for how the proposed new policy links to our KPIs Performance related The variable components of total remuneration are linked to performance and deliveries for our clients and shareholders.
High pay requires high performance.
Achieving the maximum pay requires sustained high performance across all businesses over several years.
More on pages 6873 Long-term shareholder alignment The structure of pay is designed to reflect the long-term nature of the Groups business.
Alignment with shareholders has been further enhanced in the new Directors Remuneration policy which was approved by shareholders at the 2018 Annual General Meeting AGM with a new Long-Term Incentive Plan with a three year performance and subsequent two year postvesting holding period and increased shareholding requirements to be retained after departure.
More on page 74 Shareholder engagement The Remuneration Committee actively seeks to understand shareholder preferences and be transparent in explaining its policy and practice.
During 2018 the Remuneration Committee Chairman spoke to a majority of our shareholders and their representative bodies to discuss the application of the policy that was approved by shareholders at the AGM in May 2018.
More on page 73 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 19
