08 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC PERFORMANCE REVIEW CHANNELS TO THE CUSTOMER UK STORES M&S.
COM SALES SHOP YOUR WAY SALES INTERNATIONAL STORES 1,035 5.2% 64% 428 STORES M&S.
COM INTERNATIONAL FACING FACTS FACING FACTS FACING FACTS M&S operates an ageing store estate reflecting Our digital capability is behind the best in Our international business saw a year of the fact that it has been reluctant to close the market and the state of the art is moving successful reshaping as we closed lossmarginally contributing stores over many rapidly.
Although we have the second largest making outlets and changed our business years.
As a result, we carry a long tail of online Clothing & Home market share in model.
As a result, profits more than doubled stores, some over 75 years old, which drag the UK, we are losing share and are behind and we now have a much more defined down the like-for-like sales performance and the best of our competitors.
Our download platform for growth.
However, much work are brand damaging in their configuration.
speeds are slower than the best, our remains to improve competitiveness and Even though some of these stores trade search facility is average and our mobile the supply chain to our franchise partners profitably, they will not warrant new application needs improvement.
Castle to enable them to compete with our major investment, not least because the high street Donington was built at great expense but fashion retail competitors.
Our ranges and and shopping centres are changing fast.
is never likely to achieve planned capacity, supply chain arrangements are not yet In particular, our smaller high street stores lacks resilience and cannot currently meet flexible enough and our pricing is often high lack range authority and some of our larger peak demand.
And our model stores carry too much space.
As the market for food supply continues to rely on high WHATS HAPPENING shifts and moves online these problems cost UK exports which limits the potential We have an urgent programme in hand to will become worse unless we move fast.
for an international food business.
fix our base platform capability which WHATS HAPPENING should see improvements this year in speed WHATS HAPPENING We are accelerating our store closure and responsiveness.
Already, the majority of Our model for International is to focus programme which will result in the closure our orders are collected in-store and we are on large territories where we can build a of around a quarter of our 2016 Clothing & investing to make this process faster and significant market presence and to operate Home space.
32 stores have already been more convenient, an advantage over our through a limited number of strong, aligned closed or been proposed for closure, out of online only competition.
Steps are being franchise or joint venture partners.
Some of the larger taken to debottleneck Castle Donington Accordingly, we have completed our store remaining stores are being downsized so we so that it can meet expected peak demand closure programme with exit costs under will converge on a more cohesive portfolio.
And we are extending budget.
In total we closed 53 owned stores The closure programme is producing good the cut off time 10.00 pm for next-day in ten markets.
In December, we sold our results with significant sales transfer to deliveries.
Given the need to broaden our Hong Kong business to Al-Futtaim, our nearby, more profitable sites.
There will be a appeal to family-age customers, we are Middle East and Asia franchise partner, to limited number of new openings of mid-size extending our presence and reach in social build our alliance further.
stores in high potential sites.
In March, we were one of the first to Now the rationalisation is nearly complete, back on the opening programme, focusing launch on Instagram Shoppable.
we are setting up an improved franchise now only on the largest trading opportunities WHATS NEXT partner support team, as there is huge in sites capable of good volume growth.
Given the 8% growth online in the fourth scope to improve the way we work with WHATS NEXT quarter, we believe that if we implement and support our partners.
Already we have Once the reshaping of our core store portfolio these basic changes and the improvements improved Clothing & Home fulfilment by is well underway, we will need to relook at our we plan in range and product, we will 7% and modernised 58 international stores.
formats to adapt them to a rapidly changing see acceleration of growth towards our WHATS NEXT shopping environment.
Already, we can one-third target.
Combined with store In the year ahead we intend to continue the see relatively low cost opportunities to closures this will deliver a more profitable programme to greatly improve our fulfilment modernise our stores to drive sales and and sustainable business.
and supply chain arrangements with our improve customer experience.
For instance, Our ambition is also to become a truly digital major partners.
We will modernise and open through our Shop Your Way service, 64% of business, not only competitive online but over 100 new stores in growth markets such our online sales are picked up in-store yet many adept at using artificial intelligence to better as India and further adapt our ranges to move of our collection points are inconveniently interact with customers and develop a more away from our current UK-centric model.
Our payment and checkout facilities personalised relationship.
Given M&Ss skills We will also roll out lower pricing across our need more modernising and rationalising in style and fit and our expertise in fabric markets following a successful trial in Indonesia and a number of services will be brought we hope to develop innovative ways of and Cyprus which saw average order volumes together.
And many of our larger stores helping customers to gain inspiration online increase by 32% on an average price reduction have blocked sight lines and are hard for and find the right product for their look.
We will also provide effective online time-pressed customers to navigate.
In Try Tuesday, our online inspiration service, support for our franchise partners by the year ahead we will explore capital lite already has 160,000 customers signed up, providing a pay and play local website and options to refresh our existing estate and of which 62% say they have bought ordering models as piloted in the UAE this develop formats for the future.
We are still at the early stages of developing our online strategy for territories not covered by franchise partners.
