42 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS' REPORT: GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION OVERVIEW VINDI BANGA CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE INTRODUCTION I am pleased that we not only secured the employment of Humphrey Singer under On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to our normal framework, but that we were present our 2018 Remuneration Report.
able to further simplify our pay structures, The Committees report covers the required removing any additional allowances for Remuneration in M&S is regulatory information, balanced against pension or car from his arrangements.
commercial sensitivities, and also provides aligned with the business Reflecting on these arrangements, the further context and insight into our director performance and is in Committee believes that our Remuneration pay arrangements.
Policy continues to provide appropriate the best interests of The report provides a comprehensive flexibility, while providing certainty that any picture of the structure and scale of our the Company and payments made in the implementation of remuneration framework, its alignment the Policy are in the best interests of both its shareholders.
with the business strategy and the rest of the Company and our shareholders.
VINDI BANGA CHAIRMAN OF THE the workforce, as well as the payments REMUNERATION COMMITTEE approved by the Committee as a result of CONTEXT OF BUSINESS PERFORMANCE business performance for this year.
As referenced earlier in this Annual Report, M&Ss Remuneration Policy was approved a number of necessary steps taken to by an overwhelming majority of 99.08% transform the business impacted the of shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
In keeping financial results for 2017 18.
Group profit IN THIS SECTION with the more concise reporting adopted was impacted by the acceleration of the this year across the Annual Report, UK store closure programme: sales in a summary overview of the directors REMUNERATION Clothing & Home declined as a result annual remuneration framework, of the continued focus on full-price sales, Remuneration overview p42-45 including recruitment and termination the removal of promotions and the number Remuneration policy summary p46-49 policies reflecting the changes made of clearance sales.
Food performance was to the top team during the year, is provided not strong enough throughout the year.
Full policy available at on pages 46-49.
The full Policy can be marksandspencer.
com thecompany, As illustrated on page 43, there is a strong viewed on the Company's website at and in the 2017 Annual Report alignment between a number of M&S's marksandspencer.
key performance indicators KPIs and ANNUAL REPORT Detail of the approved Remuneration the performance measures used in the ON REMUNERATION Policy in action during the year, the directors' incentive awards.
As I describe Committees considerations and the later, it therefore follows that as a Remuneration structure p50 intended arrangements for 2018 19 are consequence of the above, total payments Total single figure remuneration p50 set out on pages 50-62 of this report.
made to directors were lower this year Salary and benefits p51 than last year.
Annual Bonus Scheme p52-53 BOARD CHANGES Performance Share Plan p54-55 Directors share interests p56-57 The Committee was closely involved Changes to Board membership p59 with the arrangements in relation to a Non-executive directors remuneration p60 number of executive director changes Remuneration Committee remit p61 announced during the year, including the appointment of Humphrey Singer as See Remuneration report on p50 CFO and the departures of Helen Weir and Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne.
Details of the See our Strategy on p1-24 leaving arrangements for Helen and Patrick See our KPIs on p11-14 can be found on page 59 of this report.
Read our full Remuneration Policy at marksandspencer.
com thecompany 43 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 STRATEGIC ALIGNMENT OF REMUNERATION FRAMEWORK WITH KPIs Adjusted earnings per share EPS Online sales Group profit before growth tax PBT and adjusting items Return on capital employed ROCE Like-for-like sales in Clothing & Home and Food PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN ANNUAL BONUS SCHEME Free cash flow pre shareholder returns Clothing & Home space International sales growth Plan A including products with a Plan A quality and greenhouse gas emissions See KPIs on p11-14 2017 18 PERFORMANCE GROUP PBT BEFORE RETURN ON CAPITAL ADJUSTED EARNINGS FREE CASH FLOW ADJUSTING ITEMS EMPLOYED PER SHARE PRE SHAREHOLDER RETURNS 580.9m 14.0% 27.8p 417.5m Group PBT was below the threshold Average three-year ROCE EPS growth was -5.6% over the Cumulative cashflow performance for bonus payments in the business performance of 14.2% including three years ending in 2017 18 based for the three-year period ending in to begin.
As such, the Committee 14.0% for 2017 18 was below the on the outturn above.
This was below 2017 18 was 1,542m, which included exercised its discretion and no bonus threshold required for this element the 5.0% growth required for any 417.5m for 2017 18.
As a result, payments were made to directors.
vesting under this element of the 5.3% of the 2015 PSP award will vest.
STRATEGIC ALIGNMENT OF PAY this strong linkage between the KPIs, These changes have been mirrored by the payments to directors, and business reduction of the measures used within the To support the transformation plans performance over the shortand long-term.
senior remuneration framework which are outlined by management, the Committee disclosed on pages 53-55 of this report.
As outlined earlier in this Annual Report, has considered the measures and targets M&Ss focus is resolutely on the journey of The Committee will continue to thoroughly used in M&Ss incentive schemes, to ensure alignment of the Performance Share Plan transformation.
The Committee is mindful review the pay structures and incentive of the strategic business discussions when arrangements for the senior leadership and Annual Bonus Scheme with the KPIs considering incentive structures and team to ensure strong alignment between being used within the business.
This is performance assessments for the senior the delivery of business performance and designed to ensure that performance outcomes and any associated payments leadership team.
As a result, and as outlined the associated remuneration arrangements on pages 11-14 of the Annual Report, KPIs as the business goes through the five-year are aligned with business performance have been sharpened and focused to transformation programme.
and the transformational journey of M&S.
align with and support the transformation.
The illustration above demonstrates FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 44 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS' REPORT: GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED SINGLE FIGURE REMUNERATION FOR 2017 18 Total 000 Steve Rowe 1,044 76 1,120 Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne 707 70 777 Helen Weir 754 72 826 Fixed pay PSP Total bonus See Single figure remuneration on p50 See Annual Bonus Scheme below and p52-53 See PSP on p54-55 TERMS OF REFERENCE AND WIDER outturn for the year against the financial apply discretion to not award bonus WORKFORCE PAY ARRANGEMENTS plan and annual bonus payments to be payments to executive directors during made elsewhere within the business.
In addition, 8.2% of the 2015 The role and remit of the Remuneration addition, the PBT achievement of 580.9m Performance Share Plan PSP awards Committee was reviewed this year and was below the threshold required to pay will vest in July 2018, for the three-year broadened to include a more formal and bonuses to colleagues elsewhere in the performance period up to 31 March 2018. wider consideration of our reward business and the Committee decided, The Committee is satisfied that incentive framework and fairness across the in the interests of fairness, it would not be payments made to executive directors organisation.
The key focus remains on appropriate to pay a bonus to directors, during the year are fair in the context of ensuring that the M&S Remuneration Policy irrespective of any achievement against business performance for 2017 18 and is implemented and applied in such a way each directors individual objectives.
payments made elsewhere in the business.
to attract, retain and motivate its leadership, This decision not to pay a bonus is in line within a framework designed to promote PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN VESTING not only with the Companys approved the long-term success of M&S whilst being aligned with shareholder interests.
However, remuneration policy, but also the Bonus Performance Share Plan awards granted in Scheme rules including the terms and M&S is a business of around 81,000 people July 2015 will vest in July 2018 to the extent conditions, which expressly allow the and it is essential that the context of the that the respective performance conditions Remuneration Committee wide discretion wider workforce is taken into consideration have been achieved.
when the Remuneration Committee is to consider factors including the overall At the time that measures and targets Company performance, individual making decisions.
were set, the Committee debated the contribution, future prospects of the As a result of the review, the Committee appropriateness of any metrics and targets Company and external market conditions, will now regularly debate and discuss in line with the strategic and financial plans in deciding what, if any, bonus is payable.
oversight of key people policy areas such of the Company.
It determined that the In particular, any discretion applied allows as performance management, diversity measures used for the 2015 award would alteration, reduction or withholding of and inclusion as well as gender pay be EPS, ROCE and a financial strategic payment even in circumstances where reporting and reward framework and scorecard, including International business targets are achieved.
Furthermore, to demonstrate the performance and Clothing & Home gross However, in order to ensure continued Committees commitment to meaningful margin.
These measures reflected the key strong governance and transparent and transparent engagement on pay drivers of shareholder value as well as the practices in the wider workforce, the chair reporting to shareholders, the Committee strategic priorities and key growth areas discussed each directors achievement of M&Ss employee representative body for the business.
against the relevant performance targets, will be invited to attend and contribute to a The illustration opposite shows that 8.2% noting their wider performance within the Committee meeting each year.
We welcome of the 2015 award will vest in July.
With the opportunity this direct engagement respective areas of responsibility and also the exception of Clothing & Home achievement against Plan A targets and will bring to the continued rigour of the gross margin and cumulative cash flow, M&S values, which once again underpinned Committees discussions.
performance against all measures was the Scheme.
Final achievement against More detail around the remit and activities below the threshold required for vesting each directors individual objectives, as of the Committee can be found on under any other element of the award.
Page noted by the Committee, is detailed on page 61 and the Company's website at 55 of this report provides further detail on page 52 of this report.
the specifics of the targets set and the respective achievement under each SINGLE FIGURE COMMITTEE JUDGEMENT measure.
The remit of the Committee is to AND DISCRETION The graph above summarises the total ensure that targets set are considered to be payments made to executive directors stretching yet achievable, rewarding the The Remuneration Committee decided for 2017 18, illustrating the figures detailed delivery of sustainable, ambitious longthat it would exercise its discretion such that in the single figure chart set out later in this term performance.
While this vesting is no payment would be made to any director report on page 50. disappointing, the Committee is satisfied under the Annual Bonus Scheme for that this vesting is reflective of the Overall pay levels for the executive 2017 18.
This decision was not taken lightly disappointing business performance and was the result of careful consideration directors were c. 33% lower than last year, Steve Rowe and Archie Norman have both reflecting the Committees decision to of a number of factors, including the PBT highlighted earlier in this Annual Report.
EPS FREE CASH FLOW GROWTH CLOTHING & HOME M&S.
COM 45 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN PSP VESTING 2018 Free Cashflow Growth Annualised EPS Growth Maximum performance 7.5% Maximum performance 50% Actual performance 5.3% Actual performance 0% Clothing & Home Gross Average ROCE Margin Growth Maximum possible 20% Maximum possible 7.5% Actual performance 0% Actual performance 2.9% M&S.
com Cash Sales Growth International Cash Sales Growth Maximum possible 7.5% Maximum possible 7.5% Actual performance 0% Actual performance 0% See Performance Share Plan on p54-55 PAY ARRANGEMENTS FOR 2018 19 financial measures of EPS and ROCE will vests to the extent that the Committee continue to give focus to profitable and deems justified when considering the To ensure a consistent approach, when efficient business performance.
Each of overall performance of the business across reviewing salary levels, the Committee the three measures will continue to have the relevant performance period.
takes into account a number of internal equal weighting.
Together with the rest of the Board, I look and external factors, including Company performance during the year, external For this year, and reflecting the forward to hearing your views on the transformation expected from the business, remuneration arrangements I have market data and the salary review principles the Committee has approved awards of summarised on the preceding pages.
applied to the rest of the organisation.
250% of salary to Steve Rowe and Humphrey I will be available to answer any questions Despite no increase to Steve Rowes salary since appointment, in line with salary Singer under the 2018 PSP.
This decision you may have at the AGM.
was not taken lightly by the Committee and freezes applied for the broader leadership involved very careful consideration and team, the Committee determined, and discussion.
It was agreed that maintaining Steve Rowe agreed, that it would not be appropriate to award any salary increase the 2017 grant value, despite a disappointing business performance in 2017 18, would to the CEO for July 2018.
Humphrey Singer represent a clear signal to the most senior will not be eligible for an annual salary VINDI BANGA management that whilst there is hard work review until July 2019.
CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE ahead as we move along the transformation The Annual Bonus Scheme remains journey to make M&S special again, truly unchanged from 2017 18 and will continue excellent performance will be rewarded.
to be based on corporate financial targets Given the continued challenges faced within currently 70% and individual objectives currently 30%.
The maximum opportunity the retail sector and the challenges faced by M&S during the 2017 18 financial year, will remain at 200% of salary.
The main the Committee believes that the targets set financial measure of bonus performance for the 2018 award represent stretching will continue to be PBT.
As we enter the first phase of our transformation plan to restore business performance.
Maximum vesting would be representative of outstanding the basics to deliver growth in the medium performance, both against the internal term, it is considered appropriate that PBT measures of EPS and ROCE but also against continues to represent the largest element of bonus potential.
Individual objectives, our peer group used for Relative TSR.
Maximum achievement of the 2018 PSP detailed on page 53, have been designed targets would represent significant to draw sharp focus to the activities that added value to both the business and are most critical to our future survival and success.
The PSP will be maintained in its shareholders.
Whilst the appropriateness of targets and measures have been carefully current form for 2018 19.
The continued considered, senior management should be inclusion of Relative TSR TSR as a measure under no illusion that the Committee, as within the PSP reinforces the alignment of executive interests with shareholders, demonstrated under 2017 18 Annual Bonus Scheme, would not hesitate to exercise its representing the shareholder experience discretion to ensure that the 2018 PSP only of M&Ss performance.
In addition, the INTERNATIONAL ROCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
