06 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC PERFORMANCE REVIEW FOOD Beginning the turnaround in Food REVENUE LIKE-FOR-LIKE SALES CONTRIBUTION TO UK REVENUE SIMPLY FOOD STORES 3.9% 5.9bn -0.3% 61% 696 FACING FACTS WHATS HAPPENING WHATS NEXT It has been a tough year in Food with We have already taken initial steps to arrest With the arrival of Stuart Machin as underperformance against the market.
the decline and restore like-for-like growth.
Managing Director and the reorganisation The origins of this poor performance The rapid roll out of new owned space has of brand marketing, we are establishing a however are not recent.
Our food remains now been substantially slowed.
We have stronger, faster moving management team unique and customers still rate us as their made selected investment in prices to committed to restoring the business to favourite supermarket.
But over some restore value for money.
For instance, we like-for-like sales growth.
This firstly means years, the range has gradually drifted reduced prices on eggs by 18% and saw re-establishing our value for money towards becoming more premium and we sales rise by 43%.
We have started to credentials.
M&S food should always be have lost some of our appeal to broader rationalise our promotions so as to avoid great value for quality, freshness, taste family-age shoppers.
This problem has been losing money and obliging customers to and ingredients.
Where it does cost a little compounded by the rising intensity spend more to obtain good value.
With the more, it still saves customers time and of competition from the discounters at one arrival of a new marketing team, we are money in the form of less waste or surplus end and supermarkets at the other, both starting to communicate better our unique ingredients.
Where we run promotions, seeking to emulate our success by copying product credentials in freshness and they should be with a reason, helpful to our fresh product ranges and innovation.
Our food innovation pipeline customers and profitable for our suppliers.
This problem is further compounded by has been re-orientated towards more Trust in product and value is central to high operating costs, high waste and mainstream, popular family products.
markdowns, and below industry average A project team, with outside help, has been M&S has always been famous for our availability.
This, together with rising rent set up to address the problems in our innovation, and our food sourcing and and wage costs, has eroded profit so that supply chain.
We believe that significant technical skills are industry leading.
urgent action is now needed.
improvement in availability and waste can Our intention is to accelerate the innovation be achieved without restructuring the pipeline but focus more strongly on high outdated network of distribution centres volume, popular family product.
Gourmet and initial results are encouraging.
and treats will always have a role in our range, but they should not be the range.
Even today, our food freshness and authenticity is under-communicated, and our marketing needs to express the extraordinary lengths to which we go to source the best product.
Finally, we are now embarking on a programme to look again at our formats.
Much of our profit is made in the larger stores which carry the full M&S range.
UK FOOD MARKETPLACE A SLICE OF DETROIT FOR BRITISH FAMILIES The UK food market is undergoing an extraordinary period of change.
Although there have been some signs of growth, INSIGHT Customers told us they want most of this has been driven by inflation.
The discount sector a deeper, more nourishing pizza without skimping on the fillings, in larger pack will inevitably continue to grow, probably to 15% or more sizes that can feed a family.
Home delivery and online, where we have little RESPONSE In September, we launched presence, are also growing at about 1% of the market a year six new Deep & Loaded Pizzas inspired by 2022.
And in an effort to support margin, the mainstream by the famous pizzas of Detroit.
From the players are seeking to match M&S in the quality end of the Whole Hog, with smoky sausage, spicy pulled pork and barbecued burnt ends, market.
Therefore, the competitive pressures on our business to the Meatball Marinara, topped with remain intense and we do not expect this to change in the mini meatballs and sauted onions, these year ahead.
Consumer budgets remain tight and the business, deep pizzas priced at 6 are perfect for families to share we sold 1.2m Detroit with our fresh emphasis, could also face complications from inspired pizzas in the year.
Brexit and any border friction for food products.
