07 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 PERFORMANCE REVIEW CLOTHING & HOME Restoring value and style in Clothing & Home REVENUE LIKE-FOR-LIKE SALES CONTRIBUTION TO UK REVENUE CLOTHING & HOME SPACE -1.4% -1.3% 3.7bn -1.9% 39% 11.1m sq ft FACING FACTS WHATS HAPPENING WHATS NEXT Clothing & Home revenues were down Jill McDonald joined as our new Managing At heart, our recovery in Clothing & Home although the business successfully recovered Director of Clothing & Home in October.
depends on the restoration of our style margin by improving the percentage of She has already announced a new leadership credentials and broadening our appeal to a full-price sales and continuing to drive its team including heads of Womenswear, younger family-age customer.
Of course, this successful direct sourcing programme.
Menswear and Home, alongside a new means creating a top buying and design team Supply Chain Director, Marketing Director, making great product decisions.
Doing so will Over many years, M&S has lost position in Online Director and other important changes.
require important changes to the buying the market, as, despite our strong, latent brand credentials, our reputation for fashion process and structure of the range.
Under this new team the business has and style has been eroded.
New global begun to face into the challenges.
Already, M&S retains market-leading positions in core competitors have grown market share and new range direction has been set to broaden categories such as lingerie, denim, business far outweigh M&S in sourcing scale.
Our our appeal to family-age customers.
Initial shirts, suits and Back to School.
These already online business is well behind market steps have been taken to sharpen our value appeal to a broader, often younger customer leaders accounting for only 18.5% share of credentials with further reduction in base.
Our intention is to build on these positions.
The growth of new pure play online promotions and investment in lower first The strength of our brand should be providing competitors such as Amazon and ASOS has price.
Marketing tone of voice has shifted great value choices for stylish wardrobe highlighted the marked weakness in our with the new Love it for Less campaign.
essentials, the simple wearable classics that online capability.
In platform technology we For instance, highlighting our pure cotton everyone needs to have.
Our strength is to are hampered by the lack of a mobile first tapered chinos priced at 19.50, available provide great value for people at a stage in format, a search experience thats average, in a choice of ten colours.
life where they are prepared to pay a bit more and slow download speeds.
The inadequacy for style and quality and move beyond the of our logistics means we are unable to fulfil Good progress is being made in the closure throwaway culture.
our delivery promises to customers at peak of ageing stores and a comprehensive times.
And, in our traditional store channel, programme has been put in hand to To do this, we will embark on a restructure M&S has not closed and upgraded store improve the basic performance of our of our ranges to buy deeper with fewer slowlocations in line with a changing high street.
online website, search and checkout moving lines, including a further reduction of As a result, although we retain a loyal customer capability.
On supply chain, an end to end over 10% in the year ahead.
We will use our base and very strong positions in some programme taskforce is now in step towards global sourcing strength to restore more markets, our customer base has narrowed.
a single-tier distribution network so that strongly our value credentials and we will we no longer carry warehouse space whose review the role of our sub-brands, such as Against this context, the infrastructure main role is just to store stock.
We are also per una, some of which have lost their identity supporting the Clothing & Home business closing centres at Hardwick and Neasden.
We operate At our Castle Donington online fulfilment an outdated factory to customer supply As our supply chain reforms start to impact, chain which means we are slow to market, carry centre we are investing to debottleneck our ambition is to substantially reduce working too much stock and cannot replenish fast the facility to increase peak capacity.
capital and stock levels, reducing store labour moving lines.
The very wide ranges result in costs and accelerating speed to market.
In slow moving stock that has to be transported time, we expect to be able to replenish in and filled as singles, creating extra handling season our fastest moving lines, improving costs.
The historic M&S bias towards high availability and reducing markdown.
volume popular lines and great value has diminished as successive generations of buyers We have set a target of achieving one-third of have bought flat instead of backing winners.
our sales online, which means growing double digits each year.
Once we have fixed the basic Nevertheless, the clothing business issues in fulfilment and website performance, retains great technical skills and customer there is enormous scope for developing the understanding: a strong modern global M&S brand and product experience online sourcing operation and affection for the in the UK and potentially abroad.
There is much on which to build.
UK CLOTHING & HOME MARKETPLACE MADE TO FIT AND FLATTER The clothing market declined by 1.5% KantarWorldpanel, 52 w e 9 April 2018, with a more challenging trend in the second half of the year.
The INSIGHT Customers told us they wanted a dedicated range Clothing & Home markets were impacted by three long-term trends which are to fit and flatter their curves.
likely to continue for at least the next two to three years.
Firstly, the migration to RESPONSE In January, we launched our new Curve collection, offering stylish clothing to our plus-size customers.
We consulted online: the UK clothing market is about 25% online today and we expect it to grow with more than 2,000 customers as well as leading fashion blogger to about 40% online.
Secondly, the development of price-led discounters with the Danielle Vanier on the range.
Curve is available in sizes 18-32 continued growth of Primark, but also the major grocers in clothing.
And thirdly, and all the clothes have been designed using a size 24 as the the strength of global scale competitors such as Inditex, H&M and Uniqlo.
base shape, rather than a size 12 which is used in other collections.
We sold 63,000 pieces from the range during the year.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
