19 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION Creating shared social and environmental SOCIAL MATTERS also a signatory to the principles of the value continues to be an important part United Nations Global Compact.
We strive Approach M&S has a long tradition of our of our transformation strategy and is to be a fair partner by paying a fair price to stores, offices and warehouses supporting underpinned by 100 non-financial suppliers, supporting local communities their local community.
We believe we can commitments contained in our Plan A and ensuring good working conditions achieve more together than we can on 2025 programme.
The social, ethical and for everyone working in our business and our own.
As part of Plan A 2025, we are environmental content contained in this supply chains.
We are committed to building committed to transforming 1,000 report complements more detailed our employee and supplier knowledge and communities that we serve.
We know information available in our 2018 Plan A awareness on human rights, encouraging supporting vibrant communities is essential Report which can be found online via them to speak up about any concerns to our own future success.
com plana without fear of retribution.
We are also committed to helping 10 million Human Rights Policy IMPACT people live happier and healthier lives.
Code of Ethics and Behaviours We have a particular focus on addressing Approach We employ 81,000 colleagues issues of mental wellbeing and will work M&S Global Sourcing Principles directly and are supported by hundreds of hard to ensure support for colleagues and thousands more in our franchised M&S People Principles customers with cancer, heart disease, operations and supply chain in the UK and dementia and mental health issues.
Responsible Marketing Principles across the globe.
And we sell over 3 billion Plan A Report 2018 food, clothing, home and beauty products Code of Practice on Ethical Trading to 32 million customers each year at our Plan A 2025 Commitments Child Labour Procedure 1,463 stores worldwide and online.
Many M&S grievance procedure for Food different social, environmental and ethical PEOPLE and Clothing & Home supply chains issues have an impact on our business, Approach We are committed to making either directly or through our global supply Modern Slavery Statement 2018 M&S a great place to work, with a safe chain.
Consequently, we have to manage a Plan A Report 2018 continually evolving set of issues and have a working environment and a culture which promotes diversity, inclusivity, number of commitments and policies in ANTI-CORRUPTION AND ANTI-BRIBERY personal development and respect.
place to address these challenges.
We know its our people who make M&S Approach M&S is committed to the To read any of the policies listed on this successful.
Their talent, commitment to highest standards of ethics, honesty page visit marksandspencer.
com our customers and pride in M&S are key and integrity.
Our Anti-Corruption and thecompany to our long-term growth.
Anti-Bribery Policy outlines the expected standards of conduct that employees, Gender Pay Gap Report 2018 ENVIRONMENT contractors, suppliers, business partners, People Principles Approach We aim to offer our customers and any other third parties who act for and great value, quality products while also on behalf of M&S, are obliged to follow.
Equal Opportunities Policy caring for the environment on which we all The policy also includes detailed Read more on Our People on p9 depend.
As part of Plan A 2025, we aim to procedures around giving and receiving ensure 100% of the M&S products we sell Read more on Board Diversity Policy gifts, hospitality and entertainment: on p35 each year address 100% of their material procedures for engaging new suppliers social and environmental impacts.
and partners, specifically those who are HUMAN RIGHTS based in higher risk jurisdictions and We will further improve the efficiency of our standard contract clauses: and clear Approach M&S has a long history of own operations as well as cut 13.3m tonnes reporting channels, including confidential respecting human rights in the UK and of CO e from our wider value chain.
For colleagues who work in continue to invest in carbon offsets for our standing up for those values internationally.
areas which may pose a higher risk we own operations in order to remain carbon Our commitment to human rights is provide mandatory Anti-Bribery and reinforced in our Human Rights Policy neutral.
And we aim to be zero waste across Anti-Corruption e-learning.
and Code of Ethics and Behaviours and, all that we do our operations, our supply chains and when our customers come to for all suppliers and business partners, Anti-Bribery Policy remove packaging and use our products.
in our Global Sourcing Principles.
We are Code of Ethics and Behaviours Plan A Report 2018 Plan A 2025 Commitments FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
