63 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 OTHER DISCLOSURES DIRECTORS REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS amount recommended by the Board.
Subject to the Companies Act 2006, the Marks and Spencer Group plc the The membership of the Board and Board may pay interim dividends and Company is the holding company of biographical details of the directors are also any fixed rate dividend, whenever the the Marks & Spencer Group of companies provided on pages 26 and 27.
Changes to financial position of the Company, in the the Group.
the directors during the year and up to the opinion of the Board justifies its payment.
date of this report are set out below.
Details The Directors Report which is also the of directors beneficial and non-beneficial The directors may from time to time Management Report for the purpose of appoint one or more directors.
The Board interests in the shares of the Company are Disclosure and Transparency Rule DTR may appoint any person to be a director shown on pages 57 and 60.
8R for the year ended 31 March 2018, so long as the total number of directors to directors under the Save As You Earn comprises pages 25-67 and pages 130-131 SAYE and Executive Share Option does not exceed the limit prescribed in of this report, together with the sections of the Articles.
Under the Articles, any such Schemes are shown on page 57.
Further the Annual Report incorporated by director shall hold office only until the information regarding employee share reference.
As permitted by legislation, next AGM where they will stand for option schemes is provided in note 13 to some of the matters required to be included the financial statements.
in the Directors Report have instead been Effective date of included in the Strategic Report on pages DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST appointment 1-24, as the Board considers them to be of Name Role departure strategic importance.
Specifically, these are: The Company has procedures in place for Departures managing conflicts of interest.
Should a Future business developments Patrick Executive 18 April 2018 director become aware that they, or any throughout the Strategic Report.
BousquetDirector of their connected parties, have an interest Chavanne Risk management on pages 20-21. in an existing or proposed transaction Helen Weir Executive 31 March 2018 with Marks & Spencer, they should notify Details of branches operated by Director the Board in writing or at the next Board the Company on pages 6-9.
Internal controls are in place to Curtis Director Information relating to financial instruments 2018 ensure that any related party transactions can be found on pages 105-111. involving directors, or their connected Robert Chairman 1 September parties, are conducted on an arms length Swannell 2017 For information on our approach to social, basis.
Directors have a continuing duty to environmental and ethical matters, please Appointments update any changes to these conflicts.
refer to our Plan A Report, available online Archie Chairman 1 September at marksandspencer.
Norman 2017 DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES Other information to be disclosed in the Proposed Appointments The Company maintains directors and Directors Report is given in this section.
Humphrey Executive Effective officers liability insurance which provides Singer Director 10 July 2018 Both the Strategic Report and the Directors appropriate cover for legal action brought Report have been drawn up and presented Katie Non-Executive Effective against its directors.
The Company has also in accordance with and in reliance upon Bickerstaffe Director 10 July 2018 granted indemnities to each of its directors applicable English company law, and the and the Group Secretary to the extent Pip Non-Executive Effective liabilities of the directors in connection permitted by law.
Qualifying third party McCrostie Director 10 July 2018 with those reports shall be subject to the indemnity provisions as defined by Section limitations and restrictions provided by 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were in The appointment and replacement of such law.
force during the year ended 31 March 2018 directors is governed by the Companys and remain in force in relation to certain Articles of Association the Articles, the UK losses and liabilities which the directors Corporate Governance Code the Code, or Group Secretary may incur to third the Companies Act 2006 and related parties in the course of acting as directors legislation.
The Articles may be amended or Group Secretary or employees of the by a special resolution of the shareholders.
Company or of any associated company.
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act Qualifying pension scheme indemnity 2006 and any directions given by special provisions as defined by Section 235 of the resolution, the business of the Company Companies Act 2006 were in force during will be managed by the Board who may the course of the financial year ended exercise all the powers of the Company.
31March 2018 for the benefit of the Trustees The Company may, by ordinary resolution, of the Marks & Spencer Pension Scheme, declare dividends not exceeding the both in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 64 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE OTHER DISCLOSURES CONTINUED CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT PROFIT AND DIVIDENDS SHARE CAPITAL Our compliance with key areas of the Code The profit for the financial year, after The Companys issued ordinary share is summarised as follows: taxation, amounts to 29.1m last year capital as at 31 March 2018 comprised a 115.7m.
The directors have declared single class of ordinary share.
Each share Independence Over half of our Board dividends as follows: carries the right to one vote at general comprises independent non-executive meetings of the Company.
Ordinary shares m directors and the composition of all Board Committees complies with During the period, 29,500 ordinary shares in Paid interim dividend the Code.
the Company were issued under the terms of 6.8p per share last year 6.8p per share 110.3m of the United Kingdom Employees Save As Senior Independent Director Our Senior You Earn Share Option Scheme at prices Proposed final dividend Independent Director is Vindi Banga.
of 11.9p per share Accountability and election Clear last year 11.9p per share 193.1m Details of movements in the Companys separation of duties between Chairman issued share capital can be found on page Total dividend of and CEO roles, all the directors are to 112 in note 24 to the financial statements.
18.7p per share for 2017 18 stand for annual re-election.
last year 18.7p per share 303.4m Evaluation An internally facilitated RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER Subject to shareholder approval at this performance evaluation of the Board OF SECURITIES and its Committees was undertaken year's AGM, the final ordinary dividend There are no specific restrictions on the during the year in accordance with will be paid on 13 July 2018 to shareholders transfer of securities in the Company, whose names were on the Register of the requirements of the Corporate which is governed by its Articles of Members at the close of business on Governance Code, following an external Association and prevailing legislation.
evaluation undertaken the previous year.
The Company is not aware of any Attendance The directors have all agreements between holders of securities attended an acceptable level of Board that may result in restrictions on the transfer and Committee meetings.
of securities or that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Experience The Audit Committee chairman met the specific requirements with regard to recent and relevant financial experience throughout 2017 18.
Auditor tenure We changed our auditor in 2014 15, following a thorough tender process.
Non-audit policy This is disclosed on our website, along with the limited non-audit work undertaken during 2017 18.
INTERESTS IN VOTING RIGHTS Auditor appointment We disclose our external auditor appointment policy Information provided to the Company The information provided below was on our website.
pursuant to the Financial Conduct correct at the date of notification: however, Internal Audit Details on the Internal Authoritys FCA Disclosure and the date received may not have been Audit function are provided within Transparency Rules DTRs is published within the current financial year.
on a Regulatory Information Service be noted that these holdings are likely and on the Companys website.
As at to have changed since the Company was Performance-related pay A significant 31 March 2018, the following information notified.
However, notification of any part of performance-related pay is has been received, in accordance with change is not required until the next delivered through shares.
Our reward DTR 5, from holders of notifiable interests notifiable threshold is crossed.
framework is simple, transparent and in the Companys issued share capital.
designed to support and drive our % of capital business strategy.
Notifiable interests Ordinary shares disclosed Nature of holding as per disclosure Schroders plc 1,624,741,572 5.549 Indirect Interest 5.547%, CFD 0.001% Majedie Asset 81,070,667 4.99 Direct Interest Management Limited Blackrock, Inc. 90,664,081 5.58 Indirect Interest 4.85%, Securities lending 0.65% & CFD 0.06% Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 82,524,463 5.079 Indirect Interest 5.054%, and its group Direct 0.025% The Wellcome Trust 47,464,282 3.01 Direct Interest 65 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 VARIATION OF RIGHTS A special resolution will also be proposed The amended and restated 1.1bn to renew the directors powers to make Credit Agreement dated 16 March 2016 Subject to applicable statutes, rights non pre-emptive issues for cash in originally dated 29 September 2011 attached to any class of share may be varied connection with rights issues and otherwise between the Company and various with the written consent of the holders of at up to a nominal amount of 20,309,599. banks contains a provision such that, least three-quarters in nominal value of the A special resolution will also be proposed upon a change of control event, unless issued shares of that class, or by a special to renew the directors authority to new terms are agreed within 60 days, resolution passed at a separate general repurchase the Companys ordinary shares the facility under this agreement will meeting of the shareholders.
The authority will be limited be cancelled with all outstanding to a maximum of 162 million ordinary shares amounts becoming immediately RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS ATTACHING and sets the minimum and maximum prices payable with interest.
TO SHARES which will be paid.
The amended and restated Relationship Subject to the provisions of the Companies Agreement dated 6 October 2014 DEADLINES FOR EXERCISING Act 2006, any resolution passed by the originally dated 9 November 2004 as VOTING RIGHTS Company under the Companies Act 2006 amended on 1 March 2005, between and other shareholders rights, shares may HSBC and the Company and relating to Votes are exercisable at a general meeting be issued with such rights and restrictions M&S Bank, contains certain provisions of the Company in respect of which the as the Company may by ordinary resolution which address a change of control of the business being voted upon is being heard.
decide, or if there is no such resolution Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, Company.
Upon a change of control the or so far as it does not make specific existing rights and obligations of the or, in relation to corporate members, by provision as the Board as defined in parties in respect of M&S Bank continue corporate representatives.
The Articles the Articles may decide.
Subject to the and HSBC gains certain limited additional provide a deadline for submission of proxy Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and forms of not less than 48 hours before the rights in respect of existing customers other shareholders rights, unissued of the new controller of the Company.
time appointed for the holding of the shares are at the disposal of the Board.
Where a third party arrangement is in meeting or adjourned meeting.
However, place for the supply of financial services when calculating the 48-hour period, POWERS FOR THE COMPANY ISSUING the directors can, and have, decided not products to existing customers of the OR BUYING BACK ITS OWN SHARES new controller, the Company is required to take account of any part of a day that is to procure the termination of such not a working day.
The Company was authorised by arrangement as soon as practicable shareholders at the 2017 AGM to purchase SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS while not being required to do in the market up to 10% of the Companys anything that would breach such CHANGE OF CONTROL issued share capital, as permitted under a third party arrangement.
No shares were There are a number of agreements to which bought back under this authority during Where a third-party arrangement is so the Company is party that take effect, alter the year ended 31 March 2018. terminated, or does not exist, HSBC has or terminate upon a change of control of the the exclusive right to negotiate proposed Company following a takeover bid.
Details This standard authority is renewable terms for the offer and sale, of financial annually: the directors will seek to renew of the significant agreements of this kind services products to the existing are as follows: this authority at the 2018 AGM.
It is the customers of the new controller by Companys present intention to cancel The 400m Medium Term Notes issued HSBC on an exclusive basis.
any shares it buys back, rather than hold by the Company on 30 November 2009, them in treasury.
Where the Company undertakes a the 300m Medium Term Notes issued re-branding exercise with the new by the Company on 6 December 2011, The directors were granted authority at controller following a change of control the 400m Medium Term Notes issued the 2017 AGM to allot relevant securities which includes using any M&S brand in up to a nominal amount of 135,394,136. by the Company on 12 December 2012 respect of the new controllers business and the 300m Medium Term Notes This authority will apply until the conclusion or vice versa, HSBC may, depending issued by the Company on 8 December of the 2018 AGM.
At this years AGM, on the nature of the re-branding 2016 to various institutions MTN and shareholders will be asked to grant an exercise, have the right exercisable at authority to allot relevant securities under the Groups 3bn euro Medium HSBCs election to terminate the Term Note EMTN programme contain i up to a nominal amount of 135,397,323 Relationship Agreement.
an option such that, upon a change and ii comprising equity securities up to of control event, combined with a a nominal amount of 270,794,647 after The Company does not have agreements deducting from such limit any relevant credit ratings downgrade to below with any director or employee that would sub-investment level, any holder of securities allotted under i, in connection provide compensation for loss of office an MTN may require the Company to with an offer of a rights issue the Section or employment resulting from a takeover prepay the principal amount of that MTN.
551 amount, such Section 551 amount to except that provisions of the Companys apply until the conclusion of the AGM to be share schemes and plans may cause The $300m US Notes issued by the held in 2019 or, if earlier, on 1 October 2019. options and awards granted to employees Company to various institutions on under such schemes and plans to vest 6 December 2007 under Section 144a on a takeover.
of the US Securities Act contain an option such that, upon a change of control event, combined with a credit ratings downgrade to below sub-investment level, any holder of such a US Note may require the Company to prepay the principal amount of that US Note.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 66 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE OTHER DISCLOSURES CONTINUED COLLEAGUE INVOLVEMENT The Company is responsive to the needs GROCERIES SUPPLY CODE of its employees, customers and the OF PRACTICE We remain committed to colleague community at large.
M&S is an organisation involvement throughout the business.
The Groceries Supply Chain Practices which uses everyones talents and abilities Colleagues are kept well informed of Market Investigation Order 2009 the and where diversity is valued.
the performance and strategy of the Order and The Groceries Supply Code of M&S was one of the first major companies Group.
Examples of colleague involvement Practice the Code impose obligations on and engagement are highlighted to remove the default retirement age in M&S relating to relationships with its 2001 and has continued to see an increase throughout this Annual Report and suppliers of groceries.
Under the Order and in employees wanting to work past the specifically on page 9.
Code, M&S is required to submit an annual state retirement age.
compliance report to the Audit Committee Share schemes are a long-established and for approval and then to the Competition successful part of colleagues total reward EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES and Markets Authority and Groceries packages, encouraging and supporting Code Adjudicator GCA.
The Company The Company is clear in its policy that operates both an all employee Save As people with health conditions should have M&S submitted its report, covering the You Earn Scheme and Share Incentive Plan.
full and fair consideration for all vacancies.
period from 2 April 2017 to 31 March 2018 Approximately 23,000 colleagues currently to the Audit Committee on 17 May 2018.
M&S has continued to demonstrate its participate in ShareSave, the Companys commitment to interviewing those people M&S believes that it has complied in full with Save As You Earn Scheme.
Full details of all with disabilities who fulfil the minimum GSCOP and the Order during the relevant schemes are given on pages 99 and 100. criteria, and endeavouring to retain period.
No formal disputes have arisen There are websites for both pension employees in the workforce if they become during the reporting period.
There have schemes the defined contribution disabled during employment.
M&S will been eight instances in which suppliers have Scheme Your M&S Pension Saving Plan actively retrain and adjust employees either alleged a breach of the Code or made and the defined benefit scheme the M&S environments where possible to allow an express or implicit reference to potential Pension Scheme which are fully accessible them to maximise their potential and will non-compliance with the Code.
M&S does to employees and former employees continue to work with external organisations not believe that any breaches took place who have retained benefits in either to provide workplace opportunities through and has worked with suppliers to address scheme.
Employees are updated as our innovative Marks & Start scheme and the issues raised.
needed with any pertinent information by working closely with Jobcentre Plus.
A detailed summary of that compliance on their pension savings.
The Marks & Start scheme was introduced report is available on our website.
into the distribution centre at Castle EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Donington in 2012 13, working with Remploy POLITICAL DONATIONS to support people with disabilities and The Group is committed to an active equal health conditions into work.
The Company did not make any political opportunities policy from recruitment donations or incur any political expenditure and selection, through training and RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT during the year ended 31 March 2018. development, performance reviews and M&S has a policy of not making donations promotion to retirement.
The Companys Research and innovation remain key to political organisations or independent policy is to promote an environment free to our Food offer and the development election candidates or incurring political from discrimination, harassment and of improved product and fabric in expenditure anywhere in the world as victimisation, where everyone will receive Clothing & Home.
Further information is defined in the Political Parties, Elections equal treatment regardless of gender, provided in the Plan A report, available online.
and Referendums Act 2000. colour, ethnic or national origin, health condition, age, marital or civil partner status, sexual orientation or religion.
All decisions relating to employment practices will be objective, free from bias and based solely upon work criteria and individual merit.
TOTAL GLOBAL M&S GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 2017 18 The disclosures required by law and additional information relating to the Groups greenhouse gas emissions are included in the table below.
For full details of calculations and performance, see the 2018 Plan A Report.
2017 18 2016 17 % 000 tonnes 000 tonnes change Direct emissions scope 1 182 246 -26 Indirect emissions from energy scope 2 248 394 -37 Total gross location-based emissions scope 1 and 2 430 640 -33 Carbon intensity measure per 1,000 sq ft of salesfloor 23 40 -42 Green tariffs and bio-methane procured 273 0 Remaining market-based emissions 157 640 -75 Carbon offsets 157 0 Total net operational emissions 0 640 Emissions are from operationally controlled activities in accordance WRI WBCSD GHG Reporting Protocols Revised edition and 2015 Scope 2 Guidance using 2017 BEIS conversion factors.
As these emissions account for less than 10% of M&Ss total carbon footprint we also engage with suppliers to address the most significant sources.
M&S has an approved Science Based Target for reducing emissions.
67 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 GOING CONCERN The directors are also responsible for Each of the current directors, whose preparing the Annual Report, the names and functions are listed on pages 26 In adopting the going concern basis for Remuneration Report and Policy and the and 27, confirms that, to the best of their preparing the financial statements, the financial statements in accordance with knowledge: directors have considered the business applicable law and regulations.
Company The Group financial statements, prepared activities as set out on pages 2 - 14 as law requires the directors to prepare in accordance with the applicable set well as the Groups principal risks and financial statements for each financial uncertainties as set out on pages 22 - 24. of accounting standards, give a true and year.
Under that law, the directors have fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial prepared the Group and Company financial Based on the Groups cash flow forecasts position and profit or loss of the statements in accordance with International and projections, the Board is satisfied that Company and the undertakings included the Group will be able to operate within Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as in the consolidation taken as a whole.
Under company law, the level of its facilities for the foreseeable the directors must not approve the financial The Management Report includes future.
For this reason the Board considers statements unless they are satisfied that a fair review of the development it appropriate for the Group to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its they give a true and fair view of the state of and performance of the business affairs of the Group and the Company and and the position of the Company and financial statements.
of the profit or loss of the Group and the the undertakings included in the See note 20 to the Financial Statements for Company for that period.
In preparing these consolidation taken as a whole, together more information on our Facilities financial statements, the directors are with a description of the principal risks required to: and uncertainties that they face.
LONG-TERM VIABILITY STATEMENT Select suitable accounting policies The Annual Report, taken as a whole, and then apply them consistently.
is fair, balanced and understandable, The directors have assessed the prospects and provides the necessary information of the Company over a three-year period to Make judgements and accounting for shareholders to assess the Groups March 2021.
This has taken into account the estimates that are reasonable position, performance, business model business model, strategic aims, risk appetite, and prudent.
and principal risks and uncertainties, along State whether applicable IFRS with the Companys current financial as adopted by the EU have been DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION position.
Based on this assessment, the followed, subject to any material TO AUDITOR directors have a reasonable expectation departures disclosed and explained that the Company will be able to continue in Each of the persons who are directors at the in the financial statements.
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall time when this Directors' Report is approved due over the three-year period under review.
Prepare the financial statements on confirms that, so far as he she is aware, there a going concern basis unless it is is no relevant audit information of which the See our appr oach to assessing long-term inappropriate to presume that the Companys auditor is unaware and that he viability on p21 Company will continue in business.
she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make The directors are responsible for keeping AUDITOR himself herself aware of any relevant adequate accounting records that are audit information and to establish that Resolutions to reappoint Deloitte LLP as sufficient to show and explain the the Companys auditor is aware of Companys transactions and disclose, auditor of the Company and to authorise that information.
the Audit Committee to determine its at any time and with reasonable accuracy, remuneration will be proposed at the the financial position of the Company and The Directors Report was approved by a 2018 AGM.
the Group and to enable them to ensure duly authorised committee of the Board that the financial statements and the of Directors on 22 May 2018 and signed ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Remuneration Report comply with the on its behalf by Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the The AGM of Marks and Spencer Group plc Group financial statements, Article 4 of the will be held at Wembley Stadium, Wembley, IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible London on 10 July 2018 at 11am.
The for safeguarding the assets of the Group Notice of Meeting is given, together with and the Company and hence for taking explanatory notes, on pages 122 - 131. reasonable steps for the prevention and AMANDA MELLOR GROUP SECRETARY detection of fraud and other irregularities.
London, 22 May 2018 DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The directors are responsible for the The Board is of the view that the Annual maintenance and integrity of the Report should be truly representative of Companys website.
Legislation in the the year and provide shareholders with UK governing the preparation and the information necessary to assess the dissemination of financial statements may Groups position, performance, business differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Board requested that the Audit Committee review the Annual Report and provide its opinion on whether the report is fair, balanced and understandable.
The Audit Committees opinion is on page 39.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
