46 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS' REPORT: GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION SUMMARY REMUNERATION POLICY This report sets out a summary of M&Ss policy on remuneration for executive and non-executive directors.
The full policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 11 July 2017 and can be found on our website at marksandspencer.
The policy took effect from this date and may operate for up to three years.
The policy is designed to attract, retain and motivate our leaders and ensure they are focused on delivering business priorities within a framework designed to promote the long-term success of M&S, aligned with our shareholders interests.
SUMMARY EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY AS APPROVED ON 11 JULY 2017 FIGURE 1: SUMMARY EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE ELEMENT OPERATION OPPORTUNITY Salaries are reviewed annually by the Committee, considering a number of factors, including: Annual increases are normally in line BASE SALARY with those in the wider workforce, Salary increases in the wider M&S workforce.
although no maximum is set.
The experience, responsibility and contribution of the individual.
Individual adjustments may be made Salaries for comparable roles in appropriate comparator groups such as major retailers and in appropriate circumstances e. g. similarly-sized listed companies.
where the role scope has changed or as part of salary progression for newly-appointed directors.
In line with our policies, executive directors are eligible to receive benefits which may include: There is no set maximum, BENEFITS however any provision will be A car or cash allowance and a driver.
commensurate with local markets Life assurance.
and for all-employee shares schemes, the local statutory limits.
Relocation and tax equalisation allowances in line with our mobility policies.
As with all employees, directors are also offered other benefits including: Employee discount.
Participation in our all-employee share schemes.
M&S may choose to offer: Cash payments are capped at PENSION 25% of salary for executive directors Participation in our defined contribution pension scheme: or BENEFITS appointed prior to 11 July 2017.
Cash payments in lieu of pension contributions.
For directors appointed to the Board after 11 July 2017, the cash The defined benefit pension scheme is closed to new members.
Directors who are members of this alternative will be capped at a scheme will continue to accrue benefits as a deferred member.
All directors are eligible to participate in the Annual Bonus Scheme, which is a discretionary, nonTotal maximum annual bonus ANNUAL contractual scheme.
Performance is measured against quantifiable one-year financial and individual opportunity is capped at 200% of BONUS performance targets linked with the sustainable delivery of our business plan.
Targets are set at the salary for each executive director.
SCHEME start of the year and approved by the Remuneration Committee.
At least half of awards are measured INCLUDING against financial measures which typically includes Group PBT before adjusting items PBT.
DEFERRED Corporate and individual elements may be earned independently, but no part of the individual objectives SHARE BONUS may be earned unless a threshold level of PBT has been achieved.
For threshold performance, up to PLAN DSBP 40% of maximum may be payable for the achievement of individual objectives currently 30%.
Not less than 50% of any bonus earned is paid in shares which are deferred for three years.
The value of any dividends during the deferral period will be payable to the extent that the award vests.
The Committee retains the right to exercise discretion, both upwards and downwards, to ensure that the level of award payable is appropriate and fair in the context of the directors individual performance, the Companys overall performance and relative bonus payments across the organisation.
Where exercised, the rationale for this discretion will be fully disclosed to shareholders in the subsequent Annual Report.
The Committee can, in circumstances it believes appropriate, reduce to zero unvested deferred share awards.
In certain circumstances, the Committee can also reclaim all or part of the cash bonus for up to three years after the payment date.
To encourage long-term shareholding, to retain directors and to provide greater alignment with shareholders The maximum annual value of PERFORMANCE interests, all directors are eligible to participate in the Performance Share Plan.
This is a non-contractual, shares at grant is capped at 300% SHARE PLAN discretionary scheme and is M&Ss main long-term incentive scheme.
Performance may be measured of salary for each executive director.
PSP against appropriate financial, non-financial and or strategic measures.
Financial measures must comprise at least 50% of awards.
Measures currently include Adjusted Earnings Per Share EPS, Return on Capital Employed ROCE and Relative Total Shareholder Return TSR.
The value of any dividends during the vesting period will be payable subject to the award vesting.
The Committee can, in circumstances it believes appropriate, reduce to zero unvested PSP awards.
In addition, the Committee can reclaim all or part of vested awards for up to two years after the vesting date in certain specified circumstances.
Awards granted after 11 July 2017 will be subject to a further two-year holding period after the vesting date.
Directors may sell sufficient shares to satisfy the tax liability on exercise but must retain the net number of shares until the end of this two-year period.
47 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 SUMMARY EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED FIGURE 2: RECRUITMENT POLICY & SERVICE CONTRACTS The table below summarises the Companys policy on the recruitment of new executive directors.
Similar considerations may also apply where a director is promoted within the Board.
ELEMENT APPROACH All executive directors have rolling contracts for service which may be terminated by M&S giving 12 months notice SERVICE and the individual giving six months notice.
CONTRACT Salaries are set by the Committee, taking into consideration a number of factors including the current pay for other BASE SALARY executive directors, the experience, skill and current pay level of the individual and external market forces.
The Committee may choose to set the salary below that of the market or the other directors with the intention of applying staged increases.
The Committee will offer a benefits package in line with our benefits policy for executive directors.
The benefits provided BENEFITS will appropriately reflect the individuals circumstances.
Maximum contribution in line with our policy.
PENSION BENEFITS Maximum bonus potential will be capped at 200% of salary in line with our policy.
ANNUAL BONUS SCHEME Maximum award of up to 300% of salary in line with our policy.
PSP The Committee may offer compensatory payments or buy-out awards where an individual forfeits outstanding variable BUY-OUT pay opportunities or contractual rights as a result of their appointment with M&S.
AWARDS The specifics of any buy-out awards would be dependent on the individual circumstances of recruitment and would be determined on a case-by-case basis.
On assessing such awards, the Committee will seek to make awards on a like-for-like basis to ensure that the value awarded would be no greater than the value forfeited by the individual.
The Committee may choose to apply performance conditions to these awards.
In addition, the Committee in exceptional circumstances has discretion to include any other remuneration component or award which it feels is appropriate, taking into account the specific circumstances of the individual, subject to the limit on variable remuneration set out above.
The rationale for any such component would be appropriately disclosed.
For example, for internal promotional appointments to the Board, the Committee would honour any pre-existing contractual remuneration arrangements which may be outside of the standard policy summarised within this report.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 48 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS' REPORT: GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED SUMMARY EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED FIGURE 3: TERMINATION POLICY The Company may choose to terminate the The Companys policy toward exit payments The table below summarises our contract of any executive director in line allows for a variety of circumstances termination policy for executive directors with the terms of their service agreement where a director may leave the business.
under their service agreement and the either by means of a payment in lieu of In all circumstances, the Committee does incentive plan rules.
notice or through a series of phased not intend to reward failure and will payments subject to mitigation.
Service make decisions based on the individual agreements may be terminated without circumstances ensuring they are in the best notice and, in certain circumstances, such interests of the Company and shareholders as gross misconduct, without payments.
at that time, and reflect the directors contractual and other legal rights.
ELEMENT APPROACH Payment made up to the termination date.
BASE SALARY, BENEFITS AND PENSION BENEFITS There is no contractual entitlement to a bonus payment.
If the director is under notice or not in active service at either the end of the bonus ANNUAL year or on the payment date, awards and any unvested deferred bonus shares may lapse.
The Committee may, however, use its discretion BONUS to make a bonus award, typically pro-rated for time and based on the performance assessed at the end of the bonus year.
SCHEME The treatment of outstanding share awards is determined in accordance with the respective plan rules.
LONG-TERM For performance share awards held for at least 12 months, awards typically vest at the end of the relevant performance period to the extent INCENTIVE to which any performance conditions are met and are pro-rated for time.
The plan rules allow for the Committee to permit these awards to vest AWARDS at the time the director leaves and to not apply time pro-rating.
Awards which have not been held for 12 months upon leaving will lapse in full.
M&S may pay for repatriation where a director has been recruited from overseas.
REPATRIATION Where a director leaves by mutual consent, M&S may reimburse for reasonable legal fees and pay for professional outplacement services.
LEGAL EXPENSES & OUTPLACEMENT The full policy sets out further detail on the treatment of the executive directors pay arrangements, including the treatment of share schemes in the event of a change of control or winding-up of the Company and some legacy long-term incentive plans which the Company operates.
No current executive director holds unexercised awards under these legacy plans.
CONSIDERATION OF WIDER WORKFORCE PAY & SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Committee monitors and reviews the including our annual Your Say employee shareholders.
Where appropriate, effectiveness of the senior remuneration survey which asks employees about the the Committee will actively engage policy and has regard to its impact and relevance and recognition of excellence with shareholders and shareholder compatibility with remuneration policies in within employee pay and benefits.
representative bodies, seeking views the wider workforce.
During the year the Employee representatives in our Business which may be taken into account when Committee is provided with information Involvement Groups are annually provided making any decisions about changes and context on pay in the wider workforce with an explanation of the executive to the directors remuneration policy.
This includes directors pay arrangements during the The Committee Chairman is available to the approach for UK pay review, the total year, and are able to ask questions on the answer questions at the Annual General annual bonus cost budget and PSP awards arrangements and their fit with the other Meeting AGM and the answers to specific to be made to directors below the Board.
reward polices at this time.
questions are posted on our website.
The Committee receives updates on a The Committee is committed to an variety of employee engagement initiatives open and transparent dialogue with its 49 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 SUMMARY EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY AS APPROVED ON 11 JULY 2017 FIGURE 4: SUMMARY OF REMUNERATION POLICY The diagram below illustrates the balance of pay and time period of each element of the remuneration policy for executive directors, approved in July 2017.
The Committee believes this mixture of shortand long-term incentives and fixed to performance-related pay is appropriate for M&S's strategy and risk profile.
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Base salary FIXED PAY Benefits Pension benefits Up to 100% salary Up to 100% salary ANNUAL BONUS One-year performance Three-year deferral period SCHEME Clawback provisions No further performance conditions apply Malus provisions apply Maximum 300% of salary Two-year holding period post vesting PSP Three-year performance No further performance conditions Malus provisions apply Clawback provisions apply FIGURE 5: SUMMARY NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY AS APPROVED ON 11 JULY 2017 The table below summarises our policy for the operation of non-executive director fees and benefits at the Company.
ELEMENT OPERATION AND OPPORTUNITY All non-executive directors have an agreement for an initial three-year term.
The Chairmans agreement requires six months notice by SERVICE either party.
The non-executive directors agreements may be terminated by either party giving three months notice.
AGREEMENTS Fees are reviewed annually by the Committee taking into consideration: CHAIRMAN'S Time commitment, demands and responsibility of the role.
The maximum aggregate fees for the Chairman and non-executive directors fees is 750,000 p. a. as set out in our Articles of Association.
Fees are reviewed annually by the executive directors taking into consideration: NONTime commitment, scope and responsibility of the role.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR'S External market practice.
BASIC FEE The maximum aggregate fees for the non-executive directors fees, including the Chairmans fee, is 750,000 p. a. as set out in our Articles of Association.
Additional fees are paid for undertaking the extra responsibilities of: ADDITIONAL Board Chairman.
In line with our other employees, the Chairman and non-executive directors are entitled to receive employee discount.
BENEFITS The Chairman may also be entitled to the use of a car and driver.
No further benefits are provided to the Chairman or non-executive directors.
The Committee takes into account a number of factors when determining an appropriate fee level for the Chairman.
The CEO and RECRUITMENT executive directors determine appropriate fee levels for the non-executive directors and take into account the time commitment, role responsibility and market practice in our comparator groups when doing so.
M&S may offer benefits to the Chairman in line with our policy.
TOTAL PAY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
