Strategic report Business Model How we do business Marshalls is the UKs leading hard landscaping manufacturer supplying superior natural stone and innovative concrete products to the construction, home improvement and landscape markets since the 1890s.
Our capital Our business Financial We have a strong balance sheet and a conservative capital structure.
An efficient portfolio of bank facilities, with extended maturities, provides prudent headroom.
We target a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 0 1 times over the business cycle.
Business We have national coverage and sustainable Sourcing Manufacturing operations across a national network of The Groups main raw materials are The Group manufactures and supplies manufacturing sites.
We have long-standing cement, sand, aggregates, pigments, landscape, driveway and garden relationships with customers and suppliers and fuel oil and utilities.
We use the best products from a range of materials, a diverse product range covering a number materials we can source.
principally concrete and natural of end markets.
Marshalls has a world-class Related risks Manufacturing, Innovation and Intellectual Macro-economic and political Development team.
We have a reputation built on transparency Security of raw material supply and long-standing core values.
Marshalls Related risks is a Superbrand underpinned by efficient, Cyber security risks Competitive activity well-invested plants with high skills and Environmental Threat from new technologies and expertise.
We focus on innovation and Ethical business models strong R&D and NPD.
IT infrastructure Natural resources Legal and regulatory Marshalls has extensive reserves of UK natural stone.
Strong supply chain relationships ensure the ethical sourcing of natural stone from India, China and Vietnam.
Human The Group has an experienced workforce Sustainability Customer service of 2,790 employees with specialist skills and Commitment to producing new World-class Manufacturing, a high level of engagement.
quality products that are better Innovation and Development team than any existing market offering Technology Skilled engineers and technicians We are accelerating the development of our Development of a digital strategy Broad range of products digital strategy to enhance service and the overall customer experience, and to improve Innovation Quality operational efficiency and communication.
Benchmark for excellence, widely New and innovative products regarded as a leader in its field Social and relationships Patent protection We have strong stakeholder relationships through Marshalls is one of Britains strongest constructive dialogue with local authorities, Superbrands Machinery design and installation industry bodies and regulators.
Our stakeholder relationships are underpinned by a focus on Sustainability credentials responsible business which is a key part of the Marshalls culture.
Leadership Our core values: Excellence Looking ahead and setting the Being ambitious and challenging direction for others to follow complacency Taking responsibility for our actions Making good on our commitments Taking collective responsibility for Being experts in what we do making things happen Seeking continual improvement Being role models and acting with and demanding high performance integrity at all times Marshalls plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Strategic objectives: Shareholder value Sustainable profitability Relationship building Organic expansion Brand development Effective capital structure and control framework Outcomes Dividend per share Shareholders Progressive dividend policy, targeting 2 times dividend cover supported by 16.00p non-recurring and discretionary supplementary dividends Distribution Customers Customer Customers Due to the scale of our operations, Our customers range from service index Industry leading customer service and our national network of Domestic homeowners to Public innovative new products, quality, regional centres, 97 per cent of Sector and Commercial.
We seek availability and on-time delivery 98% our customers are less than 2 to exceed the expectations of hours away.
This continues to be customers in all our end markets.
Employees Apprenticeships Related risks Promotion of professional in 2018 Related risks Macro-economic and political development, career opportunities Macro-economic and political Weather and competitive benefit packages 70 Road infrastructure Cyber security risks Cost inflation Competitor activity Environmental Legal and regulatory Suppliers trained Suppliers Global supply chain, long-term and on anti-bribery and mutually beneficial partnerships and modern slavery ethical trading 70% Charitable and Communities and environment Dynamic business model Capital structure community donations Our business model is Strong and flexible Positive impact, with direct investment in constantly developing capital structure 267k the community and Fair Tax Mark through collaboration with Clear capital customers and feedback allocation policy from stakeholders.
Our R&D expenditure Government and customer-focused investment Priorities for capital on page 32 regulatory bodies in digital technology is 4.9m Reinvestment in R&D and capital transforming the customer expenditure to drive sustainable growth experience and advancing the business model Stakeholder Engagement on pages 16 and 17 Trust Sustainability Growth Markets on pages 12 and 13 Following through on our promises Being transparent and doing the right thing Doing what we say we will do Our Strategy Taking the long-term view when on pages 18 and 19 Honest and acting with integrity making decisions Treating our colleagues and Key Performance Indicators Anticipating and adapting customers fairly on pages 20 and 21 to change Risk Management and Principal Risks Considering people, the planet on pages 23 to 27 and our contribution to society Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 15
