Strategic report Chair of the Boards Statement Overview This is my first report to you as your Chair and I am delighted to The Group announce another year of growth, with both strong earnings and cash performance.
We are continuing to invest in the business, in addition to proposing an increased ordinary dividend and continues to a further supplementary dividend.
The acquisition of Edenhall Holdings Limited Edenhall in December 2018 will support the Groups focus on New Build Housing, which is one of our strategic deliver our growth areas.
Results Group revenue for the year increased by 14 per cent to long-term 491.0 million 2017: 430.2 million.
The Public Sector and Commercial end market performance was up 20 per cent during the year and growth in the Domestic end market was sustainable up 3 per cent.
Profit before tax increased by 21 per cent to 62.9 million 2017: 52.1 million.
EBITDA has grown by 19 per cent to growth strategy 80.8 million and the Groups earnings per share, at 26.29 pence, is up 22 per cent.
Net debt at 31 December 2018 was 37.4 million 2017: 24.3 million, Summary after funding the acquisition of Edenhall for 16.4 million.
2018 has been another year of good profit growth Dividends Core values remain as leadership, excellence, The Board is recommending a final dividend of 8.00 pence per trust and sustainability share 2017: 6.80 pence per share which, together with the interim dividend of 4.00 pence per share 2017: 3.40 pence per share, 22% increase in earnings per share reflecting continuing makes a total ordinary dividend of 12.00 pence per share 2017: 10.20 strength of the Marshalls brand pence per share, an increase of 18 per cent for the year.
Strong balance sheet and prudent capital structure The Board is also recommending a supplementary dividend of 4.00 pence per share for 2018 2017: 4.00 pence per share.
Full year dividend of 12.00 pence up 18% and a The payment of a discretionary supplementary dividend is in discretionary supplementary dividend of 4.00 pence line with the Boards objective of maintaining an efficient capital structure whilst retaining capacity to invest in further growth opportunities.
The Groups cash flows remain strong and permit us to recommend and maintain a supplementary dividend of 4.00 pence.
The level of supplementary dividend this year reflects a better than expected year end debt position and this year provides increased total returns for shareholders whilst recognising the increased political and economic uncertainties caused by the prolonged Brexit negotiations.
The Board will continue to adhere to the Groups capital allocation policy and the Groups policy of rewarding shareholders on the basis of maintaining a 2 times dividend cover.
This is explained in more detail on page 32.
Our culture is built on strong values and a commitment to doing business responsibly.
This is embodied in The Marshalls Way, incorporating our core values of leadership, excellence, trust and sustainability.
Marshalls plc 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Strategy that is well balanced and diverse in the widest sense remains key The 2020 Strategy has delivered strong profit growth and has to the delivery of strong governance standards.
There is a formal been firmly aligned with the Groups vision to Create Better and transparent succession plan in place, and there will be Spaces for all our customers, socially, environmentally and resolutions proposed at the 2019 Annual General Meeting to economically.
We have a strategic goal to become the UKs update the Articles as well as in relation to the election and leading manufacturer of product in the Built Environment.
The re-election of Directors that are designed to support the Group is now well advanced in mapping out its ambitions for the effectiveness of the Board while allowing membership to be next 5 years, setting strategic objectives that continue to support regularly refreshed.
long-term sustainable growth while also building further resilience.
We continue to improve the Annual Report disclosures to ensure The Boards priorities for 2019 include the launch of the Groups they give a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the strategy for the next 5 years.
This will set out the Groups strategic Groups position and prospects.
On pages 16 and 17 we set out priorities for the medium term and how these will deliver value for more detailed information about all our key stakeholder groups, our stakeholders.
explaining how we engage and strive to develop collaborative relationships.
In compliance with s172 Companies Act 2006, the Strong corporate culture Board plans to undertake its own stakeholder mapping process Marshalls is committed to an open and transparent culture and review stakeholder engagement on an annual basis.
The Board recognises its responsibility to ongoing aim is to consider whether there are any ways in which provide strong leadership in the promotion of corporate culture this can be more effective.
and this has continued to be a focus over the past 12 months, as we develop better ways of engaging with our employees During 2018, we carried out an internal evaluation of Board and other stakeholders.
Our long-standing commitment to high performance and effectiveness, applying the principles of ethical standards, minimising adverse environmental and social the 2016 Code while also taking into account the 2018 Code.
impact, while delivering great service for our customers, provides No areas of material concern were highlighted.
We will commission a strong foundation on which we can build to improve.
Doing an external Board evaluation in 2019. business the right way is extremely important to Marshalls as we seek to ensure we balance the interests of all our stakeholders People and make a full and proper contribution to society.
It is very evident to me that our employees are a major strength of Marshalls.
There is a real drive to deliver our core values amongst The Marshalls Way captures the elements and values that the workforce and to grow the business and I would like to thank support the Groups culture of doing business responsibly.
I have all our employees for their commitment and contribution during no doubt that having a clear and consistent culture that all our the last year.
It is a real strength that so many employees are now employees live by, and that is visible to all our stakeholders, is key able to participate in the Companys success through Sharesave to the development of our brand.
During the past year, we have and share purchase plans.
worked on exploring how to promote and communicate our values throughout the business, as well as with our shareholders, Outlook business partners, employees and other stakeholders.
Your Board The Group delivered a strong result in 2018 and continues to is committed to working alongside employee focus groups outperform the Construction Products Associations CPA growth over the next year to further develop and fully articulate figures, despite ongoing macro-economic and Brexit uncertainty.
The Marshalls Way to reflect the Groups culture in a way that The CPAs recent Winter Forecast predicted a decrease in UK is understood by all.
It is underpinned by the Groups core values market volumes of 0.2 per cent in 2018, followed by an increase of of leadership, excellence, trust and sustainability and the reward 0.3 per cent in 2019.
However, our recent trading has been strong structures across the business are being aligned with our cultural and the underlying indicators in the New Build Housing, Road, Rail vision.
The Boards priorities for 2019 include further focus on the and Water Management markets remain supportive to our growth development of Marshalls corporate culture and I talk more about strategy and plans.
this on pages 38 and 39 and in my introduction to the Corporate Good progress has been made during the year, notably the Governance Statement on page 42. successful integration of CPM and the ongoing self help Highest standards of governance programme to drive organic growth and these have been The Board remains committed to the highest standards of enhanced by the acquisition of Edenhall.
The Groups focus corporate governance and to operating in accordance with remains the delivery of long-term sustainable growth, whilst strong ethical and corporate social responsibility principles.
maintaining a strong balance sheet and a flexible capital structure.
Our ethical principles transcend all parts of the business and are a key element of the Marshalls brand.
In reviewing governance Vanda Murray OBE in 2018, while continuing to comply with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in April 2016, as outlined Chair in our Corporate Governance Statement on pages 42 to 47, we also acknowledge the development of governance standards set out in the new version of the Code published in July 2018.
We have reviewed our own compliance against the 2018 Code and have already implemented some changes to ensure that we are able to report positively on compliance in 2019: we also comment on this in the Corporate Governance Statement.
Having a Board Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 07
