Corporate governance Board of Directors Vanda Murray OBE Martyn Coffey Jack Clarke Chair of the Board Chief Executive Group Finance Director N R I Term of office Term of office Term of office Appointed as Non-Executive Director and Joined the Company and appointed Joined the Company and appointed Chair of the Board on 9 May 2018.
Also to the Board in September 2013. to the Board on 1 October 2014. chairs the Nomination Committee.
Length of service Length of service Length of service 8 months 5 years 4 months 4 years 3 months Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Wide executive leadership experience: Chartered Accountant.
Joined Marshalls Marketing with extensive experience of previously Divisional Chief Executive Officer from AMEC Foster Wheeler plc, where he corporate leadership in both executive and of BDR Thermea Group BV, a leading was Executive Vice President and Director non-executive roles with a wide range of manufacturer and distributor of domestic of Change Management.
He has extensive UK and international businesses.
Previous and industrial heating and hot water experience in managing international executive roles include Chief Executive of systems operating in 70 countries and with operations, having previously served as Blick plc from 2001 until its successful sale a turnover of 1.8 billion, formed in 2009 CFO of AMECs 850 million power and to Stanley Works Inc. in 2004 and Managing from the merger of Baxi and fide Dietrich process division and its US$1.5 billion Director of Ultraframe plc between 2004 Remeha.
Prior to the merger, he was Chief environment and infrastructure division.
She is a Non-Executive Director Executive of the private equity-owned Baxi He has extensive M&A experience.
Previous of Manchester Airports Group and Group.
Also held the position of Managing experience includes senior finance and Pro-Chancellor and Chair of the Board Director of Pirelli Cables where he spent operational management roles with of Governors of Manchester Metropolitan 14 years in the UK, Australia and North Halliburton and Mobil Oil.
Holds an MSc University, and was also Non-Executive America.
Civil Engineering and BA Economics Chair of Fenner plc until May 2018. and Management.
External appointments External appointments Director of the Mineral Products External appointments Senior Independent Non-Executive Association.
Director and Chair of the Remuneration Chair of Remuneration Committee at Committee of Bunzl plc.
COMMITTEE KEY: GENDER COMPOSITION EXPERIENCE AND SKILLS A Audit Committee Female Male Leadership Housebuilders N Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee R Finance M&A Chair of the Committee LENGTH OF SERVICE I Independent Director 1 - 2 years 3 - 4 years Product development 5 years Retired in year Retail Marshalls plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Janet Ashdown Graham Prothero Tim Pile Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director A N R I A N R I A N R I Term of office Term of office Term of office Appointed in March 2015.
Last re-elected Appointed in May 2017 and elected Appointed in October 2010.
Last re-elected in May 2018. in May 2018. in May 2018.
Length of service Length of service Length of service 3 years 9 months 1 year 8 months 8 years 3 months Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Non-Executive Director of SIG plc.
Other Graham Prothero is a Chartered Formerly Chairman of Cogent Elliott, the appointments include Non-Executive Accountant and is an Executive Director leading independent marketing agency, member of the Board of the Nuclear and Group Chief Financial Officer of and was Chief Executive Officer of Decommissioning Authority since 2015 Galliford Try plc.
He is also on the Board Sainsburys Bank.
Previous Non-Executive and Non-Executive Director of Victrex plc of the Jigsaw Trust, a charitable trust.
Prior Director roles include Cancer Research UK.
Also nominated to joining Galliford Try plc in 2013, he was External appointments for appointment as a Non-Executive Group Finance Director at leading property Senior Independent Director and Chair Director and Chair of the Corporate developer Development Securities PLC of Finance and Performance of the Royal Sustainability Committee of RHI Magnesita now U I, having previously held senior Orthopaedic Hospital.
Chair of Greater N. V. at its 2019 AGM.
Previous executive finance positions at Taylor Woodrow, the Birmingham and Solihull LEP.
Non-Executive experience included 30 years with BP plc, listed contractor developer, and at Blue Director of the Greater Birmingham most recently as Director, BP Oil UK Limited, Circle Industries plc.
Graham also spent Chambers of Commerce and the City and Head of UK Retail and Commercial 7 years as a partner in the Real Estate, of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra.
Between 2010 and 2012 she was CEO Hospitality and Construction Group of of Harvest Energy.
External appointments External appointments Non-Executive Director and Chair of Group Chief Financial Officer Remuneration Committee of SIG plc and of Galliford Try plc.
Non-Executive Director of the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority.
Nominated as Non-Executive Director of RHI Magnesita N. V. Skills and experience Andrew Allner Cathy Baxandall Significant listed company board Chair Group Company Secretary experience, as chairman and as a retired 9 May 2018 non-executive director.
Previous executive roles include Group Finance R N Director of RHM plc and CEO of Enodis Term of office plc.
Also held senior executive positions Joined the Board in July 2003: appointed with Dalgety plc, Amersham as Chairman in May 2010.
Last re-elected International plc and Guinness plc.
Also Chartered Accountant, former partner chaired the Nomination Committee up to of Price Waterhouse and graduate of his retirement.
Served on the Board for the University of Oxford.
a total of 14 years 9 months 7 years 9 months as Chair.
He was independent External appointments on his appointment as Chair.
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of SIG plc, The Go-Ahead Group plc and Fox Marble Holdings plc.
Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 41
