Strategic report Strategy Delivering growth Our strategic goal is to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value whilst taking into consideration the interests of all our stakeholders and the wider contribution we make to society.
Shareholder value Sustainable profitability Relationship building To deliver sustainable shareholder To maintain a strong market position To develop relationships with value by improving the long-term and grow the business profitability key stakeholders, customers operating performance of in all of the Groups end markets.
What we said we would do in 2018 Grow EBITDA and ROCE.
Deliver sustainable EPS and operating Promote integrated solutions cash flow growth.
and increase market share in our Make strategic investments for smaller businesses.
Improve operational efficiency and continue to invest in the Continue to develop the supply chain.
ROCE of EPS growth of Registered installer teams now 21.9% 2017: 20.8% 22% approx.
1,900 What we have achieved ROCE of 23.3 per cent on a like-for-like 21 per cent growth in operating Dedicated customer experience basis, excluding the impact of Edenhall.
profit driven by sustainable team with strengthened relationships.
Growth in EBITDA of 19 per cent 98 per cent customer service KPI.
Increase in operating profit percentage New Commercial website.
Sales of new products in the Supplementary dividend.
core business now represent 12 per cent of total revenue.
Continuing to exceed CPA growth forecasts.
Our strategic priorities To make strategic investments for To outperform the market.
Sustainable and ethical organic growth and acquisitions.
materials supply to enable To deliver new and innovative manufacturing flexibility.
To strengthen the Marshalls brand by product solutions.
To focus on customer satisfaction.
To improve operational efficiency of our To have a progressive dividend policy manufacturing and logistics network.
To promote integrated supported by supplementary product solutions.
To drive through sustainable dividends, as appropriate.
To focus on installer training, marketing and sales support.
Our future targets To grow ROCE and EBITDA and To deliver sustainable EPS growth.
To continue to invest in digital and continue to deliver long-term systems improvements to improve New product development to sustainable shareholder value.
communication efficiency and drive growth.
Marshalls plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Developing strategy Our 2020 strategy has been consistently followed during the last 3 years and has delivered strong growth.
The Group is now well advanced in mapping out its ambitions for the next 5 years, setting strategic objectives that continue to support long-term sustainable growth.
The Groups strategic planning process incorporates engagement with stakeholders and a Board priority for 2019 includes the launch of the Groups strategy for the next 5 years.
Key Performance Indicators on pages 20 and 21 Risks on pages 23 to 27 Organic expansion Brand development Effective capital structure To invest in organic expansion in To strengthen and extend the and control framework existing and related markets and Marshalls brand by focusing To maintain efficient and effective product categories to expand on innovation, service and business controls and to ensure the business.
that the capital structure remains aligned with the Groups corporate growth objectives.
Target growth areas of New Maintain Superbrand status.
Maintain a net debt to EBITDA ratio Build Housing, Road, Rail and of between 0 and 1 times.
Focus on product innovation Water Management.
Delivered on the capital Increase capital expenditure for allocation priorities.
Self help capital investment in 2018 R&D investment of Net debt: EBITDA 17.0m 4.9m 0.46 ratio Revenue growth of 14 per cent Superbrand status.
Continued development Low gearing of 14 per cent Significant growth in key focus of Marshalls brand.
at 31 December 2018 post acquisition areas whilst maintaining of Edenhall.
Efficient portfolio of bank facilities with Introduced 67 new product ranges Strong growth in New Build extended maturities and to market in the current cycle.
Integrated CPM into Self help capital investment of Continued focus on working capital Landscape Products.
30.7 million over the last 3 years.
management and efficient inventory control.
To target growth areas such as To focus on corporate culture.
To maintain a flexible capital structure New Build Housing, Road, Rail that recognises cyclical risk, focusing Customer satisfaction to be the and Water Management.
on security, efficiency and liquidity.
To invest in capital expenditure To deliver a capital allocation To focus on innovation, customer for organic growth.
strategy that is fully aligned with this service and product quality.
To increase sustainable To maintain the highest health profitability in the smaller UK and safety standards.
New product development aesthetics, installation, functionality.
To optimise our national network of To maintain the Groups market To operate tight control over business, manufacturing and distribution sites.
leading position and increase brand operational and financial procedures.
To further develop our global supply To target a net debt to EBITDA ratio chains and infrastructure.
Brand preference that drives of between 0 and 1 times over the product specification.
Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 19
