Corporate governance Chair of the Boards Q&A Defining, promoting Q How important is culture to Marshalls?
and sustaining a A good corporate Culture is an increasingly important enabling factor for success.
Defining, promoting and sustaining a good corporate culture is a key priority for the Group, building on our established core values of culture is a key priority leadership, excellence, trust and sustainability.
The work that we started in 2017 with external consultants has led to a Group-wide internal consultation programme to help articulate our vision of for the Group The Marshalls Way of doing business.
The objective is to develop methods of successfully embedding this into our operations in a way that can be monitored against pre-determined criteria.
Alignment Introduction of corporate culture with the Groups purpose, values and strategy, I strongly believe that good governance is a core component and leading by example on culture, are Board priorities for 2019. of corporate success, and that a well-managed governance structure provides real value in shaping the culture of the Group and driving sustainable growth.
The Board sets the tone from the top by defining corporate purpose and demonstrating Q the underlying values and standards that will sustain it.
I am Sustainability is integral to the business.
What role committed to maintaining Marshalls robust corporate governance does the Board play in managing this?
framework associated with the delivery of the Groups strategy and ensuring the highest standards of behaviour and integrity.
A The Board clearly understands its role in promoting the long-term sustainable success of the Group.
Sustainability involves both the Q generation and protection of value over the long term, and for What are your reflections on your first year Marshalls is closely tied to The Marshalls Way of doing business.
The Group constantly strives to achieve highly sustainable as Chair of Marshalls Board?
operations, minimising adverse environmental and social impacts while delivering high standards of customer service and health A and safety.
Sustainability objectives continue to be embedded in management and employee reward schemes.
The Board can help My first impressions have been positive and, as I have visited our through constructive challenge, monitoring, risk assessment and operations and talked to employees, shareholders and other support for well-planned initiatives aligned with strategy.
stakeholders, the strength of the Groups core values has been very evident.
A key highlight for me has been the Boards focus on culture and the articulation of The Marshalls Way.
Marshalls is a Group with a great culture, a strong focus on sustainability and a desire to engage in business in a responsible way.
Operationally, I think the Group has further opportunities to improve efficiency and to optimise its operations.
The focus on customer experience, stakeholder engagement and digital and technological advancement should enable the Group to deliver further strategic growth over the medium term.
A well-managed governance structure provides real value in shaping the culture of the Group and driving sustainable growth.
Vanda Murray OBE Chair Marshalls plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance The Marshalls Way We have the right people with We have the right products We do business the right skills and behaviours made in the right way in the right way and who stay safe We get our We exceed customer We have a brand products specified and user expectations that inspires trust Business Model on pages 14 and 15 Q Q An internal Board effectiveness review was What engagement with shareholders has the Board undertaken this year.
A A The annual Board evaluation enables the Board to consider its own The Board seeks to maintain regular dialogue and engages with performance and whether it is delivering value for shareholders and shareholders throughout the year.
There are regular meetings, briefings other stakeholders.
This year, we updated our questionnaire to and updates between the Directors and major shareholders or include criteria from the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code.
potential shareholders in order to keep them informed of significant Action points from our review range from the high level articulating developments and to listen to their views.
During 2018 as part of my our purpose and values more effectively to the detailed establishing introduction to the Group I also held one-to-one meetings with a smart KPIs to monitor progress against culture and succession number of our major shareholders, the object of which was to gain planning initiatives and developing the Boards understanding of feedback on performance and governance matters and to reinforce governance changes through training.
The overall conclusion was good communication channels between shareholders and the Chair.
that the Board worked well and continued to function in an open I plan to offer this on an annual basis.
You can read more about how the and collaborative way with a high level of trust and respect.
Board members engaged with shareholders during 2018 on page 16.
Q Q How has the Board approached the increased Appropriate design and control around remuneration is disclosure requirements for UK companies?
one of the key factors in the Code.
What is the Boards approach to remuneration policy?
A A Our reporting is aimed at delivering clarity and visibility to shareholders and other stakeholders in a transparent and Our Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders in 2017 understandable way while meeting all regulatory requirements.
and it will be reviewed again in 2020.
It is designed to promote The Board strives to ensure that it is fully compliant with current behaviours that are aligned with strategy and the long-term success codes and good practice in its corporate reporting and receives of the Group.
Under our Management Incentive Plan, a high proportion advice from its auditor and external advisers.
This year we have of value is represented by shares that are subject to a combined expanded our Remuneration Committee Report to add more vesting and holding period of 5 years or more.
Incentive schemes information on our wider workforce pay conditions, our CEO operating at other levels also include an element of reward based to employee pay ratio, our gender pay statistics and our on shareholding.
More detail is given in the Remuneration Report diversity initiatives.
Marshalls is committed to creating an inclusive working environment and to rewarding our employees throughout the organisation in a fair manner.
We believe that all employees should be able to share in the success of the Group and we encourage opportunities for share ownership.
We aim to achieve clarity, simplicity and proportionality in our remuneration policies and procedures, and we were particularly pleased that Marshalls 2017 Remuneration Report won a Building Public Trust award for transparency in corporate reporting during 2018.
Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 39
