DIVISIONAL REVIEW UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 6 1% NUMBER OF REVENUE HOSPITALS AED3 134M 22 9% NUMBER OF ADJUSTED EBITDA AED397M CLINICS 748 -3.5% NUMBER OF BED DAYS SOLD BEDS 29 83.3% NUMBER OF INPATIENT THEATRES EXPERIENCE INDEX David Hadley Chief Executive Offi cer: Mediclinic Middle East CEOS STATEMENT Following the challenges faced by the Middle East division last year, we are succeeding with the turnaround of the Abu Dhabi business and laying the foundation for long-term, sustainable performance.
We reached an in ection point this year in Abu Dhabi driven by the successful implementation of business and operational alignment initiatives, an improved regulatory environment and better-than-expected results from the new Mediclinic Al Jowhara Hospital and Mediclinic Al Yahar Clinic in Al Ain.
The Middle East division is entering a growth phase underpinned by continued strong performance in the established Dubai business, signifi cant improvement in the Abu Dhabi business and the planned opening of several new facilities over the coming years.
In Dubai, the 182-bed Mediclinic Parkview Hospital is progressing ahead of schedule and is now expected to be commissioned in October 2018.
After reaching an infl ection point, second half revenue in KEY FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL the Middle East division increased 6% comparatively and HIGHLIGHTS 12% sequentially.
Continued strong delivery in Dubai was Mediclinic Middle East, as at the end of the reporting period, supported by a signifi cantly improved operating performance operated 6 hospitals and 22 clinics with a total of 748 beds in Abu Dhabi with Mediclinic Al Jowhara Hospital and and 5 801 employees 5 830 full-time equivalents.
Mediclinic Mediclinic Al Yahar, which opened in Al Ain during the prior Middle East is one of the leading private healthcare providers year, exceeding expectations.
FY18 revenue increased by 1% in the UAE with the majority of its operations in Dubai to AED3 134m FY17: AED3 109m.
Inpatient and outpatient and Abu Dhabi including Al Ain.
Mediclinic Middle East volumes were up 3.3% and down 9.7% respectively in FY18, accounted for 22% of the Groups revenues FY17: 24% and impacted largely by the business and operational alignment 16% of its adjusted EBITDA FY17: 15%.
initiatives and non-core asset disposals in Abu Dhabi.
60 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION DIVISIONAL REVIEW UAE The former includes strategies to actively migrate away from Basic to Thiqa health insurance for UAE nationals 5 801 and Enhanced insured patients in Abu Dhabi and to invest in higher acuity inpatient services, generating higher-quality NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES revenue and margin improvement.
Following a strong second half operating performance, FY18 adjusted EBITDA increased by 9% to AED397m 3.86 FY17: AED364m.
The adjusted EBITDA margin was EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT ahead of expectations, increasing to 12.7% FY17: 11.7%.
grand mean score based on a 1 to 5 rating scale The ongoing effi ciency and cost-management initiatives implemented since the combination in February 2016 is expected to support margin improvement in the Middle East 4.4% operating division as revenues increase.
AVERAGE REVENUE PER BED DAY In line with guidance, a provision for trade receivables impairment of AED88m FY17: AED113m was charged to the income statement.
This represents 3% of Middle East revenue where the practice of disallowances is common.
53% This matter receives ongoing attention as part of the BED OCCUPANCY revenue management cycle improvement programme.
The Group will adopt the new IFRS 15 accounting standard Revenue from Contracts with Customers from 1 April 2018.
Under IFRS 15, revenue is recognised at an amount that INVESTING IN A DYNAMIC AND refl ects the consideration to which an entity expects to be GROWING MARKET entitled to in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer.
Whilst this will not have an impact on the Middle Mediclinic Middle East is succeeding with the turnaround of the East divisions EBITDA, certain operating expenses will be Abu Dhabi business, laying broader foundations for growth in reclassifi ed and set off against revenue in future periods.
In February 2017, the important strategic decision Further disclosure is contained in the notes to the accounts.
was taken to rebrand the Abu Dhabi business to Mediclinic.
This exercise was successfully completed at the end of 2017 Depreciation and amortisation increased by 22% to and has started to deliver the desired eff ect of enhancing AED256m FY17: AED210m, mainly due to accelerated the brand reputation and recognition of the Mediclinic amortisation of AED107m in relation to the Al Noor hospitals and clinics in Abu Dhabi.
Whilst doctor recruitment trade name, resulting from the rebranding exercise that continues, supporting the growing business, vacancies have commenced in February 2017.
This asset has now been normalised compared to the prior year, and the focus has fully amortised and the charge is excluded from adjusted shifted to supporting doctors to grow their patient activity.
Depreciation increased due in part to the opening This included the roll-out of a new remuneration policy, similar of the new North Wing at Mediclinic City Hospital in Dubai to that established in Dubai, that is fundamentally based and the Mediclinic Al Jowhara Hospital in Abu Dhabi during on doctors professional services and the quality of care FY17.
Aligned with this strategy is the target in Abu Dhabi Net fi finance costs increased by 9% to AED34m of increasing the ratio of inpatient volumes, similar to that in FY17: AED31m due to the June 2016 increase in debt Dubai, through the continued investment in doctors, services facilities by AED567m of which AED220m remains and facilities.
The divestment strategy was concluded during undrawn to refi finance the Group bridge loan facility fund the year, with the successful sale of fi five clinics and closure of expansion projects.
The division contributed 44m to the four others that were considered non-core.
Groups adjusted earnings representing 20% compared to Since the Thiqa co-payment requirement in Abu Dhabi 33m representing 15% in the prior year.
was removed in April 2017, the business continues to see The d ivision converted 74% FY17: 121% of adjusted an improving trend in Thiqa patient activity.
FY18 Thiqa EBITDA into cash generated from operations.
The decline inpatient and outpatient volumes in Abu Dhabi increased was largely due to the signifi cant increase in revenue by 83% and 38% respectively compared to the prior year.
The removal of the Thiqa co-payment has enabled the business to accelerate its strategy of migrating activity away from Basic, towards Enhanced and Thiqa insured patients.
MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 61 DIVISIONAL REVIEW UNITED ARAB EMIRATES CONTINUED In January 2018, the strategy was fully implemented at Mediclinic Al Noor Hospital is ongoing with the expectation Mediclinic Airport Road Hospital, resulting in a revenue uplift that a decision will be made in the third quarter of 2018. for the fourth quarter, despite a drop in volumes.
In Abu Dhabi, In May 2018, Mediclinic Middle East completed the the business expects the positive momentum in higher tariff acquisition of the Dubai based City Centre Clinics Deira and patient volumes to continue to grow in FY19, as the recently Meaisem from Majid Al Futtaim, the leading shopping mall, appointed doctors increase their patient activity.
retail and leisure pioneer across the Middle East and North The Middle East division is now entering an expansionary Africa.
Under the terms of the agreement, Mediclinic Middle phase that is expected to drive an increase in revenue and East will acquire City Centre Clinic Deira, a large outpatient improvement in EBITDA margins over time.
In Abu Dhabi, the facility which opened in 2013 with two day-care surgery growth will be driven by an improved operating performance theatres and 18 medical disciplines, and City Centre Clinic in the existing business and strategic expansion projects at Meaisem, a smaller community clinic focusing on six core the Mediclinic Airport Road, Mediclinic Al Noor and the new disciplines.
The clinics serve strategic geographic locations Mediclinic Western Region hospitals.
In Dubai, the ongoing and offer the opportunity to refer higher acuity inpatient performance of the existing business will be supported by cases to existing Mediclinic Middle East hospitals and the significant growth from the new 182-bed Mediclinic Parkview forthcoming Mediclinic Parkview Hospital.
Recruitment of doctors and staff for the new potential also exists to attract additional doctors and over hospital is on track to support the 100 beds that will initially time to grow patient volumes and revenues as well as be opened before ramping up to full bed capacity over some allowing Mediclinic Middle East the opportunity to partner three years.
with Majid Al Futtaim in the future.
During the year, Mediclinic Middle East invested AED358m REGULATORY UPDATE on expansion capital projects and new equipment and The division continues to maintain an active dialogue with AED31m on the replacement of existing equipment government authorities on regulatory changes within and upgrade projects.
The major component of the the UAE healthcare sector.
Preparations are ongoing for expansion capital expenditure was the Mediclinic Parkview the implementation of Diagnosis Related Groups DRG in Hospital project in Dubai.
Construction of the new Dubai which is now expected to be implemented in early 182-bed Mediclinic Parkview Hospital, the seventh hospital 2019 with Mediclinic commencing a shadow billing process in the Middle East operations, is progressing well and is in February 2018.
The Dubai Health Authority DHA ahead of schedule, expected to now open in October 2018. is following a collaborative approach in the design and Other expansion capex in FY18 included projects at implementation of the DRGs and in addition to sharing Mediclinic Airport Road Hospital, Mediclinic City Hospital, and discussing the test version of the DRG methodology Mediclinic Al Ain Hospital and Mediclinic Khalifa City.
In with the market, they also shared hospital level results September 2017, the Electronic Health Record EHR and impact studies.
Currently it is expected that the DRGs project, Mediclinic Internationals largest ever IT investment, will have a revenue neutral impact on the division, as was launched in conjunction with InterSystems.
A team of prescribed by the DHA.
At the end of January 2018, the some 200 members of staff, are currently engaged in the DHA also announced they are in the process of developing project design process.
The EHR will be systematically rolled a comprehensive Dubai Healthcare Facilities Performance out across the Mediclinic Middle East division during FY19 Framework in collaboration with IBM Watson, which will and FY20.
The EHR is expected to deliver seamless care contain clinical and financial key performance indicators.
and improved service quality for patients as well as improved administration efficiency for the division.
During the year, Mediclinic was privileged to be invited by the Department of Health in Abu Dhabi to join its healthcare In FY19, Mediclinic Middle East expects to invest AED455m advisory board.
There were some significant changes to and AED84m on expansion and maintenance capex the regulatory environment in Abu Dhabi at the start of the respectively.
During the year, ground floor and mezzanine year.
On 26 April 2017, His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin renovations at the Mediclinic Al Noor Hospital will be carried Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy out with expected completion of the work by the end of 2018.
Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, ordered Looking further ahead, as part of the divisions expansionary the waiving of the 20% Thiqa co-payment when receiving phase, the Mediclinic Airport Road 100-bed expansion and treatment at private healthcare facilities in Abu Dhabi, cancer centre project has been further re-configured with with immediate effect.
This rule had been in place since work commencing imminently ahead of an expected opening 1 July 2016, substantially impacting the division.
The project to construct a new 40-bed hospital in time the 50% co-insurance applicable for the Thiqa plan for the Western Region of Abu Dhabi, which was postponed last the cost if patients sought medical services outside Abu year, has been re-initiated with project planning currently Dhabi including Dubai and the Northern Emirates was underway.
A review of the long-term options to enhance the 62 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION DIVISIONAL REVIEW UAE reduced to 10%.
In Dubai, UAE nationals are covered under and utilisation, which are still prevalent in some areas of the the ENAYA and SAADA health insurance programmes, market and to focus on quality performance and outcome under the supervision of the Dubai Health Authority, with a measures.
The senior management of Mediclinic Middle 10% co-payment for inpatient and outpatient services in the East continues to forge ever deeper relationships with the public and private sectors.
authorities to ensure Mediclinic remains an integral part of the healthcare delivery system in the region.
The Gulf Corporation Council Value-Added Tax VAT framework agreement was published in April 2017 and OUTLOOK subsequently in August 2017 healthcare was confirmed as a The economic outlook for the UAE is more positive for 2018 zero-rated service.
Mediclinic completed its VAT registration and 2019.
This is premised on greater stability in the oil price, ahead of the 1 January 2018 implementation of the tax.
increased government expenditure likely as Expo 2020 draws closer, non-oil revenues increase from new forms of MARKET OVERVIEW direct and indirect taxation and a predicted rise in foreign The Middle East remains a long-term growth market for the trade.
Economically, there is still opportunity for greater provision of high-quality private healthcare services, driven by diversification away from hydrocarbons in Abu Dhabi than a growing expatriate market and ageing local population facing in Dubai, which in turn can create new opportunities for the an increased incidence of lifestyle-related medical conditions private healthcare industry.
Mediclinics strategy to reduce and a maturing regulatory environment which is increasingly reliance on the low-priced insurance sector in Abu Dhabi has focused on quality and clinical outcomes measures.
Mediclinic proved successful and will continue to be rolled out.
has confidence in its Middle East growth strategy, which includes the opening of new hospitals and clinics in addition to With the operational integration following the combination expansion and upgrades to existing facilities.
now largely complete and the focus now on bringing newly opened facilities to capacity and ensuring timely delivery of Within the regions healthcare market, government authorities projects under construction, Mediclinic Middle East is now remain heavily involved in the private sector and continue to well positioned to consider further appropriate opportunities introduce controls in order to reduce levels of over-servicing for growth.
OMAN RAS AL-KHAIMAH Mediclinic Al Qusais AJMAN Mediclinic Welcare Hospital Mediclinic City Hospital ARABIAN GULF SHARJAH Mediclinic Dubai Mall Mediclinic Al Sufouh FUJAIRAH QATAR DUBAI Mediclinic Ibn Battuta Mediclinic Meadows Mediclinic Arabian Ranches Mediclinic Al Bahr Mediclinic Mirdif ADU DHABI AL AIN Mediclinic Al Musa ah ENEC Mediclinic Al Ain Hospital Mediclinic Ghayathi Mediclinic Zakher Mediclinic Al Bateen Mediclinic Al Jowhara Hospital Mediclinic Airport Road Hospital Mediclinic Bawadi Mediclinic Madinat Zayed 2 Mediclinic Al Yahar Mediclinic Al Mamora Mediclinic Al Madar Mediclinic Al Noor Hospital Mediclinic Aspetar Mediclinic Khalifa City Mediclinic Baniyas OMAN CLINICS HOSPITALS SAUDI ARABIA MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 63
