INVESTMENT CASE In pursuit of our vision to be preferred locally and respected internationally, we offer an attractive investment case that aligns with seeking to achieve long-term value creation: Continued growth in demand for healthcare services: Ageing population STRONG MARKET Growing disease burden FUNDAMENTALS Technological advances Consumerisation of services One of the largest independent pan-EMEA healthcare services groups: DIVERSIFIED Leading market positions across all divisions PRESENCE Developed markets Switzerland and UK Emerging markets Southern Africa and UAE Competitive advantage created from efficient integration of international operating divisions: Internationally recognised clinical expertise LEVERAGING Sustainable and efficient operating practices GLOBAL SCALE Intellectual property of highly skilled and engaged human capital Global procurement synergies Powerful data analytics Well positioned to take advantage of growth opportunities that generate sustainable long-term value: ATTRACTIVE Leveraging system relevance Operational flexibility through extensive property GROWTH ownership OPPORTUNITIES Returns-driven organic and inorganic expansion Evolving care delivery models Expanding across the continuum of care A track record of operating global private healthcare services for over 30 years: Focused on long-term value creation HIGH-QUALITY Financial discipline and strong cash flow generation Relentless focus on patient safety and excellent clinical MANAGEMENT performance TEAM WITH PROVEN Experienced international executive and senior DELIVERY management teams Supportive long-term investor since inception Remgro Dividend pay-out ratio: 25 to 30% of adjusted EPS 18 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY The Five-year Summary is presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest million.
Financial information of 2014 to 2015 was reported in South African rand and has been translated to sterling using the procedures outlined below: assets and liabilities were translated at the closing sterling rates: income and expenses were translated at average sterling exchange rates: and differences resulting from re-translation have been recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve.
Danie Meintjes Chief Executive Offi cer This year, we progressed in the key areas of clinical HOW WELL DO YOU FEEL THE performance, patient experience and staff engagement.
As AR GROUP PERFORMED THIS YEAR referenced in the Chairmans Statement and the Clinical AGAINST ITS STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE Services Overview, the majority of patient safety and clinical OF PUTTING PATIENTS FIRST?
eff ectiveness indicators showed improvement.
Patients are at the core of everything we do at Mediclinic.
The Dr Felicity Harvey, who joined the Board in October 2017, has Groups strategic focus ensures it consistently delivers highchaired the Clinical Performance and Sustainability Committee quality healthcare and optimal patient experience across since April 2018.
The aim of the committee is to promote a the operating divisions in Switzerland, Southern Africa and culture of excellence in patient safety, quality of care and the Middle East.
To this end, Mediclinic continues to invest patient experience: and ensure the Group remains a good and in its people, clinical facilities and technology.
The Groups responsible corporate citizen by monitoring its sustainability growing international scale enables it to unlock further value performance.
During the year, Mediclinic Southern Africa by promoting collaboration and best practice, extracting established a Clinical Performance Committee with the same operational synergies and delivering cost effi ciencies clinical functions as the Board committee.
This committee through global procurement.
reports to the Board committee as part of the Groups Ward-to-Board strategy.
During the new fi financial year, Long-term demand for Mediclinics services across its operating divisions remains robust.
This is underpinned by, we plan to establish similar committees at Hirslanden and inter alia, an ageing population, growing disease burden, Mediclinic Middle East.
The committees in the operating technological innovation and the consumerisation of divisions will include Group independent experts as members healthcare services.
The increase in demand across the to further strengthen the oversight function.
operating divisions is contrasted by greater competition We rolled out the Press Ganey patient experience measurement and lower economic growth in some regions.
There is an system in a standardised format to all operating divisions, increased focus on aff ordable delivery of healthcare, which including the Abu Dhabi business following its integration results in changing care delivery models and increased into the Group last year.
We compared the Groups results to regulatory oversight.
20 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW tough international benchmarks and used the feedback to year to align with our established Dubai business, laid the deliver specifi c initiatives that matter most to our patients, foundation for future growth.
I was encouraged by the improved performance this year, particularly in the second as we strive to provide them with an improved experience.
As part of its commitment to the Competition Commissions half, which delivered a 1% improvement in revenue and a Health Market Inquiry, Mediclinic Southern Africa agreed to 100 basis points improvement in the adjusted EBITDA publish the detailed patient feedback on its website.
We welcomed a large number of new doctors into proud that Mediclinic had the largest representation in the the division over the past year, and we continue to recruit annual Discovery Health Top 20 South Africa Hospital survey high-quality clinical personnel to meet the future demands in 2017.
Based on patient feedback, eight of our hospitals were of the business.
The rebranding of the Abu Dhabi business recognised in the survey for the quality of care from doctors to Mediclinic was completed earlier in the year.
We saw a and nurses, patients overall experience and hospital conditions.
strong return of Thiqa health insurance for UAE nationals patients during the year following the reversal of the coEmployee engagement is a key factor in ensuring we deliver payment in April 2017 with Thiqa inpatient and outpatient against our Patients First strategy.
We evaluate this through volumes increasing by 83% and 38% respectively.
The the annual Gallup employee engagement survey.
This quality of our engagement with the regulator in Abu Dhabi standardised and independent evaluation system objectively advanced during the year, as we continue to demonstrate measures employee engagement and identifi es specifi c gaps our long-term commitment to the region and sustainable where improvements need to be made across the operating operating practices.
Mediclinic was honoured to be invited divisions.
Now in its third year of use at Mediclinic, I am glad by the Department of Health in Abu Dhabi to join its to report that we saw an increased participation rate of 77% healthcare advisory board.
across the Group in comparison to 71% in the previous year.
We experienced an increase in the engagement grand mean score This is only the start, as we enter a growth phase underpinned for the Southern African and Hirslanden divisions.
Data for by continued strong performance in the established Dubai the Middle East division showed a slight regression, however, business, signifi cant improvement in the Abu Dhabi business it is not directly comparable because the Al Noor hospitals and the opening of several new facilities over the coming were included in the survey for the fi first time.
Two of our recent expansion investments in the Middle the Mediclinic Group overall employee engagement grand East performed ahead of expectations.
The dedicated mean score increased from 3.81 to 3.88.
Following the 2016 cancer centre at Mediclinic City Hospitals new North Wing survey results, there was a signifi cant increase in the amount of in Dubai and the new Mediclinic Al Jowhara Hospital in Al Ain brought international clinical expertise to patients trackable action plans, defi ned by line managers in 2017.
This signals that the results are being used to positively impact the in the region.
Several key expansion and upgrade projects level of engagement among employees.
underway will support future growth.
The largest and most signifi cant of these is the new 182-bed Mediclinic Parkview WHAT ARE YOUR VIEWS ON THE Hospital in Dubai, which is six months ahead of schedule and due to open in October 2018.
A special feature on OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE AR this exciting project is included in the Annual Report from ACROSS MEDICLINICS DIVISIONS page 64.
Mediclinic Southern Africa performed well during the year Group revenue increased by 4% to 2 870m FY17: 2 749m considering the macro environment and stagnant medical and adjusted EBITDA was up 3% to 515m FY17: 501m.
Despite patient volumes being under On an adjusted basis, the operating divisions performed pressure due to the timing of Easter and a number of other well overall this year given their diff erent market and public and school holidays, the division grew revenue and regulatory environments.
The biggest highlight was the clear adjusted EBITDA by 5% and 6% respectively.
The adjusted demonstration that we are delivering on the turnaround EBITDA margin improved to 21.5% as a result of a strong of the Abu Dhabi business.
Once again, Southern Africa focus on cost management and effi ciencies.
Although we produced steady revenue growth, and the team managed remain cautious of the need for additional bed capacity given the cost base well, despite pressure on patient volumes.
the current macro environment, we continue to upgrade our In Switzerland, the Hirslanden team faced a number facilities, and will be establishing six additional day clinic of regulatory changes that came into eff ect during the year.
facilities co-located with some of our busiest hospitals over The division will need to continue adapting to the evolving the coming two years.
Further, as we look at expansionary outpatient environment while delivering cost savings and opportunities across the continuum of care, the Southern operational effi ciencies.
The Hirslanden 2020 strategic Africa division is in the process of acquiring a stake in the programme is key to addressing these factors.
Intercare day hospital business and a controlling share in In the Middle East division, the operational changes Matlosana Medical Health Services in Klerksdorp, subject to implemented in the Abu Dhabi business during the prior Competition Commission approval.
