CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW CONTINUED Previously announced regulatory changes in the Swiss 2020 strategic programme.
This programme has two main healthcare system, centred around the outpatient environment, goals: to increase the efficiency of the existing business by negatively impacted the divisions performance resulting in the implementing standardised systems and processes: and to recognition of impairment charges on intangible assets and develop new areas of business, such as outpatient facilities property totalling 644m.
On 1January2018, the TARMED to efficiently deliver outpatient services.
Hirslanden is tariff revisions were implemented, effectively reducing the assessing the most appropriate outpatient solution for each tariff for outpatient treatments.
During the year, five cantons, hospital, including reconfiguring existing hospital surgery including Zurich, implemented a list of procedures that units and establishing specialised outpatient and medical will be reimbursed at outpatient tariffs.
The 2% increase in centres moving towards a more integrated medical network revenue was impacted by the timing of the Easter period, a that improves access to healthcare for all our patients.
subdued summer market, the continued change in insurance mix and the evolving changes in the regulatory environment.
HOW DOES THE GROUPS ICT The continued focus on cost-management programmes and INVESTMENTS SUPPORT ITS efficiency savings is a key priority for the division, including STRATEGY?
Despite these Mediclinic employs various information and communications initiatives, Hirslandens adjusted EBITDA margin decreased technology ICT enabled capabilities to pursue its to 18.3% as it adapts to the current trends in the market and strategic and operational goals.
To this end, Mediclinic regulatory environment.
has further invested over the past year in some significant The Hirslanden division completed the acquisition of the capabilities and the associated technologies: Linde Private Hospital Linde in Biel at the end of electronic health record EHR capability for MCME by June 2017.
Linde, a market-leading 115-bed hospital, offers acquiring and implementing the TrakCare system and a wide range of medical services, including an outpatient related IT applications: clinic facility, radiology and an ophthalmology centre.
Linde established a centralised shared services environment for delivered a good operating performance following its Hirslanden with the SAP suite products at the core of this integration into the Hirslanden division.
project: WHAT KEY CHALLENGES IS THE advanced Mediclinics analytics and data warehousing initiatives by implementing the SAP HANA enterprise GROUP ADDRESSING IN THE GLOBAL data warehouse solution: HEALTHCARE MARKET?
a Global Human Resource Service Delivery model is The demand for healthcare services is growing worldwide.
being enabled through the roll-out of SAPs cloud-based The challenge for the industry, however, is to ensure those SuccessFactors HCM product: services remain affordable.
We emphasise the investment collaboration for teams and individuals through the Vidyo we make in our clinical performance and the facilities we and Skype-for-Business technologies: and operate to deliver to our patients the care we believe will the safeguarding of Mediclinics operations and assets improve the quality of their lives.
However, we must manage is supported through the acquisition and installation of the delivery of these services efficiently and cost-effectively various cybersecurity solutions.
These efforts are supported by two key Group functions: the Clinical Information, Advanced We anticipate that the investments in these new Analytics, Health Information Management and Clinical and enhanced business capabilities will benefit clinical Services team, which was established and built up by performance, operational efficiencies, productivity and Dr Ronnie van der Merwe CEO Designate in his role as eventually business results.
Group Chief Clinical Officer: and the Global Procurement team.
Leveraging the powerful clinical data analytics across DOES MEDICLINIC BENEFIT FROM the Group supports our drive to improve clinical performance BEING A DIVERSIFIED GLOBAL and efficiency by establishing best practice pathways HEALTHCARE PROVIDER?
Our global procurement approach, using Given our scale, international presence and leading market our Group scale, resulted in tangible cost savings, and positions, Mediclinic is uniquely positioned to benefit we will continue to deliver on various procurement initiatives from being an integrated healthcare services group that in future.
leverages off world-class clinical expertise.
We made great Regulation in the healthcare sector continues to evolve.
progress on our strategic priority of improving efficiencies Governments aim to make healthcare efficient, accessible and by simplifying, standardising and centralising key business affordable to their citizens.
The trend of outmigration of care support processes and back-office services.
Our central in Switzerland is being addressed as part of the Hirslanden procurement function continues to deliver significant cost 22 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018
