STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REPORT PROFILE REPORT PROFILE Scope, boundary and reporting cycle This Annual Report and Financial Statements Annual Report of Mediclinic International plc the Company or Mediclinic presents the fi financial results, and the economic, social and environmental performance of the Mediclinic Group for the fi financial year ended 31March 2018 the reporting period, and covers the Companys operations in Switzerland, Southern Africa and the United Arab Emirates the Group.
Reporting principles The information in this Annual Report is deemed to be useful and relevant to our stakeholders, with due regard to their expectations through continuous engagement, or that the Board believes may infl uence the perception or decision-making of our stakeholders.
The information provided aims to provide our stakeholders with an understanding of the Groups fi financial, social, environmental and economic impacts to enable them to evaluate the ability of Mediclinic to create and sustain value.
This Annual Report was prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards, the LSE Listing Rules, the JSE Listings Requirements, the UK Corporate Governance Code, and the UK Companies Act including the Companies, Partnerships and Group Accounts and Non-Financial STRATEGIC Reporting Regulations 2016 aimed at improving the transparency of companies regarding nonfi financial and diversity information, where relevant.
REPORT The Company complied with all the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, other AR than the exceptions explained in the Corporate The Groups strategic focus ensures that it Governance Statement on page 93 of this Annual consistently delivers high-quality healthcare and Report.
The Companys reporting on sustainable optimal patient experience across the operating development included in this report, supplemented SDR divisions in Switzerland, Southern Africa and the by the Sustainable Development Report, available Middle East.
on the Companys website at www.
com, was done in accordance with the GRI Sustainability Danie Meintjes Reporting Standards 2016 and the non-fi financial Chief Executive Offi cer reporting regulations referred to above.
External audit and assurance The Companys annual fi financial statements and the AR Groups consolidated annual fi financial statements were audited by the Groups independent external auditors,  LLP, in accordance with International Standards of Auditing UK.
The Group follows various other voluntary external accreditation, certifi cation and assurance initiatives, complementing the Groups combined assurance AR model, as reported on in the Risk Management section of this Annual Report.
The Group believes that this adds to the transparency and reliability of information reported to our stakeholders.
