Directors report The directors present their report with the Groups audited consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys audited financial statements prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 and the Companies Act 2006 for the year ended 31 December 2018.
There are no significant events affecting the Group since the end of the year requiring disclosure.
Incorporation by reference Certain laws and regulations require that specific information should be included in the Directors report.
Our nonfinancial information statement is on page 116 and the table below shows the items which are incorporated into this Directors report by reference: Information incorporated into the Directors report by reference Location and page Likely future developments in the Groups business Strategic report pages 2 to 73 Description of the Groups internal control and risk Risk management report pages 46 to 53 management systems Employee information Corporate responsibility report pages 60 to 73 Employee involvement Employment of disabled persons Greenhouse gas emissions Corporate responsibility report pages 70 to 71 The Corporate governance report Board of directors and Corporate governance report pages 74 to 85 A statement of how the Company has complied with the UK Corporate governance report page 85 Corporate Governance Code anddetails of any noncompliance Details of longterm incentive plans Directors remuneration report pages 92 to 114 Statement of directors interests Directors remuneration report pages 112 to 114 Details of directors service contracts Share capital and control pages 116 to 117 and Directors remuneration report page 101 Research and development Note 8 to the Groups consolidated financial statements page 149 and Chief Financial Officers review pages 56 to 57 Policies on financial risk management, including the extent to Note 3 to the Groups consolidated financial statements which financial instruments are utilised to mitigate any significant pages 141 to 142 risks to which the Group is exposed Statement of the amount of interest capitalised by the Group Note 19 to the Groups consolidated financial statements duringthe year with an indication of the amount and treatment of page 156 any related tax relief Details of allotments for cash of ordinary shares made during Note 37 to the Groups consolidated financial statements theperiod under review page 175 Related parties disclosures Note 17 to the Groups consolidated financial statements page 154 Details of share buy back programme Not applicable programme currently suspended Details of any arrangements under which a director of the Doug Webb gave notice of his retirement on Companyhas waived or agreed to waive any emoluments from 17 September 2018.
The Company agreed that he could theCompany or any subsidiary undertaking reduce his contractual notice period of six months and cease to be employed by the Company on 31 December 2018.
He waived all entitlement to his contractual notice pay and benefits from this date.
see also page 104 of the Directors remuneration report Contracts of significance to which the Company is a party and in Nothing to disclose which a director is materially interested Contracts of significance between the Company and a controlling Nothing to disclose shareholder Contracts for the provision of services to the Company by a Nothing to disclose controlling shareholder Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder has waived or Nothing to disclose agreed to waive dividends Agreements related to controlling shareholder requirements under Nothing to disclose LR 9.2.
2A Post balance sheet events Nothing to disclose Meggitt PLC 115 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Directors report continued Non-financial information statement We aim to comply with the new NonFinancial Reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006.
The below table, and information it refers to, is intended to help stakeholders understand our position on key nonfinancial matters.
Reporting requirement Policies and standards which govern our Risk management and additional approach information Environmental matters Environmental Policy Environment pages 68 to 71 Employees Ethics and Business Conduct Policy People pages 64 to 67 Code of Conduct Ethics page 72 Health and Safety Policy Human rights Data Protection Policy Ethics page 72 Modern Slavery Act Statement Social matters Charitable Giving and Sponsorship Policy Social page 73 Anticorruption and AntiCorruption Policy Ethics page 72 antibribery Financial Crime Policy Policy embedding, due Risk management pages 46 to 53 diligence and outcomes Description of principal Principal risks pages 48 to 51 risks and impact of business Creating value for our stakeholders Direct activity and indirect economic contribution page 63 Description of the business model Our business model pages 12 to 13 Nonfinancial KPIs Key performance indicators page 42 to 45 Copies of our policies are available on our website www.
com Details of any unexpired terms of the directors service Dividends contracts are in the Directors remuneration report.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of Membership of committees and biographical information is 11.35p per ordinary 5p share 2017: 10.80p, to be paid on 3 May 2019 to those members on the register at close of disclosed on pages 76 to 79 and in the AGM notice.
An interim dividend of 5.30p 2017: The directors benefit from qualifying thirdparty indemnity 5.05p was paid on 28 September 2018.
If the final dividend provisions for the purposes of Section 236 of the Companies as recommended is approved, the total ordinary dividend for Act 2006 pursuant to the Articles in effect throughout the the year will amount to 16.65p per ordinary 5p share 2017: 15.85p.
financial year and up to the date of this Directors report.
The Company also purchased and maintained throughout the year Directors and Officers liability insurance.
No indemnity Dividend reinvestment plan is provided for the Companys auditors.
The Company operates a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP which enables shareholders to buy the Companys shares on Conflicts of interest the London Stock Exchange with their cash dividend.
Further information about the DRIP is available from Computershare, The Company has a procedure for the disclosure, review, authorisation and management of directors conflicts of the Companys registrars.
interest and potential conflicts of interest, in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
In deciding whether During 2018, the Company made the DRIP available to to authorise a conflict or potential conflicts, the directors must shareholders for the dividends paid in May 2018 and September 2018.
The Board currently intends to continue to make the DRIP have regard to their general duties under the Companies Act 2006.
The authorisation of any conflict matter and the terms of available to shareholders in 2019 and the date by which relevant authorisation are regularly reviewed by the Board.
DRIP elections must be received is disclosed on the financial calendar page on our website.
Political donations Neither the Group nor the Company made any political Directors The directors of the Company in office during the year and up donations or incurred any political expenditure during the year 2017: None.
to the date of signing the financial statements were: Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman, Mr A Wood, Mr G S Berruyer Share capital and control becoming Senior Independent Director with effect from As at 31 December 2018, the Company held 9,859 treasury 25 April 2019, Mrs L S Burdett appointed on 1 January 2019, shares with a nominal value of 5p each and the Companys Mr C R Day, Mrs N L Gioia, Ms A J P Goligher, Mr P E Green, issued share capital excluding shares held as treasury shares Mr G C Hachey appointed on 1 January 2019, Mr P Heiden consisted of 776,855,463 shares with a nominal value of current Senior Independent Director, retiring on 25 April 2019 5p each.
As at 6 February 2019, the Company held 9,859 and Mr D R Webb retired on 31 December 2018. treasury shares with a nominal value of 5p each and the Companys issued share capital excluding shares held as In January 2019, it was announced that Mrs C L Silver will join treasury shares consisted of 776,882,695 shares with a nominal the Board on 25 April 2019.
All of the directors listed above, value of 5p each.
The issued share capital of the Company including Mrs Silver, will be submitted for election or reelection at 31 December 2018 and details of shares issued during the at the Annual General Meeting AGM except for Mr Heiden and financial year are shown in note 37 to the Groups consolidated Mr Webb.
Meggitt PLC 116 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Agreements with the Companys directors or employees The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary providing compensation in the event of a takeover bid: shares are set out in the Articles.
A copy of the Articles is Director Contractual entitlement available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Mr A Wood None except that provisions in the Companys Companys Annual Report and Accounts, to attend and speak share plans may cause options and or awards at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies to granted to employees under such plans to vest exercise full voting rights and to participate in any distribution on a takeover.
Mrs L S Burdett None except that provisions in the Companys share plans may cause options and or awards There are no restrictions on transfer, or limitations on holding granted to employees under such plans to vest ordinary shares and no requirements for prior approval of any on a takeover.
There are no known arrangements under which financial rights are held by persons other than holders of the Mr P E Green Mr Green may terminate his employment shares and no known agreements or restrictions on share within six months and would be entitled to transfers or on voting rights.
Shares acquired through Company compensation from the Company for loss of share plans rank pari passu on an equal footing with the shares office.
The compensation would be annual in issue and have no special rights.
remuneration plus the value of benefits for the unexpired notice period less 5%.
In addition, Rules about the appointment and replacement of directors are provisions in the Companys share plans may contained in the Articles which provide that a director may be cause options and or awards granted to appointed by ordinary resolution of the shareholders or by the employees under such plans to vest on existing directors, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional a takeover.
Changes to the Articles must be submitted to the shareholders for approval by way of special resolution.
directors may exercise all the powers of the Company subject directors to the provisions of relevant legislation, the Articles and any directions given by the Company in generalmeeting.
All other There are no agreements that would provide employees compensation for loss of employment resulting At the 2018 AGM, the Company was granted authority by from a takeover except that provisions in the shareholders to purchase up to 77,642,218 ordinary shares, Companys share plans may cause options and being 10% of the Companys issued share capital, in accordance or awards granted to employees under such with the Articles.
No shares were bought back under this plans to vest on a takeover.
authority during the year ended 31 December 2018.
Shares purchased under this authority would have been cancelled or Substantial shareholdings held as treasury shares to be sold at a later date or used to At 6 February 2019, the Company had been notified under satisfy awards under the Companys share plans as the Board the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR of the saw fit.
following substantial interests in the issued ordinary shares of the Company requiring disclosure: The directors were also granted authority by shareholders to allot securities in the Company up to a nominal amount of Direct Indirect Other Total Percentage 12,940,370 and to allot securities, without the application of voting voting financial voting of total preemption rights, up to a nominal amount of 1,941,055 and rights rights instruments rights voting with voting rights a further 1,941,055 in connection with an acquisition or other m m rights m m capital investment of a kind contemplated by the Statement of Principles on Disapplying PreEmption Rights.
No such The Capital Group transaction is contemplated at present.
Companies, Inc. 77.0 77.0 9.91% BlackRock, Inc. 41.9 6.9 48.8 6.28% These authorities apply until the conclusion of the 2019 AGM or, if earlier, 30 June 2019.
The Company will seek shareholder FMR LLC FIL approval to renew these authorities at the 2019 AGM.
Detailed Limited 43.2 0.4 43.6 5.61% explanatory notes are set out in the AGM notice.
First Pacific Advisors, LLC 39.1 39.1 5.03% The Group has significant financing agreements which include T. Rowe Price change of control provisions which, should there be a change of ownership of the Company, could result in renegotiation, Associates, Inc. 38.8 38.8 4.99% withdrawal or early repayment of these financing agreements.
Harris Associates These are a USD600m note purchase agreement dated May L. P. 38.3 38.3 4.93% 2016, a USD750m syndicated revolving credit agreement dated Standard Life September 2014 and a USD400m note purchase agreement Investments Ltd 22.2 3.8 26.0 3.35% datedJune 2010.
Legal & General There are a number of other longterm commercial agreements Group plc 23.7 23.7 3.05% that may alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Norges Bank 23.5 23.5 3.02% Company following a successful takeover bid.
These arrangements are commercially sensitive and their disclosure One voting right per ordinary share.
Attached to the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
could be seriously prejudicial to the Company.
These holdings are published on a regulatory information service and on the Companys website.
Meggitt PLC 117 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Directors report continued In the case of each director in office at the date the Directors Statement of directors responsibilities report is approved: The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Group and Companys auditors are and regulations.
unaware: and they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Company law requires the directors to prepare financial a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the directors have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance audit information and to establish that the Group and Companys auditors are aware of that information.
with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Fair, balanced and understandable Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, The directors as at the date of this report consider that the comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and applicable law.
Under Company law the directors must not understandable and provides the information necessary for approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that shareholders to assess the Groups position, performance, they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group business model and strategy.
The Board has made this and Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and assessment on the basis of a review of the accounts process, Company for that period.
In preparing the financial statements, a discussion on the content of the Annual Report assessing its the directors are required to: fairness, balance and understandability, together with the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them confirmation from executive management that the Annual consistently: Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed for the Group financial statements Going concern and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising The directors have formed a judgement, at the time of FRS 101, have been followed for the Company financial approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable statements, subject to any material departures disclosed expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate and explained in the financial statements: resources to continue in operational existence for a period of make judgements and accounting estimates that are at least 12 months from the date of this report.
For this reason, reasonable and prudent: and the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis preparing the Group and Company financial statements.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will continue in business.
In reaching this conclusion, the directors have considered: the financial position of the Group as set out in this report The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting and additional information provided in the financial records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and statements including note 3 Financial risk management, Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy note 31 Bank and other borrowings and note 33 Derivative at any time the financial position of the Group and Company financial instruments : and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the the resources available to the Group taking account of its Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act financial projections and considerable existing headroom 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 against committed debt facilities and covenants: and of the IAS Regulation.
the principal risks and uncertainties to which the Group is exposed, as set out on pages 46 to 53, the likelihood of them The directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of arising and the mitigating actions available.
the Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
By order of the Board The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
M L Thomas Each of the directors, whose names are listed in the Board of Company Secretary directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: 25 February 2019 the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: the Company financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company: and the Strategic report and this Directors report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Meggitt PLC 118 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance
