Divisional reviews 382m Aircraft Revenue Braking 122m Underlying operating profit Systems Providing wheels, Markets brakes and brake control Civil aerospace systems for around 35,000 inservice aircraft.
Fixed wing military aircraft Operational performance MABS defence revenue increased by 8% organically, with increased aftermarket demand Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems MABS Rotary wing provides wheels, brakes and brake control on A10 Thunderbolt, F16 Falcon, UH60 Black military aircraft Hawk and Gripen aircraft partially offset by systems for around 35,000 inservice aircraft.
lower demand for Eurofighter Typhoon and BAE It continues to develop innovative technology for new programmes enabling the business to Hawk brakes.
retain its leading position in its target markets, Capabilities underscored by the strong market share gains Operating margin decreased from 35.0% to Wheels and brakes 31.8% in 2018 driven by unfavourable revenue in recent years, notably on super midsize and Control systems: mix and the accelerated growth of free of long range business jets.
brake, nose wheel charge hardware.
This represents a significant steering and refresh of our installed base and dilutes near The division represents 18% of Group revenue, landing gear control generating 91% of its revenue from the term margins, but will drive aftermarket growth Monitoring systems for decades to come.
MABS civil revenue declined by 1% organically.
Civil aftermarket revenue grew by 1% organically driven by good growth in regional jets, particularly Embraer E170 which offset lower demand on Bombardier CRJ900 and a range of smaller aircraft.
Large jet aftermarket reduced by 17% organically with strong growth on Airbus A220 offset by significantly lower demand for spares on mature platforms which had been strong during 2017.
Meggitt PLC 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Carbon brakes Proven in all operating environments, both commercial and defence applications, from small general aviation aircraft to large passenger jets, our carbon brake products are amongst the best in the world.
Our brake frame features include: Latest generation NuCarb carbon Welldesigned hydraulic seals Carbon reinforcement clips to ensure the disks run correctly A design that creates the greatest net space possible for carbon heatsink within the customers space envelope Find out more online at www.
com Meggitt PLC 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Divisional reviews 576m Control Revenue Systems 127m Underlying operating profit A leading supplier of Markets flow control, thermal Civil aerospace management.
Fixed wing Operational performance Defence revenue increased by 11% on an military aircraft organic basis driven by good growth in spares Meggitt Control Systems MCS designs and manufactures products which manage the flow on fighter jet programmes, including B1B Rotary wing Lancer, UH60 Black Hawk and C130J Hercules.
of liquids and gases around aero and industrial military aircraft turbines, and control the temperature of oil, fuel and air in aircraft engines.
The division, Energy revenue increased organically by 5% driven by growth in demand for small industrial which also provides fire protection equipment Military ground to engines and airframes, represents 28% of gas turbine valves.
vehicles Group revenue, generating 39% of its revenue Operating margin declined by 40 basis points from OE and 61% from the aftermarket.
Energy and Revenue was up by 13% organically.
Civil Industrial aerospace grew by 15% organically, with strong performance in both OE and aftermarket.
Marine OE revenue grew by 10% on an organic basis with good growth on A320neo family, 737MAX and A350XWB partially offset by lower Ground fuelling demand on B787 and A320ceo aircraft.
Civil aftermarket revenue grew by 19% on an organic basis with strong growth in large jet demand, particularly on A320, A350XWB, Capabilities B737, B777 and B787.
Control valves and subsystems Aircraft fire protection and control systems Thermal management Electromechanical controls Environmental control Fuel handling Meggitt PLC 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Driving the future of fire suppression Our fire detection systems have been protecting airline passengers, crew and defence personnel for more than forty years.
Constantly evolving, we are exploring new green fire extinguishing agents and developing cutting edge fibre optic detection.
Fibre optics Flexible and easy to install Small, lightweight, durable, passive, and intrinsically safe Faster, more accurate and versatile detection of fires and overheat Can be integrated with other sensor applications, reducing required trunking and cabling Find out more online at www.
com Meggitt PLC 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Divisional reviews 389m Polymers & Revenue Composites 6m Underlying operating profit A leading specialist in fuel Markets containment and systems, Fixed wing defence aircraft sealing solutions and advanced composites.
Rotary wing defence aircraft Defence revenue grew by 21% on an organic Operational performance basis as a result of strong demand for Meggitt Polymers & Composites MPC Civil aerospace supplies flexible bladder fuel tanks, complex composite components on the F135 engine and for retrofit fuel tanks on programmes composites and seals packages for a broad including F A18 Super Hornet, F16 Falcon range of civil and defence platforms.
These Defence ground and UH60 Black Hawk.
products are linked by their dependence vehicles on similar materials technology and manufacturing processes.
It supplies over Operating margin decreased from 7.1% to 1.5% reflecting the full year impact of the elevated 80% of the US defence requirements for fuel Unmanned and extended learning curve costs at the bladders and  and aerial vehicles Groups composite sites which began to impact crashworthy fuel tanks.
MPC represents financial performance in late 2017.
The action we 19% of Group revenue and generated 64% of its revenue from OE and 36% from have taken during 2018 has delivered significant Automotive improvements in operational performance with the aftermarket.
and industrial yield improving across all major parts.
The significant growth on these parts, associated On an organic basis, MPC revenue increased with large shipset values on fast growing new by 16% in 2018, reflecting the strong content we have on new generation civil platforms engine programmes, means we have prioritised Capabilities near term operational performance over cost and growing demand for spares on defence Complex, reduction in 2018.
Improving yield has enabled aircraft.
Civil revenue grew by 10% organically, hightemperature us to reduce scrap costs and with the transfer of as a result of strong demand for our engine composite structures production to low cost regions, increases in composites on the fast growth CFM LEAP andsubassemblies and Pratt & Whitney PurePower engine labour productivity and reductions in raw Flexible fuel tanks for materials costs expected to provide good scope programmes.
Organic order growth of 32% defence and civil aircraft for cost reduction in 2019. in civil OE underpins a healthy medium term anddefence ground outlook for MPC, with continued demand vehicles The outlook for MPC remains strong given the anticipated for our high temperature engine Smart electrothermal ice composites.
extensive capability we have acquired, strong protection platform positions and potential for significant Airframe and engine market growth.
This is particularly true for sealing solutions composite components on new engine programmes where technical barriers remain high and manufacturing knowhow can be a critical differentiator.
Meggitt PLC 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Fuel tanks Our  fuel bladders will selfseal in less than two minutes.
The wound is sealed using a proprietary treatment, which stops fuel leakage in minutes, allowing crews to return safely to base.
Our self-sealing fuel tanks: Innovative material technology  fuel bladders will selfseal in less than two minutes Reduces the risk of fuel related incidents during flight Crash resistant, improved survivability Available for defence and civil applications Find out more online at www.
com Meggitt PLC 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Divisional reviews 499m Sensing Revenue Systems 84m Underlying operating profit A leading provider of highperformance sensing, Markets monitoring, power and motion systems, specialising in Civil aerospace products designed to operate in demanding conditions across a diverse range of applications.
Defence aircraft, ships, ground MSS revenue increased by 4% organically, Operational performance vehicles and with 1% growth in civil aerospace driven by Meggitt Sensing Systems MSS designs and missiles manufactures highly engineered sensors to business jet OE growth, particularly on Bombardier Global 7500 and Embraer Legacy measure a variety of parameters such as 450 500, which offset falling revenue on vibration, temperature, speed, pressure, widebody aircraft.
Defence revenue increased Energy and fluid level and flow as well as power storage, by 6%, with strong growth on F35 sufficient to Industrial conversion and distribution systems and avionics suites for aerospace applications.
Its offset declining spares demand on fighter jet and rotorcraft platforms.
In energy and other products are designed to operate effectively Test and markets including test and measurement, in the extreme conditions of temperature, measurement industrial and medical, MSS revenue increased vibration and contamination that exist in an organically by 4% reflecting success in reducing aircraft or groundbased turbine engine.
Sensors are combined into broader electronics reliance on OEMs and targeting operators of industrial gas turbines: and growing demand in packages, providing condition data to Medical industrial and medical markets for our aero operators and maintainers of engines, derivative sensing capabilities.
contributing to improved safety and lower operating costs.
MSS has migrated these products into other specialist markets Despite 98% growth in free of charge deliveries Capabilities on new generation engine programmes, requiring similar capabilities, such as test and High performance operating margin increased by 400 basis measurement, industrial and medical.
sensors points to 16.8% reflecting lower new product Condition and health introduction costs, purchasing savings from our Combining its capabilities with MABS, it has monitoring for air and a number of civil aerospace tyre pressure centreled approach to category management landbased machinery and good progress in reducing other costs.
This monitoring systems already in service and Power generation, was supported by our site consolidation activity, further systems under development, having conversion and storage with investment to double capacity at our secured positions for this technology on Aircraft surveillance and facility in Vietnam which opened in 2018.
MSS represents 24% of security systems Group revenue and generated 77% of its Situational awareness revenue from OE and 23% from the systems aftermarket.
Wireless control and monitoring systems Avionics and air data systems Meggitt PLC 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Speed sensors An essential part of the engine control system that enables aircraft to take off and land every day.
Speed sensors monitor the critical rotating components in the gas turbine.
With over 75 years experience, our magnetic speed sensors are trusted by engine OEMs around the world.
Multichannel capability Longreach capability enabling flight line maintenance Acoustically stable technology Built in a world class manufacturing facility in Vietnam Find out more online at www.
com Meggitt PLC 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Divisional reviews 236m Equipment Revenue Group 29m Underlying operating profit Created to enable a set of strong, Markets  businesses to market their Fixed wing defence aircraft offerings to specialist customers, while benefiting from the wider Meggitt Groups investment in Rotary wing defence aircraft shared services and common processes.
Defence Increased profitability at Heatric together Operational performance and security with greater operational leverage at MDSI Meggitt Equipment Group MEG comprises our dedicated defence businesses and contributed to good growth in operating margin which increased from 5.8% to 12.2% Heatric, a provider of printed circuit heat Energy and in 2018. exchangers to the energy sector.
The division Industrial represents 11% of Group revenue and In March 2018, we completed the sale of generates 78% of its revenue from OE and 22% from the aftermarket.
Thomson to Umbra and in April 2018, the sale of Precision Micro to Lloyds Development Capabilities Capital.
The two divested businesses generated Combat support MEG revenue grew by 12% organically, 11.8m of revenue during 2018. reflecting good growth in defence as a result ammunition handling, of strong growth at Meggitt Defense Systems electronics cooling and Inc MDSI, a leading provider of thermal countermeasure launch systems, ammunition handling and scoring and recovery systems Livefire and virtual technologies.
In energy, revenue increased organically by 86% in 2018, driven by the training systems recovery at Heatric which has operated in Heat transfer equipment challenging endmarkets following the for offshore oil and gas collapse in the oil price in 2014.
Meggitt PLC 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Environmental control system Tried and tested in the hottest deserts in the world, our auxiliary cooling and power systems enable complete cooling systems to crews, combat equipment and electronics Key features Provides up to 7.5Kw cooling capacity Hydraulically powered, electronically controlled Automatic catastrophic hydraulic leak protection Modular design adaptable to many platforms Find out more online at www.
com Meggitt PLC 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
