MEDICLINIC PARKVIEW HOSPITAL BRINGING OUR NEXT STATE-OF-THE-ART HEALTHCARE FACILITY TO DUBAI Announc Announced in 20 ed in 2015 and due t 15 and due to open in Oct o open in October 20 ober 2018, the 18, the 182-bed Mediclinic P 182-bed Mediclinic Park arkvie view Hospital is Mediclinic Middle Eas w Hospital is Mediclinic Middle East ts s thir third hospital in Dubai and its d hospital in Dubai and its se sev venth acr enth acros oss the U s the UAE.
This major his major David Hadley in inv ves estment will deliv tment will deliver high-le er high-lev vel clinical car el clinical care and tr e and trea eatment t tment to o Chief Executive Offi cer: the r the region, further underpinning Mediclinic Middle Eas egion, further underpinning Mediclinic Middle East ts leading s leading Mediclinic Middle East market position in the UAE.
HOSPITAL BEDS Dubai: Mediclinic City Hospital 278 Mediclinic Welcare Hospital 121 Abu Dhabi: Mediclinic Airport Road Hospital 136 Mediclinic Al Noor Hospital 85 Mediclinic Al Ain Hospital 78 Mediclinic Al Jowhara Hospital 43 64 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SPECIAL FEATURE MEDICLINIC PARKVIEW HOSPITAL I have been extremely impressed with the collaborative effort of all involved in this major investment project that will provide residents in Dubai with unparalleled healthcare services.
Departments and individuals from across the business have been instrumental bringing this project to fruition, including marketing, who carried out extensive research to establish the viability and suitability of the location: our Executive Director, Ahmed Ali, who facilitated the acquisition of the land: operations, who were heavily involved in the initial design and equipment selection: the clinical team who shaped the framework of the hospitals services: and of course engineering, who turned the vision into reality.
I would also like to thank HH Sheikh Mansoor bin Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, for his unwavering support.
With Mediclinic Parkview Hospital due to open ahead of schedule in October 2018, the foundations are in place as Mediclinic enters its next exciting stage of growth in the Middle East.
David Hadley Chief Executive Officer, Mediclinic Middle East KEY PROJECT FACTS A KEY ADDITION TO THE MEDICLINIC MIDDLE EAST DIVISION AED680m Mediclinic first entered the Dubai healthcare market in 2007, PROJECT INVESTMENT growing to become the largest provider of high-quality private healthcare services in Dubai today.
In 2016, Mediclinic Middle East significantly expanded its footprint in the UAE through the combination with Al Noor Hospital Group in Abu Dhabi.
The core purpose of the Group is to enhance the 58 737m quality of life of its patients through a clear focus on clinical TOTAL AREA excellence.
Mediclinic Parkview Hospital is one of the largest capital investment projects undertaken by the Mediclinic Group.
Its construction is testament to Mediclinics confidence in 8 the UAEs economy and continued growth opportunities.
NUMBER OF FLOORS The new hospital will deliver the same international standard healthcare services and procedures that patients have come to expect from Mediclinics existing hospitals and clinics.
Located in the rapidly growing New Dubai area in the south 700 of Dubai, where new schools and commercial developments NUMBER OF STAFF are being built, the hospital will provide services to a currently estimated population of 800 000 UAE nationals and expatriates living in a 10km radius.
MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 65 THE PROGRESS OF MEDICLINIC PROJECT TIMELINE PARKVIEW HOSPITAL In May 2015, Mediclinic Middle East purchased three adjacent May Purchase of land plots of land in the expanding area of Al Barsha South.
The 2015 plots are located on one of the main arterial routes between Dubai, Abu Dhabi and the Northern Emirates, in addition July Appointment of lead designers to being a key thoroughfare between the affluent areas 2015 Stantec of Jumeirah, Umm Suqeim and a number of flourishing inland communities.
The subsequent announcement of the construction of Mediclinic Parkview Hospital on the February Appointment of enabling works site, supported by the opportunities presented by the 2016 contractor Swissboring UAEs growing healthcare sector, represented the largest ever greenfield investment by Mediclinic International.
Construction has progressed smoothly and is ahead of February Ground breaking schedule.
The Hospital Director was appointed in August 2016 2017 and other core members of the team, including the Medical Director, were announced in early 2018.
October Appointment of main 2016 contractor ASGC May Coming out of the ground 2017 August Appointment of Hospital Director 2017 October Completion of the concrete 2017 structure December External walls for the facade 2017 completed October Projected opening 2018 A COLLABORATIVE PROJECT Seeing Mediclinic Parkview Hospital rise literally from the dust has been a source of great pride for me personally, for Mediclinic Middle East as a company, and for the myriad of contractors and suppliers who have worked so tirelessly to ensure that this hospital, upon opening, will be everything that we envisaged.
I would like to recognise the efforts of all those who have been involved in the project, their professionalism and their high standard of working practice.
A greenfield construction project of this scale in Dubai is not without its challenges, but I am proud to report that there have been no major incidents in 4.37 million man hours to date.
The team has exceeded expectations in their efficiency, speed and attention to detail and safety throughout the project, all of which have been instrumental in the project nearing completion sooner than expected.
With just a few months remaining ahead of commissioning in October 2018, we will be focusing on the final technical specifications in sensitive areas such as theatres and the adult and neonatal intensive care units.
I look forward to the ongoing management of the hospital as we bring this respected tertiary healthcare facility to capacity over the coming years.
Alan Wilkinson Senior Director: Engineering Services, Mediclinic Middle East 66 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SPECIAL FEATURE MEDICLINIC PARKVIEW HOSPITAL SPECIALITIES AT MEDICLINIC PARKVIEW HOSPITAL: Accident and emergency Nephrology Anaesthesiology Neurology Bariatric surgery Neurosurgery Breast surgery Obstetrics and gynaecology Cardiology Oncology Dentistry Ophthalmology Dermatology Orthopaedics Endocrinology Paediatric surgery ENT Plastic surgery Family medicine Pulmonary medicine Fetal medicine Radiology Gastroenterology and hepatology Rheumatology General surgery Sports medicine Intensive care Urology KEY CLINICAL FACTS Internal medicine Vascular surgery Laboratory Wound care Neonatology 182 NUMBER OF BEDS 15 8 ON OPENING ICU BEDS 5 OPERATING THEATRES 1 3T MRI &1 256-SLICE CT NUMBER OF SCANNERS MRI CONSULTANT-LED CARE 150 80 ON OPENING Mediclinic Parkview Hospital will provide consultantNUMBER OF DOCTORS led primary, secondary and tertiary level care in over 30 disciplines.
Under the leadership of Dr Albert Oliver, Medical Director of Mediclinic Parkview Hospital and previously Head of the Emergency Department at Mediclinic City Hospital, our team of internationally trained doctors has been carefully selected to meet the requirements of the areas unique demographic profile.
The expertise of our doctors is supported by state-ofthe-art technology and equipment including a 3T MRI, 256 slice CT and cath lab.
We look forward to welcoming our first patients to Mediclinic Parkview Hospital and demonstrating to them the Mediclinic philosophy of Expertise you can Trust.
Barry Bedford Hospital Director, Mediclinic Parkview Hospital MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 67 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS Mediclinic takes a sustainable, long-term approach to business, STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT putting patients at the heart of its operations and consistently Mediclinic recognises its accountability to its stakeholders delivering high-quality healthcare services.
In order to deliver and is committed to effective and regular engagement with on these priorities, the Group upholds the highest standards them, and to publicly report on its sustainability performance.
of clinical governance and ethical behaviour across its Mediclinics key stakeholders are those groups who have a divisions, invests significant time and resources in recruiting material impact on, or are materially impacted by, Mediclinic and retaining skilled staff, makes considerable investment into and its operations, including: patients, doctors, employees and its facilities and equipment and respects the communities and trade unions, suppliers, healthcare funders, government and environment in the areas in which it operates.
authorities, industry associations, investors, the community and the media.
The Groups key stakeholders, methods of This report provides an overview of the Groups engagement, topics discussed or concerns raised are outlined SDR sustainability initiatives, with specific reference to our in the Sustainable Development Report, available on the material sustainability issues.
For more information, please SDR Companys website at www.
The Boards refer to the detailed Sustainable Development Report engagement with stakeholders is also reported on in the AR and the GRI Standards Disclosure Index, available on the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 102 to 104.
Effective communication with stakeholders is fundamental This is the first year that the Company is required to include in maintaining Mediclinics corporate reputation as a trusted a non-financial information statement in the strategic and respected provider of healthcare services and positioning report in accordance with the Companies, Partnerships itself as a leading international private healthcare group.
and Groups Accounts and Non-financial Reporting Mediclinics commitment to its stakeholders to conduct its Regulations 2016.
The regulations implemented the EU business in a responsible and sustainable way, and to respond Non-financial Reporting Directive 2014 95 EU requiring to stakeholder needs, is entrenched in the Groups values disclosure of information about policies, risks and and supported by the Group Code of Business Conduct outcomes regarding: and Ethics.
A wide variety of communication vehicles are AR used to engage with stakeholders, which serve as an impact environmental matters refer to our Material issue 2: assessment to assess stakeholders needs and to effectively Minimising our environmental impacts: AR respond thereto.
Stakeholders legitimate expectations employee matters refer to our Material issue 1: have been taken into account in setting the Groups key Developing an engaged and productive workforce: sustainability priorities, as reported on throughout this report.
and The Group continually looks for ways to improve its use of social, human rights, as well as anti-corruption and AR online channels to communicate with its stakeholders through anti-bribery matters refer to our Material issue 3: the corporate website and webcasting.
Being an ethical and responsible corporate citizen.
SDR This report, read with the Sustainable Development Report, constitutes the Groups non-financial information statement.
During the reporting process, minor corrections have been made to the prior year data as reported in the previous reports.
68 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS AWARDS AND ACCOLADES GROUP Mediclinic International confirmed as a FTSE4Good constituent, which index recognises the performance of companies demonstrating strong environmental, social and governance ESG practices.
Mediclinic International confirmed as a FTSE JSE Responsible Investment Index constituent, which index recognises such companies listed on the JSE who meet the required FTSE Russell ESG rating.
Mediclinic International achieved global A List status from CDP Carbon Disclosure Project for water conservation.
SWITZERLAND Hirslanden ranked first in the healthcare sector and among over 500 enterprises in Switzerland and Liechtenstein by Best Recruiters, an independent recruitment study.
All 17 Hirslanden hospitals are registered as COreduced businesses by the Energy Agency of the Swiss Private Sector 2 on behalf of the Swiss Federal Office of Energy.
SOUTHERN AFRICA Mediclinic Southern Africas brand ranked 16th in the Top 20 Brand South Africa rankings for 2017, being the only South African healthcare provider recognised by Brand Finance and Brand Africa.
Eight Mediclinic Southern Africa hospitals included in Discovery Healths Top 20 Private Hospitals in South Africa 2017, based on the results of their patient surveys.
Eight Mediclinic Southern Africa hospitals awarded the Katrin Kleijnhans Quality Trophy from the Council for Healthcare Services Accreditation of Southern Africa COHSASA during 2017, recognising their substantial contribution to quality improvement during the COHSASA accreditation process.
Mediclinic awarded Go-Live Project of the Year at the OpenText Digiruption Indaba Awards for 2017 for the successful integration OpenText Extended ECM and SAP SuccessFactors consolidating human resources record keeping into a single, trusted database.
UAE Mediclinic Dubai Mall Clinic recognised as the best Medical Clinic of the Year at the Mother, Baby and Child Awards 2017.
David Hadley, CEO of Mediclinic Middle East, recognised as the Healthcare Business Leader of the Year at the Gulf Business Awards 2017.
FTSE Russell the trading name of FTSE International Limited and Frank Russell Company confirms that Mediclinic has been independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Created by the global index provider FTSE Russell, the FTSE4Good Index Series is designed to measure the performance of companies demonstrating strong Environmental, Social and Governance ESG practices.
The FTSE4Good indices are used by a wide variety of market participants to create and assess responsible investment funds and other products.
MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 69 e c r o f k r o w e v l i a t N c E Z t u I T Responsible water usage I i d Supply chain management Supply chain management C E o L p r B I S p N a O P S d C Cos ost of healthcar t of healthcare e E c R n n D a a N A d d n Ener Energy gy effi effi cienc ciency y L A e e C I a a S S S Stak takeholder engagement eholder engagement g g H B B T E a a o o e e N i i g g A m m n n c G n n g g N i I e e E u u B a a Ethics, anti-bribery and Ethics, anti-bribery and c corruption orruption : M a 3 n n A n n E T H l E a a U e e S R S I R Reduction of emis eduction of emissions sions I A t t g g L L a h A I S n I i R S i U n c E E T p A 1 a : d l M D o Sound labour r Sound labour rela elations tions including emplo including employ yee ee engagement engagement E a V l E e L r n O v P d I e e N r G Safe waste and hazardous waste practices l D A e N a s E N p SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS CONTINUED MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT Mediclinic has many economic, social and environmental the following three material issues, as illustrated in Figure 1, impacts, including creating employment opportunities, which constitute the focus of this report: training and developing employees, responsible use of developing an engaged and productive workforce: natural resources, investing in local communities and black minimising our environmental impacts: and economic empowerment in South Africa.
being an ethical and responsible corporate citizen.
In terms of the Group Sustainable Development Policy, the The Groups strategy, performance, risks and sustainability Clinical Performance and Sustainability Committee annually are inseparable.
The link between the Groups three material reviews the Groups material sustainability issues to ensure sustainability issues and the Groups strategy as further management initiatives are directed at those sustainable AR detailed in Our Strategy, Progress and Aims from page 14 development issues that are most signifi cant to the business, of the Annual Report is indicated.
and which directly aff ect the Groups ability to create value for its key stakeholders.
The materiality assessment identifi ed FIGURE 1: MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT MATRIX VALUE 70 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 G t A i o G Employee health and safety including wellness E n D o s A i N D n b P l R e O s D Eff Eff ectiv ective en e envir vironmental onmental management s management sy ys st tem em U h c C s T o I V t i r E c p p W a O o R r r p p T K Emplo Employ yee r ee remuner emunera ation tion and r and rec ecognition ognition l C F c a a m m A O P t t R M a a i i C I C Corpor orpora at te social e social in inv ves estment tment a e e E L l l A t t c c a a T p N i i i i E t t t t n n M i i i i N p p t t z z e e O R e e I m m a a a R Respecting human rights especting human rights V n n N Emplo Employ yee fide ee dev velopment elopment and tr and training aining l E n n R c U o o O r r G i i l N I v S I Support of e Support of ext xternal ernal tr training ins aining institutions titutions M a n I N e r I M r : 2 u E u U S o t Inf Informa ormation security tion security S I L g Employee recruitment and retention a A I R n E i T N A s M i Maintain high-quality healthcare infrastructure m i n i M STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS MATERIAL ISSUE 1: DEVELOPING AN ENGAGED AND PRODUCTIVE WORKFORCE HIGHLIGHTS Implementation of world-class workforce optimisation initiatives and the integration of these principles in the relevant business processes Continued investment in training and skills development to maintain and improve quality service delivery Entrenching the employee engagement survey and embedding follow up actions across the Group Continued people management development for line managers Ongoing implementation of a standardised human resources ICT system WHY THIS IS IMPORTANT TO KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS THE BUSINESS CONTROLLABLE EMPLOYEE The attraction of suitably qualified healthcare professionals TURNOVER RATE is essential in delivering the Groups Patients First strategy.
Switzerland 8.7% We aim to provide a working environment with a supporting 2017: 7.2% culture where employees can thrive.
The continued investment in initiatives that support this overarching goal 7.7% Southern Africa 2017: 6.3% is visible in the turnover of scarce skills that has shown a significant decline.
These initiatives include engagement, UAE 10.3% corporate health and wellness, continuous development, 2017: 8.4% mentoring and coaching.
It requires a long-term focus and genuine transformation of practices in order to be successful.
Refer to page 72 for more on the increase in the turnover rate.
These initiatives will be continued and expanded to create a diverse and inclusive environment that enables optimal EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT performance of employees.
GRAND MEAN SCORE MAXIMUM SCORE OF 5 Workforce optimisation has been a key focus for the year.
Resources were allocated to analyse current workforce Group 3.88 practices with the intention to optimise the utilisation of 2017: 3.81 human resources especially in the clinical environment.
3.93 Switzerland A new methodology of workforce planning and scheduling 2017: 3.91 was piloted and integrated during the annual budgeting process.
Continued focus on workforce planning and Southern Africa 3.85 2017: 3.73 forecasting will ensure that the goal of operational efficiency is achieved as required in order to deliver on the Patients 3.86 UAE First strategy.
2017: 3.92 The prior year employee engagement index of Mediclinic Middle LINK TO GROUP STRATEGY East excluded the employees of its Abu Dhabi operations.
Invest in employees Improve safe, quality clinical care TRAINING SPEND AS APPROXIMATE Improve patient experience PERCENTAGE OF PAYROLL Improve efficiency Switzerland 4.6 KEY STAKEHOLDERS 2017: 4.8 Employees and trade unions 3.5% Southern Africa Doctors 2017: 3.2% Patients UAE 0.2% 2017: 0.1% MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 71
