CLINICAL SERVICES OVERVIEW CONTINUED The fall rate and in-hospital pressure ulcer rate are regarded preventing multidrug resistance are critical.
Antimicrobial as nursing sensitive indicators and correlate with the number resistance increases with using all antimicrobials and not and skills of available nursing staff.
The fall rate decreased only certain classes of antimicrobials.
The total antimicrobial by 7% in 2017, however, the decrease is not statistically consumption needs to be reduced.
The prevention of falls remains a priority.
usage and utilisation decreased by 1.6% in 2017.
The in-hospital pressure ulcer rate decreased by 25.92%.
Clinical effectiveness This decrease is statistically significant, and is mainly due The clinical performance measurement of CCUs was refined to continued focus on the early detection and prevention of by implementing the Simplified Acute Physiology Score  dermatitis, one of the main drivers SAPS 3 physiological mortality prediction model, instead of in-hospital pressure ulcers.
of the previously used APACHEIV.
SAPS 3 is statistically Infection prevention and control better suited to the Mediclinic population and predicts  infections mortality more accurately.
During 2017, the average mortality rate for patients admitted to CCUs was 16.97% compared to HAI remain one of the highest risks.
Hand hygiene the expected mortality rate of 17.85%.
The resultant SAPS 3 compliance, which is a focus area for improvement, is an mortality index was 0.95. important measure in the prevention of HAI, and remained stable at 75.3%.
The in-hospital mortality prediction model calculates the expected mortality rate based on administrative data.
This The HAI rate, reflected in Figure 4, increased by 7.57% model was reviewed and refined in 2016.
The 2015 values over the 2017 calendar year.
The increase is statistically can therefore not be compared directly to the 2016 2017 significant.
The adherence to evidence-based practices, values due to the change in methodology.
When compared such as care bundles to reduce device-associated infections, to the 2017 index, a 6% decrease is noted.
This decrease is remain a focus area.
HAI rates and compliance with hand statistically significant see Figure 5. hygiene principles are closely monitored by audits, and hospitals are supported in dealing with outbreaks timeously The 30-day all-cause re-admission rate increased by 0.08% and efficiently.
Re-admissions within seven days of discharge Antimicrobial stewardship account for half the re-admissions, and remains a focus area for improvement.
The extended stay rate is expressed as an Considering the high burden of infectious disease in Southern index, and decreased by 0.88% compared to 2016.
Africa, effectively managing antimicrobial resources and FIGURE 4:  INFECTIONS FIGURE 5: INPATIENT MORTALITY MEDICLINIC SOUTHERN AFRICA MEDICLINIC SOUTHERN AFRICA FIGURE 1: ADVERSE EVENTS MEDICLINIC SOUTHERN AFRICA 2016' 1.00 0.94 Crude 2015 2015' mortality rate 2016 2014' Expected 2017 mortality rate Mortality index Adverse event type 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Calendar year Medication Falls In-hospital Calendar year errors pressure ulcers 38 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Rate per 1 000 patient days 0.86 1.18 1.14 1.07 0.26 Rate per 1 000 patient days 2.19 1.85 0.96 1.99 0.6 Mortality ratio % 1.3 1.57 1.57 0.4 1.61 1.72 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CLINICAL SERVICES OVERVIEW Progress against objectives Future objectives Patients First at Mediclinic Patients First at Mediclinic Implemented the surgical safety checklist in all hospitals.
Complete the implementation of specific patient safety initiatives aimed at preventing adverse events.
Improved reporting of SAE through many initiatives and valuable information was gathered that will guide the Implement specific training initiatives that will further future strategy.
enable staff to drive quality improvement continuously.
Implemented a successful quality improvement project, Develop and implement action plans that will improve which enhanced patient safety and patient care further.
Developed and implemented a new nursing workforce Develop action plans to improve medication safety.
model to ensure accurate allocation of scarce Further refine clinical performance measures.
Share more detailed clinical information with doctors.
Successfully launched a national hand hygiene Further reduce infection rates through the implementation campaign: and developed compliance measures to track of a comprehensive infection prevention and control improvement.
Implemented the combined BetterObs and Mediclinic Value-based care obstetric enhancement projects, which will further Proceed with further appointments of hospital clinical mitigate risks identified in obstetric care.
Implemented a specific infection prevention and control Proceed with the further implementation of the new strategy, which was critical in managing the everclinical performance, oversight and governance model in increasing risk of infectious diseases and  with supporting doctors.
Develop in collaboration with supporting doctors and Value-based care implement more clinical pathways led by doctors.
Implemented a new clinical performance oversight and Develop a structured implementation plan for the governance model in collaboration with supporting integrated comprehensive critical care strategy.
Implement the national stroke management strategy.
Developed in collaboration with supporting doctors Clinical information systems and implemented two clinical pathways led by doctors.
Developed a comprehensive and integrated critical Mediclinic Southern Africa will engage with specific service care strategy.
providers to evaluate potential solutions for the South African market and commence a thorough assessment of Developed a national stroke management strategy.
Clinical information systems Mediclinic Southern Africa developed a clinical information readiness strategy and a proposed roadmap for evaluating potential solutions.
MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 39 CLINICAL SERVICES OVERVIEW CONTINUED The in-hospital pressure ulcer rate increased by 150%, when MEDICLINIC MIDDLE EAST compared with the 2016 rate, which is statistically significant.
Clinical performance The division initiated various quality improvement projects, specifically in the CCUs, where the patient population has Mediclinic Middle East has the lowest case mix index in the higher acuity levels with multiple co-morbidities.
A steady Group, and serves a younger, healthier community.
The decline in the in-hospital pressure ulcer rate was noted in the clinical performance is satisfactory as demonstrated by low latter part of 2017 and the trend will be closely monitored.
infection rates and other outcome measures, e. g. patient falls, HAI, etc.
Infection prevention and control  infections Patient safety Preventing HAI remains a key patient safety objective Providing safe care remains a priority across the division and for Mediclinic Middle East.
This includes standardised is reflected in a Just Culture supported by management.
processes around infection control based on international Just Culture is a culture in which staff are not punished best practices, implementing care bundles Surgical Site for actions, omissions or decisions taken by them which are Infections, VAP, CLASBI and CAUTI, and a surveillance in line with their experience and training, but where gross programme with a multilayer methodology.
This methodology negligence and wilful violations are not tolerated.
includes surveillance that is active and passive, patient and Figure 6 reflects the rate of adverse events per laboratory-based, prospective and retrospective, priority- 1 000 patient days.
Medication errors increased significantly by 169.23% when When compared to 2016, the HAI rate decreased by 12.5%: compared to 2016.
The increase is due to an auditing the CAUTI rate decreased by 15.9%: the CLABSI rate and reporting drive, with the main contributor being decreased by 13.6%: and VAP rate decreased by 76.1% see prescribing errors.
Most medication errors are identified and Figure 7.
Although the decrease in the CLABSI and CAUTI reported by the pharmacy and prevented from reaching rates are not statistically significant, the decrease in the VAP patients.
Medication management remains a key focus area rate is.
A change in the Centres for Disease Control and for the group.
Prevention definition of HAI, especially for VAP, contributed significantly to the decline in the rate.
The fall rate increased by 25% but is not statistically significant.
Fall awareness and prevention remain a key focus Clinical effectiveness area for Mediclinic Middle East.
The fall awareness campaign includes educational videos for staff, fall prevention posters SAPS 3 was implemented in all the CCU in Mediclinic Middle in patient rooms and a fall prevention booklet for patients East since October 2016.
It replaced the APACHE IV Scoring and visitors.
system, which was implemented only in the Dubai facilities.
FIGURE 6: ADVERSE EVENTS MEDICLINIC MIDDLE EAST 2015 2016 2017 Medication Falls In-hospital errors pressure ulcers Adverse event type 40 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Rate per 1 000 patient days 0.60 1.30 3.50 1.70 0.30 0.44 0.51 4.30 0.50 0.19 2.27 0.49 4.44 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CLINICAL SERVICES OVERVIEW This will ensure that outcomes can be benchmarked across Implemented the Vermont Oxford Network databases in the Mediclinic Group.
The data collected for 2016 was only all facilities.
part of the calendar year and not suitable for including Combined the clinical services departments of the group, as a comparative value for 2017.
The performance of the which was implemented, expanded and embedded all the SAPS 3 model was calibrated.
Even though the mortality clinical oversight committee structures.
index is 1.4, the crude mortality rate is low at 3.0%.
Developed clinical key performance indicators for The predicted mortality rate is influenced by the accuracy doctors, and will be part of the formal doctors appraisal of the data and the validation of data quality is a focus area process implementation plan for 2018. for 2018.
The in-hospital mortality rate decreased by 4.16% during the period under review and remained low at 0.23% in line with the young population and low case mix of the operating FIGURE 1: ADVERSE EVENTS MEDICLINIC division see Figure 8.
FIGURE 8: INPATIENT MORTALITY MEDICLINIC SOUTHERN AFRICA MIDDLE EAST 2016' The re-admission rate increased by 12.24% when compared to 2016.
The increase is not statistically significant and no 2015 2015' concerns were raised.
2016 2014' Progress against objectives Patients First at Mediclinic 2017 Appointed quality and patient safety officers, established a quality department on corporate level and updated its patient safety strategy.
Mediclinic Al Noor Hospital was successfully re-accredited by JCI in November 2017.
Standardised clinical indicators across the group: and created a central repository.
Implemented SAPS 3 in all CCUs across all the divisions Adverse event type 2015 2016 2017 hospitals.
Calendar year Medication Falls In-hospital errors pressure ulcers FIGURE 7: DEVICE-ASSOCIATED INFECTIONS MEDICLINIC MIDDLE EAST 2015 2016 2017 CatheterCentral Ventilatorassociated urinary line-associated associated tract infections bloodstream pneumonia infections Deviceassociated infection type MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 41 Rate per 1 000 patient days 0.86 1.18 Rate per 1 000 device days 0.30 1.14 0.44 1.07 0.37 3.50 0.26 2.40 1.47 1.27 Percentage of admissions % 7.60 2.26 0.26 0.54 4.44 0.24 0.96 0.23 0.73 CLINICAL SERVICES OVERVIEW CONTINUED Value-based care Future objectives The division expanded the affiliation agreement with the Patients First at Mediclinic Mohammed Bin Rashid University of Health Sciences Implement the standardised doctors appraisal process MBRUHS in Dubai.
Mediclinic City Hospital is an across the group.
accredited external training facility for medical students, Finalise the scope and project plan for the nursing and the second intake of medical students was enrolled performance management system.
Expand and implement new clinical indicators across Mediclinic Middle East hosted a successful first annual the group.
research day in February 2018 at MBRUHS.
Expand the outcome database participation and roll out We developed the current breast and metabolic centres the obstetrics dashboard.
at Mediclinic City Hospital to streamline clinical processes.
Formulate the JCI re-accreditation preparedness plan for The division commissioned a stroke centre at Mediclinic all facilities in the group.
City Hospital and achieved the certification of the German Update the quality and patient safety strategy for Stroke Association in January 2018. the group.
Mediclinic Middle East successfully commissioned and Develop a strategy for managing quality indicators opened the new Comprehensive Cancer Centre in the as defined by the regulators and agree on a quality north wing expansion at Mediclinic City Hospital.
management framework for the group.
The division signed off a cancer strategy that includes Align the clinical risk management strategy to the Group.
the clinical oversight structure, site-specific tumour Define a clear strategy for the establishment of centres of board structure and function, as well as scope of service excellence in the division.
delivery at the different facilities.
The division implemented the centralisation and Value-based care consolidation strategy of laboratory services for the group.
Finalise the formulation of the clinical strategy for certain Mediclinic City Hospital laboratory was successfully key service lines for the group IVF, metabolic centre, re-accredited by The College of American Pathologists vascular surgery, cosmetics, etc.. in August 2017.
Continue developing the metabolic surgery service at Successfully obtained the ISO certification for all Mediclinic Airport Road hospital and prepare for the laboratories in the Abu Dhabi, Al Ain and Western Region.
Mediclinic Middle East relocated and commissioned Further develop and expand coordinated care initiatives the in-vitro fertilisation IVF and dialysis centres across the group breast centre, comprehensive cancer previously located in Mediclinic Al Noor hospital in Abu centre, metabolic centre, etc.. Dhabi to Mediclinic Al Ain hospital.
Continue the centralisation and consolidation strategy for Mediclinic is in the process of reviewing the existing laboratory services in the division.
clinical pathways and developed additional pathways Define a strategy for doctors benchmarking.
in preparation for the implementation of DRG and Develop a strategy to centralise radiology services across implementing the new electronic health record the division.
Clinical information systems Clinical information systems Mediclinic Middle East will implement the newly Mediclinic Middle East selected a new EHR system selected EHR system across the group as per the agreed for the group.
42 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CLINICAL SERVICES OVERVIEW MEDICLINIC INTERNATIONAL Future objectives Mediclinic Internationals clinical services department consists Implement a clinical adverse event and clinical risk of a small team that coordinates clinical services across the management across the Group.
The team provides strategic direction, oversight and Further refine and optimise the clinical performance accountability: coordinates collaboration across operating model and clinical performance indicators.
divisions: and is directly involved in selected projects.
Further drive collaboration on nursing across the Group.
Support the operating divisions in eradicating never Progress against objectives events and decreasing the number of SAE.
A master data management programme, compiling and Refine and optimise the medication management process governing data relating to doctors, was implemented in across the Group.
Develop an integrated clinical digital roadmap, including Clinical performance measures and operational dashboards artificial intelligence, machine learning and telemedicine.
Continue to collaborate with and provide support We established a patient safety sub-committee to to Mediclinic Middle East and Hirslanden with the standardise and enhance collaboration across the Group.
implementation of their EHR systems.
An initiative was started to coordinate collaboration of Refine and optimise the clinical governance structure nursing services across operating divisions.
to enforce the Ward-to-Board accountability framework We established a collaborative forum for clinical risk across the Group.
Centrally advise and coordinate clinical research across We sourced a clinical adverse event and clinical risk the Group.
management solution suitable for the Group.
Initiatives are underway to coordinate health technology assessments centrally.
These initiatives will be further refined.
Thought leadership, oversight and close collaboration were provided in the selection of an EHR system in the Middle East and Southern Africa divisions.
Continued collaboration and support are provided to Hirslanden with the implementation of its EHR systems.
MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 43 RISK MANAGEMENT, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Board believes that effective risk management and internal control systems underpin a successful business and are integral to realising the Groups overall objective of delivering value to its shareholders.
The Board is ultimately responsible for monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of these systems and reporting on its review in the Annual Report.
The Board has delegated to the Audit and Risk Committee the tasks of evaluating the Groups risk management procedures, assessing the effectiveness of the internal controls and monitoring the integrity of the Groups reporting, but maintains strong and regular oversight of the outcome of the Audit and Risk Committees work.
RISK MANAGEMENT The objective of risk management in the Group is to identify and assess important and emerging risks.
To this end, the Group has established an Enterprise-wide Risk Management ERM policy which follows the international Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission COSO framework and is aligned to the Groups operations and strategy.
The Group ERM framework defines the risk appetite, risk management objectives, methodology, risk identification, assessment and treatment processes and the responsibilities of the various risk management role-players in the Group.
The ERM policy is embedded in the Groups daily management and operational processes.
It provides a robust structure within which management can operate and which directors can oversee without stifling the core activities of the business.
The policy reinforces a strong risk management culture within the Group by setting the tone and acting as the starting point for all components of risk management and internal control.
It is subject to annual review, and any amendments are submitted to the Audit and Risk Committee for approval.
In accordance with the recommendations of the Financial Reporting Councils UK Code on Corporate Governance and Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting, the Board annually reviews the Groups principal risks and ERM policy and processes, taking account of the Audit and Risk Committees recommendations and assessment.
An ERM software application supports the Groups risk management process in all three operating divisions.
The Groups principal risk items grouped by category, business process and strategic priorities, the movement in risk during the financial year, and key measures taken to mitigate these risks, are listed in the table below.
PRINCIPAL RISKS PRINCIPAL MOVEMENT RISK IN 2018 DESCRIPTION OF RISK MITIGATION OF RISK The risk relates to the Systems to monitor developments Economic downturn in the general in the economic and business and business Economic growth economic and business environment of trends and earlyenvironment risk in Switzerland and environment, including all those warning indicators 1 in South Africa factors that affect a companys Proactive monitoring and continued to be operations, customers, negotiation by Groups funder weak, resulting competitors, stakeholders, relations departments in increased risk suppliers and industry trends.
Focus on quality and continuum exposure.
of care to reinforce the The business environment risk Companys position includes the power of funders and the potential negative impact on tariffs and fees resulting from the shift of the relative negotiating power towards funders, away from healthcare service providers.
This is the risk of increased Strategic planning processes Business financial exposure relating investment and Due diligence processes to major strategic business The investments acquisition risks Investment mandates investments and acquisitions.
and governance Board oversight processes were 1 2 Post-acquisition management strengthened processes during the year.
44 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION RISK MANAGEMENT, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES PRINCIPAL MOVEMENT RISK IN 2018 DESCRIPTION OF RISK MITIGATION OF RISK The risk relates to the Proactive monitoring Competition uncertainty created by the Strategic planning processes 1 Healthcare existence of competitors or the Quality and value of care providers market emergence of new competitors processes continued to with their own strategies.
grow through The risk includes the normal channels outmigration of care, partly of acquisitions, driven by further technological expansions, new developments and the facilities etc.
There development of alternative were no major care models.
changes to impact risk exposure.
These risks involve the cost, Long-term planning of capital Availability and terms and availability of capital requirements and cash-flow cost of capital to finance strategic expansion forecasting Interest rates are including financing opportunities and or the expected to rise and liquidity risk Scrutiny of cash-generating refinancing or restructuring of in the year ahead, capacity within the Group 2 existing debt which has been which may lead to Proactive and long-term affected by prevailing capital an increase in the agreements with banks and market conditions.
other funders relating to funding facilities Monitoring compliance with requirements of debt covenants Further details on capital risk management and the Groups borrowings are contained in the AR annual financial statements Operational and Operational risk refers to Preservation of a sound internal diverse types of operational financial control environment credit risks The risk exposure events with the potential for Effective operational risk 2 3 was reduced financial loss, operational management processes following the interruptions or reputational Extensive combined assurance successful damage.
processes integration of the Monitoring operations through Credit risk is the risk of loss due Al Noor business.
key performance indicators to a funders inability to pay KPIs the outstanding balance owing, default by banks and or other Continuous enhancement of deposit-taking institutions, operational efficiency and cost or the inability to recover reduction outstanding amounts due from Regulated minimum solvency patients.
requirements for funders Monitoring approved funders Treasury policy Executive and board level oversight MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 45 RISK MANAGEMENT, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED PRINCIPAL MOVEMENT RISK IN 2018 DESCRIPTION OF RISK MITIGATION OF RISK The risk refers to the quality of Patient satisfaction surveys Quality and service and the stability of the internal and external stability of The operational operations.
It includes but is Complaints monitoring operational services risk not limited to: Training programmes services risk did not change Supervising service levels incidents of poor service or significantly and 3 incidents where operational Emergency backup power remained stable management fails to respond generation throughout the effectively to complaints: Emergency planning year.
operational interruptions Plans to deal with disasters which refers to any Extensive fire-fighting and disruption of the facility and detection systems, including may include the threat of comprehensive maintenance disrupted power or water processes supply: and Comprehensive insurance to deal fire and allied perils causing with financial impact of potential damage or business disasters interruption.
Information systems security Comprehensive information Information risk including cyber risk systems logical access, change systems security relates to unauthorised access and physical access controls The increased and availability to information systems, risk relates to the Disaster recovery planning risk failure of data integrity and continued external System design and architecture confidentiality.
Availability threats arising 4 Group ICT Security Committee risk relates to instances where from cyberattack.
Experienced project management systems are not available for teams use by its intended users.
Proactive monitoring and Project delivery risk, closely oversight associated with information systems risk, refers to issues or occurrences that could potentially interfere with completion of projects, including scope, timeliness and appropriateness of delivery.
The risk involves adverse Proactive engagement strategies Regulatory and changes in laws and regulations with stakeholders compliance risk impacting the Group or failure The increased Health policy units created to to comply with laws and 5 risk relates to the conduct research and provide regulations which may result introduction of strategic input into reform in losses, fines, prosecution or new regulations processes damage to reputation.
which includes Active industry participation TARMED Tariff across all divisions The risk includes ethical and System for Company Secretarial and governance risks that refer Outpatient or Legal departments support to the unexpected negative Medical Services operational management, monitor consequences of unethical in Switzerland and regulatory developments and, actions or the failure of the EU General where necessary, obtain expert the control and oversight Data Protection legal advice for the effective mechanisms which were Regulation implementation of compliance designed and implemented to GDPR.
initiatives uphold the ethical standards and controls Compliance risks identified and of the organisation.
assessed as part of compliance management processes Visible ethical leadership Monitoring and investigation of incidents reported on the ethics line Executive and Board level oversight 46 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION RISK MANAGEMENT, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES PRINCIPAL MOVEMENT RISK IN 2018 DESCRIPTION OF RISK MITIGATION OF RISK CSR Clinical risks are associated Refer to the Clinical Services Clinical risks with the provision of clinical Report for a detailed analysis 6 Clinical processes care and may result in of the strategies to manage and across operating undesirable quality of care or monitor clinical risks divisions clinical outcomes.
A Group-wide clinical risk continued to be registers per operating division The risks include a pandemic a key focus area Accreditation processes and disease outbreak.
Clinical governance processes pandemic is an epidemic of Risk exposure infectious disease that spreads Monitoring clinical performance remained at a through human populations indicators comparable level across a large region.
Disease Comprehensive processes for to the previous outbreak involves highly infection control and prevention year.
infectious diseases with a high Marketing and communication mortality rate.
strategies Quality management processes Such risks may also result in damage to the Mediclinic brand Stakeholder engagement and equity, which is the value of the disclosure strategies Groups brand names.
The availability and support Monitoring doctor satisfaction, Risk of availability, of admitting doctors, whether movement and doctors profiles recruitment and Vacancies and independent or employed, Details on the relationship retention of turnover ratios are critical to the services the with doctors are provided in skilled resources SDR in respect of Group provides.
the Sustainable Development and medical skilled resources Report.
practitioners There is a shortage of skilled and medical The employment, recruitment and labour, particularly a shortage practitioners 7 retention strategies are explained SDR of qualified and experienced are expected to in the Sustainable Development nursing staff in Southern Africa.
levels to the prior The extensive training and year.
skills development programme, and the foreign recruitment programme are further explained SDR in the Sustainable Development Report.
KEY REFERENCE CATEGORY BUSINESS PROCESSES STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Strategic Strategy formulation and Delivering business value 1 and business implementation Continuing to expand as a successful environment Strategic investments and strategic international healthcare group projects Financial and Revenue cycle 2 reporting risks Procure to pay cycle Financial management and control Treasury Health information including coding Operational risks Infrastructure 3 Marketing and corporate communication Operations Information and communications Information technology ICT 4 technology risks ICT projects MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 47
