DIVISIONAL REVIEW SOUTHERN AFRICA 52 5% NUMBER OF REVENUE HOSPITALS R15 106M 2 6% NUMBER OF ADJUSTED EBITDA R3 245M DAY CLINICS 8 131 -1.5% NUMBER OF BED DAYS SOLD BEDS 278 82.1% NUMBER OF PATIENT EXPERIENCE THEATRES INDEX Koert Pretorius Chief Executive Offi cer: Mediclinic Southern Africa CEOS STATEMENT Mediclinic Southern Africa delivered good operational and fi financial results for the period under review despite some weaker patient volumes.
We have continued to make good progress with the rollout of further strategic initiatives to improve the value proposition that we off er to our patients, focusing on patient safety initiatives, improving patient experience and initiatives to improve collaboration with our supporting doctors.
We have continued to invest in the maintenance and upgrade of our facilities and will add six new day clinics to our portfolio in the next few years to provide the most appropriate range of care for our patients in the future.
We continued to address a number of matters in the wider business environment, specifi cally the Health Market Inquiry and National Health Insurance developments.
Following a fi first half performance where patient volumes KEY FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL were impacted by the timing of Easter and other public HIGHLIGHTS holidays, Mediclinic Southern Africa delivered an improved In Southern Africa including South Africa and Namibia, and  second half performance.
as at the end of the reporting period, Mediclinic operated Despite a continued weak macroeconomic environment, 52 hospitals and 2 day clinics with a total of 8 131 beds and stable medical insurance membership and certain funder 16 068 employees 19 795 full-time equivalents.
Mediclinic interventions, revenue in Southern Africa increased by 5% to Southern Africa is the third largest private healthcare ZAR15 106m FY17: ZAR14 367m.
Bed days sold decreased provider in Southern Africa by number of licensed beds.
by 1.5% and average revenue per bed day increased by 6.7%.
Mediclinic Southern Africa accounted for 31% of the Groups Admissions decreased by 2.2% with the greatest decline in revenues FY17: 28% and 37% of its adjusted EBITDA surgical day cases as the outmigration trend continues.
average length of stay increased by 0.8% whilst occupancy rates were 69.7% FY17: 71.5%.
56 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION DIVISIONAL REVIEW SOUTHERN AFRICA Adjusted EBITDA increased by 6% to ZAR3 245m FY17: ZAR3 049m resulting in the adjusted EBITDA margin 16 068 increasing to 21.5% from 21.2% as the ongoing shift in case mix towards medical versus surgical cases and lower patient NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES volumes were more than off set by cost management and effi ciency initiatives.
Depreciation and amortisation increased by 7% to ZAR495m 3.85 FY17: ZAR465m mainly because of an increased spend on EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT medical equipment.
Operating profi t increased by 6% to grand mean score based on a 1 to 5 rating scale ZAR2 749m FY17: ZAR2 584m.
Net fi finance costs increased by 6% to ZAR526m FY17: ZAR496m, helped by interest received on cash 6.7% balances.
Mediclinic Southern Africa contributed 72m to AVERAGE REVENUE PER BED DAY the Groups adjusted earnings representing 33% compared to 67m representing 30% in the comparative period.
The division converted 103% FY17: 104% of adjusted 69.7% EBITDA into cash generated from operations.
BED OCCUPANCY INVESTING TO SUPPORT LONG-TERM GROWTH Medi clinic Southern Africa invested ZAR423m on expansion In August 2017, Mediclinic announced it had agreed to an capital projects and new equipment and ZAR634m on the investment in the Intercare group of companies Intercare.
replacement of existing equipment and upgrade projects.
The Intercare group was founded in 2000 and currently The total number of licensed beds increased marginally manages 20 multi-disciplinary primary care medical centres during the year to 8 131 FY17: 8 095 as existing hospital which includes 15 dental centres, as well as 4 day hospitals expansion work in the second half of the year at Mediclinics and 4 sub-acute and rehabilitation hospitals in South Africa, Thabazimbi and Newcastle hospitals was completed.
servicing over 1 million patients per annum.
The investment In addition to these modest expansion works, other in Intercare comprises a minority shareholding in the multiprojects during the year included expansion of Mediclinic disciplinary medical and dental centres and a controlling Bloemfontein and Mediclinic Vergelegen.
In FY19, Mediclinic shareholding in the day hospitals and sub-acute and Southern Africa expects to invest ZAR472m and ZAR846m rehabilitation hospitals.
Intercare will continue to manage all on expansion and maintenance capex respectively.
Several its facilities under the Intercare brand.
Mediclinics proposed existing hospital and day clinic projects are due for acquisition of the controlling shareholding in the day hospital and sub-acute and rehabilitation hospitals remains subject completion in FY19 and FY20, which are expected to add to Competition Commission approval.
In line with our commitment to provide quality clinical care, we expect to Mediclinics proposed acquisition of a controlling invest during the year in additional resources to deliver shareholding in Matlosana Medical Health Services Pty Ltd further improvements across the division.
MMHS, based in Klerksdorp in the North West Province of South Africa, has been referred to the Competition Mediclinics day clinic roll-out is unique and premised on Tribunal by the Competition Commission with the case co-locating the facilities with the main hospitals to adapt expected to be heard in the fi first quarter of FY19.
to the outmigration of care trend in Southern Africa where admissions across the division have been impacted by EFFICIENCY AND OTHER declining day cases.
The six day clinics Mediclinic now plans to open during FY19 and FY20 are at Mediclinic Newcastle, DEVELOPMENTS Nelspruit, Stellenbosch, Bloemfontein, Pietermaritzburg and Mediclinic Southern Africa progressed with several Cape Gate, which will provide an additional 15 theatres to improvements to its core processes during the period under the Southern African operations.
The fi first of these will be review.
A particular focus on optimising nurse utilisation Mediclinic Newcastle Day Clinic which is scheduled to open without compromising on the quality of care enabled the in September 2018 with Mediclinic Nelspruit Day Clinic to operating division to manage nursing cost particularly well follow next in 1H20.
during the period under review.
MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 57 DIVISIONAL REVIEW SOUTHERN AFRICA CONTINUED In addition, the operating division introduced action plans eight of Mediclinics hospitals were recognised in the survey to improve employee engagement and conducted the third for the quality of care they receive from doctors and nurses, survey through its employee engagement index.
Detailed patients overall experience and hospital conditions.
plans to improve employee engagement were successful in improving employee engagement to 3.85 2017: 3.73 REGULATORY UPDATE during the year the grand mean score based on a 1 to The Competition Commission is currently undertaking a 5 rating scale.
market inquiry into the private healthcare sector in South Africa to understand both whether there are features of As part of Mediclinic Southern Africas commitment to the sector that prevent, distort or restrict competition the Competition Commissions Health Market Inquiry, and how competition in the sector can be promoted.
The the operating division agreed to publish, in an open and inquiry is due to publish its provisional recommendations transparent way, the detailed patient feedback from Press by the end of May 2018, having been further delayed.
The division also had the largest final publication is expected by the end of August 2018. representation in the annual Discovery Health Top 20 South Mediclinic has submitted documentation and participated in Africa Hospital survey in 2017.
Based on patient feedback, numerous seminars and discussions during the inquiry.
Mediclinic Otjiwarongo Pretoria hospitals: Mediclinic Gynaecological Hospital Mediclinic Heart Hospital Mediclinic Kloof Mediclinic Medforum Mediclinic Midstream Mediclinic Swakopmund Mediclinic Muelmed Mediclinic Windhoek Mediclinic Morningside Mediclinic Sandton Mediclinic Wits Donald Gordon Lephalale Medical Centre Mediclinic Limpopo Day Clinic Nelspruit Mediclinic Kimberley and Mediclinic Upington Mediclinic Gariep KwaZulu-Natal Western Cape hospitals: Mediclinic Cape Gate Mediclinic Cape Town Mediclinic Constantiaberg Mediclinic Durbanville Mediclinic Durbanville Day Clinic Mediclinic Louis Leipoldt Mediclinic Paarl Mediclinic Klein Karoo Mediclinic Milnerton Mediclinic Worcester Mediclinic Panorama Vergelegen Mediclinic Plettenberg Bay Mediclinic Vergelegen Mediclinic Stellenbosch Strand Mediclinic George Mediclinic Strand Mediclinic Geneva Hermanus Mediclinic Hermanus 58 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION DIVISIONAL REVIEW SOUTHERN AFRICA The South African Government is seeking a phased introduction of a National Health Insurance system over a 14-year period.
The latest White Paper was released in June 2017 for consultation.
Mediclinic has engaged with the Department of Health with regards to the functioning of the proposed seven institutions, bodies and commissions, submitting comments on the draft guidelines and making nominations to the committees.
Mediclinic will continue to closely monitor the process and seeks further clarity on a large number of matters that still need to be addressed.
MARKET OVERVIEW In recent years, growth in the South African private healthcare market has stagnated due to political uncertainty, low economic growth and a lack of job creation.
However, latest economic forecasts indicate improving GDP growth rates which may provide the opportunity for insured lives in Southern Africa to increase.
In the meantime, the market offers isolated incremental growth opportunities to expand existing hospitals, and to build new hospitals and day clinics.
The focus remains on improving the efficiency of healthcare delivery across the value chain in a fragmented market to ensure services remain affordable.
At the same time Mediclinic Southern Africa is committed to improving outcomes for patients, attracting and retaining qualified staff and investing in infrastructure and medical technology.
OUTLOOK Mediclinic Southern Africa remains well positioned for future success in the current market and regulatory environment.
The private healthcare industry has reached maturity with limited opportunities for material growth in the large multi-disciplinary acute care hospital environment given Mediclinic Southern Africas extensive footprint.
Future growth will focus on related business opportunities across the continuum of care.
The focus in the coming year will be on further developing Mediclinic Southern Africas strategy to position itself for future value-based contracting opportunities.
The operating division will continue to focus strategically on the value that it delivers to patients, by continuing to improve the safety and quality of its clinical care, the quality of the patient experience, and opportunities to improve operational efficiency.
The division will also continue to focus on opportunities to develop an integrated Southern African private healthcare delivery model through collaboration with doctors.
