DIVISIONAL REVIEW SWITZERLAND CONTINUED programme.
This programme has two main goals: to increase REGULATORY UPDATE the efficiency of the existing business by implementing On 1 January 2018, the transitional solution to the national standardised systems and processes: and to develop new outpatient tariff TARMED became effective.
After areas of business, such as outpatient facilities to efficiently mitigating actions, including improved utilisation and service day case patients.
During the year, a new corporate increased efficiencies, Hirslanden expects the annualised office was opened in Zurich which will support the drive impact on adjusted EBITDA to be around CHF25m.
The to deliver efficiencies across the division in addition to the Federal Government has also been preparing a national roll out of standardised systems across the Zurich based framework for the outmigration of basic medical treatments hospitals in April 2018 that will continue across the rest transferring from an inpatient to an outpatient tariff, which is of the division over the coming three years.
Hirslanden is expected to be implemented from 1 January 2019.
The final assessing the most appropriate outpatient solution to list of interventions will be agreed following the conclusion implement for each hospital, including the reconfiguration of a recent working group review.
In the Canton of Lucerne, of existing hospital surgery units and the establishment of similar measures were implemented on 1 July 2017 and in four specialised outpatient and medical centres moving towards further Cantons Zurich, Zug, Schaffhausen and Aargau on a more integrated medical network that facilitates the access 1 January 2018.
Although the Federal Government is to healthcare for patients.
New medical centres where expected to implement a national framework from doctors practices will be located are planned to open in 1 January 2019, a number of insurance companies in Zurich, ChamandSt.
Gallen during the financial year ending Switzerland are already applying certain elements of the 31 March 2019 FY19.
framework in some further cantons.
INVESTING FOR FUTURE GROWTH ADAPTING TO THE CURRENT In FY18, Hirslanden invested CHF47m in expansion MARKET AND REGULATORY TRENDS capital projects and new equipment and CHF82m on the Hirslanden continues to adapt its business model to address replacement of existing equipment and upgrade projects.
the trends in inpatient and outpatient activity driven by The division continues to invest in Hirslanden 2020. the evolving regulatory environment in Switzerland and Hirslanden Klinik Im Park in Zurich opened its new Bellaria the ongoing insurance mix change whilst maintaining outpatient surgery centre in April 2017, which includes a excellent clinical performance.
The continued investment ward for procedures requiring short inpatient stays.
In FY19, in the Hirslanden 2020 strategic programme is a key Hirslanden expects to invest CHF55m and CHF77m on building block of the long-term strategy to adapt to this expansion and maintenance capex, respectively.
Building changing environment, whilst also delivering cost savings work continues on an expanded emergency department and operational efficiencies for the division over time.
The for Klinik Hirslanden in Zurich and a new ward at Hirslanden pace of regulatory change and its impact on the business Klinik St. Anna in Lucerne which are both expected to be continues to evolve and we are monitoring it closely to completed in FY19.
Other key projects in the year ahead adapt accordingly.
include Hirslanden 2020, the new Birshof medical centre and intermediate care facility, new emergency units at Klinik The growing outmigration of care trend in Switzerland is Linde and Andreas Klinik as well as an outpatient surgery being addressed as part of the Hirslanden 2020 strategic unit and medical centre at the train station in Lucerne.
54 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION DIVISIONAL REVIEW SWITZERLAND MARKET OVERVIEW OUTLOOK The Swiss healthcare market is one of the best funded in the There continues to be a significant focus on the shift of basic developed world and continues to grow steadily.
Hirslanden medical treatments from the inpatient to the outpatient is the largest medical network and the largest private sector outmigration.
The Federal Government is hospital group in Switzerland, and operates effectively within preparing a framework for the outmigration of services, a high-quality healthcare system where the population likely to be ready for implementation from 1 January 2019, enjoys freedom of choice and high-quality services in both across Switzerland.
Having opened the new Outpatient the public and private sector.
A survey, financed by the Surgery Unit at Klinik Im Park, Hirslanden will also open a Commonwealth Fund and conducted in 11 countries, found new medical centre in Zurich Seefeldstrasse in spring 2018 that 60% of respondents in Switzerland rated the functioning and further ones at Schuppis canton of St. Gallen and of the Swiss healthcare system as good or very good.
Cham canton of Zug early in 2019.
66% considered the medical care provided as either Given the current market and regulatory trends, the excellent or very good.
Of the 11 countries surveyed, investment programme within Hirslanden and the potential Switzerland had the best response.
for increased synergies, the division is well positioned to Hirslandens main competitors are the public hospitals.
adapt its business model and maintain its status as the Many of these will improve their infrastructure in the coming largest medical network in Switzerland while continuing to years.
According to publicly available sources, CHF16bn is improve patient satisfaction and clinical outcomes.
earmarked for the construction and renovation of hospital buildings.
There are 26 cantons that supervise and manage hospitals and ensure their funding in collaboration with the mandatory health insurance.
Besides the regulation of the inpatient sector, the cantons increasingly intervene by defining lists of medical procedures to be performed ambulatory or by establishing a moratorium for foreign doctors.
