Our business model 01 Our inputs & competitive strengths Market-leading technology World-class services & support #1 position in segments including business jet, regional High quality, timely service and support to promote customer jet and defence wheels & brakes, aerospace sensing & satisfaction while maximising the value of our products monitoring, fuel tanks, fire suppression & detection and through their lifecycles.
Global infrastructure People and culture Long-standing relationships Manufacturing facilities in Asia, Our c. 11,000 highly skilled people With customers, suppliers Europe and North America collaborate to create value by and other strategic partners.
and regional bases in Mexico, combining extensive technical India and the Middle East.
capabilities and longstanding sector knowledge.
02 How we create value through the product life cycle Wheels and brakes Development In production Mature Civil Development In production Mature Defence Development In production Mature Energy 0 Development In production Mature 05 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 Typical product lifecycle years Develop Invest in operational Grow market share Provide through-life differentiated excellence, and our installed services technologies infrastructure base Providing worldclass and supply chain services and support to an Deploying our deep Competing effectively to installed base of more than expertise to develop increase our content on Investing in the people, 71,000 aircraft and other technology that anticipates new platforms, typically as tools, processes and equipment throughout future market demands, a solesource provider for facilities required to product lifecycles that meets high certification the life of programmes and manufacture cost efficiently can extend to more than requirements and is a platforms.
and deliver reliably to our 30 years, while capturing source of competitive customers.
Building strong vital knowledge about how advantage to Meggitt partnerships with suppliers our products perform in and our customers.
to drive economies of scale the field.
and broaden our offering to customers.
Meggitt PLC 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Cumulative cash flow 02 Continued Development Production Maturity Investing in our Revenues start Investing in our customers competitiveness customers competitiveness Revenue is usually generated when a programme moves into As our products require significant As our products age, they require production.
For civil aircraft, cash investments during the maintenance or replacement at production of any one platform can technology development phases varying intervals based on last for up to ten years before it is of new programmes, we only condition.
This drives demand for replaced.
Defence and industrial commit to those offering visible, spare parts and repair services equipment is manufactured over worthwhile returns.
These are over product lifecycles that can much longer periods.
typically characterised by sole extend to over 30 years.
Spare parts source contracts for the life of are priced to reflect the investment programmes and platforms backed made during the development by established original equipment phase and as such, the maturity manufacturers targeting clear, phase is typified by strong positive addressable markets and with cash flows.
ambitious investment plans of their own.
03 04 How we How do share value we do it Clear strategy Customers Shareholders We continue to make Innovative solutions Dividend growth progress towards our 2021 Differentiated technology EPS accretion goals by successful execution of our strategy.
Sound governance High standards of governance are critical to our success.
Operating responsibly Doing the right thing for people and the environment Employees Governments Engagement is a core part of our values.
Employment Training Taxes Development opportunities Managing risk We actively identify, manage and mitigate the risks to executing our strategy.
Rewarding success Our people are rewarded fairly and incentivised to deliver our strategy.
Meggitt PLC 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
