STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CLINICAL SERVICES OVERVIEW FIGURE 3: ADVERSE EVENTS MEDICLINIC SOUTHERN AFRICA 2015 2016 2017 Medication Falls In-hospital errors pressure ulcers Adverse event type Introduce a standardised documentation approach for Clinical information systems doctors in the electronic patient record.
Compiled the definition of the future documentation Continue with the rollout of the patient data management in catheterisation laboratories and emergency system PDMS.
departments the manufacturer is implementing this in Conceptualise the integration of the PDMS and the our electronic patient record.
Completed the re-evaluation of the radiology information system and selected a new system the pilot project MEDICLINIC SOUTHERN AFRICA has started.
Reviewed the integration of medical source data Clinical performance Hirslanden decided to connect this project to its Mediclinic and the greater Southern Africa healthcare transformation exercise.
community experienced significant and ever-increasing cost pressures: continued shortage of healthcare professionals Future objectives especially specialised disciplines : outmigration of care, Patients First at Mediclinic resulting in hospitals caring for more complex cases: and an Identify patient pathways qualifying for standardisation.
increase in the elderly population.
Despite these challenges, Complete the introduction of a continuous patient Mediclinic Southern Africa improved clinical performance of experience survey for all inpatients.
the operating division compared to the 2016 calendar year.
Value-based care Patient safety Hirslanden will continue with the definitions of the We prioritise the continuous improvement of patient safety.
requirements of the system provider model: and develop Adverse events, as illustrated in Figure 3, are reported and evaluation criteria to determine the introduction status tracked as a barometer of safe patient care.
In 2017, we reported a significant increase of 35.59% in the Clinical information systems medication error rate, mainly due to increased awareness and reporting, driven by focused audits.
This rate is expected Continue with the rollout of the radiology information to increase even further as additional sources of information, system in a second hospital.
obtained from the audits, are included in the report.
