Strategic Report Longer-term viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company over a longer period than the 12 months required by the Going Concern provision.
A period of three years is believed to be appropriate for this assessment since this is consistent with the Groups financing cycle, whereby on average the Group has refinanced debt in line with this timescale, usually as a result of acquisition or disposal activity.
The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue in operation and meet its liabilities, as they fall due, up to December 2021.
The Directors assessment has been made by reference to the Groups financial position as at 31 December 2018, its prospects, the Groups strategy, the Boards risk appetite and the Groups principal risks and their management, all of which are described in the Strategic Report.
The Directors assessment of the Groups viability is underpinned by a paper prepared by management.
The paper is supported by comprehensive and detailed analysis and modelling.
The model underpinning this statement is stress-tested, proven and is frequently used by management when determining working capital requirements for transactions and corporate restructuring.
The main assumptions included in the model relate to forecast revenue, operating margin and cash generation.
The model includes three years of forecast data from the Groups business assets and incorporates agreed sensitivities for economic risk impacting revenue and margins to replicate a sales downturn in line with those experienced in previous downturns, foreign exchange risk impacting net debt and assuming adverse movements in foreign exchange rates and liquidity risk impacting net debt and assuming 1 a deterioration in working capital, each of which have been considered both individually and in combination by the Board, together with expected achievable mitigating actions from the working capital model to create severe, but plausible, scenarios.
These scenarios sensitise the main assumptions noted above and also consideration of relevant cross-border trade risk, as well as the uncertainty surrounding the UKs exit from the EU.
In preparing this statement, the following qualifications and assumptions are made: i the viability model is based on the Group as at the date of this Annual Report, with no consideration of any further acquisitions or future disposals of continuing businesses.
We note future acquisitions would be based on the same proven business model applied previously, with related bank debt and equity raised to support the acquisition with sufficient headroom to cover business risks: and ii financing arrangements and bank covenant testing are in line with the current facility which is committed for the period under review.
1 For further details on the economic risk, foreign exchange risk and liquidity risk, and the mitigating actions being taken by management, please refer to the Risks and Uncertainties section of the Strategic Report on pages 52 to 58.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 49
