Divisional review Continued Other Industrial Proportion of Melrose The Other Industrial Based on annualised adjusted 2018 revenue for all businesses.
eu 9% i Brush: ii Ergotron: iii the Walterscheid Powertrain Group previously GKN Off-Highway Powertrain : and iv GKN Wheels & Structures.
Brush Having gone through a major restructuring in 2018, Brush is nowstructured around its core Financial information competencies of turbogenerators, switchgear, transformers and Financial results 2018 aftermarket services.
m Statutory revenue 886 Whilst the restructuring announced at 1 Adjusted revenue 890 thestart of 2018 has gone successfully, themarket conditions for Brush in the Statutory operating loss 159 1 generator services sector have worsened.
Adjusted operating profit 98 This has negatively impacted the value ofBrush which is discussed more in the 2 Revenue by business Finance Directors review.
The switchgear business continued to perform well during 1 Brush 17% 1 the year and launched the next generation 2 Ergotron 22% of an 11KV AC indoor panel called 3 Walterscheid Powertrain Group 38% 2 Quantum, increasing its market penetration 4 4 GKN Wheels & Structures 23% in the utility and industrial sectors, as well as 1 Described in the glossary to the financial securing its first significant order from the statements on pages 193 to 196 and shown UK rail industry.
The transformers business in note 5 to the financial statements.
2 Based on annualised adjusted 2018 revenue 3 endured another difficult year but enters for GKN businesses.
Outlook There is some optimism for aftermarket performance in 2019 with the expansion of the Brush field service network and repair capabilities.
Nonetheless, global economic prospects still remain uncertain in Brushs main markets and the underlying trading environment in 2019 is expected to remain challenging.
36 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Market trends Market trends Ergotron Brush Within the workplace supplies and The global power generation market, furniture market, key opportunities include: and in particular the gas turbine market, remains subject to the significant shifts The pursuit of new growth in macro trends affecting energy opportunities within a corporate consumption.
Namely that: office market of US$900 million, The expected increase in general driven by increasing user awareness global energy consumption is not about the negative effects of driven by the traditional power sedentary disease and its impact markets, which have seen a on employee health and wellbeing.
significant disruption in recent years Sit-to-stand solutions remain a driven by the overall growth in primary product solution to the ergotron.
com renewables and a more efficient issueof sedentary disease.
such products have experienced The shift in the source of demand relatively low market penetration.
for energy has created substantial In the healthcare market the Ergotron technological and structural demand US$650 million opportunity for Ergotron is a leading designer, change to the electricity generation ergonomic solutions continues to manufacturer and distributor of sector, which has significantly bedriven by the global expansion impacted the gas turbine market ergonomic products for use in a variety ofelectronic medical records which has seen orders falling more of working, learning and medical care and theintegration of mobile than 60% from the peak levels in 2011. and tabletdevices into the environments.
Based in Minneapolis, healthcare environment.
Renewables such as wind and US, Ergotron comprises three solarcontinue to feed variable Similarly, within education, businesses: Commercial, Consumer decentralised power and can impact the evolution and adoption and Original Design and Manufacturer.
grid stability, meaning that gas-fired of active classrooms is creating The business continues to drive a quality power generation will remain a major a US$500 million addressable and design-led product strategy, focusing contributor to electricity supply.
market, driven by height-adjustable on high-growth market segments.
In 2018 student desks and device Electrification continues to take thebusiness revitalised its leadership team notebook charging.
andlaunched its proprietary eCommerce Investment continues to increase The business continues to target the channel supported by a successful digital inrail and tram infrastructure.
market potential for sit-to-stand product marketing campaign.
While continuing to Regulatory strategies are favouring solutions and has invested in product face tariff headwinds that triggered a asset upgrade as opposed to development that will accelerate production review, there has been further replacement, which still presents innovative offerings.
Investment in investment in product leadership and agile growth opportunities.
branding has sought to project a processes and a US$1 million capital modern image of the company to reflect investment in rapid prototyping equipment Brush continues to respond to these its focus on designing products and and laboratories.
structural market challenges in a number services that progress the aesthetic of ways: Outlook appeal and ergonomic effectiveness Ergotron expects its core businesses to Nearing completion of a significant ofoffice, healthcare and education perform well in 2019, supported by its restructure of the entire business working environments.
These efforts restructured leadership team and refined torealign its production footprint.
aresupported by new sales leadership footprint.
New sales leadership, fresh within the business and a vertically With the fall in Generator demand, branding and investments in product oriented sales organisation to drive Brush has adapted to the new market development will accelerate innovative informed and targeted sales activity.
realities including an increased focus solutions to give confidence in the upon Service activities.
Growth strategies have been implemented to increase Services market penetration with the introduction of cost-effective product upgrades that extend asset life.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 37 Divisional review Continued Walterscheid Market trends Powertrain Group Walterscheid Powertrain Group The rebranded Walterscheid Powertrain Group is a leading supplier The agriculture and construction sectors To pursue the opportunities presented by are each experiencing strong growth, these trends, the business has focused of engineered power transmission largely due to: on high horse power equipment and products, systems and service development of products with increased solutions to the worlds leading Growing shortage of farm land driving power density and longer lifetime, growth off-highway and industrial equipment need for increased efficiency in of its China operations and targeting the manufacturers, driving efficiency farming, including smart, connected emerging markets, new product initiatives drivetrain solutions.
in the agriculture, construction, mining for construction equipment in Europe and Westernisation of diets in most and industrial markets, as well as Asia to target growing markets following emerging markets and growing global providing aftermarket services for success in the US within this product middle class leading to shift towards space.
The business has also focused powertrain solutions.
consumption of corn, wheat and on further development of aftermarket lesscrop-efficient food, e. g. feed During 2018, the Walterscheid Powertrain business in the US to be prepared for forlivestock.
Group delivered on expectations, with future growth coming from a trend to growth in both revenue and profit on the Sustained increase in global ahigher portion of leased equipment back of strong conditions in both the key infrastructure investment and trendto withmuch higher utilisation rates.
agriculture and construction industries, urbanisation across most geographies.
Overlaying each of these solutions is the despite headwinds from tariffs and raw development of smart and connected Strong macro-economic environment material price increases, as well as growth products to drive efficiency of customers in the US and Europe.
equipment to avoid unplanned down time.
The construction of the new highly automated manufacturing site in Welsburg, Italy was completed, and the business continues to adapt to the markets adoption of smart, connected drivetrain solutions, including further automation in the areas of standard manufacturing processes in its sites at Lohmar, Germany and Rockford and Woodridge in the US.
Outlook As announced on 6 March 2019, Melrose has agreed to sell the Walterscheid Powertrain Group to One Equity Partners, a US-based private equity firm.
The sale is subject to thecustomary regulatory conditions and is expected to complete in the first half of this year.
This coming year, the Walterscheid Powertrain Group will seek to capitalise on its distinctive capabilities and strong market positions to continue to grow and improve.
Several key business growth initiatives are in place, including continued development of the Aftermarket & Services offering in North America, the growth of its business inChina, and selected product initiatives, which reinforce the businesss positive outlook for 2019. walterscheid-group.
com 38 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Market trends GKN Wheels & Structures Looking at the current forces and drivers within the businesss key sectors, being agricultural, construction and mining: The global agricultural segment continues to target greater efficiency and sustainability.
This is driving demand for larger higher-powered tractors, automation and serviceability for increased efficiencies, productivity and greatermachine uptime.
The construction and mining segments are experiencing steadygrowth globally, fuelled byinfrastructure spend.
The container handling segment is investing in more automation globally to drive productivity and efficiencies at ports.
The business has responded to these opportunities by: Developing new patented technology gknwheels.
com with a solutions approach to industry challenges, including the Profi-Grip GKN Wheels Outlook and Profi-Fit wheels: Market conditions have continued Continuing to capitalise on light- & Structures toimprove and the full benefit from weight and engineered solutions GKN Wheels & Structures is a leading improvement initiatives implemented toallow construction and mining in2018 is expected to flow from 2019. global manufacturer of off-highway customers to manufacture more Although some uncertainty has been wheels for agricultural, construction, efficient machinery also suitable caused by the introduction of import tariffs mining and industrial use, as well as foron-road regulations: and in the US, the business is well placed to metallic structures for automotive and Continuing to invest in advanced deal with this uncertainty and the outlook off-highway vehicles.
manufacturing facilities to allow the for 2019 remains positive.
efficient production of larger, more The business continued to make significant technologically advanced wheels.
progress during 2018 with major investments coming on stream and excellent profit conversion on additional sales which outgrew the market.
Over 20million of new business was won during 2018, including diversifying its structures customer base into off-highway customers.
Additionally, the business fide-risked over 90% of its input steel pricemovement exposure.
Improved performance has come about through more tightly controlled fixed costs and introduction of new technology, such as a fully flexible, automatic welding cell at the Denmark facility and a new automated off-highway rim line at the UK facility.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 39
