Strategy in action Sell Elster was a US publicly-listed, GermanElster is the most recent Melrose based manufacturer of meters operating through three separate divisions with acquisition to have completed its different markets and drivers gas, improvement cycle.
Elster had a global presence in 135countries, large contracts, long-standing customers and was on the cusp of a technology Equity rate of return revolution with smart metering.
However, the business had lost its focus 33% and identity, with a centralised head office causing inefficiencies and issues for the businesses.
Melrose acquired Elster in 2012 for 1.8 billion, including Shareholder return on original equity 1.2 billion of equity following a fully underwritten rights issue which was 2.3x one of the largest equity raises in the UK market at the time, and modest levels of leverage.
Having decentralised its structure, the three distinct water, gas Sold within and electricity metering businesses were empowered to run autonomously in 3 years accordance with their own strategy.
of acquisition 8 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 1 Adjusted operating margin improvement Under Melrose ownership, operating profit Three years after making the acquisition, margins increased from 13% to 22%, Melrose sold all three businesses representing a 70% improvement in just together to Honeywell International Inc. 70% three years.
This was achieved by focusing for 3.3billion, representing approximately each business on performance, end 14x 2014 headline EBITDA, and in markets, customers and operations.
February 2016 Melrose returned Melrose significantly expanded on 2.4 billion in cash to shareholders.
22% afootprint optimisation programme Exit Overall, Melrose generated over announced by Elster before the acquisition 2.5 billion in cash from Elster versus and significantly exceeded expectations.
an equity investment of approximately A complementary bolt-on acquisition was 13% 1.2 billion, resulting in a return of 2.3x Entry made for the Gas division, building out its on .
product portfolio and geographic reach.
In addition, Melrose transferred approximately Melrose also focused on driving operational 900million in residual pension fund How Elsters operating margin improved efficiencies and exiting loss-making sales, liabilities from prior businesses as part of followed by production optimisation and the sale, ensuring the relevant members afocused investment programme equal 9ppts enjoyed the protection of a guarantee from to a quarter of the initial equity price.
Honeywells US-listed parent, with a market Inparticular, Melrose focused on investing 6ppts 2ppts 1ppt capitalisation of over US$100 billion.
These in research and development in order schemes had entered Melrose stewardship Returns on capex and restructuring tostrengthen and grow Elsters smart and other commercial actions chronically underfunded, but a series of capabilities.
Throughout the course of Central cost savings significant contributions had overcome this ownership, Melrose invested over Exit of low margin sales channels so that they were transferred fully funded.
149million in research and development, representing approximately 4.6% of revenue generated by Elster during thisperiod.
1 Described in the glossary to the financial statements on pages 193 to 196.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 9 Sell
