Divisional review Continued Key information We combine advanced powder metals with innovative production technologies to create unique metal products smart, reliable and precise.
Financial information Financial results 2018 m Statutory revenue 846 1 Adjusted revenue 851 Statutory operating profit 38 1 Adjusted operating profit 98 2 Revenue by business Revenue by geography 1 Described in the glossary to the financial statements on pages 193 1 1 to 196 and shown in note 5 to the financial statements.
2 Based on annualised adjusted 2 3 2018 revenue.
2 1 Sinter Metals 83% 1 Europe 36% 2 Hoeganaes Metal Powder 17% 2 Americas 47% 3 RoW 17% Operational geographies Global Technology Centres gknpm.
com Germany Italy USA 28 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Proportion of Melrose Based on annualised adjusted 2018 revenue for all businesses.
Powder 10% Metallurgy GKN Powder Metallurgy is the top global producer of industrial powder metallurgy products and solutions.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 29 Divisional review Continued Since entering the Melrose Group, the GKN Powder Metallurgy is the global Up to GKN Powder Metallurgy business has leader in both precision powder metal continued to expand its partnerships with parts for the automotive and industrial technology leaders of additive manufacturing sectors, as well as the production equipment.
As a sought-after partner of metal powder, through its prized 70% with unique production capabilities, GKN vertically integrated business platform.
reduction in production Powder Metallurgy has recently entered into Whilst we will continue to review the a new partnership with Hewlett Packard time due to new laser and Volkswagen to produce additive position in the months to come, we metal 3D printing process manufacturing parts through binder jetting expect GKN Powder Metallurgy to technology, and a strategic partnership remain inthe Group for the present.
with EOS, the worlds leading equipment GKN Powder Metallurgy comprises: supplier in the field of industrial 3D printing i Sinter Metals the worlds leading of metals and polymers.
manufacturer of precision automotive These partnerships are dedicated to the components and components for design of a new, high-productivity process industrial and consumer applications: for laser metal 3D printing using GKN ii Hoeganaes the worlds second largest Powder Metallurgy proprietary additive manufacturer of metal powder, the essential manufacturing steel powder, which over raw material for powder metallurgy, with time will reduce production time by up to manufacturing facilities in North America, 70% and overall production cost by up to Europe and China: and iii Additive 50%.
As customisation trends drive a leading digital manufacturer of metal customer demand for smaller lot sizes, additive manufacturing parts and materials GKN Powder Metallurgys additive for prototypes, planning to quickly expand manufacturing expertise puts it ahead of its into medium series and the aftermarket.
peers to benefit from the significant growth potential.
3D technology will also shorten time to market substantially as no tools are required.
30 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Having consistently outperformed peers sales growth in recent years, GKN Powder Metallurgy is focused on continuous improvement to ensure its profitability better reflects its leading position and to improve its performance in the years to come.
Investment in research and development as industry trends like electrification continue and regulatory requirements increase, have further differentiated GKN Powder Metallurgy from its peers.
With increasing automation across its production footprint, GKN Powder Metallurgy continues to concentrate on operational improvements, delivering high-performing continuous improvement plans, supported by further advances in the digital agenda.
A detailed review has highlighted some loss-making contracts and under-performing sites and these are an area of focus to ensure an improved performance as well as a reduction in the overall cost of quality issues.
Outlook Although it is being prudent in the face of wider automotive sector uncertainty, with significant opportunities for organic improvement as well as step-change developments through identified acquisition targets, the confidence of the business is high.
By continuing to put customer service even more in the centre of its business Market trends activities and enhance its partnerships Powder Metallurgy to develop and commercialise new technologies, in particular in additive Growth opportunities for GKN Powder The business supports customers manufacturing, GKN Powder Metallurgy Metallurgy within its core automotive requirements for lower mass and higher is optimistic of another strong performance and industrial markets are primarily functionality components with low and in2019.
being driven by the following factors: medium lot sizes driving new market development and new product Customers pursuit of increased development.
Similarly, the additive manufacturing efficiency, manufacturing base offers reduced functionality and flexibility.
emissions and reduced cycle time for the Legislative clamp-downs to production of parts by customers no reduce emissions.
longer having to first build manufacturing The increase of electrified vehicles tools for high growth sectors such as and manufacturing equipment.
battery-powered electric vehicles this offers customers the opportunity to The business continues to respond pursue their own early involvement to these trends through its ongoing strategies before scale is achieved, by ramp-up in X-by-Wire applications, as being able to engage in lower volume electrification trends gather momentum.
There continues to be significant growth potential to leveraging the businesss strong additive manufacturing base to capture market share through customer demand for lightweight system components and higher speed transmissions.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 31
