h C t w a s o h r g g e n i n g e r r a a t M i o n Our strategy and business model: Buy, Improve, Sell Our aim Our objective Melrose aims to acquire high-quality Through investing in businesses, manufacturing businesses with strong changing management focus and fundamentals and the potential for operational improvements, Melrose seeks significant development and improvement to increase and realise the value in such under Melrose management.
businesses at the appropriate time and to return the proceeds to shareholders.
Our strategy Buy Improve Good manufacturing Free management from Drive operational improvements.
businesses whose bureaucratic central structures.
performance can Change management focus, Focus on profitability and operating beimproved.
cash generation not growth for Use low public market Set strategy and targets the sake of growth.
Melrose management are substantial equity investors.
Our business model Inputs Industry expertise Follow-on investment Value creation model during Melrose ownership Core management group has for businesses sold operated in the UK and the international manufacturing arena for over two decades.
39% Further investment in the businesses to Highly experienced 1 improve operations management team The current team founded Melrose in 2003 with a view to buying and improving underperforming 100% Equity raised to businesses.
Since then it has acquire businesses overseen transactions with a total market value of over 10 billion.
Strong track record Melrose has generated significant Margin growth financial returns for its shareholders, Good manufacturing businesses achieving an average return on whose previous potential was equity of 2.6x across the businesses constrained byleverage.
sold to date and returned over 4.5 billion of cash to shareholders.
Sales growth Operational efficiency Good demand drivers potentially suggest more than average top-line growth.
Our businesses benefit from substantial investment and Cash generation changed management focus in order to drive growth.
Melrose A key focus is to make significant increased the operating margins improvement to cashflows in the of businesses sold by between businesses we acquire.
four and nine percentage points.
Reinvestment Multiple expansion Effective governance Multiple expansion is never assumed, The Board maintains high standards but has been achieved on all previous of corporate governance to ensure deals on average 30% as the Melrose achieves success for businesses have been improved.
the benefit of the businesses we manage and our shareholders 1 In respect of the McKechnie, Dynacast, over the long term.
2 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 n o i s S n a l a e p s x g e r o e l w p t i h t l u M Shareholder value creation See pages 10 to 11 The Melrose philosophy Giving ownership The improvements made to the businesses.
Sell by Melrose vary depending on the needs of the business Appropriately incentivising Commercially choose but the common theme the management teams.
the right time to sell, for all businesses is the often between three Freeing businesses from implementation of the to five years but flexible.
Return value to shareholders from significant disposals.
Ready access to funds for capital expenditure, R&D and expansion projects.
Value creation Outputs 1 Businesses under improvement How has Melrose created value?
Shareholder investment and gain figures up to 31 December 2018 : Average return on equity across all businesses sold Aerospace See page 20 2.6x Cash return to shareholders since establishment 4.5bn Automotive See page 24 Selling for a higher multiple 32% Reinvestment than paid Cash generation 16% 436m Sales growth 4% Spent on research and development for Margin growth 48% Nortek, Elster and GKN acquisitions being 1 In respect of the McKechnie, Dynacast, Powder Metallurgy See page 28 FKI and Elster acquisitions.
3% of revenue for the equivalent period.
Capital expenditure in 2018 422m Nortek Air & Security See page 32 Other Industrial See page 36 Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 3
