Divisional review Continued Proportion of Melrose Based on annualised adjusted 2018 revenue for all businesses.
Nortek Air 12% & Security The Nortek Air & Security Division comprises three businesses: Nortek Global HVAC, Air Quality & Home Solutions and Security & Smart Technology.
32 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Financial information Financial results m 2018 Statutory revenue 1,458 1 Adjusted revenue 1,458 Statutory operating profit 126 1 Adjusted operating profit 198 1 Revenue by business Revenue by geography 1 3 1 2 3 2 1 Nortek Global HVAC 46% 1 Europe 3% 2 Air Quality & Home Solutions 32% 2 Americas 95% 3 Security & Smart Technology 22% 3 RoW 2% 1 Described in the glossary to the financial statements on pages 193 to 196 and shown in note 5 to the financial statements.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 33 Divisional review Continued Nortek Market trends Nortek Global HVAC Global HVAC Nortek Global HVAC HVAC is led by Market demand for HVAC products a management team based in Missouri, isgenerally stable with few structural US, and includes the custom and concerns.
The HVAC market opportunity commercial business Nortek Air is approximately US$118 billion globally, Solutions NAS, a residential and light while the US market is expected to grow commercial business, as well as the to US$50 billion in 2022.
Growth is dedicated StatePoint Liquid Cooling generally split between residential 44% and non-residential 56% : in parallel, SPLC business.
growth isequally distributed between Investment in research and development new construction and product has continued to enhance core product replacement.
HVACs product scope is platforms and breakthrough technologies, approximately US$20 billion focused in including the launch of the businesss the heating, unitary duct and applied StatePoint Technology for the rapidly segments.
Expected market Air Quality & growing data centre sector and its driversinclude: integrated CLEANSUITE product family Home Solutions Continued growth in the data centre tocapitalise on the retrofit and new Air Quality & Home Solutions AQH cooling market.
construction opportunity in medical is a leading manufacturer of ventilation operating rooms.
Demand for energy efficient products products forthe professional remodelling driven by continued growth in energy The SPLC system offers breakthrough and replacement market, new residential consumption, alongside increased technology at the heart of many challenges construction market and DIY market.
facing the hyper scale data centre space Continued urbanisation two thirds It supplies to distributors and dealers of and addresses the need for companies ofthe worlds population by 2050 in electrical and lighting products, kitchen and to drive energy and water efficiency, while cities: 90 trillion in urban investment: bathroom dealers, retail home centres and in parallel achieving lower lifecycle costs.
backlog of deferred maintenance and private label customers from its four Having already secured a commitment increase in renovations and retrofits.
manufacturing locations around the world.
from one global customer with significant potential upside, HVAC continues to Shifting demands of customers, Despite macro headwinds, AQH had a expand its blue-chip, hyper-scale particularly in cities, resulting in strong end to 2018 with an increase in .
increased demand for healthcare sales during the second half of the year.
and understanding the importance Commodity increases and tariff activity As well as some site consolidations in of air quality.
during the middle of the year presented accordance with its footprint strategy, some challenges.
However, the arrival of HVAC implemented common operating HVAC continues to target the highly a range of new products resulted in sales procedures across all NAS sites, with complex and critical data centre growth gaining momentum in the second strong costing disciplines to drive further segment with differentiated product half of the year.
The residential business and value propositions, supported focused on initiatives to address gaps in by state-of-the-art technology that Facility consolidations, capital investments, quality, customer service and speed-toaddresses energy efficiency demand sourcing and engineering initiatives and market, and delivering significant revenue by lowering both power and water other improvements yielded cost savings improvements in end markets with greatest usage and addressing trends related to of over US$10 million in 2018 and the new differentiation.
The successful separation sustainability and life cycle technology Hartford distribution centre has delivered of the light commercial business has costs.
HVACs manufacturing footprint significant improvements to On Time expanded margins and refocused rationalisation activities during the year andComplete delivery rates.
The sales capacity towards new products such have better aligned capacity with organisation was also restructured in order as high-performance computing for expected demand, with a view to to focus on distribution channels and the mission-critical customers.
enabling more profitable growth by investment in digital activity has helped improving asset utilisation.
Footprint AQH to respond to new trends for Outlook rationalisation is also expected consumer distributor interactions.
This business is well positioned for further toimprove production agility and speed improvement this year.
HVAC is committed Outlook to market by repositioning HVACs to the successful commercialisation AQH is poised for continuing sales manufacturing infrastructure to support of the SPLC system and unlocking of the growth from all regions in the US in 2019, changing core markets underpinned by value within its supply chain and cost to supported by the new product development shifting consumer demand.
HVAC is well placed pipeline.
Operationally, further incremental to meet its expectations in 2019 with the improvement opportunities are planned potential for further upside identified.
for2019, alongside mitigation plans for projected tariff and commodity increases.
The business expects to continue operational improvements, operating profit gains and sales growth and is optimistic about its performance for the coming year.
34 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Security & Market trends Market trends Air Quality & Home Solutions Security & Smart Technology Smart Technology The Security & Smart Technology Outlook for the home building The SST division continues to operate SST business is a leading developer improvement sector remains positive in a residential security market that is: and manufacturer of security, home butnot as strong as in previous years.
Increasingly driven by software and automation and access control The key challenges and opportunities device-driven solutions that offer technologies for the residential and presented by the market primarily connectivity and interaction within commercial markets, principally in comprise the following: theever-expanding Internet of Things NorthAmerica.
Ventilation and air quality in home product space.
The business continues to build on its construction trends continue to Challenged by growing concerns expertise in the design and manufacture be an important factor for builders about cyber security.
ofwireless connectivity devices, its strong looking to add differentiation to Subject to growing pressures brand presence in professional security, theircustomers.
integrator and custom installer channels Smart homes and value-added The implementation of trade tariffs and its relationships with top resellers.
features in home building is a desired in the US.
formula for builders looking to grab The business endured a difficult year in In response to these market dynamics, more of the step-up premium 2018.
Whilst facing considerable market the business has provided encrypted homebuyers.
headwinds, it completed its move to its new sensing technology within its security US codes for proper airflow and headquarters in California, consolidating its products thereby protecting the data ventilation in newly built homes management and back-office functions as thatis wirelessly transmitted.
continue to be established and well as significantly upgrading its research expanded for many major US states.
This was The business has also developed further further enhanced through the acquisition of intellectual property to support the Growth in connected products and IntelliVision, a pioneering leader in artificial development of analytics-driven products smart home activity is emerging and intelligence, smart cameras and deepto meet the dynamic nature of current omni channel research, shopping, learning based video analytics software consumer demand in this space.
and purchasing continue to put which gives the business far more Smart pressure on traditional channels of The business has acquired IntelliVision capabilities across its product range.
distribution for bricks and mortar.
and incorporated its Smart capabilities SST has also restructured its production One of the major market headwinds into the product portfolio.
In response to management and sales functions to place is the impact of price inflation on the onset of higher tariffs, production is greater focus on lead times to market and the price of home building supplies, being moved away from China.
to grow its international sales opportunities.
in line with commodities and tariffs.
The business is moving production away This continues to put pressure from China in response to the onset of ongrowth.
higher tariffs, which will also reduce To address these factors during 2018, inventory requirements and increase the business: supply chain flexibility.
Prepared the launch of multiple Outlook newproducts for 2019 in order SSTs core US residential security market to continue to address market has declined in 2018 and has become needs.
Future product development more competitive, requiring a renewed is focused on smart or focus on its differentiating technologies and connectable products: the need to accelerate the development of The ventilation category has new analytics-based products, adapt its developed the largest bank of sourcing and manufacturing strategies and new products, highlighting reduce its overall cost base for its products.
Broan-NuTones code compliant With these changes in progress, the capabilities and product depth: and business will be as well positioned The business has also revitalised its as any competitor to participate in the brands websites with the relaunch development in its market.
of the Broan website in 2018 and the launch of the NuTone and Canadian websites to follow in2019.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 35
