Divisional review Continued Proportion of Melrose Based on annualised adjusted 2018 revenue for all businesses.
40% GKN Automotive supports over 90% of the worlds car manufacturers as a market leading developer, manufacturer and supplier of driveline products and systems throughout the global automotive industry.
24 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Key information GKN Driveline is the leading automotive driveline technology and systems engineer.
GKN Driveline is a global partner tothe automotive industry.
Financial information Financial results 2018 m Statutory revenue 2,936 1 Adjusted revenue 3,382 Statutory operating profit 15 1 Adjusted operating profit 231 2 1 Described in the glossary to the Revenue by business Revenue by geography financial statements on pages 193 to 196 and shown in note 5 to the 1 1 financial statements.
2 Based on annualised adjusted 2018 revenue.
3 2 2 1 Driveline 73% 1 Europe 39% 2 ePowertrain 27% 2 Americas 37% 3 RoW 24% Operational geographies gkndriveline.
com Global Technology Centres gknepowertrain.
com China Germany Japan UK US Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 25 Divisional review Continued GKN Automotives recent appointment With an unrivalled global production footprint across 21 countries, GKN of a new Chief Executive has led to Automotive is closely aligned with its key thecreation of a focused new central customers.
Its unparalleled experience in executive team and a reorganisation 25m the traditional driveshaft business provides ofthe management structure of platform opportunities to be the premier Investment in new thebusiness.
technology partner for OEMs, as well as equipment in a Japanese having the in-depth knowledge and unique Internally the business is principally manufacturing facility perspective from which to grow its organised around its two core market-leading eDrive business.
competencies: i Driveline, which Accordingly, this year GKN Automotive is the worlds pre-eminent driveshaft invested a further 50 million in powertrain manufacturer: and ii ePowertrain, the research and development which was industry leader in electric powertrains instrumental in delivering its first fully electric eDrive and intelligent all-wheel drive drive programme with a leading global AWD systems.
This is an important step forward for GKN Automotive supplies to all subsections In powertrain research the eDrive business and increases GKN of the automotive industry, from small and development Automotives ability to further differentiate ultra-low-cost cars to the most its business from competitors.
sophisticated and dynamic premium and GKN Automotive has been able to motorsport vehicles.
The business is also successfully take advantage of the centralising its commercial function to aggressive growth of the eDrive market in ensure that it presents a globally consistent China by working in close collaboration with and single face to customers, whilst 21countries its long-standing partner HASCO, through ensuring the right level of commercial its joint venture vehicle Shanghai GKN discipline is in place to drive profitable Global production footprint HUAYU Driveline Systems SDS, which growth and manage key commercial resulted in several significant business wins relationships.
Like all the GKN businesses, during 2018.
GKN Automotive and SDS GKN Automotive is also working hard on continue to work closely together as the addressing its loss-making contracts focus turns to execution to ensure that identified during the opening balance these projects deliver their potential.
5 Global technology centres 26 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report To further broaden its opportunities in Asia, With the support of Melrose, further the business opened a new manufacturing investment has been approved to deliver Market trends facility in Japan during 2018, investing over additional capacity expansion at the Automotive 25 million in new equipment to enable the Bruneck, Italy site.
Additional investment specialist production of state-of-the-art is scheduled to increase capacity in The GKN Automotive business has AWD and eDrive systems.
The factory will North America, Mexico, China and Japan, strong foundations.
However, it is not serve the growing demand in Asia, as well and to support automation projects to immune to the wider challenges facing as global export markets and represents further improve productivity, output and the automotive sector.
There are a substantial technological upgrade in the quality of Driveline products.
several market factors impacting capabilities for the production and delivery Outlook GKN Automotives current of advanced eDrive and AWD technologies.
GKN Automotive has very strong business environment: The Driveline business has been and will technology know-how ensuring that The speed of change in the adoption continue to be heavily focused on reviewing it is uniquely positioned in its markets.
of electrification and new mobility its cost structure, driving operational Itwill continue to build long-term customer solutions is accelerating and performance and delivering market-leading relationships and invest in its world driving significant change in technologies to its OEM customers around class manufacturing capabilities.
The GKN Automotives supply base, the world.
A key component of this focus opportunities presented by the move to competitive landscape and OEMs.
is to ensure Drivelines installed capacity electrification are significant, but given the The overall economic slowdown is fully aligned to its core competencies current uncertainties in the automotive and in particular, a slower and able to serve customers appropriately market, GKN Automotive will continue to growth environment in China, in addition to being located in the most adopt a prudent approach.
Investment is affecting the market and appropriate countries.
Under the direction initiatives are focused on driving towards a overall business sentiment.
of a newly appointed CPO and restructured more flexible cost structure, reducing fixed operating model, GKN Automotive is costs and improving overall commercial The competitiveness around conducting an ambitious procurement discipline with customers and suppliers.
emerging and new technologies efficiency drive, looking to secure savings The business is confident of delivering an is driving the continued growth in both direct and indirect commodities and improvement in its performance in 2019. of new OEMs as well as increasing achieve further improvements across all collaboration amongst traditional sites in the business.
OEMs to share platforms and development costs.
Continued uncertainty around trade and tariffs particularly between US and China, as well as Brexit.
Continued shift in demand for vehicle and platform types for example, FWD SUVs driven by new propulsion technologies and a continued shift away from diesel due to environmental concerns.
The business has responded to these trends through expanding its leading position in ePowertrain, pursuing operational performance in the Driveline business, and continuing to build a lean, market-reactive and high-performing business model.
The business is also looking to secure savings with respect to its procurement of both direct and indirect commodities.
The continued shift away from diesel is not expected to have a material impact on the business.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 27
