Strategy in action Buy Melrose underwent a Melrose had followed GKN plc for a number of years, noting that while it transformation last year as part had quality businesses, its performance had diminished in recent times.
of its successful acquisition of Melrose was confident that, given GKN plc, following a high-profile the opportunity, it could improve performance for all stakeholders by takeover bid.
This has resulted applying its Buy, Improve, Sell model.
in GKN assets representing Melroses acquisition strategy centres on pursuing fundamentally good but approximately 85% of undermanaged manufacturing targets Melroses group sales.
and investing heavily to achieve margin improvements, simplifying corporate structures and streamlining approval processes, rather than a simple sales or cycle opportunity, whilst enforcing discipline and financial controls.
GKN fitted the Melrose model for anumber of reasons: namely, its businesses were typically either world number one or two in their Share equity issued in relation to acquisition 6.84bn 100% Ownership secured within 6months of launch Improved funding commitment agreed with pensions trustees up to 1bn 4 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategy in action chosen sectors.
However, its to make an initial voluntary contribution performance had consistently failed to the two pension schemes totalling to fulfil its potential under previous 150 million within the first 12 months, GKN management.
Further, the welldoubled annual payments to 60 million, documented issues in North America and promised to pay between 5% and presented the opportunity to approach 10% of net proceeds of any Melrose GKN with an alternative solution under divestment or 270 million on the sale Melrose control.
of GKN Powder Metallurgy, for as long as the schemes remain in deficit.
This is Although the GKN board were not consistent with our aim of ensuring that receptive to our approach, they all UK defined benefit schemes end nonetheless announced a similar up stronger under Melrose ownership strategy shortly after our offer was made.
than when they join the Group, with Wewere able to offer GKN shareholders many of them becoming fully funded the opportunity to take a majority share in during Melrose ownership.
the newly created industrial powerhouse Of GKNs primary business divisions, the and participate in the future improvement Automotive division has the opportunity in performance.
After putting our to drive manufacturing efficiencies and proposal to shareholders, we were a more disciplined approach to sales pleased to be given the opportunity growth and procurement.
Such changes tounlock the value in the GKN business.
are already being addressed by the We took control and secured 100% appointment of a new CEO and senior ownership on an accelerated timetable team, along with a new cost structure and implementing the same methods applied increased investment in the businesss with success to previously acquired R&D footprint.
The Aerospace division is companies.
This included decentralisation, receiving targeted investments to improve streamlining duplicate functions, securing its performance, particularly in North operational management changes and America, as well as focus on research and an immediate focus on profit and cash development through the establishment rather than sales.
We implemented of the Global Technology Centre in Filton, appropriate incentivisation to drive UK.
Although GKN Powder Metallurgy positive change and effective financial was placed under strategic review, and operational controls, improved investment has continued to drive investment in assets over the long improved performance.
term, made efficiency enhancements, corporate restructuring assessments and In less than nine months of ownership, rigorous analysis of product profitability.
Melrose has already demonstrated its Melrose was also focused on delivering ability to achieve a number of noticeable for GKNs wider stakeholder community.
improvements in management, Having agreed contributions and operational performance, financial appointed GKNs first independent stability and near-term efficiencies.
Chairman of Trustees, Melrose These improvements have set a solid commenced improving the inherited foundation for optimising profit growth GKN UK pension schemes by setting an and the enhanced operational improved funding target of Gilts 75bps performance that the Melrose for the GKN 2012 Pension Scheme, and management team believe is Gilts 25bps for the GKN 2016 Pension achievable at GKN.
The Company committed Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 5 Buy
