JPM Mercantile pp01 18. qxp 11 04 2018 11:06 Page 2 Features Objective Management Company and Company Secretary Long term capital growth from a portfolio of UK medium and The Company employs JPMorgan Funds Limited JPMF or the smaller companies.
Manager as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager and Company Secretary.
JPMF is approved by the Financial Conduct Investment Policy Authority and delegates the management of the Companys portfolio to JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
- To emphasise capital growth from medium and smaller companies.
FCA regulation of non-mainstream pooled - To achieve long term dividend growth at least in line with investments and MiFID II complex instruments inflation.
The Company currently conducts its affairs so that the shares - To use long term gearing to increase potential returns to issued by the Company can be recommended by independent shareholders.
The Companys gearing policy is to operate within financial advisers to ordinary retail investors in accordance with a range of 10% net cash to 20% geared.
the FCAs rules in relation to non-mainstream investment products and intends to do so for the foreseeable future.
- To invest no more than 15% of gross assets in other UK listed closed-ended investment funds including investment trusts.
The shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions which apply to non-mainstream investment products because they are shares in Benchmark an investment trust.
The Companys shares are not classified as complex instruments under the FCAs revised appropriateness The FTSE All-Share Index, excluding constituents of the FTSE 100 criteria adopted in the implementation of MiFIID II.
Index and investment trusts, with net dividends reinvested.
AIC Capital Structure The Company is a member of the Association of Investment At 31st January 2018 the Companys share capital comprised Companies.
94,449,218 ordinary shares of 25p each, including 12,549,179 shares held in Treasury.
Website At 31st January 2018, the Company also had in issuea The Companys website, which can be found at 3.85 million 4.25% perpetual debenture and a 175 million www.
co. uk, includes useful information on the 6.125% debenture repayable on 25th February 2030.
Company, such as daily prices, factsheets and current and historic half year and annual reports.
