JPM Mercantile pp19 35. qxp 11 04 2018 11:05 Page 25 Directors Report continued Management Fee Directors Report With effect from 1st February 2017, the management fee was The Directors present their report and the audited financial charged at the rate of 0.475% of the value of the Companys statements for the year ended 31st January 2018. market capitalisation and is calculated and paid monthly in arrears.
Management of the Company With effect from 1st February 2018 the rate was reduced further, to 0.45% of the Companys market capitalisation.
If the Company JPMorgan Funds Limited JPMF is employed as Manager and invests in funds managed or advised by JPMF, or any of its Company Secretary to the Company under a contract terminable associated companies that charge an underlying fee, they are on six months notice, without penalty.
If the Company wishes to excluded from the calculation and therefore attract no fee.
Prior to terminate the contract on shorter notice, the balance of 1st February 2017, the management fee was charged at the rate remuneration is payable by way of compensation.
of 0.5% of the Companys market capitalisation.
JPMF is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank which, Directors through other subsidiaries, also provides banking, dealing and custodian services to the Company.
Hamish Leslie Melville retired from the Board on 24th May 2017.
The Directors of the Company who held office at the year end, are The Board has thoroughly reviewed the performance of JPMF in the detailed on pages23 and24.
The review covered the performance of the Manager, its management processes, investment style, resources Details of Directors beneficial shareholdings may be found in the and risk controls and the quality of support that the Company Directors Remuneration Report on page33.
receives from JPMF including the marketing support provided.
The No Director reported an interest in the Companys debentures Board is of the opinion that the continuing appointment of the during the year.
Manager is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
Such In accordance with corporate governance best practice, all a review is carried out on an annual basis.
Directors will retire at the Companys forthcoming Annual General The Board conducts a formal evaluation of the performance of, Meeting and being eligible, with the exception of Sandy Nairn, will and contractual relationship with, the Manager on an annual basis.
offer themselves for reappointment by shareholders.
No separate Management Engagement Committee has been The Nomination Committee, having considered their qualifications, established because all Directors are considered to be independent performance and contribution to the Board and its committees, of the Manager and, given the nature of the Companys business, it confirms that each Director proposed for reappointment continues is felt that all Directors should take part in the review process.
to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role and the The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive Board recommends to shareholders that they be reappointed.
AIFMD Director Indemnification and Insurance JPMF is the Companys alternative investment fund manager As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, the Directors AIFM.
It is approved as an AIFM by the FCA.
For the purposes of have the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party the AIFMD the Company is an alternative investment fund AIF.
indemnity, as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
JPMF has delegated responsibility for the day to day management This was in place throughout the financial year and also as at the of the Companys portfolio to JPMAM.
The Company has appointed date of approval of these financial statements.
BNY Mellon Trust and Depositary UK Limited BNY as its depositary.
BNY has appointed JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. as the An insurance policy is maintained by the Company which Companys custodian.
BNY is responsible for the oversight of the indemnifies the Directors of the Company against certain liabilities custody of the Companys assets and for monitoring its cash flows.
arising in the conduct of their duties.
There is no cover against fraudulent or dishonest actions.
The AIFMD requires certain information to be made available to investors in AIFs before they invest and requires that material Disclosure of Information to Auditors changes to this information be disclosed in the annual report of In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the each AIF.
Investor Disclosure Documents, which set out information Company at the time when this report was approved: on the Companys investment strategy and policies, leverage, risk, a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant liquidity, administration, management, fees, conflicts of interest and audit information as defined in the Companies Act of which other shareholder information are available on the Companys the Companys Auditors are unaware: and website at www.
There have been no material changes other than those reflected in these financial statements b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he she ought to to this information requiring disclosure.
Any information requiring have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware immediate disclosure pursuant to the AIFMD will be disclosed to the of any relevant audit information as defined and to establish London Stock Exchange through a primary information provider.
that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
The Companys leverage and JPMFs remuneration disclosures are The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in set out on pages 63 and 64. accordance with the provisions of Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 25 JPM Mercantile pp19 35. qxp 11 04 2018 11:05 Page 26 Directors Report continued Directors confirm that there are no disclosures to be made in this Independent Auditors report.
 LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as Auditors to the Company and resolutions Annual General Meeting proposing their re-appointment and authorising the Directors to NOTE: THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR determine their remuneration for the ensuing year will be proposed IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take you should Section 992 Companies Act 2006 seek your own personal financial advice from your stock broker, bank Capital Structure manager, solicitor, or other financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
The Companys capital structure is summarised on page 1 of this report.
Resolutions relating to the following items of special business will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM : Voting Rights in the Companys shares Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the date i Sub-division of existing ordinary shares resolution 10 of this report are given in note 16 to the Notice of AGM on page 67.
At the Annual General Meeting the Directors will seek authority to sub-divide each existing ordinary share of 25 pence each the Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights Existing Ordinary Shares into ten new ordinary shares of 2.5 pence At the year end, the following had declared a notifiable interest in each the New Ordinary Shares.
The full text of this resolution is set the Companys voting rights: out on page 65.
The resolution is conditional upon the New Number of 1 Ordinary Shares being listed on the Official List of the UK Listing Shareholders voting rights % Authority and admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange.
Brewin Dolphin Ltd 9,587,481 10.0 If resolution 10 is passed at the Annual General Meeting and the Rathbone Brothers Plc 9,416,994 10.0 conditions attaching to the resolution are fulfilled there will be Old Mutual Plc 6,765,884 7.1 944,492,180 New Ordinary Shares in issue including those held in Investec Wealth & Investment Ltd 4,141,454 4.3 Treasury immediately following completion of the sub-division on the basis that there are currently 94,449,218 Existing Ordinary 1 The percentage stated reflects the percentage of the Companys total Shares in issue, including those held in Treasury.
The Directors voting rights held by the shareholder at the time of the notification to consider the sub-division to be in the best interests of shareholders the Company.
as a whole as lowering the price at which the shares are traded should improve their marketability.
The Company is also aware that approximately 6.1% of the Companys total voting rights are held by individuals through The New Ordinary Shares will rank pari passu with each other and will savings products managed by JPMAM, registered in the name of be subject to the same rights and restrictions as the Existing Ordinary Chase Nominees Limited.
If those voting rights are not exercised Shares, including the same rights to participate in dividends or by the beneficial holders, in accordance with the terms and income of the Company.
Mandates and other instructions for the conditions of those savings products, under certain circumstances payment of dividends, including any dividend reinvestment the Manager has the right to exercise those voting rights.
That instruction received, in paper form or via CREST, will, unless and until right is subject to certain limits and restrictions and falls away at revised, continue to apply to the New Ordinary Shares.
A holding of the conclusion of the relevant general meeting.
New Ordinary Shares following the sub-division will represent the same proportion of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company Miscellaneous Information as the corresponding holding of Existing Ordinary Shares.
The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of If resolution 10 is approved at the Annual General Meeting it is Directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and powers to expected that: i dealings in Existing Ordinary Shares will cease as at issue or buy back the Companys shares are contained in the Articles close of business on 24th May 2018 and that admission of the New of Association of the Company and the Companies Act 2006.
Ordinary Shares to the Official List and to trading on the London There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in the Stock Exchange and dealings will commence in the New Ordinary Company: no special rights with regard to control attached to Shares on 25th May 2018: ii where Existing Ordinary Shares are securities: no agreements between holders of securities regarding held in certificated form, share certificates will cease to be valid from their transfer known to the Company: no agreements which the 24th May 2018.
Certificates in respect of the New Ordinary Shares Company is party to that affect its control following a takeover bid: will be posted, at the risk of shareholders, by 8th June 2018 these and no agreements between the Company and its directors will replace existing certificates which should be destroyed : and concerning compensation for loss of office.
iii shareholders who hold their Existing Ordinary Shares in Listing Rule 9.8.
4R uncertificated form will have their CREST accounts credited with the Listing Rule 9.8.
4R requires the Company to include certain relevant entitlements to New Ordinary Shares on 25th May 2018. information in an identified section of the Annual Report or a cross reference table indicating where the information is set out.
