68 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 GOVERNANCE HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY COMMITTEE REPORT THE APPOINTMENT OF AN INDEPENDENT ADVISER WITH PARTICULAR EXPERIENCE OF HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY IN HIGH-HAZARD INDUSTRIES HAS CONTRIBUTED FURTHER ADVICE AND SUPPORT TO COMMITTEE MEMBERS, HELPING Chairman Membership TO STRENGTHEN THE LEVEL OF Sir John Sunderland Charles Gurassa Fru Hazlitt OVERSIGHT AND CHALLENGE Rachel Chiang Nick Varney THE COMMITTEE PROVIDES.
Anne-Francoise Nesmes Group HSS Director Managing Director, RTP Managing Director, Midway Attractions Dear Shareholder Merlin delivers millions of safe experiences to its guests every year, Responsibilities underpinned by a passion to deliver industry leading health, safety and security The Health, Safety and Security Committee reports to the Board, standards, a rigorous safety culture and complete commitment from operating under specific terms of reference.
It has three areas of focus: management and staff.
The Health, Safety and Security HSS Committee 1.
To oversee the Groups policies and procedures for ensuring the assists Merlins Board of Directors to govern the safe management of HSS risks Health, Safety and Security HSS of guests, employees, across the Group.
This report describes the work of the Committee during contractors and operating assets.
2018 and how it discharged its obligations.
To monitor the Groups processes for identifying and managing risks.
Fiona Eastwood replaced Justin Platt as Managing Director of Resort Theme 3.
To monitor the skills, effectiveness and levels of resource within the Parks and accordingly took up membership of the Committee in the second Groups HSS teams.
The Committee extends a warm welcome to Fiona and looks forward to her contributions to the vitally important work of the Committee.
The Committee receives advice from HSS professionals and is updated on industry best practice.
Issues discussed at the HSS Committee are The Committee believes it is important to look outside of the sector to shared with the Board.
understand how other leading organisations manage safety-critical and high-hazard low-frequency accident risks.
During 2018 the Company has The Committees terms of reference are available on the drawn on the new partnerships it has fostered with a number of leading Companys website.
organisations, most notably in the aviation and rail sectors.
The Committee was pleased to learn that one partnering organisation, from the rail sector in Effectiveness review Japan, sent a delegation to the UK in order to share and acquire best practice An external effectiveness review of the Committee took place towards with Company HSS representatives.
the end of 2018, based on a questionnaire sent to Committee members, all other attendees and the Board.
It covered a broad range In 2018 the Committee encouraged the Company to continue its support to of matters including the Committees scope, organisation and meetings, the development of international standards that are applicable to the sector the quality of debate, outcomes and leadership.
The results showed the especially on ride safety.
The Companys membership of UK, EU and USA Committee to be effective, with incremental enhancements being technical committees has allowed Merlin to share with others in the witnessed over the year.
A small number of continuous improvement industry new internal standards that have been designed and deployed areas were noted which will be addressed in 2019. within the Group.
The Committee was pleased to see the ongoing, positive and collaborative interactions between the various jurisdictional regulatory enforcement agencies for HSS and Company representatives through the course of 2018.
In many cases, progressive new HSS standards or programmes can only be designed, nurtured or deployed with the assistance of local agencies so continued strong relationships remain imperative.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 69 Where the Committee has learned of incidents in 2018 occurring elsewhere, incident investigations and employee safety culture surveys.
Progress against for instance involving fire safety, water quality or food safety, it has taken action such plans in 2018 was monitored by HSS professionals across the Company to ensure that any necessary learnings are reviewed for applicability and and headline status updates were provided to the Committee.
Trend analysis As part of the Committees activities, members undertook familiarisation and During the year the Committee requested and received detailed analyses on evaluation site visits to a range of attractions within the Group.
During the incident trends and organisational learnings across a broad range of topics and course of 2018, the Committee visited Chessington World of Adventures risk areas.
These quantitative and qualitative evaluations, typically incorporating Resort, the Shanghai cluster of attractions, the SEA LIFE London Aquarium data going back six years, afforded the Committee the opportunity to assess and the London Eye.
Further information on these attraction visits can be the efficacy of existing risk control measures and discuss what further found below.
enhancements are planned for implementation in 2019 or beyond.
Sir John Sunderland The Committee was also furnished with trend information pertaining to the Chairman of the Health, Safety and Security Committee findings from the Groups HSS audit programme.
Where particular trends 27 February 2019 were identified in 2018 the Committee was briefed on how the Company was intending to provide inputs and initiatives to address any further enhancement HSS governance opportunities.
Such annual focus topics feed into relevant attractions safety During 2018 the Committee undertook to receive detailed HSS reviews from action plans and are subject to further assessment during the in-year key Operating Group Managing Directors.
Their briefings and reports, during audit regime.
the course of the year, complemented the informative briefings that the Committee routinely receives and critiques from the Groups HSS Director.
New standards Such was the value-add of these comprehensive appraisals they will now During 2018 the Committee reviewed and supported the development and become a routine feature of HSS Committee meetings going forward.
roll out of progressive new HSS standards across a range of risk topics.
New or enhanced internal standards included those relating to rapids rides, workshop The Committees Independent Adviser undertook a range of site visits and plantroom safety, swimming pools and water parks, attraction theming, departmental meetings throughout the year in order to gain a fuller competency frameworks for ride engineers, diving and shark feeding, and understanding of safety risk control processes and measures in place and, on aquarium tank integrity inspections.
behalf of the Committee, provided further scrutiny and counsel on how these may be enhanced.
The Committee learnt of the various consultations, employee briefings and training programmes that have been deployed to assist with the Through the course of 2018, the Committee was kept abreast of HSS implementation of these new HSS standards.
Further, the Committee was resourcing across the Group.
The Committee was pleased with the level and informed of how the Companys audit programme has evolved to reflect these quality of HSS resourcing within the Company and remains committed to new standards and associated requirements.
ensuring this important support function remains effectively resourced as HSS risks evolve.
Security resilience Thankfully the types of disturbing and challenging terrorist security incidents Leadership walks that blighted 2017 in a number of markets in which the Company operates did As part of the Committees activities, members undertook familiarisation and not manifest themselves again in 2018.
The Company nevertheless has taken evaluation site visits to a range of attractions within the Group.
During the action in 2018 to further enhance both our active and passive security course of 2018, the Committee visited Chessington World of Adventures protocols in order to maintain the integrity of our physical boundaries and our Resort, the Shanghai cluster of attractions, the SEA LIFE London Aquarium operations and assets within.
The Committee was pleased to support the Companys sponsorship of the During the visit to Chessington World of Adventures Resort, the Committee Police Bravery Awards in the UK.
The Company continues to work closely was particularly keen to understand more about the Companys project with local police and governmental security agencies so the Company remains management practices and safety risk control measures for the new grateful to law enforcement officers for their ongoing conduct on duty.
The Committee also supported the Companys necessary but regrettable The Committees trip to the Shanghai cluster, as part of a broader Board need to obtain a Trespass Injunction at the UKs High Court in London.
visit, allowed members to scrutinise the Companys arrangements for Following several instances of repeated and reckless trespass at some of the planned maintenance, fire safety, staff training and safety culture engagement Companys properties, principally by so-called Urban Climbers, the Court by employees.
Order seeks to further deter unauthorised access.
Breach of this injunction may amount to contempt of court and can now lead to imprisonment, a fine or The safety leadership visit the Committee undertook to the SEA LIFE London seizure of assets.
Aquarium afforded the opportunity to witness the Companys recent investment in back-of-house facilities infrastructure and new safety measures Cultural engagement introduced to support the interaction between aquarist employees and Ensuring the Company maintains a positive, proactive and fair HSS culture is of dangerous marine life.
crucial importance to the Committee.
During 2018 the Committee was pleased to see new employee engagement and communication initiatives on During the Committees final site visit of 2018 to the London Eye, members matters relating to HSS, including for instance the publication of the Companys learnt more about the annualised maintenance and independent inspection HSS magazine called The Shield, a new series of line manager-led briefings programmes for the structure, as well as the evacuation procedures and drills called the Safety Spells Toolkits, the You Said We Did follow-on process after in the event of a ride breakdown.
the annual employee survey and another successful Safety Week campaign.
New management guidance on how best to uphold a fair and positive safety Risk profiling culture was also reviewed by the Committee during the year.
Each year the Committee receives assurance that every attraction within the Group has completed a detailed risk register which seeks to identify and assess Performance monitoring all significant HSS risks.
Following the completion of these risk registers, the In 2018 the Committee regularly reviewed HSS performance, including Committee received further information on, and evaluation of, the Companys near-miss and incident reporting, with a particular focus on the Companys overall risk profile and how any notable risk trends have evolved year on year.
performance against the defined leading and lagging indicators.
In addition, the Committee examined information and data pertaining to incidents that All attractions within the Group are subsequently required to prepare an occurred both within the Company and across the wider sector.
The annual safety action plan.
The contents of such plans are driven by the results Companys HSS performance information for 2018 is reported on page 51. of each attractions risk register, safety inspections and audits, near-miss
