24 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 Q&A MMM AND NEW OPENINGS UNIQUE SKILLS THAT SUPPORT OUR STRATEGY MERLIN MAGIC MERLIN MAGIC MAKING MMM THE UNIQUE RESOURCE SITTING AT THE HEART OF MAKING MERLIN, SUPPORTING ALL OUR ATTRACTIONS WITH SPECIALISTS IN FOUR AREAS Finding the magic Utilising consumer insight and research, MMMs experienced research teams find new business opportunities, ranging from the strategic roll out of the Midway estate to potential acquisitions.
Creating the magic Driving innovation across the Group, MMM creates high-class compelling propositions across the existing estate and new attractions.
This includes creating Merlins very own in-house Intellectual Property IP and working with IP partners on new concepts.
Producing the magic MMM takes these creative ideas and then uses its in-house production Mark Fisher facilities to produce amazing content for all our attractions across each Operating Group.
MMM makes LEGO models, wax figures and attraction theming, also working closely with our animal specialists to ensure that Merlin provides the best animal care possible as we source creatures for display in our attractions.
Delivering the magic MMMs project management teams produce world class attractions for our guests to enjoy.
They deliver all of Merlins major existing estate capital projects and new Midway attractions, the latter being handed over to the New Openings team who manage the opening and are responsible for operations in the first 18 to 24 months of trading.
What are the challenges you face and how are you responding?
There are always new entrants into our marketplace with competitors bringing new ideas and formats.
So we continue to undertake significant product research and development to make sure we stay competitive, including launching specific projects to invest in new concepts and work with up and coming businesses.
What are you and your team most excited about in 2019?
Within our teams we also look to unlock even more of our potential a There are almost too many to highlight!
A big piece of new news will be large part of the MMM team are highly skilled creative people such as the launch of Colossos at Heide Park, featuring an epic 25 metres long designers, sculptors or hair stylists and colourists and in 2018 we have fiery creature thats tangled itself up with the roller coaster.
Each time a taken the opportunity to determine how we can tap into these skills to train passes the iconic creature it reacts with a surge of spectacular create new and exciting products to intrigue and enthral our guests.
For anger, spewing fiery smoke from its eyes and mouth and shooting eight example, we can make lifelike masks that allow actors to walk amongst metre flames from its head!
our guests creating gasps as a buzz flies around the attractionand then Harry and Meghan appear!
Were also very excited about our continued investment into our uniquely themed accommodation with the launch of the Magic Hotel at Q.
What is your best guest story of 2018?
We will also see the new Dungeon at Alton Towers, the start MMM is all about creating something new for guests, so I always like of The LEGO Movie World roll out at LEGOLAND Florida, and more seeing peoples reactions when they see something we have created for Peppa Pig World of Plays as that new IP-branded attraction format the first time.
In 2018 we welcomed the first guests to The Bear Grylls expands across China and the USA.
Adventure in Birmingham and loved hearing them say Wow!
when they first entered the attraction no wonder the guest satisfaction scores so far are so high!
A second example is where we can take our highly developed skills and match them to new technology to create a new amazing experience for guests, such as at Madame Tussauds London where we introduced a talking and gesticulating Donald Trump.
It is extremely satisfying to unveil a figure and see every person reaching for their phone to take a picture and then a selfie to prove to their friends and family that they were there!
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 25 NEW OPENINGS NEW OPENINGS A SPECIALIST TEAM WITH TWO AREAS OF FOCUS Opening new LEGOLAND parks Utilising our experience of opening LEGOLAND parks and leveraging our strong relationship with LEGO, New Openings locate potential new sites and provide consultancy services to potential new business partners.
They then work closely with civic and development bodies, negotiate construction and development contracts, and manage the multi-year build process.
Finally they set up park operations and recruit teams, before opening and operating the park for the post opening period.
John Jakobsen Opening new Midway attractions New Openings use these same skills to take over a completed attraction from MMM before managing the opening and operating the attraction for the first 18 to 24 months of trading.
I walked with a group of young Chinese visitors through our new Dungeon attraction on Nanjing Road in Shanghai.
It was fantastic to see how the Dungeon idea of Scary Fun certainly also works with our Chinese audience there was a combination of screams and laughter, just as there should be!
Two hours before that I was watching two to four year olds and their parents enjoying Peppa Pig World of Play and wishing Q. W hat are you and your team most excited about in 2019?
Ihad brought my two year old granddaughter.
This was a great reminder 2019 will be a busy year on many fronts!
On the LEGOLAND parks side of the variety we have in our portfolio of brands and how Merlin is able we will have an intense period for LEGOLAND New York which is under to nurture our own IPs as well as turn other IPs into successful location construction.
This project will go from its current 15 staff members and based entertainment offerings.
then ramp up to about 1,000 when we open in early 2020.
At the same time, we will be getting construction under way in Korea and probably Q.
What were your key achievements in 2018?
lining up for our first park in China.
We managed seven new openings in 2018.
Five of these openings were either new brands or in markets where we had not opened that brand We are also very excited about our strong Midway openings schedule.
Five of the openings also took place over a short period in We plan to open LEGOLAND Discovery Centres and SEA LIFE Centres September and October, which was a challenge to achieve.
But it all across a number of USA and Asia locations, while at the same time worked very well and we got great collaboration not just from within the continuing the expansion with more Peppa Pig World of Play attractions New Openings team, but also from many parts of the Group who came in China and the USA.
Q. H ow do you see the marketplace changing and your position in it?
We obviously see consumers spending more and more time in front of screens.
At the same time there is and always will be a demand for spending time together as a family.
The families are very critical and selective about the location based entertainment experiences they choose.
Merlins well-established brands and our ability to work with IP holders make us well positioned at the top of the list for consumers choices.
