90 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the audited Financial statements financial statements for the 52 week period ended 29 December 2018.
The financial statements contain information in the following areas: Comparative figures relate to the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2017.
In order to make our Annual Report and Accounts more accessible, we have Financial risk management see note 4.3. set out below where certain required disclosures can be found in other areas of this Annual Report.
Directors Report The Directors Report itself contains the sections detailed below.
Strategic Report Non-financial reporting Share capital and related matters Information regarding Merlins approach to the five topics required by the The Articles of Association do not contain any restrictions on the transfer of Companies Act is set out in the non-financial reporting statement on shares in the Company other than customary restrictions applicable where any pages 48 to 49.
This includes information on how we engage with employees, amount is unpaid on a share all the issued share capital of the Company as of our approach to persons with disabilities, and mandatory greenhouse the date of this Annual Report and Accounts is fully paid.
Each ordinary share gas reporting.
in the capital of the Company ranks equally in all respects.
No shareholder holds shares carrying special rights relating to the control of the Company.
Other information Other information is set out as follows: Amendment to the Companys Articles of Association Business review and future developments see pages 6 to 57.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special Research and development details about Merlin Magic Making and New resolution of its shareholders passed at a general meeting of its shareholders.
Openings are located on pages 24 to 25.
Appointment and removal of Directors Governance The Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Alignment with the UK Corporate Governance Code Governance Code, the Companies Act and related legislation, with regard to The Code can be viewed on the website of the Financial Reporting Council the appointment and replacement of Directors.
Specific details relating to www.
The DTRs and the Listing Rules can be viewed on the KIRKBI and its rights to appoint Directors are set out in the Corporate website of the Financial Conduct Authority www.
More detail on the Boards approach to governance and the Groups alignment with the five core principles in the Code can be found elsewhere in the Annual Power of Directors in respect of share capital Report as follows: The Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company including, subject Leadership for how clear divisions of responsibilities are maintained at the to obtaining the required authority from the shareholders in general meeting, head of the Company see pages 58 to 65. the power to authorise the issue of new shares and the purchase of the Effectiveness for how the Board ensures it remains effective see pages 62 Companys shares.
During the year, in connection with the Companys to 65. employee share incentive plans, 2,500,000 ordinary shares of one pence each Accountability for how the Board presents a fair, balanced and were issued.
understandable assessment of Merlins position and prospects see pages 70 to 73.
Directors indemnities and insurance Remuneration for more information on Directors remuneration and how The Articles of Association of the Company permit it to indemnify the it is designed to promote the long term success of the Group see pages 74 Directors of the Company or any Group company against liabilities arising from to 89. or in connection with the execution of their duties or powers to the extent Relations with shareholders for how the Board maintains a dialogue with permitted by law.
The Company has not given any specific indemnity in favour its shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives see of the Directors during the year but the Company has purchased Directors page 65. and Officers Liability Insurance, which provides cover for liabilities incurred by Directors in the performance of their duties or powers.
No amount was paid Other information under any Directors indemnity or the Directors and Officers Liability Other information is set out as follows: Insurance during the year other than the applicable insurance premiums.
Corporate Governance Statement see pages 58 to 59.
Corporate Governance Report see pages 62 to 65.
Significant contracts Relationship agreements details of the agreements with KIRKBI are on There were no contracts of significance during the year to which the Company, page 65. or any of its subsidiary undertakings, is a party and in which a Director is or was Share capital, substantial holdings and related matters see pages 64 to 65. materially interested.
Internal controls and risk management systems in relation to the preparation of accounts see pages 70 to 73.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 91 Contractual matters Subsequent events Change of control On 21 February 2019, the Company entered into an agreement to sell its The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee that Australian ski resorts at Mount Hotham and Falls Creek to Vail Resorts Inc. for would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a a cash consideration of A$174 million, subject to certain adjustments related to change of control.
These attractions form part of the Midway Attractions Operating Group.
In 2018 revenue and underlying EBITDA for the Significant agreements to which the Company is a party that take effect, alter two sites were 35 million and 11 million respectively.
or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid are: Political donations The LCA, only in the circumstances described on page 65.
No political donations were made during the year.
A Multi-currency Facilities Agreement entered into by the Group dated 25 February 2015, as amended from time to time, which includes provisions Auditors in relation to a change of control or the sale of all or substantially all of the As recommended by the Audit Committee, a resolution for the reGroups assets, the occurrence of which will, after a negotiation period, give appointment of KPMG LLP as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the lenders under the Agreement the right to accelerate outstanding loans the 2019 Annual General Meeting.
So far as the Directors are aware, there is and terminate commitments.
The outstanding senior unsecured facilities no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware.
The comprise a 600 million revolving credit facility to mature in 2023.
Directors have taken all reasonable steps to ascertain any relevant audit An Indenture dated as of 19 March 2015 in relation to an issue of information and ensure the auditors are aware of such information.
700 million 2.75% fixed rate notes due in 2022 the Euro notes under which, in the event of a change of control of the Company and a ratings Approval of Annual Report event, the holders of the Euro notes may have the right to require that those The Strategic Report, Corporate Governance Statement and Report and the notes be repurchased at 101% of their principal nominal amount plus any Directors Report were approved by the Board on 27 February 2019. accrued and unpaid interest.
An Indenture dated as of 9 May 2018 in relation to an issue of $400 million For and on behalf of the Board 5.75% fixed rate notes due in 2026 the US Dollar notes under which, in the event of a change of control of the Company and a ratings event, the Matthew Jowett holders of the US Dollar notes may have the right to require that those General Counsel and Company Secretary notes be repurchased at 101% of their principal nominal amount plus any 27 February 2019 accrued and unpaid interest.
Merlin Entertainments plc Further details on the Groups banking facilities are shown in note 4.2 to the Registered number 08700412 financial statements.
Branches outside the UK Merlin Entertainments plc has no branches outside the UK.
Dividend An interim dividend of 2.5 pence per share was paid on 24 September 2018 to shareholders on the Register on 17 August 2018.
A final dividend for the year ended 29 December 2018 of 5.5 pence per share will be recommended for payment to shareholders.
The final dividend will be proposed to shareholders for approval at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Going concern The Directors consider that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue operating for the next 12 months and that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors have satisfied themselves that the Group is in a sound financial position and that it has access to sufficient cash funds and borrowing facilities and can reasonably expect those facilities to be available to meet the Groups foreseeable cash requirements.
The Viability Statement is set out in the Principal Risks section on page 41.
