60 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 GOVERNANCE DIVERSE AND EXPERIENCED BOARD OF DIRECTORS THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD DURING THE YEAR AND AT THEDATE OF THIS REPORT ARE AS FOLLOWS: Sir John Sunderland Skills and experience Current external Chairman Leadership appointments Governance Chancellor of Aston Nationality: British Food and beverage market University Multi-sector experience Adviser CVC Capital Length of tenure Partners 5 years 4 months Sir John has over 40 years experience in business leadership and previously held the roles of Chief Executive Officer of Cadbury Schweppes, Age: 73 President of the Confederation of British Industry and a Director of the Financial Reporting Council.
He is an experienced Chairman and Non-executive Director, having held numerous roles over many years in a variety of sectors including financial services, alternative energy, gaming and education.
Nick Varney Skills and experience Current external Chief Executive Officer Leadership appointments Visitor attractions Chairman of UK Hospitality Nationality: British Marketing M&A Length of tenure 5 years 4 months Nick has over 25 years experience in the visitor attractions industry.
Withabackground in marketing he led the management buy-out from Age: 56 Vardon Attractions to form Merlin in 1999, taking the Company through its successful 2013 Listing on the London Stock Exchange.
He has overseen Merlins rapid expansion ever since as Chief Executive Officer.
Anne-Francoise Nesmes Skills and experience Current external Chief Financial Officer Finance appointments Strategy execution Non-executive Director of Nationality: French M&A Compass Group plc Process improvement Length of tenure 2 years 6 months Anne-Francoise has over 25 years experience in finance gained in multinational organisations, having previously held the role of Chief Age: 47 FinancialOfficer at Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC and a number of seniorfinance roles at GlaxoSmithKline.
Charles Gurassa Skills and experience Current external Senior Independent Travel and tourism industry appointments Non-executive Director Telecommunications Chairman at Channel 4 Chairman of Great Rail Nationality: British Charles has over 30 years experience in management roles and was Journeys previously Chief Executive of Thomson Travel Group plc.
Deputy Chairman of Length of tenure easyJetplc 5 years 4 months He is an experienced Non-executive Director, having held numerous roles Trustee of English Heritage asChairman of Virgin Mobile plc, LOVEFiLM, Phones4U and TUI Northern and the Migration Museum Europe, Non-executive Chairman of Genesis Housing Association and Age: 63 Non-executive Director at Whitbread plc.
Trudy Rautio Skills and experience Current external Non-executive Director Travel and hospitality industry appointments Finance Director of Cargill Inc, The Nationality: American North American market Donaldson Company, Inc. and Securian Holding Company Length of tenure Trudy has over 40 years experience in finance, including more than 20 3 years 4 months years in the hospitality and travel industry where she held several senior executive positions including Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Trudy was appointed Chair of and Administrative Officer with Carlson until her retirement in 2015. theAudit Committee upon KenHydons retirement.
Age: 66 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 61 Nomination Committee Diversity Skills: Industry experience: Leadership, governance, Visitor attractions, food and Health, Safety and Security Committee Female representation sales and marketing, finance, beverage, travel, tourism and Audit Committee international experience, hospitality, pharmaceuticals, strategy execution, M&A, telecommunications, media, Remuneration Committee process improvement, LEGO brand, North 44% Committee Chair private equity investment, American, Asia Pacific and international consumer, European markets, property, Tenure since IPO in November 2013 Nationalities technology, growth strategy.
consumer and e-commerce, digital, technology.
5 Sren Thorup Srensen Skills and experience Current external Non-executive Director Finance appointments M&A Chief Executive Officer Nationality: Danish Governance ofKIRKBI A S Strategy Director of various KIRKBI Length of tenure European markets A S subsidiaries 5 years 4 months Chairman of the Board of Sren has over 25 years experience in finance and has held several senior Boston Holding A S Age: 53 executive positions, most notably Partner, Chief Financial Officer of A. P. Non-executive Director of Moller Maersk Group and Managing Partner of KPMG Denmark.
Falck A S Sren is an observer of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Fru Hazlitt Skills and experience Current external Non-executive Director Sales and marketing appointments Media Non-executive Director at Nationality: British Channel 4 Fru has over 20 years experience within the media sector, having previously Chair of Downe House Length of tenure been Managing Director, Commercial, Online and Interactive at ITV and Foundation and Deputy Chair 4 years 10 months Chief Executive Officer at both GCap Media plc and Virgin Radio.
of Downe House School Age: 55 Rachel Chiang Skills and experience Current external Non-executive Director Private equity investment appointments Leadership and entrepreneurship Director of Prospere Capital Nationality: Chinese Property, entertainment, consumer and e-commerce sectors Ltd China and Asia Pacific markets Non-executive positions with Length of tenure Sands China, Pacific Century 3 years 1 month Rachel has over 25 years of private equity investment experience in Asia Premium Developments with a focus on the property, retail and consumer markets.
Rachel was PCPD and Goodbaby Age: 51 the founding member of the private equity division of the Pacific International Holdings Ltd Alliance Group.
Andrew Fisher Skills and experience Current external Non-executive Director International consumer and technology sectors appointments High growth digital businesses Non-executive Director at Nationality: British Strategy Marks and Spencer plc and Business transformation MoneySupermarket.
com Length of tenure Group plc 7 months Andrew has over 20 years experience leading and growing a number of technology-focused enterprises and was instrumental in developing and Age: 49 executing a growth strategy to establish Shazam as one of the worlds leading mobile consumer brands.
Ken Hydon Non-executive Director Nationality: British Length of tenure 4 years 6 months Ken retired from the Board on 27 April 2018.
