OUR INTEGRATED APPROACH Our investment in an integrated approach continues, delivering the best in store, online and app customer experience ONLINE Our simple and secure online banking allows customers to manage cards and savings, browse transactions, open new accounts all from the comfort of the sofa.
Customers can even open current accounts online, irrespective of where in the UK they live.
Ifthey live near a store, they can also opt topop in and have their card printed on the spot.
Just one of many examples of how we are seamlessly integrating bricks and clicks.
Best Digital Onboardingstrategy Global retail Banking Awards 2018 IN STORE Our stores are open early until late, seven days a week, 362 days a year with friendly colleagues ready to help.
They are built around the philosophy of delivering instant fulfilment to customers.
Whether that be free coin counting for customers and non-customers alike through to the introduction in 2018 of a walk out trading service to businesses, allowing them to leave our store with their account fully set up and the ability to instantly take electronic payments.
1 for service in branches in the February 2019 CMA independent Service Quality Survey 04 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ON THE APP Our award-winning mobile banking app allows customers to make payments and manage their accounts and cards on the go.
This year weve introduced Insights.
By looking at a customers account history, Insights can identify patterns, trends and upcoming payments.
It then creates personalised reports and breakdowns to show how a customer is using their money, providing them with more control over their finances.
Five star rating of our app in the App store OVER THE PHONE Our call centres are based in the communities we serve and our friendly colleagues are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year.
We are focused on giving customers a choice of how they interact with us and not forcing them into digital-only channels.
Being able to speak to a human day or night remains central to our approach.
Highly commended best current account provider for call centre service Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 05
