ONLINE ACCOUNT RETAIL FANS Its really important for me to have a bank that supports my busy lifestyle.
MetroBank makes everything simple, convenient and quick.
I was particularly impressed at how OPENING easy it was to open my current account online, which took less than ten minutes.
Holly Hollys busy work schedule and active social life mean that she is constantly on the go.
She wanted a new bank that gave her flexibility in when and how she managed her finances, and technology to help her keep on top of her income and outgoings.
She was attracted to MetroBank by our opening hours and the Insights feature on our mobile app.
Using cutting-edge selfie identification and verification, Holly was able to open her new account at home in less than ten minutes.
She then had the option ofcollecting her new card immediately in herlocal MetroBank store or having it posted to her the next day.
16 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We put creating FANS at the heart of everything we do, which drives us to create innovative services to help themwith all their banking needs.
Chinwe Head of Technical Analysis and Design, Banking Solutions Our integrated model in action Chinwes role is focused on delivering game-changing new services that our customers really love, such as Current Account Online.
She works with our Technology, Products and Business teams to design and deliver innovative, resilient and secure banking solutions.
Her team provide support for all customer-facing channels, as well as back office operations teams to continue surprising and delighting our FANS.
Our Current Account Online is a great example of our integrated physical and digital customer experience.
It combines the strengths of our flexible technology architecture with our growing store network.
We give customers a choice ofhow they open and operate their accounts, truly bringing bricks and clicksto UK banking.
Best Digital onboarding Strategy Global Retail Banking Awards 2018 Best all round Personal Finance Provider Moneynet Personal Finance Awards 2018 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 17 INSTANT ACCOUNT SME FANS We are not just a number to MetroBank and that matters a lot!
They are always friendly, welcoming and even know us by name.
Anything which takes a month to get done OPENING elsewhere, MetroBank does in just a few hours or days.
Without them we would not be where we are today, and that is a fact.
Sapna Caterers Muhammeds family-run business, Sapna Caterers, has grown to become one of the top Asian food caterers in London.
Muhammed attended one of the regular business networking events hosted by MetroBank at his local store in Slough.
He was impressed by the unique customer service he experienced and chose to open a business current account with us.
Our local business manager met with Muhammed the following day and hes not looked back since.
What he loves most about MetroBank is the service he receives, 24 7, 365 days a year.
18 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our physical network and digital footprint deliver an integrated customer experience, which supports our business banking customers in a way that suits them best.
Sanjeev Local Director, Ealing Our integrated model in action We believe SMEs are one of the most underserved communities in the UK.
InSanjeevs role as a Local Director, he acts as a personal contact point for the business customers we serve, focusing on providing relationship banking.
Combined with our expanding digital capabilities in business banking, our focus on having a local presence supports our growing store network across the UK, as we work towards becoming the community bank of choice.
Its all about making banking easy, straightforward and hassle free.
Thats why 15% of SME switchers in London join MetroBank.
Best Business account British Small Business Awards 2018 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 19 INSTANT DECISION COMMERCIAL FANS MetroBanks unique culture and quality customer service is what sets them apart from other banks.
They demonstrate a pragmatic, down-to-earth and can-do MAKING approach in fulfilling our business requirements.
Slicker Recycling Slicker Recycling is a market-leading specialist inthe collection and recycling of waste oils andhazardous workshop waste.
They were introduced to MetroBank as part of their search for a long-term partnership bank that would add value and be flexible enough to support their growth aspirations.
MetroBanks entrepreneurial approach to understanding their business and financing requirements was a great match for Slickers philosophy and culture.
20 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We find AMAZEING individuals to come and join the revolution in British banking: people who are as passionate about delivering great customer service and creating FANS as we are.
Carly Head of Recruitment Our integrated model in action Culture is at the heart of our business and begins on day one for new colleagues joining MetroBank.
We recruit, train and lead our colleagues to deliver great customer service as part of our unique business model.
At MetroBank, we believe in hiring for attitude and training for skill.
Carlys role is crucial in ensuring that we hire great people.
Her team oversee the end-toend recruitment process and take an inclusive approach that attracts fantastic, diverse people who are aligned to our purpose and culture.
Finalist British Bank Awards 2018 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 21 PRIVATE BANKING PRIVATE BANKING FANS MetroBank has been very helpful and easy to work with.
I like that the team are really on the ball.
They understand my needs well and act efficiently to provide the right solutions.
Nothing is ever too much trouble for them.
Simon Simon is a successful entrepreneur who is highly relationship driven.
Unhappy with the level of service at his previous bank, he decided to make the switch to MetroBank for the high touch, personalised service that our Private Banking teams offer.
He loves that his dedicated Private Banker is easily accessible at all times and also understands the needs of his business interests, including Future Energy Solutions, a global provider of lighting as a service.
22 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our customers really appreciate having a dedicated Private Banking Director they trust us to look after them.
Etiksha Lead Private Banking Director, Private Banking Professionals and Seniors Our integrated model in action Were here to deliver a seamless 24 7 service.
Our customers appreciate the continuity of service offered by their dedicated contact in our Private Banking teams, such as Etiksha.
We combine quality, around-the-clock personal service with award-winning technology to make banking simple for our customers.
We take time to understand our customers requirements, supporting both their business and personal banking needs.
Our Private Banking model offers simple products that are transparent and easy to understand, supported by a bespoke service model.
We focus on traditional banking and lending, rather than offering investment management products and our customers appreciate this straightforward approach.
Best all round Personal Finance Provider Moneynet Personal Finance Awards 2018 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 23
