OUR MARKET An evolving marketplace offering exciting opportunities Changing landscapes consumer trends Fintech is opening up a new world of opportunity, which we are already integrating into our proposition.
Our investment Digital in a developer portal, which supports our compliance with The trend towards digital banking continues to accelerate, the second payment services directive PSD2, makes it across all segments of the market.
Our investment in easier than ever for fintech start-ups and others to create simple, scalable technology is now a clear advantage innovative integrations that offer our customers new as we offer alevel of choice and service that others convenience and functionality.
We expect small businesses simply cannot match.
to most benefit from the new Open Banking revolution and our investment in market-leading online banking and API This is demonstrated by our online personal current account platforms positions us extremely well.
opening experience, launched at the beginning of 2018.
With the help of selfie ID verification, new customers can Demand for better open a ready-to-use account in less than 10 minutes, with Customers are increasingly voting with their feet and debit cards delivered the next day or available for immediate initiatives such as the current account switch guarantee collection from any of our stores.
This market-leading scheme are encouraging competition and making it easier proposition extends our reach throughout the UK and for customers to move banks.
It has never been so easy for to a significant proportion of customers that now choose consumers to benefit from the wide variety of choice in the toopen new accounts online.
This comes at a time when consumers are wanting more out of their bank.
In an age Our mobile app is the centrepiece of our digital strategy, ofclick and collect seamlessly integrating the digital and now adding over 40,000 customers and exceeding 10 physical worlds, people are demanding the same of their million logins a month.
Over 50% of Instant Access Savings financial service needs.
Accounts are now opened inside our app.
Insights our AI powered mobile financial assistant is a first among UK high Our integrated approach and capability are aligned to this street banks and helps to simplify customers financial lives trend.
For example, when one of our FANS has lost their by providing a new level of visibility over their transactions.
debit card they can block it on our mobile app and walk into store, seven days a week, to print a new one straight away.
We are deploying technology in ways that delight customers and offer true instant fulfilment.
06 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Global uncertainty Industry trends 2018 saw increasing uncertainty around macroeconomic policies as well as downward revisions to growth estimates, Branch closures both in the UK and globally.
This was driven by several Traditional players within the industry continue their factors including China and US trade tensions, subdued programme of branch closures.
2018 saw another series growth in some key Eurozone economies and continued ofbranch closures announced.
Only ourselves and one other player have bucked this trend Despite these uncertainties we have successfully delivered through additional openings.
We are opening our stores in significant growth across the Bank.
We have achieved this major centres and therefore even when our network is fully byleveraging the inherent strengths in our business model.
established we will still have a significantly more focused A focus on providing unsurpassed levels of personal and footprint than most of our high street competitors.
business service has seen us capture an increasing percentage of the deposit market, enabling us to grow Due to our new technology stack we are uniquely able to lending prudently despite increased levels of competition.
combine physical and digital banking to unlock the value of Lending growth has in turn allowed us to make investments our customers in a way other providers in the market cannot.
in automation and straight through processing in our back 2018 saw us launch our walk out trading proposition where office functions in order to start to reduce the costs and SMEs can open a new bank account and leave the store with increase the speed with which we are able to deliver new a connected merchant services terminal, allowing them to products, services and experiences to customers.
It all adds take card payments on the same day.
up to a self-reinforcing model that puts creating FANS at the heart of what we do.
Competitive pressures The UK retail banking space remains highly competitive and Growth of SMEs despite a further Bank of England base rate rise during 2018 Structural changes in the economy combined with more lending yields reduced, driven largely by excess liquidity held flexible ways of working are leading SMEs to fast become by certain organisations.
thedriving force of growth in the UK.
Our unique SME proposition is benefiting from this trend.
We have the fastest Additionally, the entrance of a number of new players into growing market share of business current accounts BCAs the wider deposit market has driven deposit pricing higher.
From a standing start in 2010, we have now However, our strategy of attracting low-cost deposits, in the captured 2.1% of the SME market, growing faster than any form of current accounts continues to give us a structural other bank in the UK at a 31% compound annual growth rate advantage.
In addition our interest rates on savings accounts CAGR.
In the coming years we will likely be able to surpass are less market sensitive as we aim to attract deposits on the 5% of market share threshold the threshold at which the basis of service and convenience, rather than price.
CMA define a bank as being a credible market competitor.
Macro trends Our impact is greatest where we have established stores.
Our market share in London is 3.2% and growing rapidly.
Capital and funding Forthe 12 months to the end of Q3 2018, we attracted 4% Capital markets towards the end of 2018 were subdued, ofnew BCAs nationally, 5% in the South East and 11% in largely driven by global economic uncertainty and London.
Additionally we attracted 17% of all business based quantitative tightening.
in London that chose to move their accounts.
Some 88% of these switchers were from the largest five banks.
Our growth The current capital regime combined with our strong is more than just BCAs.
We have a 1.7% market share of total growth means at present we are not capital self-supportive.
SME deposits and captured a 15% share of new SME deposits We successfully completed a 303 million capital raise in 2018. anda 250 million debt issuance in 2018 to support our growth.
Over the coming year we will need to raise further Find out about our SME offering on pages 18 and 19 growth funding including up to c. 500 million of MREL qualifying debt.
In addition to raising external capital we are working on ensuring maximum capital efficiency, further details of which can be found in the Finance Review on page 27.
Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 07
