48 BOARD OF DIRECTORS KWEK LENG BENG N HIS EXCELLENCY Chairman of the Board and SHAUKAT AZIZ N R Chairman of the Nominations Senior Independent Committee Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee Kwek Leng Beng has been the Chairman of Shaukat Aziz was appointed to the Board in Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc since its June 2009.
He was elected as Prime Minister of incorporation.
He is also the Executive Chairman Pakistan and served between 2004 and 2007, of City Developments Limited and Chairman having previously held the post of Finance and Managing Director of Hong Leong Finance Minister for five years.
He also was the Non-Executive Chairman of Hong Leong Asia Limited until its After graduating from Gordon College, Annual General Meeting in April 2017, when he Rawalpindi in 1967, Mr Aziz gained a stepped down as its Chairman and as a Director.
MBA degree from the Institute of Business Administration, University of Karachi.
An Mr Kwek holds an honorary doctorate in internship at Citibank marked the beginning of Business Administration in Hospitality from a 30 year career in global finance, encompassing Johnson & Wales University in the US, and has roles globally.
As Executive Vice President, an honorary doctorate from Oxford Brookes he held several senior management positions University in the UK.
in Citibank, including Head of Institutional Banking for Central Eastern Europe, the Middle Mr Kwek has distinguished himself in property East and Africa, and later for Asia Pacific, investment and development, hotel ownership followed by Chief Executive of their global and management, financial services, and wealth management business.
He leads a business empire public speaker on economic and geopolitical worth over US$32b in diversified premium assets affairs, Mr Aziz is a member of several boards worldwide and has companies traded on 6 of and advisory boards of various commercial and the worlds stock markets.
Mr Kweks enterprise employs over 40,000 employees across a range non-profit entities around the world.
of businesses in Asia-Pacific, the Middle East, Europe, and North America.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 49 KWEK LENG PECK N KWEK EIK SHENG MARTIN LEITCH A N Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee Kwek Leng Peck was appointed to the Board Kwek Eik Sheng was appointed to the Board Martin Leitch was appointed to the Board in February 1995, prior to the flotation of the in April 2008.
He has been with the Hong in May 2017.
Mr Leitch is an international Company on the London Stock Exchange.
Leong Group of companies in Singapore since finance executive with significant experience He holds directorships in most of the listed 2006 and joined City Developments Limited in in both publicly quoted and private equity companies within the Hong Leong Group 2009, where he currently serves as the Group owned groups.
He is a Chartered Accountant of companies in Singapore, including City Chief Strategy Officer.
and has since 2013 provided finance, strategy, Developments Limited, Hong Leong Finance corporate finance and other services to a number Limited, and China Yuchai International Mr Kwek holds a Bachelor of Engineering in of international businesses, including Volac Limited.
He also serves as an Executive Director Electrical and Electronics Engineering from International and Constantia Flexibles.
Before for Hong Leong Asia Limited, and is NonImperial College of Science, Technology and that he was Chief Financial Officer at Innovia Executive Chairman of Tasek Corporation Medicine and a MPhil in Finance from Judge Films, Quest International and Antalis Group.
He began his corporate career at Pepsi-Cola International in 1993, having worked for Price Waterhouse in both the UK and US between 1979 and 1993.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 50 BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED CHRISTIAN fide DANIEL DESBAILLETS A R CHARNAC N R A Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Christian fide Charnac was appointed to the Daniel Desbaillets was appointed to the Board Board in August 2017.
He has over 40 years in September 2016.
Prior to his appointment of global experience in merchant, corporate Mr Desbaillets was an Independent Nonand institutional banking.
Most recently he Executive Director of M&C REIT Management was CEO, Investment Banking Asia Pacific, for Limited, the manager for CDL Hospitality Real BNP Paribas based in Hong Kong.
He has since Estate Investment Trust H-REIT, and also 1980 led various divisions of the bank working of M&C Business Trust Management Limited, in Singapore, Hong Kong, Seoul, Los Angeles, the trustee-manager for CDL Hospitality Taipei, Tokyo, Paris and London.
Mr fide Business Trust HBT.
Both H-REIT and Charnac has been involved in numerous capital HBT are comprised as a stapled group in CDL markets, financing and advisory transactions for Hospitality Trusts CDLHT which is listed clients throughout Asia, the US and Europe, on the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading and has considerable experience in advising Limited.
He began his banking career at Bank of America, working in its Multinational Mr Desbaillets has extensive hospitality Division.
He also serves as a Non-Executive experience.
He has been in the hospitality Director of Golden Agri-Resources Ltd and an industry since 1973 holding senior positions Independent President Commissioner on the with InterContinental Hotel Group, Hilton Board of BNP Paribas Sekuritas Indonesia.
He was appointed to the boards of CDLHT as an Independent Non-Executive Director in July 2010.
A Member of the Audit & Risk Committee R Member of the Remuneration Committee N Member of the Nominations Committee Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc
