51 DIRECTORS REPORT INTRODUCTION The Directors present their annual report of the business and the Group, The purpose of the Directors Report is to provide shareholders with together with the financial statements and auditors report, for the year certain statutory information about the Company, its Directors and its ended 31 December 2018. operations.
The Strategic Report informs shareholders of and helps them assess how the Directors have performed in their duty to promote the The Directors Report is required to be produced under the Companies success of the company.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTRs and Listing Rules LRs also require the Company to make certain disclosures.
Other information that is relevant to this report, and which is also incorporated by reference, including information required in accordance with the Act and LR 9.8.
4R, can be located as follows: DISCLOSURE SECTION PAGE Directors emoluments Directors Remuneration Report 71 Long Term Incentive schemes Details of the Groups employee share schemes are set out in Note 23 of the consolidated financial statements and also on pages 80 and 82 of the Directors annual report on remuneration.
Details of the shares held by the Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Employee Benefit Trust can be found In the Directors Report on page 53 and in Note 30 of the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 167 Interest capitalised by the Group Note 12 of the consolidated financial statements 135 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary None Contract of significance with a director or controlling shareholder None Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Note 33 of the consolidated financial statements 169 Non-preemptive issues of equity for cash None Non-preemptive issues of equity for cash in relation to major None subsidiary undertakings Agreements with the controlling shareholder Corporate governance statement 64 Employee involvement and policies Corporate responsibility 31 and 32 Greenhouse gas emissions Corporate responsibility From page 32 COMPANY STATUS BOARD OF DIRECTORS Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc is a public limited company The names and biographical details of the Directors holding office as incorporated under the laws of England and Wales.
It has a premium at 31 December 2018 are shown on pages 48 to 50.
Three Directors, listing on the London Stock Exchange main market for listed securities including Jennifer Fox, Sue Farr and Gervase MacGregor, served as and is a constituent of the FTSE 250 index.
Directors of the Company for a portion of the year, but stepped down on 27 September 2018, 31 October 2018 and 1 December 2018, STRATEGIC REPORT respectively.
This report is prepared by the Directors and is found on pages 18 to 45.
The Strategic Report is required by the Act to provide a fair review DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS of the Companys business, together with a description of the principal Details of the Directors shareholdings at 31 December 2018 are shown risks and uncertainties facing the Company.
It includes an analysis of on page 82.
No change to these shareholdings has occurred between the development and performance of the Companys business during the 31 December 2018 and the date of this report.
year and the position of its business at the end of the year, as well as a description of the Companys strategy and business model.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 52 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT AND DISABLED PERSONS A Director may be appointed to fill a casual vacancy or as an additional We value highly the rich ethnic and cultural diversity of our people.
The Director by an ordinary resolution of shareholders.
In addition, the Group operates in over 26 countries and employed 11,504 employees Directors may appoint a Director to fill a casual vacancy or as an worldwide during the year.
We are an equal opportunities employer additional Director, provided that the individual retires at the next and our objective is to ensure that no employee or other worker or Annual General Meeting.
job applicant receives less favourable treatment, directly or indirectly, on the grounds of age, disability, gender reassignment, marital or civil In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, which provides that partner status, pregnancy or maternity, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or all directors of FTSE 350 companies should stand for election or renational origin, religion or belief, sex or sexual orientation.
election by shareholders every year, all members of the Board will retire and seek re-election at this years Annual General Meeting.
The eligibility Further, our policies encourage the employment, training and requirements for Directors to be appointed at a general meeting are advancement of disabled persons, having regard to their particular specified in the Companys Articles of Association.
aptitudes and abilities, provided that they can be employed in a safe working environment.
Suitable employment would, if possible, be A Director may be removed by the Company in certain circumstances found for any employee who becomes disabled during the course of as set out in the Companys Articles of Association or the Directors employment.
appointment letter, including by an ordinary resolution of the Company, upon termination of the Directors appointment letter by the Company The Group values the engagement of its employees and endeavours or being given written notice to resign signed by all of the other to keep employees informed about matters of concern to them and Directors, or in the event the Director becomes prohibited by law from the performance of the Company, whether through management acting as a Director.
presentations, global and regional intranet sites and other communications.
Likewise, the Group seeks to consult with employees RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS through various means and on a regular basis so that their views can be The results of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018 are set taken into account.
The Group currently operates an HM Revenue & out on pages 104 to 185.
Customs compliant Save as You Earn Scheme, an all-employee share plan for employees in the UK, and Long Term Incentive Plan, Executive An interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 2.08p per Share Plan and Deferred Share Bonus Plan for certain levels of executives share was paid on 28 September 2018.
The Directors are recommending globally.
The primary objectives of these plans are to incentivise a final dividend of 2.15p per share 2017: 4.42p, which, if approved at and engage our employees and align their interests with the Groups the Companys Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2019, will be paid performance.
Further details of the Groups employee benefits are set out on 17 May 2019 to shareholders on the register on 15 March 2019. in Note 23 to the Companys consolidated financial statements.
POLITICAL DONATIONS AND EXPENDITURE During 2018, the Board received detailed reports in relation to the No donations were made by the Group for political purposes and the new UK Corporate Governance Code the New Code that became Group did not incur any political expenditure during the year 2017: effective on 1 January 2019.
The New Code has expanded the roles of nil.
The Company operates a politically neutral policy with regard to the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee: in any political donations and expenditure it may elect to make.
See the particular, the Remuneration Committee has been developing proposals Corporate Responsibility Report on page 36 for details of the Companys with regard to the wider workforce.
The Remuneration Committee, non-political charitable activities.
in conjunction with senior management and , developed a formal framework that will allow the Board to understand FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS the views of and engage with the workforce.
This has involved the An indication of the Groups financial risk management objectives and establishment of a workforce advisory panel.
Further details relating to policies in respect of the use of financial instruments and exposure of the the workforce advisory panel and work undertaken by the Remuneration Company to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are set Committee to address some of the New Code requirements, is detailed in out in Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
the Directors Remuneration Report and will be further elaborated in the companys 2019 Annual Report and Accounts.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS All disclosures concerning the Groups greenhouse gas emissions can be FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS found in the Corporate Responsibility Report from page 32.
A discussion of the likely future developments in the business of the Group can be found in the Strategic Report on page 18.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 53 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT With regard to the Companys ordinary shares: Whilst we continue to review ways to improve our service and product each ordinary share of the Company ranks equally in all respects: offerings, and regularly invest in our people and assets, the Group did the voting rights associated with the Companys ordinary shares are not conduct significant research and development activities during the not restricted and there are no restrictions on the transfer of the shares year.
or the voting rights attached to them aside from certain restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by applicable laws or BRANCHES regulations, such as insider dealing laws.
Pursuant to the Companys The Company did not have any branches outside the UK during the share dealing policies, the Companys Directors and certain other year.
categories of employees, such as persons discharging managerial responsibility, are required to seek approval to deal in the Companys GOING CONCERN BASIS OF ACCOUNTING shares during various restricted periods: The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in the Directors are not aware of any agreements between shareholders operation for the foreseeable future, which for this purpose is a period of that may result in restrictions on the transfer of the Companys shares at least 12 months from the date of approval of the Companys financial or on the voting rights attached to them: and statements.
Accordingly, they continue to consider it appropriate none of the Companys shares carries special rights with regard to to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the control of the Company.
consolidated financial statements of the Group.
Further details on this assessment are included on page 112, within Note 2.1 to the Group EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES financial statements.
The Company has in place a discretionary Employee Benefit Trust known as the Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Employee Benefit AMENDMENT TO THE COMPANYS ARTICLES OF Trust 2006 the EBT, which is funded by the Company and ASSOCIATION was established to acquire shares in the Company for the benefit of The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by special employees participating in the Companys share-based incentive schemes.
resolution of its shareholders in accordance with the Act.
Details of shares held by the EBT at 31 December 2018 are set out on page 167.
During 2018, 22,365 shares were released from the EBT in SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS respect of share schemes for employees.
The trustee of the EBT, currently There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party First Names NTC Trustees Limited, has the power to exercise all voting that take effect, are altered or terminate upon a change of control of rights in relation to the Companys shares held within the EBT, but the Company following a takeover bid.
However, as mentioned in generally abstains from voting.
the Payment for loss of office section in this Directors Report, the Companys share plans include change of control provisions.
PAYMENT FOR LOSS OF OFFICE The Company does not have an agreement with any Director or SHARE CAPITAL AND RELATED MATTERS employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or The Companys issued share capital at 31 December 2018 consisted of employment resulting from a takeover bid.
However, all of the 324,791,486 fully paid ordinary shares of 30 pence each.
The shares Companys employee share plans contain provisions relating to a change are traded on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange.
During of control pursuant to a general offer, scheme of arrangement or similar 2018, 30,731 new shares were issued under employee share plans.
On such a change of control, options and awards granted to Further details of the changes to the Companys ordinary issued share employees under the Companys share plans may vest and become capital during the year are shown in Note 29 to the Companys financial exercisable, subject to the satisfaction of any applicable performance statements.
Further details about payments to be made to Directors for loss of office can be found in the Directors Remuneration RIGHTS ATTACHED TO SHARES Report on page 81.
Rights and obligations attached to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, a copy of which can POWER OF DIRECTORS be obtained from Companies House or from the Companys investor The Directors may exercise all the Companys powers that are not relations website at https: investors.
com corporaterequired by the law or the Companys Articles of Association to be governance policies.
In particular, the Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money, issue shares, appoint and remove directors and recommend and declare dividends.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 54 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED CONTROLLING SHAREHOLDER INDEPENDENCE disapply pre-emption rights for cash issues of shares in respect of DISCLOSURE ordinary shares with a nominal value of up to 4,871,491 As of the date of this report, City Developments Limited CDL is representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued share capital the controlling shareholder of the Company.
As required under LR as at 28 March 2018 : and 9.2.
2ADR, the Company and CDL have entered into the Amended and disapply pre-emption rights for cash issues of shares in respect of Restated Co-Operation Agreement dated 14 November 2014 ordinary shares with a nominal value of up to an additional the Co-Operation Agreement, which is intended to ensure that the 4,871,491 representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued Companys controlling shareholder complies with the independence share capital as at 28 March 2018 for purpose of financing or provisions set out in the Listing Rules.
refinancing, if the authority is to be used within six months after the original transaction a transaction which the Directors determine to be In accordance with LR 6.5.
4R the Co-operation Agreement establishes, an acquisition or other capital investment, in line with the Statement among other things, that CDL and its associates shall i conduct all of Principles on Disapplying Pre-Emption Rights most recently transactions and arrangements with the Company and its subsidiaries published by The Pre-Emption Group.
at arms length and on normal commercial terms: ii not take any action which would have the effect of preventing the Company from The authority conferred on the Directors under these resolutions will complying with its obligations under the LRs: and iii not exercise any expire at the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting voting or other rights and powers to propose or procure the proposal of or 30 June 2019, whichever is earlier.
At the Companys 2019 Annual a shareholder resolution which is intended or appears to be intended to General Meeting shareholders will be asked to renew these authorities.
circumvent the proper application of the LRs.
Further details of these resolutions and other resolutions are contained in the 2019 notice of Annual General Meeting.
The Co-Operation Agreement will continue in operation as long as the Companys shares are listed on the premium segment of the Official List The Co-Operation Agreement contains a provision that requires the of the London Stock Exchange and will terminate should CDL cease to Company to use all reasonable endeavours to ensure that any issue be a controlling shareholder as defined in the Listing Rules.
of voting securities for cash other than pursuant to an employee or executive share option scheme which takes place while the Company The Company confirms that during the year it has complied with the is on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange, is carried out in independence provisions included within the Co-Operation Agreement a manner that provides CDL with an opportunity to acquire additional and, in so far as it is aware, CDL has complied with such provisions as ordinary shares at the time of such proposed issue for cash in such well.
amounts as are necessary to enable it to maintain its voting rights in the Company at the same percentage level as is held immediately prior to The Co-Operation Agreement allows CDL to appoint up to five such issue.
These pre-emption rights are put to a vote of shareholders Directors to the Board.
As at the date of this report, CDL has appointed each year and most recently were approved at the Companys Annual three Directors.
ALLOTMENT OF SHARES PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES Under the Act, Directors may only allot shares or grant rights to The Company was authorised by shareholders at its 2018 Annual subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares if authorised to do General Meeting to purchase its own shares on the market within so by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
In the period since the 2018 Annual General Meeting, Companys 2018 Annual General Meeting, shareholders approved the Company has not exercised this authority.
The Board will seek resolutions authorising the Company to: shareholder approval at the 2019 Annual General Meeting to renew this authority to make market purchases of the Companys shares.
allot shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 32,476,608 representing one-third of the Companys issued share capital as at DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES 28 March 2018 : The Articles of Association of the Company permit it to indemnify the Directors of the Company or any Group company against liabilities allot shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 64,953,216 incurred by them in relation to or in connection with their duties, representing two-thirds of the Companys issued share capital as at powers or office, to the extent permitted by law.
The Company has 28 March 2018 in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue provided each of its Directors with a qualifying third-party indemnity, i to holders of ordinary shares in proportion as nearly as may be as defined in section 234 of the Act.
In addition, the Company has practicable to their respective holdings: and ii to holders of other provided qualifying pension scheme indemnities to the directors of equity securities as required by the rights of those securities or as the Millennium & Copthorne Pension Trustee Limited, which acts as trustee Directors otherwise consider necessary: Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 55 of the Groups UK pension plan, and qualifying third-party indemnities various meetings or conversations between the Directors, including the to the directors of its European subsidiary companies.
The indemnities Chairman of the Board, the Senior Independent Director and other do not apply in the event a covered person is proved to have committed a Directors, and the Companys institutional shareholders so that the criminal offence or otherwise where indemnification is prohibited by law.
Board could gain a first-hand understanding of investor concerns.
These indemnities remain in force as at the date of this report.
In addition, the Companys Annual General Meeting provides all shareholders with the opportunity to ask questions on matters put forth In 2018, the Company purchased and maintained Directors and as resolutions and to further develop their understanding of the business.
Officers liability insurance coverage, which is intended to be renewed again in 2019.
No claim was made under any such indemnity or At the Companys 2018 Annual General Meeting the company received insurance policy during the year.
significant votes opposing the election or re-election of the independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board is always mindful of shareholder ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING concerns and has engaged regularly with shareholders during the year to The 2019 Annual General Meeting will be held at the Millennium understand their concerns in respect of these resolutions this as well as Hotel London Knightsbridge, 17 Sloane St, Knightsbridge, London other matters.
SW1X 9NU on 10 May 2019 at 10.00 a. m. The Notice of Meeting, which will contain notes explaining the business to be transacted at His Excellency Shaukat Aziz, the Companys Senior Independent the meeting, will be sent to shareholders under a covering letter from Director, is available to all shareholders if they have concerns that the Chairman of the Companys Board, together with a copy of the communication through the normal channels has failed to resolve.
Company 2018 annual report and accounts, at least 21 clear days in advance.
com, contains up-to-date information for our shareholders and other interested parties, At the meeting, the Chairman of the Board will present a review of the including copies of previous annual reports and accounts, shareholder Groups business first and a poll will be conducted for all resolutions circulars and presentations, share price information and information on being put forward to shareholders.
Resolutions will be proposed to, shareholder services.
among other things, declare a final dividend, to receive the annual report and accounts, to approve the Directors remuneration report, to re-elect ESSENTIAL CONTRACTS all Directors, to re-appoint KPMG LLP as the auditor and to authorise The Group has contractual and other arrangements with numerous third the Directors to approve their fees.
In addition, shareholders will be parties in support of its business activities.
Whilst the termination of asked to renew authorities referred to above.
Following the meeting, the some of these contracts might cause temporary disruption, none of the voting results for each resolution will be published.
arrangements is, individually, considered to be essential to the Groups business.
ENGAGEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board recognises and values the importance of maintaining an RE-APPOINTMENT OF THE AUDITOR effective investor relations and communication programme.
The Board KPMG LLP has expressed their willingness to be reappointed as auditor is proactive in obtaining an understanding of shareholder views on a of the Company.
Upon the recommendation of the Audit & Risk number of key matters affecting the Group and receives formal investor Committee, resolutions to reappoint them as auditor and to authorise feedback regularly.
the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Companys 2019 Annual General Meeting.
In 2018, the Groups shareholders engagement activities included: formal investor presentations in respect of the Groups 2017 preliminary results and 2018 interim results: various meetings or conversations between the Companys management team, including the Group Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Company Secretary and other members of the team from time to time, and the Companys major shareholders during the year: and Annual Report & Accounts 2018 56 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED SIGNIFICANT HOLDINGS As at the date of this report, the Company had been notified, under DTR 5.1.
2, of the following interests of three per cent or more in its total voting rights: # OF ORDINARY NOTIFIED SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDER SHARES INTEREST % NATURE OF HOLDING City Developments Limited 211,749,487 65.2 Indirect holding through various subsidiaries International Value Advisers, LLC 21,127,368 6.51 Investment advisor Goldman Sachs Securities Nominees Ltd. 20,093,139 6.19 Discretionary investment manager on behalf of JNE Master Fund LP multiple managed portfolios Standard Life Aberdeen plc 13,707,249 4.22 Discretionary investment manager on behalf of multiple managed portfolios On 3 January 2019 the Company was informed that the people subject to the notification obligation were MSD Capital, L. P. MSD Capital Management, LLC, JNE Partners LLP and Jonathan Esfandi.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT APPROVAL OF DIRECTORS REPORT In compliance with DTR 7.2.
1R, the disclosures required by DTR The Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement were 7.2.
7R are set out in this Directors Report and in the approved by the Board on 14 February 2019.
Corporate Governance Statement on pages 57 to 66, which together with the Directors Statement of Responsibilities are incorporated by reference into this report.
By order of the Board STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS AS TO DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE AUDITOR Jonathon Grech In accordance with Section 418 of the Act, each Director who held office Group General Counsel and Company Secretary at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirms that: 14 February 2019 so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
