STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 92TO147 OTHERINFORMATION 148TO152 Welcome to Mitchells & Butlers We are a leading operator of managed restaurants and pubs.
Our strong portfolio of brands and formats includes Harvester, Toby Carvery, All Bar One, Miller & Carter, Premium Country Pubs, Sizzling Pubs, Stonehouse, Vintage Inns, Browns, Castle, Nicholsons, ONeills and Ember Inns.
In addition, we operate Innkeepers Lodge hotels in the UK and Alex restaurants and bars in Germany.
Our focus on our three priority areas of building a more balanced business: instilling a more commercial culture: and driving an innovation agenda has continued to move the business forward over the financial year.
The implementation of the second wave of initiatives from our transformation programme has resulted in sustained like-for-like 1 sales growth, continued market outperformance and a return to adjusted profit growth in the second half despite Easter moving into the first half.
Through their hard work, our teams create fantastic guest experiences every day.
Here are just a few of them 1.
As measured by the Coffer Peach business tracker.
Annual report and accounts 2018 Mitchells & Butlers plc 1 Miller & Carter, Rickmansworth Beef is a labour of love at Miller & Carter.
We put everything into pursuing the perfect steak, from the field to the butchers block to the grill, so only the finest, most flavoursome cuts make your plate.
This restaurant, nestled in the charming suburb of Rickmansworth, reopened as a Miller & Carter in 2017 and provides the perfect setting to escape the hustle and bustle of everyday life with the added charm of a working mill.
More customer feedback 2 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 92TO147 OTHERINFORMATION 148TO152 The birthday lunch was a great success full of food, fun AND a delicious slice of cake.
Annual report and accounts 2018 Mitchells & Butlers plc 3 The Colney Fox, St Albans Vintage Inns has got everything you need from a country pub: burning log fires in the winter, and beautiful beer gardens in the summer.
The Colney Fox, St Albans was previously called The Watersplash Hotel in the 1940s and 50s, a venue complete with restaurant and swimming pool.
Now restored and renamed, The Colney Fox is still full of heritage and tradition whilst also benefiting from recently renovated, comfortable and characterful B&B Innkeepers Lodge hotel rooms.
More customer feedback 4 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 92TO147 OTHERINFORMATION 148TO152 Having passed our exams there was only one thing left to do.
Annual report and accounts 2018 Mitchells & Butlers plc 5 Browns, Windsor Browns is perfect for casual dining or for those special occasions.
Together with a bustling brasserie atmosphere and a passionate team, theres a unique restaurant experience that youll love.
Browns, Windsor is an elegant, spacious building with incredible views across the Thames from the front and the mighty Windsor Castle from the back.
Youll find a delightful outdoor balcony with comfy sofas, perfect to enjoy an al fresco lunch as you sit back and watch the boats and world go by.
More customer feedback 6 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 92TO147 OTHERINFORMATION 148TO152 I walked in as a friend and left a fairy godmother.
Annual report and accounts 2018 Mitchells & Butlers plc 7 Hornimans at Hays, London Nicholsons has been delighting guests since 1873 by offering delicious food and drink accompanied by a friendly welcome.
It proudly serves classic British pub dishes or seasonal specials alongside an unrivalled collection of cask ales and an exciting range of premium gins in historic city centre pubs.
Hornimans is located in the heart of central London, on the banks of the Thames.
Its minutes from Tower Bridge, The Shard, and London Bridge, whilst the Tower of London, The Clink Museum, HMS Belfast, and the bustling Borough Market, are only a short walk away.
More customer feedback 8 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 92TO147 OTHERINFORMATION 148TO152 Friday lunchtime with my mates is such a laugh.
It signals the start of my weekend Annual report and accounts 2018 Mitchells & Butlers plc 9
