Our strategy in action 24 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 92TO147 OTHERINFORMATION 148TO152 Building a more balanced business We aim to generate maximum value from our estate by ensuring we have the right brand in the right location.
During the year we invested 171m in capital activity, completing a total of 239 projects as well as investing in the maintenance and infrastructure of our businesses.
We continued the premiumisation of our estate through investment in Miller & Carter which saw a further 21 sites open in the year, taking the brand to 105 restaurants in total.
This means we have kept pace with our aim to invest in each of our sites every six to seven years, ensuring we upgrade and maintain the look and feel in an ever more competitive market.
Our returns a from this investment are strong too, with return on capital of 27% on our remodel projects and 23% on our conversion and acquisition projects completed in the year.
As a direct result of our transformation programme, we successfully completed more projects in the first half of the year than previously resulting in an increase in the number of trading weeks post investment.
This, in addition to a reduction in the time and cost associated with closure, delivered a total in-year benefit of 3m.
In the coming year, we will maintain this investment cycle and look to unlock further value from our existing assets through our remodel programme.
Annual report and accounts 2018 Mitchells & Butlers plc 25 Our strategy in action Instilling a more commercial culture Engaged people with the right skills and means to both delight guests and deliver profitable growth remain essential to our strategy.
With unrelenting external cost pressures, we are equipping our managers with the tools to deliver efficiencies within the business.
These efficiencies include enhanced labour deployment through a new rostering system, improved stock control and reduced petty cash spend through greater access to central suppliers.
Labour remains our most significant cost.
The new rostering system helps our General Managers more effectively deploy labour through better sales forecasting, scheduling recommendations and electronic time management.
The embedding of this software has already resulted in an in-year cost mitigation of 8m.
The next stage, identified by one of our Ignite workstreams, was the formation of a team of labour scheduling experts who work with the sites that need further support to extract the benefit from the system.
210 sites have been visited this year by the team releasing an annualised cost benefit of 1.5m.
Our guest focus, aided by our feedback consolidation tool, reputation.
com, has also continued to improve with net promoter score growing by three points during the year, against the backdrop of like-for-like sales growth and market outperformance.
26 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 92TO147 OTHERINFORMATION 148TO152 Annual report and accounts 2018 Mitchells & Butlers plc 27 Our strategy in action 28 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 92TO147 OTHERINFORMATION 148TO152 Driving an innovation agenda Delivering our digital strategy is still at the forefront of our focus as we continue to bring technology to the guest experience through our brand apps, order and pay at table facilities, and the installation of wireless charging pads.
We have also increased our food delivery capability in the year across Deliveroo and Just Eat, with 131 sites now live across one of the two platforms.
Our customer relationship management capability has increased in sophistication as we are now able to target specific groups of customers through digital channels by tailoring messages and offers to better meet the needs of individuals.
In addition, one of our Ignite teams identified improvements to our booking platforms which have been introduced.
These include reducing the number of steps a guest needs to take to book a table on-line resulting in improved booking conversions: and offering alternative venue recommendations when there is no availability at the initially selected site.
We estimate that this has resulted in an annualised figure of around 13,000 additional booking conversions.
Annual report and accounts 2018 Mitchells & Butlers plc 29
