Build a more Maximising balanced business returns Rationale Our strategy aims to deliver long-term To generate maximum value from our estate of largely sustainable shareholder value through freehold-backed properties.
Our priority is to To ensure we are exposed to the right market segments by having the correct trading brand or concept in each outlet, maximise the return generated from based on location, site characteristics and local demographics.
our existing assets, through ensuring we To maintain the amenity level of the estate such that we operate safely and remain competitive to guests, alongside meeting have a balanced estate: instilling a more cash flow commitments.
commercial culture: and driving an innovation agenda.
FY 2018 progress Maintained level of investment in capital activity at 171m.
Completed 239 capital projects in the year, maintaining a six to seven year investment cycle.
Continued investment in growth brand Miller & Carter with 105 sites now open.
Completed more projects in H1 than in previous years with less closure weeks resulting in 3m in-year benefit.
Acquired seven sites and disposed of five sites which did not fit into our estate strategy.
FY 2019 priorities Focus on enhancing asset value through remodelling or converting sites where we believe increased value can be unlocked.
Make further selective acquisitions where we feel they add value to the estate, and disposals where we feel we have extracted maximum value.
Further explore investment opportunities with third parties.
Link to key risks Risks and uncertainties 1A, 2A See pages 38 to 42 Link to KPIs Key performance indicators 2, 3, 4, 5 See pages 30 to 31 22 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 92TO147 OTHERINFORMATION 148TO152 2.
Drive an commercial culture innovation agenda Rationale Rationale To ensure we focus on the delivery of profitable sales.
To ensure that our brands and formats remain fresh and relevant within their market segments.
To engage our teams in delivering outstanding guest experiences.
To leverage the increasing role technology can play in improving To act quickly and decisively to remain competitive in our efficiency and guest experience.
To execute a digital strategy to engage with consumers across a variety of platforms.
To facilitate new product and concept development.
FY 2018 progress FY 2018 progress Mitigation of 28m of food, drink and logistics cost headwinds Expanded our involvement with delivery partners, 131 sites through continued efficiency savings.
are now live with Deliveroo or Just Eat.
Generated 5m benefit from centralised pricing changes.
Continued to bring guest technology to the customer through order and pay at table as well as the installation of wireless New labour rostering system fully embedded, allowing managers charging pads in some of our All Bar One businesses.
to improve sales forecasting and enhance deployment of labour resulting in an 8m in-year benefit.
Increased the sophistication of our customer relationship management capability, with the ability to target the right Team formed to support sites performing below required labour customers with the right offers through our digital channels.
Further advances in guest engagement with social media response rate of 93% FY 2017 83% and net promoter score also up 3 percentage points.
System update and change of processes around our stock management.
Removal of cash expenditure for sundry expenses trialled to increase visibility, control and identify scale purchasing opportunities.
FY 2019 priorities FY 2019 priorities Fully roll out and embed the new stock auto-ordering system, Consolidate all data onto one platform to facilitate increased improving control through a reduction in waste, fewer stock use of technology within our business.
outages and a more efficient stock take process.
Further develop guest loyalty initiatives and extend roll out Removal of all unprofitable hours throughout the business.
Increase spend per head through tailored pricing, Roll out our order at table technology across more ONeills sites menu psychology and upselling.
and to four additional brands.
Continue to leverage scale through central procurement Continue to evolve and develop all of our brands and concepts.
and roll out of cash expenditure removal across all businesses.
Link to key risks Link to key risks Risks and uncertainties Risks and uncertainties 1A, 1B, 2A, 2D, 2G 1A, 2B, 2C See pages 38 to 42 See pages 38 to 42 Link to KPIs Link to KPIs Key performance indicators Key performance indicators 1, 2, 3, 5 2, 3, 5 See pages 30 to 31 See pages 30 to 31 Annual report and accounts 2018 Mitchells & Butlers plc 23
