Our markets Outperforming in a challenging economic and political environment The external environment Market trends suggest that consumers The eating out industry has faced a number of challenges over recent are eating out less frequently but spending years.
The number of restaurants in the UK increased by 11% over the past five years, outstripping demand growth and resulting in pressure more when they do, supporting our on sales per site across the sector.
Over the same period, the sector has continued to face strong cost headwinds with the combined result strategy of premiumisation and focus of these two factors being a number of CVAs and business closures on providing opportunities for guests amongst our competitors in the past year.
In the twelve months to September 2018, the number of restaurants in operation in the UK fell by to trade up menus.
1.0% reflecting the competitive pressure in this highly fragmented sector.
From a demand perspective there have been several economic factors impacting consumer confidence including Brexit, political uncertainty and limited growth in real wages.
Despite this, turnover in the eating out market as a whole continues to grow, with forecast growth of 1.5% in 2018 indicating that leisure spend is currently being protected to some extent by consumers.
Market trends suggest that consumers are eating out less frequently but spending more when they do, supporting our strategy of premiumisation and focus on providing opportunities for guests to trade up menus.
The impact of Brexit remains uncertain.
Aside from macro-economic consequences, the specific areas of material impact for our business are increases in costs and reduction of availability of goods, and implications of restrictions on the free movement of labour.
On exit of the EU, cost of goods would be impacted by changes in terms of trade and therefore tariffs, additional border controls and fluctuations in the value of sterling.
From an employment perspective, at a time when unemployment levels are at a 40-year low, any restriction on the free movement of labour would have a material impact on both the cost of labour and access to talent.
Currently across our business, 13% of staff are non-British EU nationals, with the proportion fluctuating by geographic region.
We remain close to these issues whilst we await further details.
18 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 92TO147 OTHERINFORMATION 148TO152 Net UK restaurant openings MAT 2,500 Source: CGA Outlet Index.
57bn 2bn Turnover Mitchells & Butlers share of market Mitchells & Butlers inflationary costs m 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 Our risks and uncertainties Actual Estimated See pages 38 to 42 Annual report and accounts 2018 Mitchells & Butlers plc 19
