Our business model Creating value for our stakeholders Value proposition Through the people who work for us, We create value for our stakeholders through the delivery of quality our well-invested freehold estate and eating and drinking experiences.
Last year, we served 120 million meals and 386 million drinks across our brands, providing us with the the high-quality practices we adopt, our opportunity to engage with guests on a daily basis.
brands delight our guests again and again, Guest experience is a critical element of our brands offers.
We use a feedback consolidation tool, reputation.
com, to provide us with the creating value for all our stakeholders.
insight to continuously evolve our offers to suit our guests needs.
In the long term, we aim to maximise the opportunity from these guest experiences through our largely freehold-backed estate, the teams of people working within the business, and the high-quality practices which we adopt.
Estate In total we own 1,750 pubs, bars and restaurants, of which over 80% are owned under a freehold or long leasehold.
The estate is predominantly UK-based, and is nationwide although most heavily concentrated in London and the South East, the West Midlands and the North West.
We also have sites in Germany within our Alex brand portfolio.
This array of high-quality locations, matched with our diverse brand portfolio, enables us to match the right concept to the right trading asset, as well as offering a strong pipeline for future conversions.
Our property has a value of 4.4bn as at the end of FY 2018, offering a stable and long-term opportunity for value creation.
People We have more than 44,000 employees across our pubs, bars and restaurants and in our Retail Support Centre, who are critical to delivering outstanding experiences to our guests.
Our people include those with strong business and sector experience, as well as new and enthusiastic young talent who we look to develop through our apprenticeship programmes.
Adopting a structured approach to recruitment, driving high levels of engagement with our existing teams and offering development and learning opportunities are key elements of our people strategy.
Practices Practices refers to the ways in which we operate in the best way to generate value throughout the business.
This encompasses our use of scale for purchasing and operational efficiency: sharing of ideas between similar brands and concepts within the portfolio: adherence to the highest operational standards: and an increasing use of technology to enhance guest experiences.
We continuously strive to move forward in all of these areas in order to maximise the value of the Company.
20 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 92TO147 OTHERINFORMATION 148TO152 Estate People In total we own 1,750 We have more than pubs, bars and restaurants, 44,000 employees across our of which over 80% are pubs, bars and restaurants owned under a freehold and in our Retail Support or long leasehold.
Centre, who are critical to delivering outstanding experiences to our guests.
Building a more balanced business See pages 24 to 25 Instilling a more commercial culture Guests See pages 26 to 27 Brands Practices Practices refers to the ways in which we operate in the best way to generate value throughout the business.
Driving an innovation agenda See pages 28 to 29 Creating value Our business model creates sustainable value for our stakeholders.
For shareholders For the environment For suppliers For employees Total shareholder return Corporate social responsibility Corporate social responsibility Corporate social responsibility See page 87 See pages 32 to 37 See pages 32 to 37 See pages 32 to 37 Annual report and accounts 2018 Mitchells & Butlers plc 21
