Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 31,684 forecast 31,020 estimate 30,119 26,246 24,407 OUR BRANDS TRAVELSUPERMARKET Simply compare to save money Overseas Holidays display and choice on our flights channel, A metasearch leader packaged and and switched to a new travel insurance TravelSupermarket is the UKs largest independent comparison engine, so that whatever a comparison site for package holidays Total value m customers plan, TravelSupermarket can and car hire.
We focus on giving travellers get them nearer to travelling.
the ability to compare different providers tour operators, online booking sites, Market trends car rental aggregators and car hire companies, for a given destination, hotel, and opportunities rental location or car type.
We aim to show TravelSupermarket deliberately focuses on our users all the key details that factor into UK leisure travel, particularly for summer their choice, like price, departure airport holiday destinations.
Whilst the hot summer or additional charges for car rental.
and distractions of the World Cup hit the late booking season in 2018, we expect this Once a decision is made, customers are 14 15 16 17 18 to remain an attractive market.
Very early transferred to one of our partners websites, Source: Mintels Report Package vs indications in 2019 suggest growth in forward Independent Holidays, UK April 2018 where they can check everything over and bookings for the summer, but volumes are overseas value excludes expenditure on finalise their booking.
As we work with likely to see some volatility until the nature airfares, sea fares, tunnel fares and train the industrys most reputable brands, fares to and from the UK of the UKs withdrawal from the EU is clear.
which provide consumer protection on package holidays through the ATOL scheme, customers can have peace of mind while making one of their biggest purchases of the year.
Mobile first In common with other parts of the Group, we focus heavily on optimising our user journeys, which for well over 50% of our traffic, now means searching and booking on a mobile phone.
Weve seen a number of improvements through 2018 which really focus on displaying the key pieces of information travellers need to make a decision, despite the smaller screen size.
Weve also significantly improved the Looking ahead, we will: Overview TravelSupermarket has the UKs broadest travel price comparison continue to optimise our service to offer, from package holidays to car hire, flights, hotels, travel make it the best place to save money insurance and more.
We work with over 100 partners to give on car hire and package holidays: travellers the best possible deal as they book their trips.
develop the user experience via our white label partners on ancillary For the majority of households, a summer holiday is the largest item products such as flights, cruise and of discretionary spend in the annual budget.
TravelSupermarket helps over 11 million visitors a year make sure that they are getting travel insurance: and great value when they plan and book their trips.
work with trusted travel brands to ensure the breadth of deals we show our customers offers choice and great value.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 Moneysupermarket.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 22 23
