34 Strategic performance During the year we spent 22 million on service platform further supporting our Strategic financial priorities R&D across our businesses to develop containerboard customers and connected andreturns to shareholders innovative products for our customers.
all targeted uncoated fine paper customers We manage our cost of capital by By leveraging our specialised R&D to our myMondi platform.
These 24 7 maintaining an appropriate capital structure capabilities and partnering with our on-line systems support our customers by with a balance between equity and net customers, we are able to provide providing product and order information debt.
The primary sources of our debt cutting-edge solutions that meet our thereby increasing efficiency through the include our 2.5 billion Guaranteed Euro customers evolving needs.
We continue to explore Medium Term Note Programme and our digital platforms that further connect us to We continue to evolve our customer 750 million Syndicated Revolving Credit our customers.
interaction and partnerships using digital Facility.
The Groups liquidity position solutions.
During 2018, we updated and remains robust.
At the end of the year, enhanced our digital technical sales 616 million of our 2.5 billion committed debt facilities were undrawn and the weighted average maturity of committed debt facilities was 4.6 years.
Collaborating with big brands to meet their ambitious sustainable packaging targets Our free cash flow priorities remain unchanged.
We are focused on maintaining solid investment grade credit metrics, undertaking selective organic capital investment opportunities and supporting the ordinary dividend.
To the extent we have capacity beyond these requirements, we are able to consider acquisitions and or additional shareholder distributions.
We believe that a strong and stable financial position, supported by an investment grade credit rating, increases our flexibility and provides opportunities to access capital markets throughout the business cycle, allowing us to take advantage of strategic opportunities when they arise.
We pursue a dividend policy that reflects Top FMCGs, retailers and other So we are working with partners Ton Emans, Managing Director big brands are under scrutiny for across our value chain to reinvent at CeDo Recycling & President our strategy of disciplined and valuethe plastic used in their products flexible plastic packaging so that it of Plastics Recyclers Europe, creating investment and growth, with the and packaging.
Many of our is fit for a sustainable economy.
said: The European Commission aim of offering shareholders long-term biggest customers have already announced a strategy in January A good example is our WorldStar communicated ambitious targets 2018 to ensure that all plastic dividend growth.
award winning BarrierPack and they are going to be relying packaging is recyclable by 2030.
We launched this on us to provide them with This innovation shows that flexible We target an ordinary dividend cover range fully-recyclable plastic laminate innovative high-quality sustainable plastic packaging can become of two to three times underlying earnings on in 2018 and it has already been solutions from across our range truly circular.
validated for existing industrial average over the cycle, although the payout of high-performance paperrecycling streams.
It was We are well positioned to support based, flexible plastic and hybrid ratio in each year will vary in accordance developed in direct response to our customers on their path to packaging solutions.
customer needs for packaging a circular economy by finding In terms of plastic packaging, that reduces plastic waste the most sustainable packaging Our Boards have recommended payment evidence shows that flexible without compromising on quality solution for each application plastic is often the most or functionality.
paper where possible, plastic of a final ordinary dividend of 54.55 euro sustainable solution over the when useful.
cents per share, bringing the total ordinary course of its life-cycle, if it is dividend for the year to 76.0 euro cents per disposed of responsibly.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 35 The simplification is subject to certain Five-year cumulative cash ow conditions, including, among other things, billion the approval of the shareholders of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc.
A shareholder 5.1 2.9 circular, scheme document and prospectus is expected to be made available to shareholders at the end of the first quarter in accordance with the Annual General 1.7 Meetings timetable.
Implementation is currently expected in the second half 0.9 0.6 of 2019.
0.2 Cash ow Invested in Distributed to Spent on Effect of Change in 1 Near-term outlook generation asset base shareholders acquisitions restatement net debt Looking ahead, while there are macro- 1 Net debt prior to 2017 does not include the effect of IFRS 16 economic uncertainties, we remain confident in the structural growth drivers in Simplification of the packaging sectors in which we operate.
Total ordinary dividends per share corporate structure Pricing is mixed going into 2019, with recent euro cents price reductions in containerboard grades On 19 November 2018, the Boards euro and market pulp and stronger pricing in announced a proposal to simplify the 76 cents our kraft paper markets.
During 2019, existing Mondi Group structure from the Interim ordinary dividend Final ordinary dividend we are planning longer maintenance and current dual listed company structure into Ordinary dividend cover times project related shuts, while looking forward a single holding company structure under to the incremental contribution from Mondi plc.
recently completed major capital projects If approved, the simplification will be and acquisitions.
implemented by way of a South African Mondi is uniquely positioned to develop scheme of arrangement whereby 2.6 2.6 2.5 2.4 2.4 sustainable packaging solutions.
With our Mondi plc will acquire Mondi Limited.
robust business model, strong balance Mondi Limited shareholders will receive 1 sheet, focus on leveraging key industry one new Mondi plc share in exchange 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 trends of sustainability, e-commerce 1 In addition to the 2017 ordinary dividend, a special dividend of for each Mondi Limited share held.
100 euro cents was paid in 2018 and enhancing brand value, and culture Following the simplification, each Mondi 2 Proposed of continuously driving performance, plc shareholder will have the same voting we continue to look to the future and capital interests in the Group as each Strategic risk management with confidence.
Mondi Limited and Mondi plc shareholder The industries and geographies in which currently has.
we operate expose us to specific risks.
Peter Oswald Andrew King These include: The proposed simplification will enhance Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer strategic flexibility, increase transparency e Industry productive capacity and remove the complexity associated e Product substitution with the current structure.
It will also e Fluctuations and variability in selling simplify cash and dividend flows and prices or gross margins facilitate continued investment in the South African operations.
e Country risk Mondi plc will continue to have a premium These risks are long term in nature and listing on the London Stock Exchange accepted by the Boards as they are and will have an inward secondary listing directly related to the Groups strategy and on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange operating footprint.
The Boards continue quoted in rand.
Mondi plc shares will to monitor our exposure to these risks and continue to be included in the FTSE 100 investment decisions are evaluated against index.
Today Mondi Limited shares are not our exposures and the established tolerance eligible for inclusion in the FTSE 100 index.
levels for any individual strategic risk.
Following the issue of Mondi plc shares Our conservative funding model and low level in exchange for Mondi Limited shares as of financial leverage provide some protection a result of the simplification, it is expected against these risks, while we continually that Mondi plcs weighting in the FTSE monitor key trends impacting our business, 100 index will increase.
Mondi plc shares taking early and decisive action to mitigate are expected to continue to be eligible for emerging risks where necessary.
inclusion in the key JSE indices.
