118 Corporate governance report DLC executive committee and company secretaries Peter Oswald Andrew King See full biography See full biography 56 49 Page 88 Page 88 Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Appointed Experience Markus Grtner October 2018 Markus has significant industrial and international business experience.
He started his career at McKinsey & 41 Committee membership Company, working on numerous operational and strategic projects with a primary focus on product development Chief Executive Officer, Executive and manufacturing processes across a variety of industries.
Fibre Packaging Paper Qualifications Markus went on to join Novelis AG, a leading producer of rolled aluminium products, as Director of Strategy & Doctorate of Technical Sciences Business Development for Europe.
After a series of commercial and technical roles with growing responsibility, from ETH Zrich and a Master of Science in Electrical Engineering he eventually headed one of Novelis three businesses as Vice President & General Manager Specialities.
In this from Stanford University capacity, he was responsible for a diverse range of applications, including consumer packaging solutions and industrial products.
Markus joined Mondi in September 2018.
Appointed Experience Michael Hakes April 2018 Michael has more than 30 years of international HR experience gained across the automotive, manufacturing and 53 Committee membership industrial services sectors.
Group HR Director Executive Michael began his career in various HR roles at companies across Europe including the Mitsubishi Electric Group, Qualifications Johnson Controls and Faurecia.
In 2007 he was appointed Group Chief HR Officer at LM Wind Power, a DanishHuman Resources based supplier of rotor blades to the wind industry.
Management Degree from Chamber of Commerce Michael went on to become Group Senior Vice President Human Resources at Germanischer Lloyd until its merger and Industry of the Lower with Det Norske Veritas in 2013.
Following the merger, he was appointed Executive Vice President HR of the maritime Rhine Region, member of division of the newly-formed organisation DNV GL, an international ship and offshore classification society.
the Advanced HR Executive Programme at the University Michael joined Mondi in April 2018 as Group HR Director.
of Michigan and the Global External appointments Leadership Programme None.
at INSEAD Appointed Experience John Lindahl August 2011 John has had an extensive career in the international forest industry, working in different operational managerial 59 Committee membership positions in Finland, the US and France in companies including M-real, Myllykoski and UPM.
At UPM he then moved Group Technical & Executive on to roles within corporate technology and investment coordination.
Sustainability Director Qualifications From the industry he moved on to consulting and engineering company Pyry, where he held a number of executive Graduated in pulp and paper positions in the forest industry business group, being involved in advisory services, pre-engineering studies and engineering from the Technical University of Helsinki in 1985 major implementation projects for the global pulp and paper industry until 2011 when he joined Mondi as Group and an MBA from Jyvaskyla Technical Director.
University in 1996 External appointments None.
Appointed Experience Georg May 2017 Georg has more than 23 years of international experience having been Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Kasperkovitz Committee membership Officer of Rail Cargo Austria and a consultant and partner with McKinsey & Company.
52 Executive Georg started his career as an engineer, working for five years in eastern Europe with Elctricit fide France A. S. A.
Qualifications Chief Executive Officer, After graduating from Harvard Business School, he went on to work for 13 years for McKinsey & Company, focusing Masters and doctorate in Consumer Packaging mechanical engineering from particularly on the industrial sector.
He gained international operations, transformation and corporate finance Vienna University of Technology experience in western and eastern Europe, North America, Australia, Singapore, China, and Africa.
and an MBA from Harvard In August 2012 Georg joined Rail Cargo Austria AG executive management and successfully implemented the Business School turnaround programme he had shaped as a consultant.
He went on to join Mondi in 2016.
In addition to his role as Chief Executive Officer of the Consumer Packaging business unit, Georg is also chair of Mondis operational committee.
External appointments Member of the supervisory board of SBB CFF FFS AG Swiss Federal Railways.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 119 Appointed Experience Vivien October 2017 Viv has over 15 years experience in the pulp and paper industry having held executive responsibility in Mondi McMenamin Committee membership South Africa for marketing and sales, human resources, corporate affairs and transformation.
Vivs roles have 55 Executive included Mondi Group Head of Sustainable Development and Director Land and Forestry.
In October 2017, she was Chief Executive Officer, Qualifications appointed Chief Executive Officer of Mondi South Africa.
MSc in Economics from South Africa Viv was instrumental in the establishment of Mondi Zimele, Mondis small business development organisation and theUniversity of London and certificate in Advanced High crafting Mondis innovative approach to land reform.
Performance Leadership from Prior to Mondi, Viv worked in government and the anti-apartheid movement in South Africa, serving Nelson Mandela IMD Switzerland as a member of the Presidents Task Force on Local Economic Development and as a member of President Thabo Mbekis Economic Advisory Panel.
Viv previously served on the boards of SiyaQhubeka Forests, South African Association for Marine Biological Research SAAMBR and Durban Girls College.
External appointments Non-executive director of Transnet SOC Ltd.
Appointed Experience Peter Orisich May 2017 Peter has extensive experience in the industrial and consumer packaging industry, having started his career 59 Committee membership at Unilever where he spent 14 years.
He held management roles in a number of divisions across central and Chief Executive Officer, Executive eastern Europe.
Uncoated Fine Paper Qualifications In 1998 he joined Lafarge Perlmooser as Chief Financial Officer, later going on to become Chief Executive Officer and Graduated in business leading the Austrian and Slovenian cement subsidiaries of Lafarge, a global manufacturer of building materials.
administration from the WUVienna business school After 10 years at Lafarge Perlmooser, Peter joined Mondi as Chief Executive Officer of Mondi Industrial Bags, taking responsibility for the strategy and operations of Mondis industrial bags business.
He went on to be appointed as Chief Executive Officer of Mondis Uncoated Fine Paper business in 2012.
Peter is also responsible for overseeing Mondis Group procurement function.
Appointed Experience Sara Sizer September 2017 Sara has more than 30 years experience in communication and marketing, having held senior positions at a number 56 Committee membership of large international industrial companies.
Group Communication Executive In 1997, she joined Rolls-Royce plc as Head of Communication before being appointed as Head of Group & Marketing Director Qualifications Communications at Shell International.
Sara went on to become Group Head of Marketing at BG Group.
Degree in Business Administration from In 2010, Sara joined Mondelz International formerly Kraft Foods Inc, the multinational food and beverage Loughborough University company, where she held the role of Director Corporate & Government Affairs Europe and then Vice President Global Communication.
Sara joined Mondi in September 2017 as Group Communication & Marketing Director.
She also chairs Mondis Diversity & Inclusion steering committee.
Experience Philip Philip Laubscher, who holds BProc and LLB degrees and is an attorney of the High Court of South Africa, was inLaubscher house counsel with national power utility Eskom for 15 years before joining Mondi in 1999 as Head of Legal Services.
63 He was appointed Company Secretary of Mondi Limited in January 2001.
Company Secretary Mondi Limited Experience Jenny Jenny Hampshire, a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries & Administrators, joined Mondi in May 2007 and Hampshire has held various roles in the company secretariat, including five years as Assistant Company Secretary.
She was 35 appointed Company Secretary of Mondi plc in December 2016.
Prior to joining Mondi Jenny worked for The BOC Company Secretary Group plc in its company secretariat.
Mondi plc Philip and Jenny work together on the coordination of Mondis DLC structure.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018
