86 Introduction from Joint Chairs Our commitment to growing responsibly Robust governance procedures ensure that In May 2018 we welcomed Stephen Dear fellow shareholder we are acting ethically and safely and in line Young to the Boards.
Stephen brings We would like to take this opportunity to with our duties as directors.
An overview of strong financial and general management provide you with a more detailed look at the our engagement activities during the year experience as well as an in-depth Boards key focus areas during the year, can be found on pages 98 to 100. understanding of working for an how our governance framework operates in international industrial business.
It is clear practice and supports the achievement of This approach to governance is particularly from Stephens first few months with us that our values and strategic objectives and how relevant given the number of large capital he is able to provide the Boards with an we have considered the interests of our investment projects that were ongoing invaluable fresh perspective.
Stephen also investors and wider stakeholders.
Having clear policies and took up the role of audit committee chair processes in place to govern the way following approval at the Annual General Governance & Strategy in which we operate, from appropriate Meetings in May.
delegations of authority, to our approach Our clear and consistent strategy, set to safety, local communities and the This led to a number of committee out and discussed in more detail in the environment in which we operate, to our membership changes, details of which Strategic report on pages 12 to 83, is to code of business ethics and Speakout, can be found on page 103, as well as the deliver value accretive growth by focusing allows the Boards to approve such projects appointment of Stephen Harris as Senior on our four strategic value drivers to with a clear understanding of the impact Independent Director.
drive performance along the value chain: they will have on our stakeholders and in to invest in assets with cost advantage: to the knowledge that they will be undertaken Safety inspire our people and grow responsibly: in a safe and considered manner.
and to partner with our customers for We were deeply saddened by the fatality innovation.
After the Boards detailed at our Syktyvkar mill Russia, when a Further information relating to Mondis review of Mondis strategy during the year, contractor lost his life during maintenance strategy and developments during the year we continue to believe that our approach of a conveyor in the woodyard.
Tragically, can be found in the Strategic report on remains appropriate and supports our we also experienced the fatality of a pages 12 to 83. commitment to delivering long-term value contractor at our Ruomberok mill to shareholders.
Slovakia in January 2019 during pile drilling Board composition activities at the construction site of our new The governance framework within which In March 2018 we announced that paper machine.
In addition, we experienced the Boards operate is designed to guide John Nicholas would step down from five life-altering injuries during 2018.
We are our behaviour in all areas of decisionthe Boards, and from his role as audit very aware of the profound impact such making: to ensure a transparent and opencommittee chair, at the conclusion of the incidents have, particularly on the families minded approach to discussions: and to Annual General Meetings in May 2018 after of those involved, and so safety across keep our culture and values at the forefront almost nine years service.
We thank John our business remains our highest priority.
when we consider how best to achieve our for his significant contribution to Mondi In all instances, thorough investigations strategy.
It allows us to balance our desire during this time, in particular his focus were undertaken and we were kept to drive the strategy forward with ensuring on Mondis financial reporting and the informed of the outcomes.
We continue to that we act in the long-term interests experience he brought to his role on the strive for zero harm and this goal remains of the company to achieve the best audit committee.
We wish John all the best fundamental to the way we do business.
outcome for our shareholders, and that for the future.
we take seriously the views and interests of our diverse range of stakeholders.
By growing responsibly we prioritise long-term value creation.
David Williams Joint Chair left Fred Phaswana Joint Chair right Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 87 We continue to address the top risks in It was also impressive to meet the Mondi Culture & values all of our operations in order to engineer Diamond Awards finalists and to see The Groups culture and values lie at the them out of the business or, where this isnt firsthand the results of Mondis innovation.
heart of our decision-making process possible, to implement robust controls.
More information can be found throughout and the way in which the Group operates.
We work closely with contractors to the Strategic report.
We believe that clear values and a focus manage their health and safety risks and on ethical behaviour allow the business to have a clearly defined six-step process Looking ahead perform more efficiently and effectively and in place which is summarised in a Safe Our focus during 2019 will continue to be are supportive of our long-term strategy.
Practice Notice providing guidance on on moving our strategy forward within the Our values are clearly defined as part of the management of contractors prior to framework of the Mondi Way, ensuring that the Mondi Way, our unique framework for and during their time on-site at Mondi.
the decisions we take reflect the culture and creating sustainable value.
This is explained We also acknowledge the importance of values of the Group, our stringent approach in more detail on pages 18 and 19. the behavioural aspects of safety.
In 2017 to safety and, wherever appropriate, the We know that our values are understood we introduced the 24-hour safety mindset, views and interests of our key stakeholders.
at a senior management level but our whereby safety is seen as something we do ongoing challenge is to ensure that they Subject to the approval of our shareholders for ourselves, for our families, and for our are effectively communicated throughout at the Annual General Meetings in May, colleagues and their families.
In addition, we the organisation and that every person the Boards will also dedicate time to have implemented focused safety training that works for Mondi understands them overseeing the smooth implementation for managing directors, first line managers and feels confident every day that they are of the proposed simplification of Mondis and safety and health professionals and coming to work for a group that genuinely existing structure from the current dual have established a number of working lives these values.
The Boards are listed company structure into a single groups, each one focusing on a different committed to ensuring that this is the case holding company structure under Mondi risk area.
Towards the end of 2018 we and that Mondi continues to operate in an plc, announced in November 2018. launched a powerful safety campaign ethical, open and transparent manner.
The simplification is expected to enhance aimed at the behavioural causes of Mondis strategic flexibility, increase serious incidents.
The campaign involves This is supported by our code of transparency and remove the complexity employees who have experienced lifebusiness ethics which consists of five associated with the current structure.
altering injuries telling their stories via principles governing the way in which videos and posters.
Hearing their stories Our board discussions will be influenced we do business.
The code is integrated firsthand, while difficult and emotional to by the new version of the UK Corporate throughout the Group and is well listen to, will hopefully drive home to people Governance Code which took effect understood.
The principles and our the day-to-day impact of our decisions in from 1 January 2019.
Further details can alignment with them are subject to regular the workplace and the potentially severe be found below.
We feel that we are in a review by the Boards.
good position to meet the requirements In June, a number of our board members of the new Code during 2019, but also We will continue to do everything we can to attended Mondis Leadership Forum, an acknowledge that this will be an evolving further embed a culture of safety across the event for senior leaders, incorporating process.
We will need to adapt to ensure organisation and to ensure that nothing is our regular Mondi Diamond Awards.
that we continue to have a fully effective seen as more important than the well-being This provided us with an invaluable governance framework in place that of our colleagues.
opportunity to see our culture and values can contribute to, and support, the in practice, through speaking directly continued creation of sustainable value for to a number of employees, observing our shareholders.
behaviour and participating in a number of breakout sessions and discussion forums.
Fred Phaswana David Williams Joint Chair Joint Chair UK Corporate Governance Code 2019 The principles and provisions set out in the new including site visits, access to members of senior We recognise that David Williams has been on the Code have been reviewed in detail and, where gaps management beyond the executive directors, Boards for more than nine years, the maximum in our current practices were identified, proposals to access to employee survey results and continued length of service recommended by the new Code.
address these have been considered and agreed.
review of safety reports and Speakout statistics However, given the proposed simplification of the While we will report against the new Code in full in and themes: and Group structure, announced in November 2018, and our 2019 report, actions included: in light of Davids significant experience, his in-depth e determining how the Boards can better understanding of Mondis history and operations understand the views of our people, their e identification and agreement of our key and the valuable insight he continues to provide, concerns and how our decisions affect them, stakeholders see pages 22 to 25 for more we are confident that it is in Mondis best interests with agreement reached in relation to appropriate information, the types of engagement currently for David to remain on the Boards as Joint Chair.
undertaken and how we can better understand David has been on the Boards since Mondis dual their views going forwards: listed structure was established and is therefore in a e identification of a number of ways in which the position to provide invaluable support and continuity Boards can develop their oversight of the Groups as the simplification progresses.
The position will be culture, many of which were already in place, kept under regular review.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018
