Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS REPORT The Remuneration Committee met on five occasions during the year.
Details of the attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings are as set out below: Meetings in 2018 Eligible to The Directors Report sets out additional Committee members attend Attended statutory information.
Andrew Fisher Chair 5 5 Robin Freestone 5 5 Sally James 5 5 Genevieve Shore 5 5 Sarah Warby 3 3 Sarah Warby joined the Board and Remuneration Committee on 1 June 2018.
The Remuneration Committees terms of reference are published on the investor relations section of the Groups website at http: corporate.
com and are available in hard copy form on application to the Company Secretary.
We review our terms of reference annually and updated them with effect from 1 January 2019 to reflect the changes introduced by the UK Corporate Governance Code July 2018 version.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder of ordinary Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration shares present in person or by proxy, and During 2018, the Remuneration Committee and the Company received advice from Deloitte LLP, who are independent remuneration entitled to vote, has one vote and, on a poll, consultants, in connection with remuneration matters including the Groups performance related remuneration policy.
Deloitte LLP is a every holder of ordinary shares present in member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and is committed to that groups voluntary code of practice for remuneration person or by proxy, and entitled to vote, has consultants in the UK.
Deloitte LLP has no other connection or relationship with the Group.
During 2018, Deloitte LLP also provided one vote for every ordinary share held.
services to the Group in respect of corporate tax and VAT advice and operational audit advisory work.
The fees paid to Deloitte LLP for Electronic and paper proxy appointments providing advice in relation to executive remuneration over the financial year under review was 19,800. and voting instructions must be received not later than 48 hours before the meeting.
Outside appointments A holder of ordinary shares can lose the Executive Directors are permitted to accept outside appointments on external boards so long as these are not deemed to interfere with entitlement to vote and the right to receive the business of the Group.
During 2018, no Executive Director was appointed on an external Board.
dividends where that holder fails to comply with a disclosure notice issued under Remuneration Committee effectiveness section 793 of the Companies Act 2006.
In 2018 we carried out an internal evaluation of Remuneration Committee effectiveness which involved the completion of a questionnaire, There are no issued shares in the Company with the results being analysed and presented at a Committee meeting for discussion.
The Committee was considered to be effective in with special rights with regard to control of fulfilling its role during 2018 and remains independent.
We also reviewed progress against actions identified in the 2017 evaluation: Katherine Bellau the Company.
Company Secretary 2017 evaluation actions update The Company operates a Share Incentive The following actions were identified during the 2017 evaluation: Annual General Meeting Plan which entitles all employees to enhancing Committee papers papers have been enhanced, ensuring they are concise and facilitate constructive debate and The Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company will be held at The DoubleTree purchase ordinary shares in the Company discussion: and by Hilton Hotel, Warrington Road, Hoole, Chester CH2 3PD on Thursday 9 May 2019 using money deducted from their pre-tax aligning remuneration to new strategic priorities remuneration has been aligned to the new strategic initiatives through the at 10.00am.
The notice convening the meeting, with details of the business to be salary.
Plan shares are held in trust for personal objective element of the bonus.
transacted at the meeting and explanatory notes is set out in a separate AGM participants by Link Market Services circular which has been issued to all shareholders at the same time as this Report.
2018 evaluation actions Some of the areas that will be actioned in 2019 include: Dividend Voting rights are exercised by the Trustee in ensuring processes and procedures are put in place to meet the requirements of the new UK Corporate Governance Code: and The Directors recommend a final dividend of 8.10p 2017: 7.60p per ordinary share accordance with participants instructions.
ensuring the Committee continues to be appraised of developments in shareholder expectations on remuneration, particularly in in respect of the year ended 31 December 2018.
If approved by shareholders at the If a participant does not submit an relation to the requirements of the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
forthcoming AGM, this will be paid on 16 May 2019 to shareholders on the register instruction to the Trustee, no vote is at close of business on 5 April 2019.
The final dividend, together with the interim registered.
In addition, the Trustee does not dividend of 2.95p per ordinary share paid in September 2018, gives a total dividend Statement of voting at general meeting vote on any unawarded or forfeit shares The following votes were received from shareholders in respect of the Directors Remuneration Report at last years Annual General for the year of 11.05p 2017: 10.44p per ordinary share.
held under the Plan as surplus assets.
As at Meeting and in respect of the Remuneration Policy at the 2017 Annual General Meeting: the date of this report, the Trustee held Issued share capital and control 0.07% of the issued ordinary share capital Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy As at 31 December 2018, the issued share capital of the Company was 107,264 2018 AGM 2017 AGM in the Company.
comprising 536,319,819 ordinary shares of 0.02p each.
Full details of the share Votes % Votes % capital of the Company and changes to share capital during the year are set out in The Company operates a Long Term Votes cast in favour 402,874,097 99.52% 410,221,055 98.83% note 17 to the Group Financial Statements on page 106.
The information in note 17 Incentive Plan Plan and shares are held by Votes cast against 1,958,450 0.48% 4,869,995 1.17% is incorporated by reference and forms part of this Directors Report.
the trustees, Estera Trust Jersey Limited Total votes cast 404,832,547 100% 415,091,050 100% Estera, pending vesting of the shares Abstentions 7,677 9,483 At the 2018 AGM, shareholders authorised the Directors to allot up to 357,000,000 awarded under the Plan.
Estera does not ordinary shares in the capital of the Company.
Directors will again seek authority from vote on any shares held in trust.
As at the shareholders at the forthcoming AGM to allot up to 357,000,000 ordinary shares.
date of this Report, Estera held 0.03% of the issued ordinary share capital in the Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends when declared, to This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Company.
receive the Companys Annual Report, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
Andrew Fisher Chair of the Remuneration Committee 13 February 2019 Moneysupermarket.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 Moneysupermarket.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 74 75 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Full details of the rights and obligations attaching to the Companys share capital are contained in the Articles of Association.
The Their biographical details are set out on pages 40 to 41.
Further details relating to Board and Committee composition are disclosed in Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
No amendments are the Corporate Governance Report and Committee Reports on pages 42 to 74. proposed to be made to the existing Articles of Association at the forthcoming AGM.
The Articles of Association provide that a Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of shareholders or by the existing All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards normally vest Directors, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director.
All Directors other than Bruce Carnegie-Brown will retire and offer and become exercisable on a change of control subject to satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
Save in respect of themselves for election or re-election at the 2019 AGM in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Code.
provisions of the Companys share schemes, there are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because A new Director and Chief Financial Officer, Scilla Grimble has been appointed on 4 February 2019. of a takeover bid.
The Executive Directors serve under rolling contracts that are terminable upon 12 months notice from either party.
The Non-Executive The Company has entered into one significant agreement which would be terminable upon a change of control: the credit facility Directors serve under letters of appointment.
Copies of service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the agreement entered into with Barclays Bank PLC and Lloyds Bank PLC in September 2018.
Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the Companys AGM.
The Directors Remuneration Report, which includes the Directors interests in the Companys shares, is set out on pages 60 to 74.
Restrictions on the transfer of securities During the year, no Director had any material interest in any contract of significance to the Groups business.
Whilst the Board has the power under the Articles of Association to refuse to register a transfer of shares, there are no restrictions on the transfer of shares other than: certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and directors powers pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority whereby certain Directors, officers and employees of the Group The Board of Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of relevant legislation, the Companys require the approval of the Company to deal in ordinary shares of the Company.
Articles of Association and any directions given by the Company in general meeting.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or directors indemnities voting rights.
During the financial year ended 31 December 2018 and up to the date of this Directors Report, the Company has maintained appropriate liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
Authority to purchase own shares The Company was authorised at the 2018 AGM to purchase up to 53,600,000 of its own shares in the market.
No shares were purchased under The Company has granted indemnities to each of its Directors and the Company Secretary to the extent permitted by law and its Articles this authority in 2018.
The Company has announced an enhanced distribution of 40m.
We will be consulting on the mechanism for returning of Association.
These indemnities were in force throughout the year ended 31 December 2018 and remain in force as at the date of this this surplus capital to shareholders during 2019 before determining our preference.
If, following the consultation and subject to the Directors Report in relation to certain losses and liabilities which the Directors or Company Secretary may incur in the course of acting as believing that a return of surplus capital by way of purchases of the Companys shares would result in an increase in earnings per share and Directors, Company Secretary or employees of the Company or of any associated company.
would be in the interests of shareholders generally, such purchases would be conducted pursuant to the authority obtained at the last AGM.
Directors will seek authority from shareholders at the forthcoming AGM for the Company to purchase, in the market, up to 53,600,000 shares.
Employees The Directors have no present intention of conducting further purchases of the Companys shares beyond any enhanced distribution in 2019, The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and uses a number of ways to engage with employees on but consider it prudent to obtain the flexibility this authority provides.
The Directors will only use this power after careful consideration, matters that impact them and the performance of the Group.
These include formal business performance updates by members of taking into account the financial resources of the Company, the Companys share price and future funding opportunities.
The Directors executive management for all employees, regular update briefings for all employees, regular team meetings, the Groups intranet site will only purchase such shares after taking into account the effects on earnings per share and the interests of shareholders generally.
which enables easy access to the latest Group information as well as Group policies, and the circulation to employees of results announcements and other corporate announcements.
This also helps to achieve a common awareness amongst employees of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group.
During 2018, the Board appointed Sarah Warby, one of our Substantial shareholders independent Non-Executive Directors, as our Employee Champion and has held Board Q&A and breakfast sessions with employees, As at 31 December 2018, the Company had been notified of the following holdings of voting rights in its shares under Rule 5 of The providing the opportunity for employees to engage directly with our Non-Executive Directors and to give our Non-Executive Directors Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority: the opportunity to understand more about our employees.
of ordinary A robust employee engagement survey process is also in place to ensure that employees are given a voice in the organisation and that ordinary share the Group can take action based on employee feedback.
All employees are able to participate in the Companys Share Incentive Plan and shares voting capital voting Save As You Earn Scheme which gives employees the opportunity to purchase ordinary shares in the Company.
This helps to encourage shareholder rights notified rights notified employee interest in the performance of the Group.
Massachusetts Financial Services Company 30,527,976 5.69 The Capital Group Companies, Inc 26,608,992 4.96 equal opportunities Aviva plc 26,570,896 4.96 The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all employees without discrimination and applies fair and equitable Ameriprise Financial, Inc and its group 27,061,089 4.94 employment policies which seek to promote entry into and progression within the Group.
Appointments are determined solely by Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited 25,417,919 4.60 application of job criteria, personal ability, behaviour and competency.
FIL Limited 24,758,460 4.52 State Street Nominees Limited 20,581,165 3.76 In the opinion of the Directors, all employee policies are deemed to be effective and in accordance with their intended aims.
Blackrock, Inc 19,099,983 3.55 disabled persons Disabled persons have equal opportunities when applying for vacancies, with due regard to their skills and abilities.
Procedures ensure As at 1 February 2019, the Company had not received any further notifications of holdings of voting rights.
that disabled employees are fairly treated in respect of training and career development.
For those employees becoming disabled during the course of their employment, the Group is supportive so as to provide an opportunity for them to remain with the Group, Directors wherever reasonably practicable.
The Directors who served during the financial year were as follows: director position service in the year ended 31 december 2018 Borrowings In September 2018, the Group secured a new three year revolving credit facility of 100 million in committed funds provided in equal Bruce Carnegie-Brown Chair Served throughout year parts by Lloyds Bank PLC and Barclays Bank PLC.
The Group has an accordion option to apply to the banks for an additional 100 million Andrew Fisher Independent Non-Executive Director Served throughout year of committed funds during the term of the facility.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group had cash of 44.8 million with 15 million drawn Robin Freestone Independent Non-Executive Director Served throughout year down under the facility.
Sally James Independent Non-Executive Director Served throughout year Mark Lewis Chief Executive Officer Served throughout year Political donations Matthew Price Chief Financial Officer Resigned 31 October 2018 During the financial year ended 31 December 2018, the Group did not make any political donations 2017: nil.
Genevieve Shore Independent Non-Executive Director Served throughout year Sarah Warby Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed 1 June 2018 Moneysupermarket.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 76 77
