Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements OUR STRATEGY In 2018 we have been, and will continue to be, Mortgage price comparison millions This is the number of unique accounts focused on customer experience optimisation of customers are already looking to us running enquiries in our core seven and new proposition development.
In the past, channels car insurance, home insurance, Our strategic priorities we offered a very simple service and, life insurance, travel insurance, credit in return, earned a small share of the cards, loans and energy in the prior Reaccelerate core growth procurement fee from providers.
We will twelve month period.
Our first priority during 2018 for reaccelerating Our strategic priorities focus on fulfulling our develop a new user experience to find the core growth was the focus on rapid most appropriate personlised mortgage 18 12.9m purpose to Help households save money through a optimisation of our customer journeys, online.
In 2018 we created Podium particularly for those on their mobile phone.
17 13.2m combination of reaccelerating our core growth and Solutions, a joint venture fintech which We invested a significant amount in building is working on the digitisation of mortgages.
out our product engineering hub in We have delivered the first milestone Revenue per active user Manchester to scale this focus on customer of our new mortgage proposition, with The key drivers of this metric are conversion experience across our core channels.
the new mobile friendly journey live and loyalty.
The revenue per active user Adding this capability complements the for remortgages together with the does not cover all of the Groups revenue.
existing strengths of our brands and provider foundations to deliver product eligibility.
It is the revenue directly attributed to the relationships, strengthening our performance.
These are Reinvent Growth Strategy: Reaccelerate Core and New Market Growth Read more on page 17 enquires made on the MoneySuperMarket The focus in 2018 on customer experience website for car insurance, home insurance, optimisation has led to increased conversion KPIs life insurance, travel insurance, credit cards, across a number of products, underpinning The key performance indicators KPIs we loans and energy.
This revenue represents the return to market growth and will remain use to measure our performance against c. 60% of Group revenues and we expect to a key focus in 2019. strategy are set out below.
increase this as more channels transition Help households save money into the enterprise data warehouse.
Read more on page 14 estimated customer savings This measure ensures we are focused on This is the revenue for the core seven New market growth MoneySuperMarket channels divided the outcome for customers.
The second strand of the Reinvent strategy Reaccelerate Core Growth New Market Growth by the number of active users.
uses the new technology platform to enable It is calculated by multiplying sales volume the Group to lead the evolution of price against the average saving per product 18 15.90 comparison to unlock new market growth: for core channels, the balance of the 17 14.80 calculation is a Company estimation.
Leading personalised MoneysuperMarket Trusted we launched a proactive policy 18 2.1bn Brands Marketing margin monitoring service where customers This is an effective measure of our ability can store key policies and these are 17 2.0bn to create leverage as we grow.
then monitored for the best deal.
We also launched a credit monitor net promoter score It is the inverse relationship between service which uses a customers We use an externally measured benchmark revenue and total marketing spend credit file to help them understand to create a Group-wide metric, as well as represented as a percentage.
1 2 3 and improve their credit score and individual brand level metrics, enabling us delivers personalised recommendations.
Leading to use a consistent and external benchmark Customer Take Price 18 63% During 2019 we will look to scale these Personalised Mortgage Price Provider across all of our brands.
Experience Comparison propositions to more of our customers MSM Comparison 17 65% Offer Optimisation to the user as we relaunch the MoneySuperMarket The measure we use is the twelve month brand in the first quarter of the year.
rolling average 1 Jan 2018 - 31 Dec 2018 Read more about our KPIs in the Financial inclusive measured by YouGov Brand Index Read more on page 16 Review on page 24 service Recommend Score weighted by revenue for each of our brands excluding take price comparison to the user Risk Management Decision Techs consumer brands to create we are tapping into the opportunity The management of risk has a key role to Growing markets Strong differentiated model Technology platform a Group-wide NPS.
to take price comparison to the sites play in the achievement of our strategy.
We estimate our addressable markets are The fundamentals in the core business are Our replatforming, completed in 2017, people are already visiting regularly on The relationship between our Principal worth 1.9bn and are growing.
We forecast strong and differentiated.
We have leading has delivered critical assets for the business.
Someone checking Risks and strategy is identified in the price comparison markets annual switching brands with customer satisfaction scores We operate a modern cloud based technology their bank balance online, for example, Principal Risks & Uncertainties section 17 69 growth of 4-5%.
well above the industry average.
Within the platform providing integrated security, may welcome the offer of a better energy of this Report on pages 32 to 33.
Group we benefit from an efficient mix of stability and scalability.
Weve acquired Decision Tech We believe we already help customers save marketing and publishing business models service layers to power our own sites and Active users which has has a strong track record of See pages 48 to 53 and 57 to 59 for details money in the broadest set of categories to attract users.
On the back of our to enable commercial partnerships.
Our enterprise data warehouse allows us delivering B2B services to leading UK of how the Audit Committee and Risk in the market with significant revenue investments in data analytics, we can to store enquires across our core seven comparison sites, enabling us to offer Committee support the Board in oversight generated through switching across at least now track our users across the multiple Significantly we now have a single view of MoneySuperMarket channels.
An enquiry MoneySuperMarkets wider comparison of internal controls and risk management.
Nevertheless, we also believe interactions they have with us.
our users across their key interactions with is a completed search on the website made services to new audiences.
that there are opportunities to unlock further us which will allow us to serve them better.
This allows us to track Remuneration growth in the market, by making it ever easier Efficiently growing this group of active users active users, a robust measure of customer Read more on page 17 See page 60 for details of how the for users to save and by developing new and helping them save in new ways is core engagement.
This will help measure Remuneration Committee has ensured categories such as mortgages.
customer relevance and brand strength.
executive remuneration is linked to The number of active users was stable, our strategy.
reflecting the impact that the reduction in motor premiums has had on the volume of customers visiting our site.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 Moneysupermarket.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 8 9
