116 Corporate governance report Safety The safety of our employees and contractors that safe working practices and a clear safety continued to be a priority during the year with culture are embedded throughout the Group.
safety performance being reviewed in detail at each The 24-hour safety mindset approach was meeting.
Despite this, we were deeply saddened introduced during 2017 and we continue to build on by the fatality we experienced during the year at this.
In addition, we have established a number of our Syktyvkar mill Russia.
Tragically, we also working groups to review and address behaviour experienced the fatality of a contractor at our in those areas where we see the most significant Ruomberok mill Slovakia in January 2019. safety risk.
The behavioural and cultural reasons It was extremely important for the committee behind life altering injuries were identified as a focus to understand the findings of the resulting area in our 2017 board evaluation process the investigations and the actions taken by actions taken in response to this are set out on management in response.
five life-altering injuries during the year.
While safety Towards the end of 2018 we also launched a has always been high on the agenda, this was a powerful safety campaign targeting the behavioural reminder that when it comes to the safety of our causes of serious incidents.
This will continue into people, we must maintain our focus on ensuring 2019 and is designed to drive home the potentially severe consequences of unsafe behaviour.
Review of material issues Commitment to key global initiatives The outcome of an independent review of those sustainability issues of most importance During the year the committee considered to our stakeholders was a key area of its commitment to several global initiatives, discussion during the year.
A number of internal in particular The New Plastics Economy and external stakeholders were invited to Initiatives Global Commitment.
Signing up participate, either via questionnaire or interview, required Mondi to make a number of public with the results used to identify and prioritise commitments, resulting in lengthy discussion key material issues and to get a deeper by the committee in relation to the required understanding of what matters most to our commitments, including Mondis ability to meet stakeholders.
The outcome will shape our work them, public perception and how we could programme going forwards and is intended to monitor progress against the commitments.
assist the directors with their duty to consider In light of recent public debate around the the interests of our wider stakeholder base.
use of plastics, stakeholder expectations in Further information can be found in our online this regard and Mondis desire to provide sustainability report.
leadership on the issue and to drive forward sustainable packaging solutions for its customers, the committee agreed that Mondi should sign up to the Global Commitment.
Given the increasing importance of these types of issues to our stakeholders, it is likely that similar discussions will form a regular part of the agenda of the committee going forwards.
More in our online More in our online sustainability report sustainability report www.
com Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 117 Role, terms of reference andevaluation Mondi Limited social and ethics committee The committees primary responsibility is Composition to monitor compliance by Mondi Limited Meeting with the activities listed in Regulation 43 5 Mondi continued to demonstrate Members Committee attendance made under the South African Companies throughout member two meetings a high level of compliance with the year since in the year Act 2008, based on applicable legislation, statutory requirements and Stephen Harris, February 2012 2 other legal requirements or prevailing codes 1 chair a significant commitment to of best practice relating to its operations in Peter Oswald May 2017 2 South Africa.
Fred Phaswana October 2015 2 Highlights during the period under In order to minimise duplication Dominique May 2018 1 review were Mondi Zimeles between its obligations and that of the 2 Reiniche, chair DLC audit committee and the DLC forestry contractor development sustainable development committee, the programme and timber sourcing The composition of the committee is committee considers reports from these in accordance with the requirements from small growers.
two committees as they relate to the of section 72 8 of the South African Dominique Reiniche environment, labour, human rights, product Companies Act 2008 and its Chair of the Mondi Limited social and responsibility, risk management, whistle associated regulations.
ethics committee blowing, fraud and business integrity and 1 Stephen Harris was chair of the committee from 1 October 2015 until 16 May 2018.
Stephen stepped down as chair, monitors compliance by Mondi Limited on but remained a member of the committee, at the time of his overlapping matters.
appointment as Senior Independent Director 2 Dominique Reiniche was appointed as a member and chair of the committee on 16 May 2018.
Dominique attended all The committees remit is set out in terms meetings following her appointment of reference adopted by the Boards.
Other regular attendees The committees performance against these terms of reference is kept under e Joint Chair and Non-Executive review and the committee is satisfied that Directors who are not members of it has acted in accordance with its terms of the committee reference during the year.
e Group Technical & The evaluation of the committee Sustainability Director was carried out as part of the 2018 e Group Head of internal evaluation see page101 for Sustainable Development more information.
e Executive management who present on relevant topics Key matters addressed by the committee e Monitoring of Mondi Limiteds BBBEE status.
Corporate citizenship Consumer relations In March 2018 Mondi was certified at a level 3 e Community development and corporate social e Mondi Limiteds customer relations initiatives as well contributor status against the new Forestry Sector investment initiatives.
Initiatives included coaching as the levels of certification of its products used for Code, with the 2018 audit planned in the first and mentoring of over 30 contractors as part of food packaging.
Mondi Zimeles forestry contractor development programme.
Over 2,200 small grower participants Environment, health and public safety Labour and employment matters were involved in growing and harvesting with over e Mondi Limiteds environmental performance, 87,000 tonnes of timber supplied by emerging e Compliance by Mondi Limited with South African including effluent quality, malodorous gas, specific growers.
Continued operation of the Mondi labour legislation which incorporates the decent contact water and waste to landfill.
Zimele Jobs Fund with over 200 community work requirements prescribed by the International enterprises supported.
The committee noted e Mondi Limiteds performance relating to CO e 2 specifically the various areas of employer employee emissions, carbon-based energy consumption, interface and the progress made in addressing use of renewable resources for primary energy and Employment Equity and Broad Based focus areas arising from the last employee survey.
Black Economic Empowerment e Training and development activities.
The committee BBBEE noted the approximately 1,057 training Anti-corruption e Good progress continued to be made in initiatives embarked on during 2018, 84.1% of e The requirements of the King IV Code of Good employment equity at all management levels with an employees received training during the year Practice with regard to the principles relating to increasing focus placed on representation of black under consideration.
ethical leadership, and Mondi Limiteds activities women in middle management levels.
e Various initiatives and procedures were undertaken relating to the eradication of corruption, including to achieve Mondi Limiteds transformation and with reference to the UN Global Compact and the diversity management objectives, including OECD Recommendations.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018
