Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements CHAIRS STATEMENT Whilst the Board continues to consider The identification and management of risk has Our culture and employees dividends to be the primary method of continued to be a focus for us during the year.
We recognise that we do not currently returning capital to shareholders, it will also We have monitored the ongoing management Making good progress have sufficient diversity in our Executive undertake enhanced distributions when of the risks associated with the Reinvent strategy, Management and their direct reports.
In line with this policy, we are considered the impact Brexit may have on of the Groups 2018 Diversity Action Plan announcing an enhanced distribution of 40m our organisation and overseen managements we established employee resource groups and will be consulting on the mechanism for actions in relation to consideration of risks ERGs' to support grass roots diversity and on strategy returning surplus capital to shareholders associated with the General Data Protection inclusion initiatives including in particular before determining our preference, and Regulation.
Further information on risk Represent, an ERG focused on supporting intend it to be effected during 2019. management and the key risk focus areas Our well-established, trusted and leading brands give us the development and advancement of women during the year are set out on pages 29 to 33. and ethnic minorities into more senior roles significant strength, breadth and diversity, generating Strategic progress and Thrive, our mental health ERG which is growth and increasing the predictability of the business.
The Board focused on empowering a culture supportive We have made good progress on our of mental health.
Further detail on the Groups Reinvent strategy which is designed to We consider our Board to be diverse in All of our brands are consistent in their ambition To help reaccelerate core growth and unlock new terms of background, skills and experience to improvements to ensure different viewpoints households save money.
and experiences are brought into our decision market growth including significant investment support the strategic and operational direction making can be found on pages 34 to 37. in product engineering to support customer of the Group.
Following the appointments experience optimisation and personalisation: of Sarah Warby and Scilla Grimble referred improving conversion.
Other revenue which Our progress against our Reinvent strategy the acquisition of Decision Tech to support our to below, 50% of our Directors are female, includes TravelSupermarket and Decision strategic initiative of taking price comparison which exceeds the minimum 33% target reflects the dedication and quality of all our Tech increased by 42% compared with 2017, employees across the Group.
We rely on to the user: and the creation of a new fintech we set for ourselves last year.
due to the consolidation impact of Decision their skills, experience, competence and joint venture company, Podium, to support Tech which accounted for 11m of growth.
hard work to drive our business forward.
Further detail During the year we appointed Sarah Warby Most importantly, their passion for our on the Groups strategy can be found on as a Non-Executive Director.
Sarah has We continue to maintain a strong financial pages 8 to 17. experience of leading marketing teams within purpose and their commitment to delivering position with good cash generation.
Cash the best for our customers are key assets for retail and consumer focused businesses generated from operations during the year the Group and critical to its future success.
The Group continues to be open to acquisition and is a valuable addition to the Board.
After paying dividends, the On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank opportunities which are evaluated against a Group ended the year with cash and cash all of our employees for their contribution disciplined set of risk and return metrics.
On 31 October 2018, Matthew Price stepped equivalents of 44.8m.
down from the Board as Chief Financial Officer.
to the performance of the Group.
As highlighted in previous Annual Reports, I would like to thank him for his significant Business model the price comparison industry continues to contribution to the Groups success.
The Outlook 2018 has again demonstrated the value of our attract greater scrutiny from our regulators, financial management and control he instituted We will continue to progress our twin-track leading brands, giving the Group significant due in part to the growing importance of the has been a vital factor in setting the Group up strategy of reaccelerating our core business Bruce Carnegie-Brown strength, breadth and diversity and increasing sector to consumers looking to make informed for success in the next phase of its development.
and leading the evolution of price comparison Chair the predictability of the business.
Our business decisions about their choice of service to unlock new market growth.
model is a data-driven online marketplace, providers.
During 2018 we have continued Since the year end, Scilla Grimble has joined providing market-leading exclusive products to engage on a proactive basis with key the Board as Chief Financial Officer.
She brings Our Group NPS score was 74 at the end We have great confidence in our brands which to customers, value to providers and a track regulators, in particular, in relation to the significant experience to the Group of leading of 2018.
Building trust in the Groups brands give us strength, breadth and diversity and are record of returns to investors.
Insurance Distribution Directive which finance teams in several consumer facing continues to be a core priority for us.
aligned with our ambition to help households was implemented on 1 October 2018. public companies and has a strong background We have made good progress save money, enabling us to continue to build The Group has delivered its ninth We support the evolving regulatory focus on in commercial finance and banking.
Our results on our Reinvent strategy which our business for the future.
consecutive year of revenue and earnings ensuring that loyal customers of consumer Against the background of our focus on our is designed to reaccelerate core growth and has helped tens of millions of service providers are not treated unfairly As mentioned at the beginning of this report, Reinvent strategy, launched in February 2018, customers during the year to save money on when compared with new customers I am stepping down as Chair with effect from growth and unlock new market Bruce Carnegie-Brown Group revenue increased by 8% from 329.7m a broad range of financial and household and we share the vision of regulators the end of the Annual General Meeting and I Chair growth.
to 355.6m and adjusted EBITDA increased services.
The continuing structural shift in to make products more accessible and am delighted that Robin Freestone, a current 13 February 2019 by 2% from 127.2m to 129.4m, reflecting consumers engagement from offline to understandable to consumers.
Non-Executive Director and Chair of our the investment in our Reinvent strategy and This will be my last Chairs statement, as I will be online and from desktop to mobile, and their Audit Committee, will succeed me.
Robin is product engineering teams.
Profit after tax continuing demand for a better customer standing down at the conclusion of the Annual an outstanding business leader who joined Governance and risk increased by 11% from 78.1m to 86.6m.
General Meeting, having been privileged to experience and better execution from the Board in 2015 with a wealth of management serve the Moneysupermarket Group for nine product providers all support the growth experience in leading global and digital The restructure undertaken in 2018 as part During the year we reviewed the requirements aspirations of the Groups key brands.
Since joining, the Group has saved UK businesses.
I trust that Robin will enjoy Adjusted EBITDA of the Reinvent strategy resulted in all brands of the UK Corporate Governance Code families over 12.9bn on their household bills.
his new role, as much as I have, working being vertically aligned and we now report July 2018 version, which we will be required alongside such a talented and engaged Dividend and against these verticals.
to report upon in our 2019 Annual Report More and more customers wish to engage Board.
I am confident he will successfully lead enhanced distribution with various workstreams now underway, 129.4m digitally with their product providers the Group through its next phase of growth.
Growth was strong in our Insurance business We have a progressive dividend policy and including enhancements to our engagement across a wide range of devices and want driven by competitive pricing initiatives the Board is recommending a final dividend with key stakeholders and in particular to test the value of the products being During 2018, Darren Drabble, our General alongside optimisation work on our motor of 8.10p per share 2017: 7.60p representing our employees.
More information on our provided to them by comparing prices Counsel and Company Secretary advised Total dividend per share insurance customer journeys.
Revenue in an increase of 7% on the final dividend in approach to governance is set out in my and product features.
the Board of his decision to step down from our Home Services business grew by 15% 2017.
If approved by shareholders at the Introduction to Governance, the Corporate his role at the Group on 8 February 2019. during the year as a result of our strategic forthcoming Annual General Meeting, this Governance Report and the reports of Their continuing demand for more product Darren is the longest serving member of our focus on customer experience optimisation, will bring the total dividend for the year to each of the Committees on pages 38 to 74. choice, a better customer experience and Executive Team, having joined in 2007 and 11.05p improving our mobile experience and 11.05p 2017: 10.44p per ordinary share, These reports describe how we have applied better execution from product providers the Board owes him a huge debt of gratitude conversion rates.
Revenue in our Money an increase of 6% year over year, and will be the main principles of the Code 2016 version all support the growth aspirations of for his wisdom and guidance over the last 12 business was 3% ahead of last year with paid on 16 May 2019 to all shareholders on during 2017 and reports upon our compliance Moneysupermarket Groups key brands.
Darren was succeeded by Katherine good performance in credit, supported the register on 5 April 2019.
Details of our with the Codes provisions.
Bellau, who was previously the Groups Read more about our by attractive promotional products and dividend policy can be found on page 26.
Business Model on page 10 Moneysupermarket.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 Moneysupermarket.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 4 5
