24 Our business model Key relationships Our investors We actively and regularly engage with our How we engage investors and analysts, primarily relating to e Annual General Meetings our financial performance, sustainability, e Events including results governance, risk management and strategy.
presentations, trading update calls, The feedback we receive informs our site visits and capital markets days management and reporting practices.
e Roadshows Our relationship with debt investors e Telephone calls and meetings and banks as key providers of capital to the Group, together with credit rating e Integrated report and agencies, ensures we have access to financial statements funding for investment opportunities e Questionnaires and ad hoc questions through the business cycle.
We have solid and requests investment grade credit ratings.
e Independent disclosure platforms We are proud of our industry-leading for investors such as CDP performance, and we appreciate the e Investor perception studies trust our shareholders place in us to deliver value accretive growth in a Key topics discussed sustainable way.
e Strategy e Governance e Capital allocation Strategic performance Page 28-35 Financial performance Page 64-67 Our communities We are a global company with diverse How we engage operations located across multiple e Socio-economic Assessment jurisdictions.
We play a key socioToolbox SEAT process economic role in the communities where e Community Engagement Plans we operate, creating employment and CEPs business opportunities in addition to paying local and regional taxes.
In 2018, e Open days and visits to our sites we paid 248 million in direct taxes.
e Partnering with communities Ongoing and transparent dialogue and other stakeholders on with local communities enables us to development initiatives collaboratively address challenges, understand and manage risks, generate Key topics discussed opportunities and improve performance.
e Employment and enterprise support In 2018, we invested 7.9 million globally e Community health in the communities where we operate, supporting health, education, local e Local infrastructure investment enterprise and infrastructure.
Sustainability performance Page 48-63 Read more Online Sustainable development report www.
com sd18 Page [00] Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 25 Our suppliers and contractors In 2018 we procured 5.6 billion worth of How we engage goods and services from our suppliers.
e Regular compliance assessments of We follow a practical, risk-based approach key suppliers when engaging with our 1,500 key e Supplier collaborations suppliers and smaller, regional suppliers.
and partnerships We operate a central procurement function in a number of key spend e Discussions on credible certification categories and manage the remainder systems to secure long-term regionally or locally.
We engage with our sustainable wood fibre suppliers suppliers to develop solutions to the social e Ongoing focus on working together and environmental challenges we all face to improve safety performance across the value chain.
We encourage supply chain transparency and promote Key topics discussed fair working conditions together with our suppliers by developing a responsible, e Local procurement and inclusive and sustainable supply chain.
resource support e Safety We work closely with our contractors to mitigate risks, improve practices and e Sustainability along the supply chain ensure they follow Mondi protocols and practices in areas such as safety, transparency and business ethics.
Sustainability performance Page 48-63 Online Sustainable development report www.
com sd18 Partners, associations, governments and regulators We believe in global partnerships Among others, we engage with: and initiatives where together we e WWF can bring about meaningful change.
e Ellen MacArthur Foundations Shared resources and best practice New Plastics Economy Initiative merged together provide an opportunity for multi-stakeholder collaborations to e The Cambridge Institute for find sustainable solutions along the entire Sustainability Leadership CISL value chain.
e The United Nations Global We engage with national and local Compact UNGC governments and regulators to share our e World Business Council for intentions, understand their concerns Sustainable Development WBCSD s and priorities, and find mutually beneficial Forest Solutions Group solutions on important topics such as e Confederation of European Paper climate change, regulatory compliance Industries CEPI and support for research programmes.
e Circular Economy for Flexible Packaging CEFLEX project Key topics discussed e Climate change and circular economy e Regulatory compliance Sustainability performance e Support for research programmes Page 48-63 Online Sustainable development report www.
com sd18 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 e g a s t t n e a s s v a d a n i t t s s o e c v n h I t i w n a i I a n e n h d c s c n p g a i r e r o m e u w r l o o a r 26 Our strategy Strategic framework Our strategy is to deliver value accretive growth by focusing on our four strategic value drivers.
This approach allows us to build on the Drive performance along the value chain competitive advantages we enjoy today, and sets a clear framework for our investment and Our passion for performance will operational decisions to continue to create value always be central to the way we into the future.
All strategic value drivers are run our business from our focus important, with priority levels differing across on commercial excellence and lean processes, to rigorous quality the value chain.
management and operational excellence programmes that enhance productivity and efficiency.
Our collaborative approach to benchmarking enables us to learn from our best performing operations and identify emerging issues to ensure performance is optimised throughout the organisation.
We have continuous improvement systems and processes in place focused on enhancing We drive productivity, increasing efficiency, value reducing waste and ensuring our accretive processes stay lean.
When necessary, growth we take decisive action to restructure non-performing assets.
We also focus on finding innovative ways of working and using digital technology to further enhance our performance.
We maintain selected centralised functions, where we believe we can benefit from a coordinated approach, such as procurement, technical, sustainable development, treasury and tax, to optimise collaboration and costs.
Our disciplined approach to this strategic Our Uncoated Fine Paper business has framework, while retaining flexibility on a clear cost competitive advantage and A key component of our success in how we execute it, has positioned us as exposure to growing markets in central driving performance along the value a leading global packaging and paper and eastern Europe, Russia and South chain is creating an entrepreneurial and group with a strong platform for growth.
We will continue to invest to dynamic culture across our organisation.
We continue to expand our business, maintain and improve its competitiveness, with an emphasis on assets and markets and leverage this asset base to increase that offer us inherent advantages, and our exposure to faster growing packaging products that are core to our portfolio or products where the opportunity arises.
We see greater potential for structural growth in the packaging sectors, where Priorities going forward we plan to continue growing through e Commercial excellence programmes, value-enhancing capital investments and digitalisation initiatives and quality acquisitions that build on our competitive management systems advantages and enable us to better serve e Continuous improvement initiatives our customers.
to further enhance productivity, efficiency and reduce costs Related risks and mitigation We focus on our four strategic value drivers 1 3 8 9 10 15 tobuild on our inherent competitive advantages.
Principal risks Peter Oswald Page 38-47 Chief Executive Officer Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 f v u e r r e s e p p p h o t e e n v o g s i p r i n l b D o e l l y a s r e m n o o t i s t u a c v o h t n i n w i r r e o n f t r a P Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 27 Invest in assets with Inspire our people Partner with customers costadvantage and grow responsibly for innovation We believe that our portfolio of assets We engage with our people to ensure Working with our customers to is industry leading.
Investing in our their commitment to a business which create high-quality, innovative and cost-advantaged asset base to maintain they feel is responsible, empowering sustainable solutions is key to our and enhance our competitiveness is and able to offer a range of development long-term success.
In our upstream of particular importance for our pulp opportunities.
Creating an environment packaging and paper operations and paper operations where products that fosters and respects diversity and our focus is on producing lighterare generally more standardised and inclusion is vital to our success, and weight packaging materials without relative cost competitiveness is a improves our competitive advantage in compromising strength: enhancing the key value driver.
We focus on driving becoming an employer of choice.
printing quality of our products: and organic growth, strengthening our achieving productivity and efficiency We believe that being part of the cost competitiveness, enhancing our gains.
Our converting operations focus solution to global sustainability product offering, quality and service on product innovation to help our challenges will secure the long-term to customers, and improving our customers find the most sustainable success of our business and the environmental footprint.
We invest in packaging for each product: protect and wellbeing of our communities and other our existing operations and, where promote their products: and optimise stakeholders.
Communicating openly appropriate, in acquisitions.
We aim longevity, freshness and convenience.
and working together helps us to better to acquire businesses that produce understand and address risks and In our Fibre Packaging business, our high-quality products with sustainable opportunities so that we can continue to backward integration provides us competitive advantage and the potential generate value for our stakeholders long security of paper supply and enables us to achieve world-class operating into the future.
to carry developments in our upstream standards.
This enables us to generate paper operations over to our converting synergies through integration, enhance Our sustainability commitments are plants.
As a leading producer of plastic our product and service offering and or reflected across the 10 Action Areas and fibre-based packaging, we are extend our geographic reach to better of our Growing Responsibly model, uniquely positioned to leverage our serve our customers.
including 16 commitments to 2020 relationships and product know-how the climate commitment runs to Our integrated business model, with to offer our customers innovative and 2030.
We are already working on our backward pulp integration and high sustainable solutions, combining approach post 2020 to build on our electricity self-sufficiency, provides us the best of our paper and flexible achievements, monitor and improve with security of supply and reduced plastic packaging.
the way sustainability is embedded exposure to raw material price volatility, in our business, and enable our Getting innovation right is critical to and helps us manage sustainability risks future success.
meeting increasingly sophisticated and and opportunities more holistically.
Our R&D Our collaborative partnerships are key Our disciplined approach to centres and innovation activities span the as we look to scale up our contribution investigating, approving and executing entire value chain.
We also cooperate beyond our own boundaries.
Its only by capital projects is one of our key with external partners to maximise the working together that we will achieve the strengths and plays an important role potential of our R&D around designs, impact, innovation and scale necessary in successfully delivering strong returns technologies, procedures, and markets to bring about change.
to deliver products that enable our customers to succeed, while minimising the impact on society.
Priorities going forward Priorities going forward Priorities going forward e On time and on budget execution e Continued initiatives to engage our people, e Strong focus on product innovation especially of capital investment programme with special attention to diversity and around sustainable paper and plastic-based inclusion initiatives packaging solutions e Continue to evaluate value-enhancing organic and inorganic investment opportunities e Continue to manage sustainability risks e Further implementation and enhancement of and opportunities, and develop post 2020 digital CRM systems across our businesses Growing Responsibly commitments Related risks and mitigation Related risks and mitigation Related risks and mitigation 1 4 9 10 8 9 11 12 13 14 2 3 14 Principal risks Principal risks Principal risks Page 38-47 Page 38-47 Page 38-47 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 28 Strategic performance A strong track record of value accretive growth 2018 was a successful year for the Group.
We delivered strong results, building on our track record of value accretive growth, which is testament to our consistent and focused strategy, robust business model, integrated approach to sustainability, and firm commitment to drive performance.
While core product volumes in the Our return on capital employed ROCE was Our financial Uncoated Fine Paper business were up 23.6%.
After taking into consideration the performancein2018 year-on-year, market pulp and newsprint impact of depreciation and special items, Group revenue of 7,481 million was up volumes were negatively impacted, operating profit of 1,192 million was up 23%.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions respectively, by the extended shut at our and divestitures, revenue was up 4%, We continue to make good progress Richards Bay mill South Africa and the mainly due to higher average selling prices in delivering value accretive growth strategic decision taken in the prior year to achieved across all our businesses.
and enhancing the ongoing cost exit the newsprint market in South Africa.
competitiveness of our operations through We saw volume growth in Fibre Packaging, Underlying EBITDA was up 19% to our capital expenditure programme.
driven by the benefit of previously 1,764 million.
We benefited from good During the fourth quarter of 2018, we completed capital investment projects, demand across our fibre packaging successfully started up the 335 million operational improvements and strong businesses, higher average selling prices modernisation of our kraft paper facility in organic volume growth in Industrial Bags.
and the contribution from our recent tt Czech Republic and we received the Consumer Packaging volumes were acquisitions.
We are particularly pleased to final permits to proceed with our investment impacted by our targeted approach to report on a robust operating performance, in a 300,000 tonne kraft top white machine exit lower margin business and a decline delivering productivity gains and strong at our Ruomberok mill Slovakia, while in volumes in personal care components.
cost containment, mitigating the inflationary work to upgrade the pulp mill at the same pressures on our cost base.
Group revenue Group underlying EBITDA million million on 7,481m 1,764m q19% 2017 Fibre Packaging 1,086 7,481 1,764 Consumer Packaging 194 7,096 1,482 Uncoated Fine Paper 516 1,366 1,325 6,819 Breakdown excludes corporate 6,662 1,126 costs of 32 million 6,402 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Underlying EBITDA margin Underlying EBITDA development by Business Unit % million Current estimated pre-tax weighted average cost of capital 23.6 52 5 1,764 446 253 28 20.9 1,482 20.5 19.4 126 1,192 17.6 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Underlying Fibre Consumer Uncoated Corporate Underlying Depreciation, Special Operating EBITDA Packaging Packaging Fine Paper EBITDA amortisation items profit & impairment 2017 2018 2018 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 29 Investing in our cost-advantaged assets gives us a strong platform for growth.
Peter Oswald Chief Executive Officer left Andrew King Chief Financial Officer right Expansionary capital expenditure projects Delivering value Net operating assets by location at a number of our packaging operations accretivegrowth % and the integration of acquisitions We made good progress on all our Emerging Europe 37 completed in the year will further enhance strategic value drivers in 2018, continuing Western Europe 33 our production capabilities and product to deliver value accretive growth and cost Russia 10 offering to customers.
Our position as a global South Africa 11 Basic underlying earnings of 189.1 euro packaging and paper group secures a solid North America 5 cents per share were up 27% compared foundation to grow, with our packaging Other 4 to 2017. interests offering exposure to good structural growth opportunities.
A special item net charge amounting to 126 million before tax was recognised In June 2018, we completed the acquisition 2017: 61 million for restructuring and of Powerflute Finland, an integrated pulp closure costs and related impairments.
and paper mill with a production capacity After taking the effect of special items into of 285,000 tonnes per annum of highReturn on capital employed ROCE account, basic earnings of 170.1 euro cents performance semi-chemical fluting, for a total % 12-month trailing per share were up 23% compared to 2017. consideration of 365 million on a debt and cash-free basis.
The integration is progressing Cash generated from operations of 23.6% well and further broadens our containerboard 1,654 million 2017: 1,363 million, reflects product range and geographic reach.
the continued strong cash generating ability 23.6 We also completed two industrial bag plant 20.5 of the Group.
Following the payment of a 20.3 19.3 acquisitions in Egypt bolstering our presence 17.2 special dividend 484 million in May and in the fast growing Middle East industrial the completion of acquisitions totalling bag market, enabling us to better serve our 424 million during the year, net debt was customers in the region.
up to 2,220 million 2017: 1,532 million While in recent years we have found greater or 1.3 times 2017: 1.0 times net debt to opportunity for value-enhancing growth 12-month trailing underlying EBITDA.
through organic capital investments, 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Financial performance acquisition led growth remains important Page 64-67 to our strategy and we continue to evaluate opportunities as they arise.
Strategic framework Page 26-27 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 30 Strategic performance We announced the closure of two industrial bag plants in Europe, and one in Kentucky Drive performance along Invest in assets with US and restructured our UK Consumer the value chain cost advantage Packaging operations, including the closure of our plant in Scunthorpe.
We stopped We continue to benefit from our ongoing We have a focused capital expenditure production of in-line silicone coated products operational excellence and cost control project pipeline securing our future at tt due to technical challenges and initiatives, driving productivity and efficiency growth.
Over the past three years our process complexity, and uncoated fine as well as minimising waste.
To further major capital projects have contributed paper production at one of our machines improve the reliability and technical integrity 95 million of incremental operating profit, at Merebank South Africa due to declining of our pulp and paper operations and including 20 million in 2018.
We expect margins on unintegrated paper production reduce maintenance costs we continue to generate a further 50 million in 2019. following the rapid rise in hardwood pulp to develop our asset management Key developments are outlined below.
In June 2018, we completed processes, including the implementation of the sale of a flat sack kraft paper mill in Pine In the fourth quarter of 2018, we specific training to enhance the skills and Bluff, Arkansas US, with 130,000 tonnes of successfully commissioned the 335 million qualifications of our people across our mill annual production capacity.
modernisation of the tt mill to replace the network.
We also established a programme recovery boiler, rebuild the fibre lines and We believe digital solutions can help us to optimise the performance of our recovery debottleneck the existing packaging paper drive performance to further enhance our boilers, which we expect will deliver energy machines.
The project is expected to result competitiveness.
We are piloting a number of savings, enable best-practice sharing in additional annual production of 90,000 digital projects across the Group, focused on and continue to improve the reliability of tonnes of softwood market pulp and applying advanced analytics in our processes our operations.
to improve quality and pricing decisions as To continue to optimise our production well as introducing new ways to share best We obtained the final necessary permitting footprint and leverage our cost-advantaged practice across our machines and plants.
to proceed with the 340 million investment locations, we undertook a number of in a new 300,000 tonne per annum kraft restructuring initiatives during the year.
top white machine at Ruomberok, with start-up expected towards the end of 2020.
The related pulp mill upgrade at the same site is progressing according to plan with start-up expected in late 2019.
The power of people in a successful integration process Responding to continued good demand across our range of speciality kraft papers in Europe, supported by the drive to replace plastic carrier bags with paperbased alternatives, we have approved a 67 million capital investment project to convert a containerboard machine at tt to be fully dedicated to the production of speciality kraft paper with a mix of recycled and virgin fibre content for shopping bag applications.
This will also allow us to optimise productivity and efficiency at wiecie Poland, where this grade is currently produced.
The project will result in an additional 75,000 tonnes per annum of speciality kraft paper capacity, while In June 2018 we acquired that they feel a connection to specialists in areas such as reducing our containerboard capacity by Powerflute, an integrated pulp Mondis culture and strategy, and safety, supply chain, capex around 30,000 tonnes per annum.
Start-up and paper mill in Kuopio Finland, understand how to contribute to and operations, information is expected by the end of 2020. supporting our strategy to invest in business objectives.
This helps to technology, human resources, high-quality packaging and paper ensure a smooth transition with communication and marketing as assets: enhancing our product a focus on creating a safe and well as procurement.
portfolio: and increasing our inspiring working environment The team has been collaborating exposure to the growing global while transferring knowledge, across 18 workstreams, with 6 food and consumer electronics driving performance and already successfully completed packaging sectors.
It also makes prioritising our customers.
And there are us the leading European virgin A structured integration process opportunities to keep learning containerboard producer.
with clear responsibilities is from each other as we focus on Successful acquisitions have essential to maximise potential.
benchmarking best practice, been a key part of Mondis The Powerflute integration optimising operational excellence, growth over the years.
We know brought together a diverse team and realising synergies.
how important it is to involve of around 70 people including people right from the start so local management and Mondi Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 31 As part of our plan to maintain Syktyvkars Investing in Mondi tt to create social and economic value Russia competitiveness and increase saleable production by around 100,000 tonnes per annum in the medium term, we are investing to debottleneck production and avoid unplanned shutdowns, including various upgrades of the mill infrastructure, fibre lines and pulp dryer, and a new evaporation plant.
We are investigating alternatives for the modernisation of our Richards Bay facility, including the modernisation of the mills energy and chemical plants.
We continue to invest in our Fibre Packaging and Consumer Packaging converting plants with competitive advantages to grow with our customers, enhance our product and service offering and reduce conversion costs.
Our tt mill has set its sights The benefits of the project include: Engaging with the tt on an ambitious new vision: community has been and e Increasing softwood market Our recently completed and planned major to cement its position as one continues to be key, and were pulp production by 90,000 capital projects in the Czech Republic, of the leading speciality and seeing the benefits through tonnes per annum, and lowering sack kraft paper mills in the improved local relationships and Slovakia and Russia are expected to per tonne pulp production costs world by significantly expanding opportunities.
Describing Mondis increase our current saleable pulp and e Debottlenecking the existing its production of top quality tt mill as a shining example of paper production by around 10% when in packaging paper machines to products, at the lowest costs in a successful foreign investment, increase production by 55,000 the market.
Bohuslav Sobotka, Prime Minister full operation.
tonnes per annum of the Czech Republic said, The 335 million modernisation In recent years, we have invested This modernisation project e Reducing the mills project, commissioned as demonstrates Mondis long-term environmental footprint significantly in the modernisation and planned at the end of 2018, commitment to growth and is fundamental to realising e Increasing electricity selfgrowth of our Consumer Packaging sustainable business in the sufficiency and lowering this ambition and facilitating business.
While further capital investment Czech Republic, and will deliver future development.
energy costs benefits to both the region and the opportunities in this business remain an e Creating new jobs which will The project scope includes national economy.
option, we are currently focused on the have a positive impact on the the rebuild of the fibre lines, optimisation of our existing operations regions economic development debottlenecking the existing packaging paper machines, and a including leveraging recently completed new recovery boiler.
investments as well as completing current capital investment projects underway.
Given the approved project pipeline and in the absence of any other major investment, our capital expenditure is expected to be in the range of 700-800 million per annum, on average, for 2019 and 2020.
1 Vertical integration Capital expenditure Five-year net investment production in million tonnes million % Corrugated We use Net market exposure 2 value chain 44% 0.2 709m 3 Bags value chain 37% 4.1 Consumer Packaging 19% 709 Uncoated Fine Paper 0% 611 595 562 1.7 1 1.6 465 3.8 0.3 0.8 0.6 0.3 0.1 1 Net investment calculated as capex less depreciation and Pulp Virgin Recycled Kraft Uncoated amortisation, plus acquisitions, less disposals  ne 2 Corrugated value chain comprises Containerboard and Corrugated board board paper Packaging business segments 3 Bags value chain comprises Kraft Paper, Industrial Bags and 1 In addition to the 1.6mt of uncoated ne paper, the Group also 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Extrusion Coatings business segments produced 0.2mt of newsprint in 2018 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 32 Strategic performance Purpose, impact and scale: Making a real contribution to the UN SDGs Inspire our people and grow responsibly collaborating with key players sector roadmap.
Set to launch and stakeholders and scaling in mid-2019 the roadmap aims Our Growing Responsibly model remains our efforts.
to inform decision-making by the framework through which we shape describing the most impactful Impactful response contributions the sector can make our long-term response to sustainability, This thinking has seen us focus through process, product and and enables us to demonstrate, monitor on SDGs 7, 8, 9, 12, 13 and partnership innovation.
and improve our sustainability performance 15.
These are the areas where Purposeful communication we have the greatest impact across the value chain.
The model covers and are best positioned to Advancing our communication 10 Action Areas that reflect the aspects contribute meaningfully.
of the SDGs, this year we have of sustainability that are most relevant for introduced a comprehensive Supporting youthindex that references SDG links Mondi and our stakeholders.
Within these led solutions throughout our online Sustainable Action Areas, we have made 16 public In 2018, we partnered with One development report, enhancing commitments to be achieved by 2020, Stakeholder expectations of Young World on the Lead2030 the accessibility, transparency business taking an active and initiative a competition to find and navigability of our disclosure.
along with a carbon emissions commitment central role in tackling global youth-led practical solutions to Integrating the SDGs into our that runs to 2030. development challenges have drive progress on the SDGs.
reporting brings focus and increased significantly.
We committed to funding a perspective to our sustainability In addition to driving our response to project where the winning thinking and messaging, At Mondi we believe that the the sustainability issues that are most candidate has the opportunity strengthens our social relevance primary contribution of any relevant to our business, our commitments to turn their concept into a viable as a business and helps us to set business to the SDGs is through waste tackling solution.
demonstrate Mondis positive contribution job opportunities, taxes and social and economic development.
to achieving the UN Sustainable Action at scale Online Sustainable Development Goals SDGs.
The ambitions of the SDGs call Beyond these however, we development report for new types of partnership.
understand that making a real Page 29 In 2018, we completed a new materiality This is why, as a member of and lasting difference to the global WBCSDs Forest Solutions Group development agenda can only assessment to understand the relative FSG, we are working with other be achieved by considering our importance of our material issues to our companies to develop a SDG impacts, targeting our response, stakeholders, and to identify new and emerging issues.
The results will inform our commitments beyond 2020.
When it comes to our safety performance, We continue to focus on the 24-hour safety Our most recent group-wide employee we have come a long way over the last 10 mindset approach introduced in 2017. survey was carried out in February years.
Open and honest discussions have The concept is designed to tap into peoples 2018.
All Mondi employees were seen a step change in the way we engage awareness on an emotional, unconscious invited to take part, with the survey in, and take responsibility for safety.
But while level by applying safety to all aspects of their available in 24 languages.
We are we are among the safety leaders in our lives, not just at work.
In 2018, we had 262 encouraged by the response rate of 89% industry, unsafe behaviour was a common recordable cases, which equates to a TRCR 2015: 90%, reflecting the engagement of factor in many of our incidents in 2018. of 0.68.
This is in line with the previous year our employees in achieving a better, more We were deeply saddened by the fatality of a level adjusted for acquisitions and 11% lower inspiring workplace together.
contractor at Syktyvkar in April 2018 during than our 2015 baseline.
Positive findings included employee planned maintenance work at the woodyard As a Group, we aim to be an employer empowerment in stopping unsafe as well as five life-altering injuries across the of choice by attracting talent, creating a behaviour, employees perception of business.
Unfortunately, we suffered another stronger culture of employee recognition positive attitude among leadership, and fatality in January 2019 when a contractor and retaining our high-performing the common characteristic of thinking lost his life during drilling works at the workforce.
We have a number of ahead and acting quickly in teams.
construction site of our new paper machine programmes currently in place and are Key actions in response to the findings in Ruomberok.
Thorough investigations are defining further initiatives to ensure we have include increasing focus on care and conducted after all incidents and action plans the right talent and succession plans to recognition for our employees, as well as implemented to prevent repeat incidents.
deliver on our long-term strategic targets.
continuing to strengthen our culture of With zero harm our goal, we continue to work people development.
In 2018, we focused in particular on tirelessly to eliminate fatal and life-altering creating a culture that encourages diversity injuries by focusing on the top risks at all and inclusion, which will enhance our operations enabling us to better anticipate competitive advantage going forward.
and manage our highest risk activities.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements tonnes per tonne of saleable production 33 A number of our major capital projects 1 Value distribution currently in progress and recently % Partner with customers completed are expected to contribute to our Growing Responsibly commitments, for innovation 2,773m particularly relating to greenhouse gas As a producer of both paper and plastic GHG emissions and waste reduction.
Employees 38 packaging, we believe we are uniquely We are pleased our total specific CO e 2 Providers of equity capital 29 positioned to leverage our customer emissions in tonnes per tonne of Direct taxes paid 9 relationships and paper, bag and barriers saleable production have declined to know-how to develop sustainable Providers 0.72, a 14.5% reduction against the 2014 of loan capital 3 packaging solutions for our customers.
baseline, as we continue to make progress Reinvested We believe all packaging must be fit for in making our business less carbon in the Group 21 purpose: paper where possible, plastic intensive.
The contribution of biomasswhen useful.
During the year we focused on based renewable energy to the total fuel strengthening our portfolio of EcoSolutions: consumption of our mills has increased 1 Value distribution dened as operating profit before taking into account high-performance paper-based, flexible personnel costs and depreciation, amortisation and impairments from 59% in 2014 to 64% in 2018. plastic and hybrid packaging solutions.
We continue working closely with WWF Mondi won eight 2019 WorldStar awards, in the fifth year of our global partnership Total recordable case rate TRCR more than any other packaging company focusing on water stewardship in per 200,000 hours worked worldwide, consolidating our position South Africa, protection of intact forest as a truly innovative force in the industry.
landscapes in Russia, sustainable forest 0.83 0.76 BarrierPack Recyclable has also been management and biodiversity as well as 0.69 0.68 0.68 shortlisted as one of three finalists for the setting long term reduction targets for our special Sustainability Award winner to be GHG emissions.
In 2018, we joined WWFs announced in May 2019.
Climate Savers, a leadership programme for businesses, as part of our commitment In April 2018, we hosted Lets paper to continue to work on further reducing our the world, the first European shopping GHG emissions using the science-based bag summit bringing together leading target setting methodology.
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 converters, suppliers and customers 1 20152017 restated to include acquisitions, and 2017 includes to collaboratively address the fast The environmental impact of flexible plastic a confirmed fatality of a missing person in Syktyvkar 2 The total number of hours worked employees and contractors growing needs for sustainable paperpackaging continues to gain attention, both in 2018 was 77.6 million hours 2017: 75.3 million hours based shopping bag solutions and to 3 2018 excludes Powerute and Egyptian industrial bag plants externally and internally.
We are working with acquired in 2018 showcase our shoppingworld by Mondi partners across our value chain to reinvent product range.
flexible plastic packaging so that it is fit for a circular economy.
Evidence shows that GHG emissions from our pulp Flexible plastic packaging, when flexible plastic is often the most sustainable and paper mills manufactured, used and disposed of solution over the course of its life-cycle, if it is Scope 1 million tonnes Specic Total CO e appropriately, delivers many benefits from 2 Scope 2 million tonnes disposed of responsibly.
resource efficiency by reducing material 6.0 1.0 usage and being less transport intense to Mondi joined the Ellen MacArthur 1.00 0.78 5.0 0.67 reducing food waste by enabling correct 4.48 0.69 0.9 Foundations New Plastics Economy Initiative 0.58 4.31 4.07 4.0 sized portions and extending shelf-life.
3.78 3.81 in 2017, and in 2018 we pledged to increase 3.0 0.8 investment in research and development, One of the most significant developments 2.0 and drive deeper collaboration throughout in 2018 was the momentum gained in 0.7 1.0 our supply chain to move away from the way we are working with customers non-renewable and non-recyclable plastic.
to develop innovative and sustainable 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 We are one of the first signatories of The flexible plastic packaging.
The New Plastics 1 The 2014 baseline of 0.844t t excludes a divested mill New Plastics Economy Global Commitment 2 0.722t t excludes Powerute acquired in 2018 but includes Economy Initiative has rallied businesses Pine Bluff until date of divestiture committing to 100% of plastic-based and governments behind a positive vision packaging being reusable, recyclable or of a circular economy for plastics.
It has compostable: and 25% being from recycled brought together 290 signatories, including content where it does not compromise many leading companies, who have also functionality or food health requirements committed to working towards 100% by 2025. reusable, recyclable, or compostable plastic packaging by 2025.
Sustainability performance Page 48-63 Business review: Consumer Packaging Page 76-79 Online Sustainable development report www.
com sd18 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 million tonnes 1 0.83 0.83 0.76 0.72 2 0.72
