Strategic Report Our strategy in action Drive sales effectiveness and market focus The Group is focused on improving a number of aspects of our sales activity and the capability of our sales teams: sales processes and their efficiency, the management of key customer accounts and distribution channels, deeper understanding of end-markets and fastergrowing segments, enabling systems, and sales incentives plans.
The Group is driving improvements in these areas through its sales effectiveness programme.
Throughout 2018 we have been deploying the approaches we developed in pricing, segmentation, Sales effectiveness in Electrical Carbon Our Electrical Carbon team carried out sales effectiveness sales incentive plans and training: diagnostic workshops across their major regions during 2018 Pricing: Continued work in Thermal Europe has to identify the most valuable improvement opportunities.
In North America they have focussed on more rigorous yielded additional revenue to date.
Our deployment customer segmentation, which has led to the tailoring of workshop in Thermal North America has appropriate service levels to improve the way their customers substantially improved the teams understanding of are addressed.
In Europe, assessments of sales activities and pricing strategy and created opportunity for 2019. utilisation and adoption of the CRM system has increased selling efficiency and enabled them to spend more time on valueSegmentation: Methods of market and customer added activities for their customers.
In China, focus on their segmentation are defined across each global route to market through development of an improved business unit and are being used to help align distributor strategy and appointment of a new channel manager service levels, manage sales teams and better is helping optimise profitable growth.
Sales effectiveness in Thermal Ceramics Sales incentive programme: Deployed four Our Thermal Ceramics team in North America significantly trials across the Group which has changed enhanced its market, customer and service level focus in 2018 behaviours and helped to guide the overall through account base segmentation.
Theyve embedded this segmentation in various functional aspects of the sales process to Group deployment planned in 2019. improve the way in which they interact and meet the needs of Training: Completed a trial for sales teams in the customer.
Additionally, theyve aligned appropriate service levels for their customers through use of segmentation and by Thermal North America, with the programme listening to their customer feedback.
Re-organisation of the design being finalised, sales team training has been sales team structures based on segmentation provided greater delivered to the majority of senior leadership teams.
role clarity and is enabling faster customer response.
12 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The CoEs focus on the strategic priorities of the global business units and the Group.
The global business units ensure the CoEs prioritise The Groups R&D strategy is governed by their efforts, and retain a strong commercial direction.
This in turn four objectives: enhances the R&D capability of the business by delivering core materials science platforms that the manufacturing sites transform into products.
To be the acknowledged leader in materials science for our chosen technology families.
The Insulating Fibre Centre of Excellence in Bromborough, UK, is focused on the continued development of the Groups fibre product 2.
To understand the application of our materials range.
Morgans market-leading low bio-persistent Superwool science in our customers products and processes, fibre technology and product range continue to be developed with providing maximum benefit to them through patented materials science.
Morgan is now extending the operational advanced application engineering.
temperature range, allowing it to provide customers with superior insulation performance, improved fire protection and weight-saving 3.
To demonstrate a clear understanding of where opportunities in more applications.
There has been particular success our technology competences are positioned today across a range of end-markets such as iron and steel, aluminium against competitors and emerging and competing processing, automotive and passive fire protection.
technologies, forming a clear view of where we The Structural Ceramics Centre of Excellence in Stourport, UK, need to be.
oversees the major advanced ceramic science developments for the Group.
The facility concentrates on ceramic materials developments 4.
To build the depth and the breadth of our to support both current and new markets.
Initial focus has been on understanding through a community whose opportunities in the medical, aerospace and environmental sectors, culture is collaborative and which develops whilst a focus on new emerging markets and technologies also deep institutional knowledge.
ensures that the Group stays at the forefront of materials science.
As part of this focus the CoE includes the R&D programme for Morgans additive manufacturing of ceramic materials.
The Carbon Science Centre of Excellence supports both the The Groups commitment to technology is demonstrated by the Electrical Carbon and Seals and Bearings businesses and is located Groups total R&D spend in 2018 of 36.2 million 2017: 34.3 in the Innovation Park at Penn State University, Pennsylvania, US.
The spend has The partnership with Penn State combines resources and experience, increased from 2.8% of sales in 2015. creating a synergy which will enable significant progress in the A key underpinning principle of Morgans R&D strategy is in the development of carbon materials for a range of sectors investment in four global materials Centres of Excellence CoE : and applications.
Insulating Fibre, Structural Ceramics, Carbon Science, Metals and The Metals and Joining Centre of Excellence is located in Joining.
These four CoEs consolidate the Groups R&D efforts around its Hayward, California, US.
The CoE supports the Technical core technologies, and provide the opportunity to create critical mass to Ceramics businesses which are involved in providing metallic joining increase the effectiveness of our R&D spend and accelerate key projects.
solutions and joining ceramic and metal to metals to form hermetic seals.
Hayward is Morgans largest facility utilising this technology and hence this CoE benefits from close proximity to the business, production processes and customers.
The CoE has already produced new patented technology that has led to new Increasing technical products starting trials with customers.
differentiation Research and development R&D investment has been increased to build Morgans technical lead and to accelerate new product development.
The Centres of Excellence concentrate our development efforts in those areas that can deliver the greatest benefit globally to the Group and its customers.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 13 Strategic Report O Ou ur s r st tr ra at te eg gy i y in a n ac ct tiio on n Increase investment in people management and development The Group aims to strengthen its leadership capability and deepen functional capabilities across the business.
Supporting our sales organisation to better support the There has been significant investment and progress business: by understanding their capabilities better, aligning on this execution priority in 2018.
Building on previous resources to better serve the organisation, by rewarding them years and the reorganisation to a global business through a mechanism that is aligned to the role they play and structure, the focus has been placed on: by giving them more of the tools to improve in their roles.
Continuing the investment in graduates and early career Reinforcing our leadership behaviours with our top 100 employees, and we are developing our programmes to be leaders through how they are measured and rewarded.
more aligned to the needs of our businesses and better serve External recruitment and internal promotion into new and our global organisation.
existing senior leadership roles to strengthen leadership and deepen functional capability.
Following key hires, both external and internal, the focus will move to the integration of individuals into their new roles to Increased communication and engagement across all levels of enable a better transition to effective performance.
We will the organisation and on a broad base of topics from updates continue to invest in our sales capability through the provision on strategy and change programmes, to our key focus areas of training.
For example, we held our first global employee engagement survey to hear what our people think about working at Morgan.
This has given us valuable insight for the future development of our organisation.
We have held Read more about our people conferences and workshops from a technology conference pages 40 and 41 focused on developing an external mind-set to drop in sessions on topics like diversity and inclusion.
14 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Improving operational execution There are a number of opportunities across the global business units to improve operational execution.
Resource and capital are allocated to support specific improvements to efficiency and effectiveness on a business-by-business basis.
Our operational efficiency programmes focus on: Global sourcing moving from local to regional or global sourcing of raw materials.
Lean manufacturing identification and elimination of waste within the production processes and the acceleration of continuous improvement projects.
Manufacturing strategy improving global capacity management and sourcing.
Benchmarking sharing best practice across Divisions and global business units to achieve and monitor cost savings.
Local continuous improvement multiple local improvement projects to improve efficiency.
Automation the use of automation to improve effectiveness and reduce production costs.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 15
