Strategic Report Our products Our purpose is to use advanced materials to help make more efficient use of the worlds resources, and to improve the quality of life.
Its why we exist, and why we are still here after 160 years, making products which solve difficult problems for our customers.
We help our customers manage heat.
We enable more efficient jet engines.
Our insulation products reduce energy Through production of more and more usage in high-temperature processes complex cores for casting turbine blades from aluminium production to ethylene to allowing those engines to run hotter and solar panel production.
Our crucibles use more efficiently.
We enable electrification for less energy to hold molten metal for cleaner public transport.
Our products help aluminium and copper casting.
reduce energy costs by enabling electrification in rail and metro systems, and by helping those systems to run ever more efficiently.
We enable greener electricity generation.
Our carbon brushes are integral to wind turbines and power generators, our We enable medical diagnostics with our power ceramic rollers are used to make thin film tubes in medical scanners.
Our feedthroughs solar panels, our insulation is used in solar are at the core of cochlear implants and our towers and steam turbines, and our ceramic seals are used in blood pumps.
These products cores are used to make more efficient transform peoples lives.
Our self-lubricating seals and bearings and our ceramic shafts We enable the production of more efficient reduce the energy consumption of pumps and faster microprocessors.
We enable the in everything from domestic appliances digital world and all the benefits to the to power stations to chemical plants.
environment and health that brings.
We help to keep people safe.
We provide fire protection in everything from cars to tunnels to ships and oil platforms.
Read more about our Thermal Products Division on pages 24 and 25 and Carbon and Technical Ceramics Division on pages 26 and 27 % of revenue 2018 5% 5% Industrial 6% Transportation 6% 48% Petrochemical and chemical Energy Semiconductor and electronics 9% Healthcare Security and defence 21% 4 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018
