Strategic Report Key performance indicators We assess our performance across a wide range of metrics.
To support the Groups strategy and to monitor performance, the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee use a number of financial and non-financial key performance indicators KPIs.
Creating consistent long-term value Creating consistent long-term value for Creating consistent long-term value for shareholders.
To have a culture of operational for shareholders.
growth markets, where we are growing excellence and cost-efficiency.
Performance Performance Performance On an organic constant-currency basis Improving momentum with a second year of Lower year-on-year as higher cash from revenue improved 7.4%.
See Review of organic revenue growth, underpinned by operations excluding the one-off US operations on pages 22 to 27. operational efficiencies, and reinvestment into pension payment of 28 million in 2017, the businesses, partially offset by the impact of lower net interest paid and tax paid, were prior year disposals.
offset by increased capital expenditure.
Creating consistent long-term value Creating consistent long-term value Creating consistent long-term value for shareholders.
providing an indication for shareholders.
Performance Performance Performance Improvements in return on invested capital Benefits from underlying business performance The Board has held the dividend flat during are primarily driven by improved business improvements, lower interest and tax 2018 as it looks to rebuild dividend cover in performance delivering increased operating profit.
16 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our KPIs provide a balanced set of metrics that give In order to measure the organic performance of the emphasis to both financial and non-financial measures.
business, management further review the headline KPIs These help the Board and the Executive Committee excluding the impacts of acquisitions and foreign exchange.
assess performance and progress against our strategic Financial and non-financial performance is reviewed in more priorities and business plans.
Divisional and global business detail in the Corporate responsibility, Review of operations unit management use these and additional benchmarks and Group financial review sections of this Report.
and other KPIs to evaluate operating performance and make financial, strategic and operating decisions.
To attract, retain, and develop the right To maintain a workplace that focuses on the To minimise the impact of the Groups people in the right roles.
health and safety of its employees and others business on the environment.
affected by the Groups operations.
Performance Performance Performance This is believed to be an appropriate The focus placed on health and safety at all sites The Group benefited from a series of level of employee turnover.
and across all levels of the Group through projects and environmental programmes thinkSAFE has led to a lower total accident focused on the sites identified as having frequency, with a lower Lost-time impact.
the greatest environmental impact, overall CO e increased.
The year ended 31 December 2018 has been prepared reflecting the adoption of IFRS 15.
The year ended 31 December 2017 has been restated to reflect the adoption of IFRS 15.
Further details are provided in notes 1 and 27 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Group disposed of the Composites and Defence Systems business in 2018, the disposal group formed the Composites and Defence Systems operating segment and has been classified as a discontinued operation under IFRS 5.
The years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 have been presented as Continuing operations throughout this Report.
Further details are provided in notes 2 and 9 to the consolidated financial statements.
Definitions of these non-GAAP measures, and their reconciliation to the relevant GAAP measure, are provided on pages 31 to 33.
This KPI uses revenue at constant-currency in its calculation.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 17
