Governance Other disclosures The Articles also empower the Board to appoint The Directors Report is required to Directors as a Director any person who is willing to act as be produced by law.
The Financial All those who served as Directors at any such.
The maximum possible number of Conduct Authority FCA s Disclosure time during the year under review are set out Directors under the Articles is 15.
The Articles on pages 44 and 45, with the exception of Guidance and Transparency Rules provide that the Company may by special Andrew Shilston, who retired from the Board DTRs and Listing Rules LRs also resolution, or by ordinary resolution of which on 31 December 2018. special notice is given, remove any Director require the Company to make before the expiration of his or her period of Powers of the Directors certain disclosures.
The Articles also set out the Subject to the Companys Articles, UK legislation Pages 42 to 75 inclusive together with the circumstances in which a Director shall vacate and any directions given by special resolution, sections of the Annual Report incorporated by office.
The Articles require that at each AGM the business of the Company is managed by the reference constitute a Directors Report that any Director who was appointed after the Board, which may exercise all the powers of has been drawn up and presented in accordance previous AGM must be proposed for election the Company.
with applicable law, and the liabilities of the by the shareholders.
Additionally, any other Directors in connection with that Report are Directors interests Director who has not been elected or subject to the limitations and restrictions re-elected at one of the previous two AGMs Details of Directors interests and their connected provided by that law.
must be proposed for re-election by the persons beneficial interests in the share capital of shareholders.
The Articles also allow the Board the Company are listed on page 73. to select any other Director to be proposed for The Company Directors indemnities re-election.
In each case, the rules apply to Legal form of the Company The Company has entered into separate Directors who were acting as Directors on a Morgan Advanced Materials plc is a company indemnity deeds with each Director containing specific date selected by the Board.
This is a date incorporated in England and Wales with qualifying indemnity provisions, as defined in not more than 14 days before, and no later than, company number 286773.
Section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, under the date of the Notice of AGM.
which the Company has agreed to indemnify Name change Notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles, each Director in respect of certain liabilities The Company changed its name to Morgan all the Directors will stand for election or which may attach to each of them as a Director Advanced Materials plc from The Morgan re-election on an annual basis in compliance or as a former Director of the Company or any Crucible Company plc on 27 March 2013. with the provisions of the UK Corporate of its subsidiaries.
The indemnity deeds were in Governance Code the Code.
Details of the force during the financial year to which this Annual General Meeting AGM skills, experience and career history of Directors Directors Report relates and are in force as at The Companys 2019 AGM will be held on in post as at the date of this Report, and the the date of approval of the Directors Report.
Friday 10 May 2019 at the offices of Addleshaw Board Committees on which they serve, can Goddard LLP, Milton Gate, 60 Chiswell Street, be found on pages 44 and 45.
A circular incorporating There is no information required to be disclosed the Notice of AGM accompanies this Results and dividends under LR 9.8.
The total profit profit attributable to owners of Overseas branches the parent and non-controlling interests for the Statutory disclosures year ended 31 December 2018 was 53.5 million As at 31 December 2018, the Company had Amendment of the Articles of Association 2017: 113.9 million.
Profit before taxation branches as follows: The Companys constitution, known as the for the same period was 94.9 million 2017: Thermal Ceramics Europe France Articles of Association the Articles, is essentially 136.8 million.
Revenue was 1,033.9 million Morganite Australia Pty Limited a contract between the Company and its 2017: 1,001.4 million and operating profit New Zealand shareholders, governing many aspects of the was 107.3 million 2017: 159.1 million.
Basic Morgan AM&T BV Sweden and Belgium management of the Company.
It deals with earnings per share from continuing operations matters such as the rights of shareholders, the was 20.0 pence 2017: 38.1 pence.
Capital Carbo San Luis SA Peru appointment and removal of Directors, the and reserves at the end of the year were Human resources conduct of the Board and general meetings and 277.2 million 2017: 234.3 million.
The total communications by the Company.
profit of 46.3 million will be transferred to equity.
Details of the Groups human resources policies and employee involvement are set out on pages The Articles may be amended by special The Directors recommend the payment of a 40 and 41. resolution of the Companys shareholders and final dividend at the rate of 7.0 pence per share are available on the Companys website at on the Ordinary share capital of the Company, There are no agreements between the www.
payable on 24 May 2019 to shareholders on the Company and its Directors or employees register at the close of business on 3 May 2019. providing for compensation for loss of office Appointment and replacement of Directors Together with the interim dividend of 4.0 pence or employment whether through resignation, The Articles provide that the Company may by per share paid on 23 November 2018, this final purported redundancy or otherwise that ordinary resolution at a general meeting appoint dividend, if approved by shareholders, brings the occurs because of a takeover bid.
any person to act as a Director, provided that total distribution for the year to 11.0 pence per notice is given of the resolution identifying the share 2017: 11.0 pence.
proposed person by name and that the Company receives written confirmation of that persons willingness to act as Director if he or she has not been recommended by the Board.
76 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Share allotment and repurchase authorities Major shareholdings Research and development The Directors were granted authority at the As at 31 December 2018, the Company had During the year, the Group invested 36.2 million 2018 AGM to allot shares in the Company and been notified of the following, in accordance 2017: 34.3 million in research and development.
to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any with DTR 5, from holders of notifiable interests The Group did not capitalise any development securities into shares in the Company up to representing 3% or more of the issued Ordinary costs in 2018 2017: nil.
a a nominal amount of 23,780,832 and b a share capital of the Company: Details of the Groups research and development nominal amount of 47,561,664 in connection Number of during the year are set out on page 13. with a rights issue such amount to be reduced Ordinary by any shares allotted under a.
This authority 1 shares % Greenhouse gas emissions is scheduled to lapse at the 2019 AGM.
At the Ameriprise Financial Details of the Groups annual greenhouse gas 2019 AGM, shareholders will be asked to grant Inc. and its group 24,186,489 8.48 emissions are shown in the Environment, health a similar allotment authority.
AXA Investment and safety section on page 39.
Two separate special resolutions will also be Managers SA 22,707,707 7.96 proposed to renew the Directors powers to Political donations Prudential Plc group make non-pre-emptive issues for cash up to an No political donations have been made.
Morgan of companies M&G 21,727,447 7.61 aggregate nominal amount representing Advanced Materials plc has a policy of not Black Creek Investment approximately 5% of the issued share capital as making donations to any political party, Management Inc. 17,136,885 6.01 at the last practicable date before the publication representative or candidate in any part of the Harris Associates 14,119,504 4.95 of the 2019 Notice of AGM, and an additional world.
5% of the issued share capital which would be 1.
Percentages are shown as a percentage of the Companys issued share capital as at for use only in connection with acquisitions and Financial instruments 31 December 2018. specified capital investments.
Details of the Groups use of financial Note: As at 15 March 2019, there were no instruments, together with information on The Directors sought authority at the 2018 changes to the substantial shareholdings shown policies and exposure to price, liquidity, cash AGM to repurchase shares in the capital of the in the above table.
flow, credit, interest rate and currency risks, Company up to a maximum aggregate number can be found in note 21 on pages 116 to 124.
All of Ordinary shares of 28,536,998.
The Transactions, contractual information detailed in this note is incorporated Directors will seek to renew this authority arrangements and post-balance into the Directors Report by reference and is at the 2019 AGM.
sheet events deemed to form part of the Directors Report.
Employee share and share option schemes Significant agreements change of control Share capital and related matters The Company operates a number of employee The Group has a number of borrowing facilities share and share option schemes.
One hundred Share capital provided by various financial institutions.
The and three employees hold awards under the The Companys share capital as at 31 December facility agreements generally include change of Morgan Advanced Materials plc Long-Term 2018 is set out in note 40 on page 148.
The control provisions which, in the event of a Incentive Plan, including share options held Companys Ordinary shares represent 99.85% change in ownership of the Company, could under the Approved Performance Share Plan, of the total issued share capital, with the 5.5% result in their renegotiation or withdrawal.
four employees hold awards under the Morgan Cumulative First Preference shares representing Advanced Materials Deferred Bonus Plan and The most significant of such agreements are the 0.04% and the 5.0% Cumulative Second 406 employees participate in the Companys UK UK five-year 200 million multi-currency Preference shares representing 0.11%.
Details of outstanding share revolving credit facility agreement, which was rights and obligations attaching to the Companys awards and share options are given in note 22 signed on 26 September 2018, and the privately Ordinary shares, and restrictions on the transfer on pages 124 to 132. placed Note Purchase and Guarantee of shares in the Company, are set out in the Agreements signed on 15 December 2007 and Articles.
All the Companys share schemes contain 27 October 2016, for which the aggregate provisions relating to a change of control.
Shareholders rights outstanding loan amounts are US$187 million Outstanding options and awards would normally and 60 million.
The Group also successfully The holders of Ordinary shares are entitled: to vest and become exercisable on a change of concluded a US Private Placement transaction receive dividends, when declared: to receive the control, subject to being pro-rated for time and during the period, for which the aggregate Companys reports and accounts: to attend and to the satisfaction of any performance conditions outstanding loan amounts are US$25 million speak at general meetings of the Company: to at that time.
The initial 25 million was appoint proxies: and to exercise voting rights.
The Trustees of The Morgan General Employee funded 27 December 2018, with the funding of Details of the structure of the Companys Benefit Trust the Trust have absolute and the $25 million completed in January 2019.
Preference share capital and the rights attaching unfettered discretion in relation to voting any There are a number of other agreements that to the Companys Preference shares are set out shares held in the Trust at any general meeting.
would take effect, alter or terminate upon a in note 40 on page 148.
Their policy is not to vote the shares.
If any offer change of control of the Company following a is made to shareholders to acquire their shares, No person holds securities in the Company takeover bid, such as commercial contracts and the Trustees will have absolute and unfettered carrying special rights with regard to control of joint venture agreements.
No such individual discretion as to whether to accept or reject the the Company.
The Company is not aware of contract is considered to be significant in terms offer in respect of any shares held by them.
any agreements between holders of securities of its potential impact on the business of the that may result in restrictions on the transfer of Group as a whole.
securities or on voting rights.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 77 Governance Other disclosures continued Post balance-sheet events Assess the Group and parent Companys The Directors as at the date of this Report, ability to continue as a going concern, whose names and functions are set out on In 2018, the Group completed a US private debt disclosing, as applicable, matters related pages 44 and 45, confirm that, to the best placement, raising $25 million to refinance to going concern.
of their knowledge: existing financial indebtedness.
Funding was The Groups financial statements, which completed on 28 January 2019.
For the Parent Company financial statements, have been prepared in accordance with state whether applicable UK Accounting Reporting, accountability and audit IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true Standards have been followed, subject to any and fair view of the assets, liabilities, Statement of Directors responsibilities material departures disclosed and explained in financial position and profit of the Group.
the Parent Company financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the They are responsible for such internal control The management report comprising the Annual Report and the Group and Parent as they determine is necessary to enable the Directors Report and the Strategic Report Company financial statements in accordance preparation of financial statements that are includes a fair review of the development with applicable law and regulations.
free from material misstatement, whether and performance of the business and the Company law requires the Directors to prepare due to fraud or error, and have general position of the Group, together with a Group and parent Company financial statements responsibility for taking such steps as are description of the principal risks and for each financial year.
Under that law they are reasonably open to them to safeguard the uncertainties that it faces.
required to prepare the Group financial assets of the Group and to prevent and detect Scope of the reporting in this statements in accordance with International fraud and other irregularities.
Annual Report Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted Prepare the financial statements on the going by the EU and applicable law and have elected The Board has prepared a Strategic Report concern basis unless it is inappropriate to to prepare the Parent Company financial which provides an overview of the development presume that the Group and the Parent statements in accordance with UK Accounting and performance of the Groups business in the Company will continue in business.
Standards and applicable law UK Generally year ended 31 December 2018.
The Directors are responsible for keeping Accepted Accounting Practice or UK GAAP.
5R 2 and DTR adequate accounting records that are sufficient A new UK GAAP accounting framework 4.1.
8, the Directors Report on pages 42 to 75 to show and explain the Parent Companys introduced by the Financial Reporting Council and the Strategic Report on pages 4 to 41 transactions and disclose with reasonable FRC became mandatorily effective for the comprise the management report, including accuracy at any time the financial position of the financial statements of UK companies in 2015. the sections of the Annual Report and financial Parent Company and enable them to ensure Under this framework, the Company is required statements incorporated by reference.
that its financial statements comply with the to prepare its parent Company financial Companies Act 2006.
They have general Each Director holding office at the date of statements on one of the bases permitted by responsibility for taking such steps as are approval of this Directors Report confirms that, the FRC.
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud As previously notified, the Company has chosen audit information of which the Companys and other irregularities.
to adopt FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, auditor is unaware, and that he or she has taken which enables the Company to take advantage all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Under applicable law and regulations, the of the permitted election to utilise the disclosure Director to make himself or herself aware of any Directors are also responsible for preparing exemptions allowed under FRS 101.
The relevant audit information and to establish that a Strategic Report, Directors Report, consolidated financial statements of the Group the Companys auditor is aware of that Remuneration Report and Corporate on pages 84 to 136 are prepared in accordance information.
Governance Statement that comply with with EU-adopted IFRSs and are unaffected by this that law and those regulations.
The Strategic Report, the Directors Report and accounting framework.
The Company proposes the Remuneration Report were approved by The Directors are responsible for the to continue to adopt the reduced disclosure the Board on 26 February 2019. maintenance and integrity of the corporate and framework of FRS 101 in its future financial financial information included on the Companys statements.
For and on behalf of the Board website.
Legislation in the UK governing the Under company law the Directors must not preparation and dissemination of financial approve the financial statements unless they are Stephanie Mackie statements may differ from legislation in satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the Company Secretary other jurisdictions.
state of affairs of the Group and parent Company In its reporting to shareholders, the Board is 26 February 2019 and of their profit or loss for that period.
satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts, Morgan Advanced Materials plc In preparing each of the Group and Parent taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Quadrant, 55-57 High Street Company financial statements, the Directors understandable and provides the information Windsor are required to: necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups Berkshire SL4 1LP Select suitable accounting policies and then position and performance, business model and apply them consistently.
strategy as required by the Code.
Registered in England and Wales, No.
286773 Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
78 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018
