e c n e i c S s l a i r e t A a p Strategic Report Our business model Our business model is fundamental to our ability to create value and build a sustainable competitive advantage.
Our purpose How we differentiate ourselves Our purpose is to use advanced materials to help make Our engineered solutions are developed to exacting more efficient use of the worlds resources and to specifications and deliver ever-greater performance improve the quality of life.
through materials and production process innovation.
We fulfil our purpose through the products we make, We are producing materials that can work at higher and the way we make them.
temperatures, higher pressures, in more corrosive and abrasive applications, at more precise tolerances and in smaller form factors than ever before.
Then and now We use two fundamental sets of materials Weve come a long way since 1856.
Then, we changed Ceramics and Carbon.
the industrial landscape with the introduction of revolutionary new crucibles.
Today, crucibles represent just Read more about how we differentiate ourselves 5% of Morgan, but we are still leading and innovating to on page 2 help our customers.
Then, as now, weve always had a commitment to embracing, adopting and driving change.
Our products and our markets We work in the industrial, transportation, petrochemical and chemical, energy, semiconductor and electronics, healthcare and security and defence markets.
Read more about our products and markets on pages 4 and 5 Our strategy for growth We have a strategy to make sure that we are the leaders in our field, with the customer and materials insight to apply our capabilities quickly and effectively.
Our goal is to make the best possible use of advanced materials to drive progress and solve difficult problems for our customers Reliable and the wider world.
We will succeed because we have problem leading capability in three key areas: solving ethically and safely Read more about our strategy in action pages 12 to 15 8 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 M p l i c a t i o n E n g i n e e r s i n u g c o F r e m o t s u C Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Adapt and thrive Countries selling into Our world is changing at an extraordinary pace.
We can and should be right at the forefront of that change because 100 the world needs advanced materials more than ever.
To Countries manufacturing in fulfil our purpose we need to deliver the technologies the 30 world needs.
We must be agile, building leading materials Approximate employees understanding.
And we need to anticipate customer needs before our competitors to become the clear first choice 8,800 for materials performance, service and delivery.
Our business model foundations Creating value Whilst the world and our business is changing our Driving sustainable growth and commitment to safety and ethics, and leading ensuring our value is shared across in the right way, is a constant, underpinning everything all of our stakeholder groups.
We will not compromise on: Investors Safety Delivering sustainable Our ultimate goal is zero harm.
We are constantly looking shareholder returns.
for ways to make our factories, systems and people safer.
Customers Ethics Creating world-class Every one of us is responsible for the culture and reputation of Morgan and the environment in which we work.
If we see solutions which build examples of behaviours that do not reflect our ethical stance, competitive advantage.
we show courage, stand up, call it out and stop it.
Employees Morgan behaviours Developing and nurturing Our behaviours are central to the way we work.
They are how we deliver our strategy.
We are ambitious about the future.
Communities Delivering a positive We build strong teams.
contribution to the local We are relentless in driving performance.
communities in which Our behaviours determine our actions, our approach we work.
to managing our risks and opportunities and the stewardship of our leaders through sound governance and policies.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 9
