e c n e i c S s l a i r e t A a p Strategic Report Group strategy We have a strategy to make sure that we are the leaders in our field, with the customer and materials insight to apply our capabilities quickly and effectively.
Our strategy Our goal is to make the best possible use of advanced materials to drive progress and solve difficult problems for our customers and the wider world.
Well succeed because we have leading capability in three key areas: Materials science Application engineering Customer focus In February 2016 we defined six execution priorities Reliable which would be our focus from 2016 to 2018, and that would address the immediate issues holding the Group back.
problem The Group has completed its move to a global solving business structure announced in 2016, and with the planned disposal of the Composites and Defence Systems business, completed the initial priorities to ethically and simplify the portfolio.
safely In 2019 we will continue to invest in the long-term health of the business, and we have defined four priorities for the year, continuing the strategic developments of the last three years.
10 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 M p l i c a t i o n E n g i n e e r i s n u g c o F r e m o t s u C Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The Group has set four execution priorities which will continue to drive strategic delivery: Drive sales effectiveness and market focus The Group is focused on improving a number of aspects of its sales capabilities: sales processes and See more page 12 their efficiency, the management of key customer accounts and distribution channels, and deeper understanding of end-markets and faster-growing segments.
Increasing technical differentiation Research and development investment has been increased to build Morgans technical lead and to accelerate new product development.
See more page 13 The Centres of Excellence allow for the concentration of development efforts in those areas which can deliver the greatest benefit globally to the Group.
Increase investment in people management and development The Group aims to strengthen its leadership capability and deepen functional capabilities across the business, including in sales and engineering.
New talent is being introduced and future leadership See more page 14 candidates identified from within the business.
Performance management will be enhanced for the Groups top management.
The Group will invest more in executive training and create clear career paths for its technologists and engineers.
Improving operational execution There are a number of opportunities across the global business units to improve operational execution.
See more page 15 Resource and capital are allocated to target specific improvements to efficiency and effectiveness on a business-by-business basis.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 11
