Strategic Report Directors statements Going concern Viability statement The geographical and product diversification of the Groups operations helps minimise the risk The Groups business activities, together with In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK of serious business interruption or a catastrophic the factors likely to affect its future development, Corporate Governance Code, the Directors damage to our reputation.
The impact of the performance and position are set out in the have assessed the viability of the Group over a UKs exit from the EU was considered in the Strategic Report on pages 4 to 41.
The financial three-year period, taking into account the assessment, however given the footprint and position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity Groups current position and the potential small size of the UK operations it has not position and borrowing facilities, are described impact of the principal risks documented on changed our overall assessment of the Viability earlier in this Financial Review.
In addition, note pages 18 to 21 of the Annual Report.
Furthermore, the spread of the 21 to the financial statements, includes the this assessment, the Directors confirm that they Groups end-markets is such that it is not reliant Groups policies and processes for managing have a reasonable expectation that the on one particular group of clients or sector.
financial risk: details of its financial instruments Company will be able to continue in operation and hedging activities: and details of its and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the Whilst this review does not consider all of the exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
period to 31 December 2021. possible risks that the Group could face, the Directors consider that the approach adopted The Group meets its day-to-day working The Directors have determined that an and the work performed is reasonable in the capital requirements through local banking assessment period of three years to 31 December circumstances of the inherent uncertainty arrangements underpinned by the Groups 2021 is an appropriate period over which to involved and that it allows the Board to confirm 200 million unsecured multi-currency revolving provide its viability statement.
This is the period that they have a reasonable expectation that the credit facility maturing September 2023. reviewed by the Board in the strategic planning Group will be able to continue in operation and The Groups forecasts and projections, taking process and is considered to be appropriate given meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period account of reasonably possible changes in trading the dynamics in the markets in which we operate.
to 31 December 2021. performance and exchange rates, show the To allow the Directors to make this assessment, Group operating within its debt financial a business base case has been built up, initially covenants for the next 12 months.
using a detailed bottom up approach and then The current economic climate continues to have applying what the Directors consider to be an an impact on the Group, its customers and its appropriate set of assumptions in respect of suppliers.
The UKs exit from the EU may have growth, margins, working capital flows, capital an impact on the Group if subsequent tariff expenditure, dividends and all other matters that changes, or border effects, negatively impact the could have a significant impact on the financial profitability of the Groups products or the ability performance and liquidity of the Group.
The to manufacture or distribute products on resulting base case provides the Directors with a timely basis.
However, given the current an EBITDA, debt and finance charge headroom value of the Groups UK exports to the EU relative to current bank covenants.
25 million and imports into the UK The Directors assessment included a review of from the EU ca.
15 million, it is not considered the principal risks facing the Group, their that this will have a significant impact overall on potential impact and the adequacy of the the Groups liquidity or operations.
financial headroom relative to a severe but The Board fully recognises the challenges that lie plausible combination of these risks.
While the ahead but, after making enquiries, and in the review has considered all the principal risks absence of any material uncertainties, the identified by the Group, the following were Directors have a reasonable expectation that the focussed on for enhanced stress testing: political Company and the Group have adequate and macro-economic environment, trade resources to continue in operational existence compliance and pension funding.
for a period of 18 months from the date of signing of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
30 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018
