Overview About us How we differentiate ourselves As the world strives to make better use of limited resources, the demands on Through our Centres of Excellence, our materials are developed to exacting customer specifications and deliver our materials, and on our materials ever-greater performance through materials and production science capabilities, are rapidly process innovation.
We are producing materials that can work at higher Morgans highly experienced scientists and application temperatures, and higher pressures, in more corrosive engineers actively engage with our customers to find and abrasive applications, at more precise tolerances new solutions for complex and technologically and in smaller form factors, than ever before.
This work is underpinned by a passion to develop the next generation of skilled individuals and teams, coupled with a commitment to the environment, to health and safety, and operating to high ethical standards.
We are building distinctive competencies in Leading technology and materials science capability and process know-how.
We use two fundamental sets of materials Customer focus, reputation for quality and delivery and brand.
Ceramics Ceramics typically have high melting points and are used to make Where we have strong market positions, and with high-performance insulation.
They are also hard, chemically resistant and an inclusive culture with people at the centre.
abrasion resistant, are electrical insulators, and we use these structural properties in a range of applications.
Read more about our strategy in action We manufacture and install a wide range of thermal insulation products pages 12 to 15 that significantly reduce energy consumption and emissions in a variety of high-temperature processing applications.
Structural ceramics are used for implanted medical devices, exploiting their strength, abrasion resistance and chemical stability, to make power tubes for medical scanners, in the Our structure manufacture of semiconductors, glass and metals, and as valve components We operate as two Divisions and five global in demanding applications.
Carbon Thermal Products Carbon and Technical We use carbon for its electrical conductivity, and produce leading carbon grades for power generation, rail collector and wind power applications.
Division Ceramics Division We use the inert and low-friction properties of carbon to make seals and bearings for a wide variety of applications from jet engines to automotive vacuum pumps.
We also exploit the high temperature stability in inert atmospheres of carbon to produce insulation for vacuum furnaces, Thermal Ceramics Electrical Carbon semiconductor applications and crucibles.
Molten Metal Seals and Bearings Systems Technical Ceramics Read more about our Divisions pages 24 to 27 and our products and markets pages 4 and 5 2 2 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018
