Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our markets We work in the industrial, transportation, petrochemical and chemical, energy, semiconductor and electronics, healthcare and security and defence markets, forming close collaborative relationships with our customers.
Industrial Energy Healthcare 48% of revenue 6% of revenue 5% of revenue Morgan designs and manufactures Morgan manufactures products for power Morgan manufactures a broad variety products with a wide range of generation from renewable and traditional of components for use in medical performance characteristics including sources and insulation materials for heat instrumentation as well as in tools for superior insulating properties, dimensional management.
Our advanced thermal treatment and surgery.
Medical engineering stability, strength and stiffness for use in insulation is used to insulate heat recovery demands the highest standards of precision, a broad spectrum of challenging processes steam generators in power and industrial accuracy, reliability and performance.
plants, our carbon brushes offer worldEquipment manufacturers and medical leading performance in power generation professionals choose our materials for their With these materials, the Group engineers applications, our newly developed carbon exceptional physical characteristics.
Our deep components which are highly resistant to material grades are used for wind generation understanding of ceramic material properties, chemical and physical wear, corrosion and applications that extend life and reduce together with expertise in braze alloy design, extreme temperatures.
allows us to produce high-density, highly are at the heart of many industrial processes reliable feedthroughs for a range of medical where they drive optimised process applications, including cochlear implants and efficiency and productivity alongside Semiconductor neuro-stimulation.
reduced waste, improved safety and and electronics lower environmental impact.
Security and defence Transportation 6% of revenue 5% of revenue Morgan manufactures components that help the electronics industry in its drive towards 21% of revenue Morgan supplies precision-engineered higher performance and reliability in smaller, materials and components to meet the more efficient, more robust products.
We Morgan makes high-performance components exacting standards of security and work closely with customers to design and and sub-assemblies to exacting standards for defence markets.
manufacture intricate components with aerospace, automotive, marine and rail specific electrical and thermal properties applications, including carbon brushes and within restricted and challenging size collectors for trains and high-temperature constraints.
Our ceramic metallisation fibre products used for emission control processes have played a major role in the in vehicles.
commercialisation of modern communication, signalling and control technologies, including Petrochemical ultra-high-frequency signal transmission.
and chemical 9% of revenue Morgan manufactures a range of components ideally suited to the uniquely demanding operating environments found in the global petrochemical industry.
Our products and materials are routinely chosen to fulfil critical applications for onand offshore exploration, drilling and downstream processing owing to their resistance to chemical and physical wear, corrosion and extreme heat.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 5
