Strategic Report 22 Divisional review ALSA Year ended 31 2018 2017 Market overview December m m ALSA holds the market-leading Revenue 745.1 663.5 position in the regulated and highly Normalised operating segmented bus and intercity coach profit 105.3 94.9 market in Spain and also operates in four cities in Morocco.
Three levels of government regulation apply in Spain: Revenue 842.3 757.4 national long-distance coach, Normalised operating regional regional coach and city profit 119.1 108.3 Francisco Iglesias urban bus.
Each concession is Operating margin 14.1% 14.3% Chief Executive, ALSA exclusive to the operator, based on compliance with the public service obligation.
Intercity competition Overview ALSA is the leading comes from state-backed rail and ALSA had a very strong year, breaking company in the Spanish low-cost airlines.
Bus and coach records for revenue, profit and passengers concessions are awarded through carried.
The business delivered organic road passenger transport competitive public tender, typically growth and augmented this with the sector, and was acquired every ten years.
contribution of three acquisitions which are all performing ahead of expectations.
Growth drivers 175 concessions: 121 intercity Long haul concession renewal has still With over 100 years coach concessions, 38 urban not resumed, and with a General Election experience, it operates bus contracts, 16 others called for 28 April, we do not now expect Concessional renewal any material impact on earnings before long-distance, regional process restarting 2021.
As the industry leader, ALSA remains and urban bus and coach New contract wins in Spain well placed to emerge stronger from the services across Spain Revenue management generating renewals programme.
The rest of our passenger and revenue growth Spanish portfolio contains multi-year and in Morocco and in Spain contracts: many regional contracts have Switzerland.
Apart from its Continuing urbanisation of the at least five years to run: and, most urban bus and coach services, Moroccan economy with rapid contracts only expire around 2030.
During migration to the major cities 2018, ALSA has been continuing its market the business also operates Building scale and services diversification strategy, with acquisitions service areas and other in Switzerland and contract wins helping to develop new Further bolt-on acquisition transport-related sources of growth.
This business remains opportunities a prime asset in a strong market.
businesses, such as fuel distribution.
m 2017 normalised operating profit 108 Growth in the continuing business 12 REVENUE MARKET SIZE 2018 acquisitions 7 Net cost inflation 9 Other 1 745.1m 4.0bn 2018 normalised operating profit 119 2017: 663.5m NORMALISED OPERATING PROFIT CONCESSIONS 105.3m 175 2017: 94.9m National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 23 During 2018, ALSA has been continuing its market diversification strategy, with acquisitions and contract wins helping to develop new sources of growth.
Operational excellence: Our Moroccan business also enjoyed This information will also be used by drivingorganicgrowth a record year, with revenue up 5.9% in managers to discuss improvements.
ALSA has delivered another year of constant currency and passenger growth Across the Group as a whole, we are record performances.
It also achieved an increase in the increasingly using detailed data and increased by 11.2% in constant currency average ticket price of 2.9%.
New regional analytics to drive improvement in to 842.3 million: normalised operating and sightseeing services were launched operational performance.
This drives both profit grew to 119.1 million up 9.9% in Tangier and Marrakech, respectively.
an improved service to customers and cost in constant currency : and, passengers Equally, we have seen our AlpyBus savings through more efficient operations.
carried was up 3.9% to over 326 million.
business in Geneva grow strongly in the As well as its application to safety and These record figures were delivered year: revenue was up 29% in constant revenue management, the benefits of through all sectors of the business currency and passenger numbers grew improved fuel consumption down nearly growing, including the long haul segment by 13.6%.
We have further consolidated 1% year-on-year, per kilometre driven which reported a slight year-on-year our position in Geneva, with additional and a reduction in vehicle breakdown decline at the half year.
Across the acquisitions and new contract wins so frequency during 2018 are other examples full year, the long haul segment grew.
that we now operate a number of services of the successful use of this data and This growth in long haul was achieved across many segments.
We have grown analytically-led approach.
with our increasingly sophisticated RMS this business from a small international Again in line with the trends across the again helping to drive increased revenue, service depot with an initial entry into Group, the proportion of digital sales passengers and yield.
RMS has been both the local ski transfer market through made in ALSA grew during 2018, up extended to 304 routes and developed acquisition, to now also incorporating 4.2% to over 42% of all revenue.
A new with the application of machine learning services in many segments: urban bus, Moroccan website and an improved and artificial intelligence.
Machine learning sightseeing and city tour, tourist, charter Spanish website and app have all helped is being used to improve our demand and discretionary services including for drive this continued shift towards digital prediction models and also extend the local schools and companies.
Improved download times and time the market is closely monitored business has also recently added some payment engines, alongside more targeted in an efficient manner.
These system international services from Geneva as marketing, have helped drive greater enhancements will be extended this year, part of a partnership with OuiBus, and customer visits to our digital channels as an always on 365 days a year RMS also operates a travel agency.
up 2.2% year on year as well as driven combining machine learning and our Technology investment to underpin the growth in revenue secured.
excellence, efficiency and innovation Within this figure, we are also seeing Indeed, the average occupancy of As the example of RMS demonstrates interesting growth segments enabled by vehicles on routes with RMS has again above, investment in technology is at the the more sophisticated digital booking increased this year, by 1.5% to nearly heart of our strategy.
For example, customers are now 51%.
Our focus on service excellence also invested heavily in DriveCam smart offered on-board entertainment and the is being complemented by the safety camera technology, with now nearly option to choose their seat on some sophisticated RMS and good marketing, 1,000 vehicles fitted across the fleet.
These ancillary revenues have driving passenger growth in an efficient industry-leading safety technology is being grown 15% during the year.
ALSA has achieved its highest combined with enhanced speed monitoring booking process also enables the inclusion ever customer satisfaction score of 76%, equipment and tailored driver training to of third party agents sales channels much up 3.5%, demonstrating that it is not only continually improve standards.
During more easily, broadening the reach to new an industry-leading choice, but also 2019 every ALSA driver will receive a customers and driving growth.
This area managing growth in a positive way.
personalised summary of their driving saw growth of 11% during 2018. performance at the end of their shift.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report 24 Divisional review: ALSA continued As part of the Group-wide National year.
In 2019 ALSA hopes to build upon exploring expansion opportunities, Express Innovation and Science NXIS this strong platform in five Moroccan cities including at large ports outside of Spain.
programme, ALSA has created an and enter the inter-city market.
ALSA has also diversified into an expanded investment fund to support entrepreneurial A similar strategic rationale underpinned mini cab business, linking up with local taxi start-up companies as well as staff within our ArgaBus and Cal Pita acquisitions in companies mainly in Madrid to operate the company to identify new approaches 2018.
In acquiring ArgaBus, a 77 bus Uber and Cabify concessions.
This is an that will address business challenges or operator of commuter and school services, interesting new source of revenue create new growth opportunities.
ALSA ALSA became the second largest operator diversification and one that other cities in expects the first outputs from this new within the Madrid Consortium, consolidating Spain may also open up in the near future.
fund to be realised this year, demonstrating our position within this large, wealthy city.
But it is also a new strand of ALSAs our determination to continue learning and The acquisition of Cal Pita, a Galacian strategy to offer door-to-door journeys in innovating to drive growth and efficiency.
regional and urban bus operator, opened major Spanish cities, as these services can Targeted growth through strategic a new region of Spain to ALSA, positioning also be bought alongside bus and coach acquisition and market diversification the business for an upcoming round of tickets in the booking process.
With the During 2018, ALSA consolidated its concession renewals.
increasingly sophisticated digital sales position in leading markets through channels outlined above, this is a very ALSA also made an acquisition BC Tours acquisition and new market wins, and interesting area of future growth and one to open a new market to the business, expanded into interesting new growth that ALSA is looking to develop further.
as part of our strategic diversification.
This will help drive organic growth BC Tours is Spains largest operator in the coming year, as ALSA is opening of transport and logistics in the cruise new market growth in an efficient manner.
As well as providing market entry For example, in securing a nearly 500 in to a growing sector, there are synergy vehicle Rabat urban bus contract, where benefits through the use of existing ALSA we will be the majority partner in a joint vehicles for tourist services.
After venture, ALSA has become the largest successfully integrating the new company private operator of public transport in during the second half of 2018, ALSA is Morocco.
This contract will start later this Cruise market offers opportunity ALSA entered a new area of business during the year through an alliance with BC Tours, an established Spanish provider of tourist services.
BC Tours has particular strengths in serving the cruise ship market.
With bases in Barcelona, Cdiz and Palma fide Mallorca, BC Tours provides excursions for cruise passengers as well as transfers to ships.
It also provides ground services for cruise operators and arranges the provisioning of ships.
The alliance with BC Tours opens up opportunities to increase tourism work and provides synergies with ALSAs existing presence in the Balearic and Canary Islands.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018
