STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Divisional review 25 North America Year ended 2018 2017 Market overview 31 December m m National Express is the second largest Revenue 1,060.8 1,017.2 player in the North American school Normalised operating bus market with a 13% share of the profit 96.9 94.3 outsourced market.
Just over a third of the market is outsourced with increases in outsource conversion Revenue US$1,416.1 US$1,311.2 being driven by pressure on public Normalised operating funding.
This trend is likely to continue profit US$129.4 US$121.6 as school district budgets remain Matt Ashley Operating margin 9.1% 9.3% constrained.
Typically customers are Chief Executive, North America local school boards, where local Revenue and normalised operating profit at relationships are key and service Our business in North constant currency, adjusting for Canadian Dollar delivery is very important.
to US Dollar foreign exchange rate movement in America has two areas the year National Express also operates in the of activity: student North American public transit market Overview transportation and and is the fourth largest player with North America has again delivered a record around 5% market share.
One third of performance, as the combination of transit services.
the transit market is outsourced and organic growth and strategic acquisitions there is an increasing demand for continues to deliver real benefits.
Our We operate in 35 US accessible public transportation transit business continues to grow strongly states and three services, for fixed route, paratransit through a combination of acquisition and Canadian provinces.
The benefits of our investment in technology are being seen in Growth drivers improved operational and service control, The student transportation Bolt-on acquisition opportunities in with our safety performance particularly business operates through school bus and transit noteworthy.
New business growth from winning medium-term contracts contracts in school bidding season In a disciplined bid season we prioritised awarded by local school and through new transit contracts protecting returns above retention.
We boards to provide safe sought sufficient rate increases to mitigate driver wage inflation.
This discipline saw us and reliable transport for SCHOOL BUS retain fewer contracts than in recent years students, and is the second but our remaining business is stronger.
largest private operator in With our increasingly granular focus on 21,500 driver wages we are targeting a modest North America.
Vehicles reduction in inflation this year.
Our transit business $m operates a growing number 2017 normalised operating profit 122 of transit and paratransit Exchange movement CAD to USD $24bn Operating profit at constant services across the USA.
Market size currency 122 Growth from continuing business 14 2018 acquisitions 13 REVENUE Fuel 9 TRANSIT Drivers wages 15 1,060.8m Maintenance safety investment 16 3,250 2017: 1,017.2m Other 2 Vehicles 2018 normalised operating profit 129 NORMALISED OPERATING PROFIT $25bn 96.9m Market size 2017: 94.3m National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report 26 Divisional review: North America continued Operational excellence: It also helps improve customer service.
While the higher rates achieved in the drivingorganicgrowth Our detailed surveying of customers has bus bid season helped mitigate the The benefits of our approach are reflected also shown that those with the highest impact of driver wage inflation, when in another record year of normalised satisfaction score are not only likely to combined with increased spending on operating profit up 6.4% to $129.4 million retain us, but also more willing to pay a maintenance, normalised operating margin and a revenue increase of 8.0% to premium for quality services.
We have taken $1.42 billion both in constant currency.
year, for example, four customers in one action to address this, with $7.5 million This is despite driver wage inflation coming state alone have renewed our contracts of annualised overhead costs removed in slightly higher than we projected, at around a year early.
A new programme to from North Americas headquarters in 3.5%, as the tight North American labour increase the proportion of our customers December 2018. market continued.
We are currently on the highest satisfaction score currently Our transit business added 650 vehicles projecting that school bus driver wage around 50% started last year and we hope in the year, and it now has annualised inflation will moderate, but only slightly, to start realising the benefits of this during revenues of over $350 million.
We believe this investment will two major new contracts won through deliver sustainable margin improvement During a disciplined bid season in the open bids in the year: a 147 bus paratransit over time.
context of near full employment in North contract in Massachusetts: and, a 115 America, we applied our up or out bus fixed route contract in California strategy to all contracts up for renewal our largest ever by revenue won in open to protect returns.
This approach led to significant rate increases of 6.5% on those contracts up for bid or renewal 2017: 3.7%, which translated to 3.7% on the portfolio as a whole 2017: 2.2%.
Our strategy of protecting returns inevitably led to our retention rate dropping to 90% Peace of mind for parents of all contracts up for renewal.
We did recover the significant majority of these lost vehicles through new business wins, Parents of children who use our school vehicle location data being supplied by acquisitions and organic growth in existing buses in North American can now have the on-board telematics.
contracts, so that by the year end our net complete visibility of when they are due Currently operational in 74 locations bus count was down 132.
We are home with the introduction of our new covering more than 19,000 routes, the continuing to apply this disciplined Bus Tracker.
app is now being used by 78,000 approach to this school bid season, The app, which parents can use for parents to check the location of their with the early results encouraging.
free, allows them to see live bus children.
Each parent logs in using a As previously guided we also increased location information and an estimated unique student number for their child.
investment on areas like maintenance, arrival time.
The app draws on the Lytx DriveCam and Domo management systems, with $16 million extra spent in the year.
This has already brought a number of vehicles back in to service that were otherwise under-utilised, reducing new bus capital expenditure and generating positive returns in future years.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 27 competition.
We also recently secured Another area of increased investment Targeted growth through strategic a one-year extension to our single largest is in improved business systems and acquisition and market diversification contract, paratransit services in Chicago as management control across this North America remains a very attractive well as a two-year extension to important continent-wide business.
Through our market for further acquisitions.
The market casino shuttle work in New York.
With investment in Domo we are modernising remains very fragmented with over 1,000 these contract successes and acquisitions our management systems to provide private school bus businesses in the USA set out below, we are also diversifying the granular-level data on key metrics that can alone and we have a strong pipeline of transit business in to new segments such be monitored in real time.
There are very few active as employee shuttle.
improvements in operations and crucial buyers in the market and we continue to areas such as vehicle utilisation rates, avoid becoming involved in an auction for Technology investment to underpin where we have an enhanced central any business.
We continue to target returns excellence, efficiency and innovation system to identify the opportunity for of 15% on acquisitions.
As outlined in the previous section, real-time cascading of under-utilised North America increased its investment We made seven acquisitions in the year, vehicles to high demand areas.
It is also in key strategic projects during 2018. all of which either consolidated our enabling a more forensic approach to both This investment is enabling a more positions in local markets or helped us our wage and hour rates and the tracking granular control of the business and is enter new strategic segments.
In line of customer billing.
Equally, in using these identifying areas for further cost saving with our Group strategy, we are building data and systems to compare locational and operational improvement.
We are multi-modal hubs in large, rich cities.
performance, local cost inefficiencies are absolutely determined to realise these In New York and Chicago, we have made exposed and efficiencies secured as good opportunities.
Our first goal will be to acquisitions and won contracts to both practices are spread more quickly across re-invest any efficiencies secured as open new markets and develop a presence the business.
This area of investment is a this will drive customer satisfaction and that allows the efficient use of vehicles in key part of our programme to improve the more sustainable margin improvement.
In the year we won proportion of customers on the highest Nonetheless, the gap in the financial 20 small tuck in contracts, within our satisfaction score.
performance between our best and worst transit business to develop this presence performing locations in terms of customer Beyond these internal systems, we are also efficiently.
An acquisition in Nashville, also satisfaction reveals a significant actively looking to use new technologies provides the opportunity to develop a opportunity.
to improve our customer experience.
charter network between Tennessee and Pleasingly, we are leading the industry our hubs further north.
Lytx DriveCam is already a clear example through our investment in Bus Tracker.
of the benefit of the investment.
In the Charter and Charter Schools both remain This app allows parents to track their second half of 2018 alone, North America areas of growth and interest for further childrens vehicle.
The app currently doubled the number of vehicles fitted with expansion in the coming years.
Indeed, covers 19,000 routes, with 486,000 DriveCam to 15,395.
The benefits of this a number of the acquisitions made in the students assigned to vehicles operating investment can be seen in our improved year have helped grow our presence in these services.
We have started already safety performance as well as the average these markets.
These again fit with this rolling out this app to our transit customers.
and total cost of injury claims from strategic approach: we are often able to collisions declining 22.4% and 17.4% We are leading the industry as the only use existing vehicles when they would respectively in 2018. private operator currently running fully otherwise be sitting empty and they build electric school buses, with our pilot in New our presence in local markets, providing York.
We are also operating electric buses a scale that means we are able to secure in two transit contracts.
With air quality further work at competitive rates.
a global issue, particularly in large urban areas, we are pleased to be playing a role in this important area.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018
