Strategic Report 8 A changing market Mass public transport is the only viable solution for increasingly congested and polluted cities We are at an inflexion point in Public transport will be part of an Market overview transport, where private car ownership integrated transport network, with Urban areas are seeking to meet is beginning to decline, but demand technology enabling real-time journey ever-increasing demand for integrated, for travel is growing in cities with choice and flexible payment options.
door-to-door journeys while managing limited space for expansion of transport The successful operators of the future the challenges of congestion, carbon and infrastructure.
These factors mean that must therefore provide sophisticated clean air.
The public want convenient, safe, efficient mass transit will be technology platforms and quality trouble-free access to clean, uncongested, increasingly important for prosperous services or be able to integrate liveable cities.
Transport authorities want and developing urban areas.
to offer better integrated public transport to become cleaner and less congested.
WEALTH The demand for mobility is What is increasingly driven by happening to observable macro trends.
25% demand for expected increase URBANISATION transport?
in demand by POPULATION 2030 in wealthy cities Transport network companies are targeting the private car ownership model, but left unchecked this does not help solve congestion.
TECHNOLOGY AUTONOMOUS VEHICLES ADVANCEMENTS Although we dont see mass autonomous vehicle AV adoption in Increasing choice, ease of the near term, longer term AV has the access to transport options, potential to drive down average vehicle and customer expectations occupancy and further increase around personalisation.
congestion, if not regulated properly.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 9 How will cities respond?
Cleaner and less congested cities need high quality, safe, efficient public transport Regulation will focus on driving demand towards integrated mass transit solutions What does this mean for the transport industry?
Efficient public transport will form the backbone of cities sustainable transport strategy.
At the edges of the network, smarter, deeply integrated feeder services will provide the links into high capacity, frequent services through the urban core Running mass transit services is a field of expertise that presents a high barrier to entry.
For operators to be successful, they must provide a safe, reliable, efficient and cost effective service, which puts the customer at its heart Cities will want multi-modal capabilities to provide the seamless services customers need.
The industry will need technology platforms, capabilities and expertise to support that goal, integrating core networks with complementary transport modes WEALTH Without intervention and quality public transport services, this will result in inevitable gridlock in our cities, worsening air quality, and city spaces that are unliveable.
URBANISATION POPULATION 80% TECHNOLOGY expected increase in AUTONOMOUS VEHICLES ADVANCEMENTS demand by 2030 in developing countries National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018
