Strategic Report 28 Divisional review UK Year ended 2018 2017 MARKET OVERVIEW 31 December m m Bus Revenue 577.0 561.5 The largest five operators represent Normalised operating around 70% of the UK deregulated profit 79.9 70.9 bus market, with the remainder of the Operating margin 13.8% 12.6% market made up of a large number of private operators.
Active competition Overview comes from national and local bus Our UK businesses had a very strong operators, as well as private car and year, with accelerating revenue growth in Tom Stables rail.
Economic regeneration and the second half of the year underpinned Managing Director, UK environmentally driven public by strong commercial passenger growth.
and Germany transport present growth opportunities Our coach business set new annual over the car.
UK bus Growth driver is bucking national trends by improving National Express operates Increase passenger volumes through average journey times and growing both bus and coach services investment in vehicles, technology commercial patronage.
In Bus, National and people through delivering high Overall, UK revenue increased by 2.8% quality services Express is the market leader to577million, with the annual growth rate in the West Midlands the Coach impacted by the exit from Eurolines and Our Coach business has the only our Hotel Hoppa services towards the end largest urban bus market nationwide network of services, with of 2017.
Passenger growth has driven outside of London.
We also other competitors tending to focus on these revenue increases: core coach set run urban bus services in the specific regions or corridors.
Selective a new record of 20.7 million passengers competition comes from rail, up 5.2% : commercial West Midlands bus cities of Coventry and particularly on discounted fares, and passenger growth was 1.1%.
In Coach, we are from large bus operators and localised good cost control and the benefit of an services.
Drivers for demand include the largest operator of incremental 5 million received from the the level of fare discount to rail, cost sale and leaseback of four depots, our scheduled coach services in of private motoring and environmental UK division delivered normalised operating the UK, operating high friendliness.
Customer satisfaction is profit growth of 12.6% to 79.9 million also an important driver for longer- 2017: 70.9m and increased its margin by frequency services linking term loyalty through consistent service 120 basis points to 13.8% 2017: 12.6%.
more than 900 destinations and high customer safety standards.
Removing the profit from the property across the country.
The sales, underlying profit growth was up 5.4%.
Growth driver Kings Ferry group of Revenue growth through competitive m companies are long pricing, better distribution channels 2017 normalised operating profit 71 and greater understanding of established providers of Growth in the continuing business 8 customers and their needs private hire, B2B and Net cost inflation 3 Other 4 commuter coach services.
2018 normalised operating profit 80 REVENUE BUS MARKET SIZE This includes incremental 5m from the sale and leaseback of four depots 577.0m 4.8bn 2017 : 561.5m Operates 1,655 buses, focused in the West Midlands and Dundee NORMALISED OPERATING PROFIT COACH MARKET SIZE 79.9m 350m 2017 : 70.9m National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Operational excellence: concluded two significant network reviews, to prepare for the significant medium-term 29 drivingorganicgrowth both resulting in faster routes and more opportunities such as the January 2020 Both of our UK businesses have driven passengers.
Indeed, the West Midlands introduction of the Birmingham Clean Air organic growth by focusing on improving bus business achieved its best ever Zone and the 2022 Commonwealth their core customer service proposition satisfaction score 88% in the independent Games in partnership, rather than be during the year.
Both business have Transport Focus passenger survey: this distracted by the threat of regulation.
enhanced their websites and apps, included increases of 8% and 4% in Indeed, working with local councils and improved network efficiency and applied satisfaction with value for money and TfWM, we have secured funding to buy sophisticated pricing.
This has led both punctuality respectively.
Our coach 29 electric buses, which will be introduced businesses to improve their revenue per business continued to refine its network, by the middle of next year.
Early removing lower-yielding mileage and Our pioneering Bus Alliance is delivering indications from trading in 2019 suggest reallocating it to more popular routes.
results, such as helping stop the many further improvements are likely in the year.
Our coach business also saw significant years of declining average bus speeds, We have now seen 18 months of growth in ancillary income, such as again leading the way on a national commercial bus passenger growth in the insurance products, a seat reservation problem.
First, West Midlands, as our increasingly option and extra leg room.
These have the investment in contactless and mobile targeted, contactless and digital ticketing proved very popular with passengers, ticketing is speeding up boarding times.
Against national leading to a 12% increase in ancillary Second, working in partnership we trends, last year our West Midlands bus revenue.
This is an area for further growth developed a plan to upgrade the major business both saw the first improvement as our digital channels become ever more corridor between Harborne and in average journey times in 10 years and sophisticated.
Our bus business is also Birmingham.
Over 50% of the commuters increased commercial patronage by 1.1%.
actively considering how it might extend on this route use bus.
To increase this Digital ticketing, including contactless with similar opportunities to its systems.
number further we agreed a package of a daily price cap, is proving very popular measures including a significant new bus Our UK businesses have also won with customers.
Further, our Dundee bus lane, priority measures at junctions and a number of awards during the year.
operations also reported over 2% growth traffic lights, and parking restrictions.
Both our bus and coach businesses have in passengers during 2018 with contactless Wesupplemented this with new express retained their prestigious Sword of Honour ticketing to be introduced soon.
services and brand new smart hybrid from the British Safety Council BSC luxury Platinum buses.
Since launching UK coach has invested significantly in its coach for a fourth consecutive time and this upgrade in November, over 4,000 extra website and app, so that customers are bus for a third.
Both businesses also hold passengers a week are using our buses.
now offered a sophisticated, industryBSC five-star audits coach for the fifth leading portal.
This has helped attract a consecutive year, and coach again Technology investment to underpin record number of core coach passengers secured a RoSPA Gold Award for the excellence, efficiency and innovation to our services, with the further expansion fourth year running.
Both businesses We continue to invest in digital of our commercial partnerships enabled hold five-star European Foundation for technologies to improve customer services by our upgraded digital back office.
Quality Management scores, with coach and operational excellence.
Both of our UK The real-time pricing capability of our RMS securing Enhanced Recognition for businesses saw revenue secured through allows targeted offers to encourage travel, Excellence during the year.
Our innovative digital channels grow and extended the or more appropriate pricing during peaks.
employee Health Bus won a British Quality application of technology to safety With its successful implementation, our Foundation Excellence Award.
coach business had record Christmas, Coach Awards, National Express won From an already very high base, 70% Easter and bank holiday periods, carried Operator of the Year, Large Operator of the of core coachs revenue is now secured 10% more passengers in the summer of Year and Making Coach a Better Choice: through digital channels up 3%.
2018 than 2017 and had its largest ever while UK bus won the Route One Best Alongside this, RMS is becoming ever revenue day on Boxing Day.
The plans to Use of Technology Award for DriveCam.
more sophisticated, generating passenger develop the sophistication of RMS further We continue to work closely with Transport and yield growth in the year.
This digital are set out below.
for West Midlands TfWM and the West focus also allows us to forge more Both the bus and coach businesses Midlands Mayor to improve services for partnerships with third parties, who can have maintained their focus on network passengers.
With a strong and positive be more easily linked into our booking efficiency.
The West Midlands bus business relationship we believe we will continue processes, with a near doubling in this National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report 30 Divisional review: UK continued income during the year.
Together, the As well as the areas for further After such a successful year for growth improved ease of booking, sophisticated development outlined above, we have through our third party partnerships, our pricing through RMS and new sources of also partnered with an innovation hub on coach business is targeting further growth growth through partnership is helping drive the Aston University campus, creating the in this area during 2019.
Despite seat utilisation rates up impressively, from NXIS technology incubator.
Through this Glastonbury the single biggest event not 54% in 2016, to nearly 60% in 2018. we have identified areas where we are being held in 2018, our coach business still looking for revenue, service and carried more passengers to festivals and Extending and refining these technologies operational innovation.
Entrepreneurs and events than in 2017: it is looking to build and partnerships will continue in 2019. experts in these areas develop potential on this and achieve greater success in For example, 2018 saw the start of a new solutions to pitch to us for adoption.
2019, with Glastonbury being held again modernisation phase for our coach RMS, Wehave selected nine projects in the first this year.
with the testing of Artificial Intelligence AI wave, with the small businesses now and machine learning to complement our From its growing commercial base in the developing their proposals in more detail, team of analysts starting soon.
The early West Midlands, our bus business launched including through pilots.
Active pilots results are positive as the technology is new services to Lichfield.
These have include: enhanced data analytics to allowing us to extend the scope of our outperformed expectations and we are improve running times and timetabling: a market analysis to all day, every day in exploring other similar opportunities for battery that can be installed to older buses, a cost effective manner and generating new services.
We have already won several reducing fuel consumption: and, a social extra sales and revenue.
new tendered routes in the Black Country media AI application that allows more in 2019.
Both the West Midlands and targeted marketing offers.
Our bus services now have the largest Dundee businesses enjoyed successful contactless payment system outside of Targeted growth through strategic years for new tenders in 2018 and are London and the first to offer daily capping.
acquisition and market diversification actively pursuing further contracts in 2019.
This is helping to drive up digital ticket We anticipate further organic revenue An expanded focus on education use whether mobile, smartcards or growth in 2019 from the continued institutions also generated extra sales contactless.
This has increased from investment in digital platforms and during 2018 and there are plans in place 40% of journeys at the beginning of 2018 sophisticated pricing set out above.
to grow this further in 2019. to 60% at the year end.
The bus business Both of our UK businesses have started has a target of 80% of journeys on digital 2019 well and are pursuing a range of ticketing by the end of 2019.
These digital commercial initiatives to further grow channels are allowing us to be more passengers and revenue.
We will continue innovative in our pricing, with more to augment this with targeted expansion Germany targeted products such as for students in complementary markets where we can and apprentices already proving popular build on our existing strengths to drive and further innovations such as flexigrowth in an efficient manner.
On an underlying basis, German seasons for part time workers launching Rail revenue grew by 5.4% in the soon.
Digital ticketing also allows more Our coach business made an acquisition year.
Reported profit and revenue targeted marketing and provides granular in the period Stewarts Coaches that were down in the period 15.1% travel pattern data that informs network well demonstrates our approach.
Stewarts and 43.4% respectively, driven planning.
provides corporate travel and private hire by prior year catch-up revenue services from bases in Reading and recognised in 2017 along with All of our 2,450 UK vehicles have DriveCam Leicester.
It has a number of major change in presentation in the current smart safety cameras installed, except corporate clients and works with a number year.
During 2018 our rail services our recent acquisition, Stewarts Coaches, of Premiership and Championship football carried 2.3% more passengers.
where they will be installed by the end of clubs.
This acquisition not only bolsters our March.
This has been combined with existing presence in the growing corporate The mobilisation for our three personalised training and enhanced driver and private hire markets, but also gives Rhine-Ruhr Express contracts is oversight programmes to help deliver an us new platforms to grow further.
Indeed, progressing well, with the first improvement in our Fatalities and Weighted during 2019 we plan to launch major services due to start in June this Injuries Index score within the UK.
Like new national brands in the fragmented year.
When combined with our other divisions, as well as delivering corporate travel and private hire markets.
existing two Rhine-Mnster Express service improvement, these programmes Drawing on National Express brand services, these contracts will help are helping to reduce the cost of accidents.
strength and reputation in these areas, deepen our presence in the In UK bus, the total cost of accidents was we see both markets as good opportunities Nord-Rhine Westphalia region.
This down 7% in 2018: while our owned for further growth.
remains an attractive market and we operations in coach secured an even will continue to bid in a disciplined greater saving of 25%.
manner for contracts that match our strategic objectives within Germany.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018
