Corporate Governance 100 Relations with Shareholders Investor engagement Investor relations programme 2018 The Board is committed to maintaining an open dialogue with the Companys equity Consultation with major shareholders on proposed changes to the institutional and debt investors and JAN Companys Directors Remuneration Policy individual shareholders and recognises the importance of those relationships in the governance process.
This engagement Chairman meeting with Cosmen family largest shareholder allows the Board to better understand their FEB Consultation with major shareholders on proposed changes to the views and ensure they are provided with Companys Directors Remuneration Policy timely and appropriate information on the Groups strategy, performance, objectives, 2017 full year results announcement and presentation to analysts and financing and other key developments.
investors London MAR Investor roadshow in respect of full year results London and Edinburgh The Chairman, supported by the Executive Chairman meetings with investors about strategy, corporate governance Directors and the investor relations team, and the AGM has overall responsibility for ensuring that we listen to and effectively communicate with our shareholders.
The Board is kept fully informed of the views and concerns APR Non-deal US investor roadshow New York and Boston of major shareholders and the views and information needs of institutional and major investors.
Q1 Trading Update and conference call with analysts and investors MAY AGM Birmingham The investor relations section of the Companys website, www.
com investors, includes all RNS announcements, share Investor meetings at investor conference London JUN price information, annual and interim Investor meetings results statements, Annual General Meeting AGM notices and other similar corporate communication and shareholder 2018 half year results announcement and presentation to analysts and JUL materials available for download.
investors London Institutional investors The Company operates a comprehensive engagement programme, aligned to its AUG Investor meetings financial reporting calendar and other key events, for institutional investors and research analysts, providing the Investor roadshow in respect of half year results London opportunity for current and potential SEP Investor meetings at investor conferences London investors to meet with executive and Non-deal US investor roadshow Boston operational management.
The Chairman, Group Chief Executive Investor meetings at investor conference London and Group Finance Director held several OCT Investor meetings meetings with existing and prospective Q3 Trading Update and conference call with analysts and investors institutional shareholders during the year and gave presentations to them following the full and half year results.
These are NOV Non-deal specific investor roadshows London designed to provide more information on the Groups strategy, financial and operational performance, strengths and capabilities and future plans.
They have DEC Investor meetings also met and given presentations to research analysts and investment banks sales teams.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 101 The Board is committed to maintaining an open dialogue with the Companys equity institutional and debt investors and individual shareholders and recognises the importance of those relationships in the governance process.
The Senior Independent Director and other Individual shareholders Share register analysis Non-Executive Directors have made Private shareholders, who represent 93% themselves available for meetings where of the total number of shareholders BY SIZE OF HOLDING requested by shareholders.
on our register, are encouraged to give 1% feedback to and communicate through There were 11 analysts who published the Company Secretary.
The Companys 3% equity research notes covering the website provides a direct link to Shareview 11% Company during the year.
co. uk which enables firms that currently follow the Company shareholders to view and manage their appear on the investor section of our shareholder account online.
As anticipated, with the introduction of MiFID II, analyst coverage Annual General Meeting has reduced during the year, with nine The AGM provides all shareholders with an analysts currently providing coverage.
It is opportunity to meet with and ask questions anticipated that this level could fall further of Directors regarding the business, the 85% over the coming year.
As a result, the latest Annual Report and the matters Company is engaging more frequently before the meeting.
Attending shareholders with investment banks sales teams and also receive a strategic progress update 1,000-5,000 attending investor conferences to ensure from the Chairman and a business 5,001-50,000 that shareholders and investors continue performance review from the Group Chief 50,001-1,000,000 Over 1,000,000 to receive timely updates and information Executive.
The results of the AGM are on the Groups strategy, financial and published on the Companys website.
In addition, Details of the Companys 2019 AGM can the Company has hosted a few non-deal be found on page 104. roadshows in the past year, including 4% 10% meeting with investors in the USA for Other disclosures the first time in a number of years.
Other disclosures required by paragraph 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure and Transparency The Companys brokers and investor Rules and the Companies Act 2006 are relations advisers provide regular 22% set out in the Directors Report on pages confidential feedback on investor views, 64% 102 104. perceptions and opinions and these are shared with the Board.
During the year, the The Corporate Governance Report Board also received analysts briefings and was approved by the Board.
feedback from advisers on shareholder and market perception of the Groups UK performance and strategy.
Europe North America Details of the Companys substantial Rest of the World shareholders are set in the Directors Jennifer Myram Report on page 103.
BY SHAREHOLDER TYPE Group Company Secretary 28 February 2019 Debt investors 7% The Group Finance Director and Group Treasurer have met debt investors in the UK during the year to discuss various topics such as the full and half year results, future funding requirements, subsidiary security and guarantees and credit rating movements.
The treasury team also maintains regular dialogue with the Groups key relationship banks and other potential lenders.
93% Further information on our debt investors Private shareholders can be found in the investor relations Nominee and section of the Companys website.
institutional investors National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018
