Corporate Governance 102 Directors Report The Directors present their report and Results and dividends In addition to any power of removal audited accounts for the year ended The results for the year are set out in the conferred by the Act, the Company may 31 December 2018.
This Directors Report financial statements on pages 114 199. by ordinary resolution remove any Director and the Strategic Report, which includes before the expiry of their period of office The Board has recommended a final the trends and factors likely to affect the and may, subject to the Articles, by dividend for the year of 10.17 pence future development, performance and ordinary resolution appoint another per ordinary share 2017: 9.25p which, position of the business and a description person who is willing to act in theirplace.
together with the interim dividend of of the principal risks and uncertainties of 4.69 pence per ordinary share 2017: 4.26p In accordance with the requirements of the Group which can be found on page paid on 21 September 2018, gives a total the Code and the Boards policy, all the 41 44 and is incorporated by reference, dividend for the year of 14.86 pence per Directors will retire at the forthcoming collectively comprise the management share 2017: 13.51p.
Subject to shareholder AGM and have offered themselves for report as required under the Disclosure approval, the final dividend will be paid on re-election.
The Board is satisfied that and Transparency Rules DTR.
14 May 2019 to ordinary shareholders on each of the Directors standing is qualified Additional disclosures the register of members at the close of by their skills, experience, time commitment Other information that is relevant to this business on 23 April 2019. and contribution to the Board and the report, and which is incorporated by long-term sustainable success of Events since the balance sheet date reference, including information required the Company.
Save in respect of the 500 million in accordance with the UK Companies Act bridge-to-bond facility introduced in Directors powers 2006 Act and Listing Rule 9.8.
4R, can January 2019 see note 36 page 178, The Board manages the business of the be located as follows: there have been no material post balance Company under the powers set out in sheet events since 31 December 2018. the Articles.
These powers include the Information Page No Directors ability to issue or buy back Business model and likely Directors shares.
Shareholders authority to future developments 4 The names and biographical details of the empower the Directors to make certain Viability Statement and current Directors all of whom held office market purchases of its own ordinary going concern 45 throughout the year, and the Board shares is sought at the AGM each year.
Governance 46 103 Committees of which they are members, The Articles can only be amended, or new Financial instruments 162 are set out on pages 56 57.
Articles adopted, by a resolution passed by Greenhouse gas emissions 200 shareholders in general meeting by at least The Service Agreements of the Executive three quarters of the votes cast.
Directors and the Letters of Appointment Company status of the Non-Executive Directors are National Express Group PLC is a public Directors interests available for inspection at the Companys limited liability company incorporated under Save as disclosed: registered office.
Brief details of these are the laws of England and Wales.
It has a included in the Directors Remuneration in the Directors Remuneration Report, premium listing on the London Stock Policy, a copy of which is available on none of the Directors, nor any person Exchange main market for listed securities the Companys website at connected with them, has any interest in LON:NEX and is a constituent member www.
com about-us the share or loan capital of the Company of the FTSE 250 Index.
The Company has corporate-governance remuneration.
or any of its subsidiaries: and branches in Spain.
in note 36 to the Consolidated Financial Appointment and removal of Directors Disclaimer Statements on page 176, none of the The rules for the appointment and The purpose of this Annual Report is to Directors had at any time during the year replacement of Directors are set out in provide information to the members of ended 31 December 2018 a material the Companys Articles of Association the Company and it has been prepared interest, directly or indirectly, in any Articles, the 2016 UK Corporate for, and only for, such members as a body, contract of significance with the Governance Code Code, the Act and and no other persons.
The Company, its Company or any subsidiary undertaking related legislation.
The Board may appoint Directors and employees, agents and other than the Executive Directors in a Director either to fill a casual vacancy advisers do not accept or assume relation to their Service Agreements.
or as an addition to the Board so long responsibility to any other person to as the total number of Directors does not Directors conflicts of interest whom this document is shown or into exceed the limit prescribed in the Articles.
The Board operates a policy to identify whose hands it may come and any such An appointed Director must retire and and manage declared actual and potential responsibility or liability is expressly seek election to office at the next Annual conflicts of interest which Directors disclaimed.
General Meeting AGM of the Company or their connected persons may have and A cautionary statement in respect of see below.
are obliged to avoid under their statutory forward-looking statements contained in duties and the Articles.
this Annual Report appears on the inside back cover of this document.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 103 The Board considers each Directors Share capital Shareholder voting rights and situation and decides whether to approve The Company has a single class of share restrictions on transfer of shares any conflicts based on the overriding capital which is divided into ordinary Shareholders are entitled to attend and principle that a Director must always only shares of nominal value 5 pence each vote at all general meetings, where every be able to consider and exercise judgement all ranking pari passu.
No new shares shareholder has one vote on a show of to promote the success of the Company.
were issued during the year and as at hands and one vote for each share held The policy has been in place and 31 December 2018 there were 511,738,648 on a poll.
operated effectively throughout the year.
ordinary shares in issue and fully paid.
There are no special control rights The rights attached to the ordinary shares Directors indemnities and insurance attaching to the Companys ordinary of the Company are defined in the Articles.
The Company has granted indemnities to shares save that the control rights over Further details relating to share capital can each Director in respect of any liabilities ordinary shares held in the EBT can be be found in note 32 to the Consolidated incurred in relation to acts or omissions directed by the Company to satisfy the financial statements on page 167. arising in the ordinary course of their vesting of outstanding awards under its duties, but only to the extent permitted The Company was granted authority at the various share incentive plans.
The Company also maintains 2018 AGM to make market purchases of The Company is not aware of any appropriate Directors and Officers liability its own shares up to 10% of its issued agreements or control rights between insurance in respect of potential legal share capital and to allot shares within existing shareholders that may result in action instigated against its Directors.
certain limits approved by shareholders.
restrictions on the transfer of securities These authorities have not been used Substantial shareholders or voting rights.
The rights, including full during the year and will expire at the 2019 As at 31 December 2018, the Company details relating to voting of shareholders AGM.
Renewal of these authorities will be had been notified under DTR 5 of and any restrictions on transfer relating to sought at the 2019 AGM.
the following interests in its shares the Companys ordinary shares, are set out representing 3% or more of the voting Employee Benefit Trust in the Articles and in the explanatory notes rights in its issued share capital: First Names Jersey Limited is a to the Notice of 2019 AGM which shareholder in the Company which acts accompanies this document.
Resolutions Percentage as Trustee of the National Express Group will be proposed at the 2019 AGM to Number of of total Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
It is used authorise the Directors to exercise all ordinary voting to purchase Company shares in the market powers to allot shares, or grant rights 1 shares rights from time to time and hold them for the for, or to convert any security into shares, European Express benefit of employees, including for and approve a limited disapplication of 2 Enterprises Limited 66,481,891 12.99% satisfying outstanding awards under the statutory pre-emption rights.
Newton Investment Companys various share incentive plans.
Management Change of control The EBT purchased a total of 2,025,000 Limited 51,043,618 9.97% There are several agreements that take shares in the market during the year for an Prudential plc 45,956,649 8.98% effect, alter or terminate upon a change aggregate consideration of 7.99 million Standard Life of control of the Company following a including dealing costs and released Aberdeen PLC 41,017,767 8.02% takeover bid.
1,910,086 shares to satisfy vested share J O Hambro Capital plan awards.
Management Under the terms of the Companys Limited 25,165,433 4.92% revolving credit facilities, upon a change As at 31 December 2018, the EBT held of control, the Company would have five 1 1,758,660 Company shares in trust The total number of voting rights attaching to days to enter negotiations with the lenders the issued share capital of the Company on representing 0.34% of the issued share 31 December 2018 was 511,738,648 to alter the terms.
Following ten days of capital.
The Trustee may vote the shares 2 The holding of European Express Enterprises negotiations, if no agreement has been it holds at its discretion.
A dividend waiver Ltd forms part of the holding of Jorge Cosmen reached, outstanding balances may Deputy Chairman as shown in the Directors is in place from the Trustee in respect of Remuneration Report on page 93 become repayable.
dividends payable by the Company on certain of the shares held in the EBT.
Other than as disclosed above, the Under the terms of the 1.5 billion Euro Company received no further DTR Medium Term Note EMTN Programme Further details regarding the EBT, and of notifications, by way of change to the above as updated on 3 October 2018, there shares issued during the year pursuant information or otherwise, during the period is a change of control put option such to the Companys various share incentive from 1 January to 28 February 2019, being that, upon a change of control event, any plans whose rules, where relevant, reflect the period from the year end through to the EMTN holder may require the Company the current Investment Association date on which this report has been signed.
to redeem or purchase that EMTN.
guidelines for permitted dilution limits, Information relating to notifications received are set out in note 7 to the Consolidated under the DTR is publicly available to view Financial Statements on page 134. via the regulatory information service on the Companys website.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance 104 Directors Report continued The Company entered into a private Equal opportunities The Group has a structured programme to placement Note Purchase Agreement on National Express is an equal opportunities encourage innovation and reward 30 July 2012 relating to the issue by the employer and has in place an Equal suggestions and employees contributions.
Company of 78,500,000 4.55% Senior Opportunities Policy.
Our range of The Board reviews other employee activities Notes due 16 August 2021.
Under the terms employment policies and guidelines reflect and outcomes, including the Groups of the Agreement the Company is required the legal and employment requirements independent People Value audit which to to offer to repay Note holders the entire of the territories in which we operate and date has been conducted annually.
unpaid principal amount and interest safeguard the interests of employees, Further information relating to employees thereon upon a change of control.
potential employees and other workers.
and employee engagement is set out in We do not condone unfair treatment of The Groups UK bus business operating the Strategic Report on pages 33 35 any kind and offer equal opportunities in all subsidiary is party to a contract with and in the Board in Action case study aspects of employment and advancement Transport for West Midlands TfWM, on page 55. including recruitment, training, career formerly known as Centro, governing development and promotion regardless Auditor and disclosure certain aspects of such operation.
of race, nationality, gender, age, marital of information to the auditor The contract with TfWM contains an event status, sexual orientation, disability, So far as the Directors are aware, there of default on a change in control of the religious or political beliefs.
The Company is no relevant audit information that has UK operating subsidiary which would recognises it has clear obligations to give not been brought to the attention of the be triggered on a change in control of the fair consideration and selection to disabled Companys auditor.
Each Director has Company if such change in control is not applicants and to satisfy their training and taken all reasonable steps to make himself approved by TfWM.
or herself aware of any relevant audit Where an employee becomes disabled, The Groups UK coach business operates information and to establish that such the objective is to retain their services a number of coach and bus services from information was provided to the auditor.
or at certain UK airports and the UK coach As recommended by the Audit Committee operating subsidiary is also contracted to Information regarding the Companys and endorsed by the Board, a resolution provide passenger transport services for safeguarding of human rights is set out to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of certain other third parties.
A number of on pages 34 and 35. the Company will be proposed at the these contracts contain rights for the 2019 AGM.
counterparties to terminate them on a Employee engagement change of control of the relevant subsidiary The Group encourages employee Annual General Meeting company party to such contracts certain involvement in its affairs.
Subsidiary This years AGM will be held at 2.00pm of which would be triggered by a change companies produce a range of internal on Thursday, 9 May 2019 in the Horton in control of the Company.
newsletters and circulars which keep Suite at the Macdonald Burlington Hotel, employees abreast of developments.
Burlington Arcade, 126 New Street, The Companys various share incentive Senior management within the Group meet Birmingham, B2 4JQ.
A separate circular, plans contain provisions that take effect on regularly to review strategic developments comprising a letter from the Chairman, a change in control of the Company but do and management conferences are held at Notice of Meeting and explanatory notes not entitle participants to a greater interest Group and business levels to bring senior on the resolutions proposed, accompanies in the shares of the Company than created managers together to share ideas and this Annual Report.
Copies of both by the initial grant or award under the develop policy.
Members of the Senior documents can also be found on the relevant plan.
Management Group are also visible within Companys website at the businesses and undertake a range of While no one of these contracts is www.
visits where they meet face to face with considered significant in the context of the employees to gather feedback on safety The Directors Report was approved by the Groups business as a whole, the impact and other issues.
Dialogue takes place Board on 28 February 2019. on the Group if all such contracts were regularly with trade unions and other terminated could be significant.
employee representatives on a wide By Order of the Board range of issues.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees Employee views are sought through providing for compensation for loss of regular employee satisfaction surveys, office or employment or otherwise that Jennifer Myram both within business units and across the occurs specifically because of a takeover.
Following such surveys, the results National Express Group PLC are reviewed by the Board and senior Political contributions Company number 2590560 management before being shared with No political donations were made during employees and action plans put in place the year 2017: nil.
to deal with issues arising.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018
