Strategic Report 4 Our business model National Express is a leading international public transport operator, diversified internationally National and by business area.
Express We have best in class margins and strong sustainable cash flow generation which allows at a glance us to drive both organic and acquisition-led growth.
REVENUE BREAKDOWN BY BUSINESS LINE NUMBER OF PEOPLE EMPLOYED WORLDWIDE Student transportation North America school bus 49,000 NUMBER OF KILOMETRES TRAVELLED 1.1bn 775m NUMBER OF PASSENGER JOURNEYS Urban bus UK bus, North America transit, ALSA urban bus 898.2m NUMBER OF VEHICLES OPERATED 30,500 710m Regional long haul coach ALSA regional and long haul, UK coach 655m Charter and other North America, ALSA and UK 245m Rail German Rail 70m Note: Data above rounded to nearest 5 million National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 5 What we do Where we operate We own and lease buses, coaches and In Spain, Morocco, North America and We hold the largest market share for long trains which we use to deliver local, Germany, services are run typically under haul coach transport in both Spain and the regional, national and international an exclusive concession or franchise of UK, and are the second largest school bus transportation services.
In our UK coach fixed duration granted by a competent provider in North America.
We also operate operations, we also outsource certain body e. g. government, school board and urban bus and transit operations in the services to select partner operators.
In the UK, USA, Canada, Morocco, Spain and the UK.
Irrespective of the operator, all vehicles coach services are unregulated while for We operate rail operations in Germany.
aredriven and maintained to our global UK bus services, contracting differs by standards, either on a network of services geography.
scheduled by National Express or delivered point to point on private hire.
REVENUE BREAKDOWN BY TERRITORY UNITED KINGDOM 577m Business lines: Regional long haul coach Urban bus USA Charter and other 982m GERMANY Business lines: Student transportation Transit and paratransit 68m Charter and other Business lines: Rail SWITZERLAND 12m Business lines: Charter and other CANADA SPAIN 79m BAHRAIN 684m Business lines: Business lines: Student transportation Business lines: Urban bus Transit and paratransit Regional long haul coach Charter and other Urban bus Joint venture business Charter and other reported through associates MOROCCO 49m Business lines: Urban bus National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report 6 Our business model continued National Express operates safe, reliable, convenient and good value public transportation services.
We do this in How we both regulated and unregulated markets, and provide services to our customers who are private individuals, create value companies, school boards or public authorities.
National Express generates revenue from two principal sources.
The Group engages in multi-year contracts with bodies such as school boards in North America or local authorities in Spain and Morocco and these make up 48% of revenue.
Revenue is generated either on a per mile kilometre basis, or per route travelled.
The Group generates a further 38% of revenue through ticket sales to the public, such as in the UK bus and coach businesses, coach and some bus Growing revenue services in Spain and Morocco, and the German rail business.
In these, National Express is marketing the product and taking revenue risk.
Concession revenue from local authorities in the UK, Spain and Germany delivers 3% of Group revenue with charter private hire contributing a further 6%.
The remaining 4% is from other revenue streams such as on-board entertainment, SMS alerts, booking fees and advertising.
The Group uses technology to support its revenue growth.
Our Revenue Management Systems RMS enable us to segment our customer offer through a better understanding of customer needs and purchasing behaviour to drive revenue through differential pricing depending on time of journey, ticket type, buying channel etc.
Our customer facing apps support our customers in getting the product they need at a price they can afford.
National Express margins are industry leading.
We focus on delivering operational excellence inall we do.
Sophisticated network optimisation is a key factor.
We optimise peak vehicle requirements and loading factors through review and redesign of our networks, reducing the cost of delivering a high quality service to our customers.
We use scheduling software to allow optimisation of routes and asset usage in our student transportation and transit markets in North America.
Our diversity and scale are an important factor in managing indirect costs, Converting it to profit enabling us to optimise cost and quality across the Groups supply base.
National Express has a track record of consistently generating cash flow from its operations.
The Group has delivered over 785 million of free cash flow over the last five years and is extremely disciplined in its management of working capital and in the conversion of operating profit into free cash.
Delivering cash flow Our first priority is to re-invest in the core business.
After maintaining our base business, we invest cash back into the operations to grow, having invested 506 million both organically and inorganically since 2014.
This has strengthened our market-leading positions in coach in the UK and in Spain: built out key hub positions in North American student transport: and enabled us to move into adjacencies like urban bus in Morocco or charter in North America.
In addition, we can deliver consistent, competitive returns to shareholders.
Over the last five years the Company To fund returns has returned 301 million through dividends, growing dividend per share by 44%.
and re-investment National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 7 How we sustain advantage We invest in our consumer brands, ensuring what they stand for is understood by our customers.
The National Express and ALSA brands are household names and stand for safety, consistency, reliability and affordability.
We promote these values in our brands to help drive purchasing decisions.
We engage our customers through clear marketing We seek leadership positions in the markets in which we operate, whether national, regional or local.
In the UK and Spain, our long haul coach operations are market leaders.
In urban bus and transit, we are focusing on growing urban hubs in multiple geographies.
We operate at scale The Group consistently applies technology to improve our customer offering e. g. deploying free WiFi on our premium bus services in the West Midlands, development of mobile apps, web interfaces and customer portals : togrow the business e. g. RMS in our coach businesses in the UK and Spain, and on-demand scheduling through Ecolane in North America : and to drive operational excellence e. g. the global roll-out of Lytx DriveCam in support of our global safety policies.
We deploy new technologies rapidly The Group operates and rigorously enforces consistent, world class safety policies in all markets, supported by leading edge technology.
Our focus on Zero Harm supports our primary goal toget customers to their destination safely and ensure the safety of our employees.
We prioritise safe operations Our global Delivery Excellence team works to improve critical process across all operations, continually looking to raise standards whilst our global Master Driver and Master Technician programmes drive a consistently high standard of capability across our markets.
We enforce consistent global policies and processes Around 50% of our revenue is contracted over multiple years, meaning we are less exposed to changes in travel patterns caused by economic cycles.
Our diversification means that no one contract accounts for more than 2% of revenue.
We are internationally diversified, meaning our cash flows are somewhat insulated from any one countrys economic or political challenges, and also that we have the option to move our capital globally to develop growth options where they are most attractive.
We operate a balanced and resilient portfolio National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018
