STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Viability Statement and going concern 45 Assessment of prospects The Board concluded that three years would cash flow.
During assessment, the Groups The Board continues to believe that the continue to be an appropriate timeframe robust business model: continued cash Groups prospects are positive in the over which to assess the Groups ongoing generation: access to liquidity and funding: medium to long term.
viability, as within that timeline a number and mitigation actions demonstrated that of risks impact likelihood was expected it could tolerate the impact of the risk We are diversified: to reduce: scenarios without breach of covenants No one contract contributes more or threat to business viability.
than 2% to revenue: Regulatory: the majority of the major No one geography contributes Spanish concession renewals are Viability Statement more than 40% to normalised expected to complete Based on the results of the analysis, the operating profit Brexit: the immediate impact of Brexit Board has a reasonable expectation that The Group receives only 3% of will be felt the Group will continue in operation and its revenue in the form of grants Credit financing: 250m of the Groups be able to meet its liabilities as they fall due and subsidies bonds will expire and a 225m over the three-year period of assessment.
We are positioned to benefit from the refinancing is necessary in 2020 Going concern future trends in transportation: Assessment of viability The financial position of the Group, its Transport demand continues to The Groups viability assessment is an cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing grow whilst private car ownership output of the annual strategic planning facilities are set out in the Group Finance is beginning to decline: the gap is process.
To assess viability, multiple, Directors review on pages 17 21, and the likely to be filled by public transport material risks are selected by the Board Groups business activities, together with Public transport helps deliver against above and are assumed to crystallise in the factors likely to affect its future the pressing urban challenges of parallel during the assessment period, putting development performance and position, congestion and poor air quality the financial and operational performance are set out in the Strategic Report pages We invest in the business to secure of the business under plausible, but 1-45.
Note 30 to the Financial Statements its future: unlikely, stresses as outlined below.
includes the Groups objectives, policies Over the last five years, 64% of and processes for managing its capital: its free cash flow has been re-invested Risk stress tests financial risk management objectives: into the business whilst gearing has Brexit: no-deal Brexit assumed, with details of its financial instruments and remained flat and dividends have material Europe-wide economic downturn hedging activities: and its exposure to grown by 44% and disruption to travel between the EU credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group owns and continually and the UK.
invests in market-leading consumer The Board has reviewed assumptions brands in each of our main consumer Economic environment: driver wage about current trading performance, and markets inflation continues in North America: has taken account of reasonably possible We invest in technology to allow and high speed rail aggressively adverse changes to performance impacting customers to access our products undermines profitability in Spanish availability of resources to June 2020. at competitive prices and to deliver long haul coach travel.
The Board confirms that it has a reasonable our services safely and efficiently expectation that the Group has adequate Regulatory landscape: material margin resources to continue in operation for the The Groups strong financial position is loss in ALSA following resolution of long period reviewed, and accordingly the characterised by operating cash conversion haul franchise renewal process.
Board continues to adopt the going of 98% and free cash generation of 198.6m concern basis of accounting in preparing underpinned by 6% revenue growth.
Terrorism: terrorism event hits both UK the financial statements for the year ended The Groups credit rating is investment and Spanish consumer confidence, resulting 31 December 2018. grade with committed facilities of in lower levels of discretionary travel.
Cyber: IT system failure and data loss Principal risks and assessment period following cyber attack in UK and Spain The Board reviewed the Groups principal causes significant revenue loss and Our 2018 Strategic Report, from page risks page 40, looking at each risks financial penalties.
1topage 45, hasbeen reviewed and impact, likelihood and the timeframe over approved by the Board.
Credit Financing risk: material increase which the risk was likely to reduce Group in the cost of borrowing and reduction in cash flows.
On this basis, the highest liquidity following period of reduced cash impact and highest likelihood risks were generation and profitability.
considered in modelling a severe but plausible downside to assess the Groups In the unlikely event of this concurrence of future viability.
Dean Finch events, the Board would mitigate through Group Chief Executive reduced operating costs and capital 28 February 2019 expenditure to preserve the businesss National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018
