Strategic Report Business Model NEXT is a UK based retailer which offers exciting, beautifully designed, wonderful quality clothing and homeware which meets and exceeds the aspirations of our customers, at prices that are within the reach of most people.
Our customers can be confident in our design, our quality and that they are getting value for money.
NEXT is one of the largest clothing and Home products retailers in the UK by sales, and a member of the FTSE 100 index.
In 1981, J Hepworth & Son, Gentlemans Tailors, bought a chain of shops with the aim of developing a womenswear brand called NEXT.
The first NEXT womenswear store opened in 1982 and over the following years menswear, home and childrenswear were added to the product ranges.
In 1991 the move to larger stores commenced, bringing together all four product groups and ranges across both retail and home shopping formats.
The NEXT Online website was launched in 1999 to enhance the traditional catalogue offer and has become a significant driver of the growth of the Groups sales and profitability.
The strategy of larger stores and multi-channel retailing has been continuously developed over the past two decades.
2017 18 profit The Group is primarily comprised of: by segment NEXT Retail, a chain of around 530 stores in the UK and Eire.
The majority of our stores sell clothing, footwear, accessories and or home products: and we now operate 35 large combined fashion and home stores.
NEXT Online formerly NEXT Directory, an online and catalogue shopping business with over 4.9 million active customers and international websites serving approximately 70 countries.
By embracing the internet, providing exceptional customer service and developing overseas opportunities, NEXT Onlines sales have grown by more than 130% over the last ten years.
The NEXT Online business provides customers with the option of a credit facility for purchases called nextpay.
Through LABEL, NEXT Online offers premium brands to customers.
NEXT International Retail, with around 200 mainly franchised stores across the world.
NEXTs franchise partners operate over 190 stores in 32 countries: there are also a small number of overseas stores which NEXT operates directly.
NEXT Retail 35% Lipsy, which designs and sells Lipsy and other branded fashion products.
NEXT Online 59% Lipsy trades from 46 stores, through NEXT Online, and through wholesale and franchise channels.
NEXT International Retail 1% NEXT Sourcing, which designs and sources NEXT branded products.
NEXT Sourcing 4% NEXT Sourcing NS is our Hong Kong based internal sourcing agent which competes for business against other Other 1% suppliers to NEXT Retail and Online.
1 Great products What we do NEXT products are developed by our in-house design team to offer great style, quality and value for money with a contemporary fashion edge.
2 Global sourcing Great products Over 140 million products are sourced globally from around 40 countries.
1 During the year, NEXT Sourcing provided around 40% of the NEXT branded products from our global supplier base including 4 owned factory sites.
2 Returning Over 100 brands are sold through LABEL online.
value to shareholders Global 3 Efficient supply chain sourcing Our network of warehouses and international hubs deliver product cost effectively and efficiently.
9 warehouses, 6 depots and 4 international hubs.
5 Next-day delivery is standard for UK NEXT Online orders placed before midnight.
4 Outstanding customer experience 3 Providing value for money and outstanding customer service is key to NEXT.
We offer customers a credit facility for UK NEXT Online purchases, called nextpay.
Outstanding Efficient customer supply chain Our large number of stores, complemented by an integrated multi-channel experience offering, offers convenience to customers.
4 In store design and concession partners provide an exciting shopping environment.
5 Returning value to shareholders We are highly cash generative, allowing us to invest in the business and return value to shareholders through dividends, share buybacks and earnings growth.
38 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Our key resources and relationships People For further details refer to page 48 The customers and employees of NEXT are key to achieving the objectives of the business.
Customers are at the heart of everything we do.
Knowledge and know how Over 35 years of retailing experience.
The NEXT Brand offers uniquely designed and high quality products: forging long term relationships with customers and suppliers.
For further details refer to page 49 Suppliers Sourcing globally to deliver quality and value under ethical trading principles.
Buildings and Infrastructure The predominantly leased store portfolio is actively managed, with opening and closure decisions based on store For further details refer to page 8 profitability and payback.
Our warehouse and logistics operations provide an efficient and agile product distribution network.
Well established, and engaging websites, relevant for all our customers.
Finance Effective management of financial resources including focus on cost management and maximising returns from space.
Further detail on the performance and development of the Groups businesses can be found in the Chief Executives Review on pages 4 to 37, which forms part of this Strategic Report along with Key Performance Indicators pages 40 and 41, Risks and Uncertainties page 42, Employees page 48, Social, Community and Human Rights page 49 and Environmental Matters page 50. Business strategies and objectives How we create value The Board regularly reviews the Groups strategic framework for long term value creation.
The primary financial objective of the Group is to deliver long term, sustainable returns to shareholders through a combination of growth in Earnings Per Share EPS and payment of cash dividends.
Over the last ten years, EPS and ordinary dividends per share have both increased by over 140% and the Companys share price has increased by over 250%.
This long term value has been created through the pursuit of the following strategies: Improving and developing our product ranges, success in which is measured by sales performance.
Maximising the profitability of retail selling space.
New store appraisals must meet demanding financial criteria before the investment is made, and success is measured by achieved profit contribution and return on capital against appraised targets.
Increasing the number of profitable NEXT Online cash and credit customers and their spend, both in the UK and internationally, complemented by our LABEL offering of branded products and the credit facility nextpay we offer to our UK NEXT Online customers.
Managing gross and net margins through efficient product sourcing, stock management and cost control.
Focusing on customer experience and satisfaction levels in both Retail stores and Online.
Maintaining the Groups financial strength through an efficient balance sheet and secure financing structure.
Generating and returning surplus cash to shareholders by way of share buybacks and or special dividends.
Read about our action plan for the year ahead on page 28 Read about the outlook for sales and profit on page 37 39
