Directors Report Directors and Officers Michael Roney Lord Wolfson of Aspley Guise Amanda James CHAIRMAN CHIEF EXECUTIVE GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Michael joined the Board as Deputy Simon joined the Group in 1991 and Amanda joined the Group in 1995 and Chairman in February 2017 and became was appointed Retail Sales Director in has led the management accounting Chairman in August 2017.
He became responsible for NEXT and commercial finance teams since Chairman of Grafton Group plc and Directory in 1995 and was appointed 2005.
In 2009 Amanda was appointed a non-executive director of US firm to the Board in 1997 with additional Commercial Finance Director and was Brown-Forman Corporation.
Michael has responsibilities for Systems.
Simon was promoted to NEXT Brand Finance Director extensive business experience: he was appointed Managing Director of the NEXT in 2012.
Amanda has comprehensive previously the Chief Executive of Bunzl plc Brand in 1999 and Chief Executive in 2001. knowledge of NEXTs operations and from 2005 until his retirement in April 2016, has played a central role in the financial Chief Executive of Goodyear Dunlop Tires management of the business.
Europe BV and non-executive director of Johnson Matthey plc.
APPOINTED TO THE BOARD APPOINTED TO THE BOARD APPOINTED TO THE BOARD February 2017 February 1997 April 2015 COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Remuneration and Nomination Chairman Michael Law Jane Shields Richard Papp GROUP OPERATIONS DIRECTOR GROUP SALES AND GROUP MERCHANDISE AND MARKETING DIRECTOR OPERATIONS DIRECTOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR to 17 May 2018 EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR from 14 May 2018 Michael joined the Group in 1995 as Call Jane joined NEXT Retail in 1985 as a Richard joined NEXT in 1991 as a Centre Manager for the NEXT Directory.
Sales Assistant in one of our London Merchandiser.
Richard worked his Michael was appointed Call Centre stores.
Jane worked her way through way through management, becoming Director in 2003 and in 2006 became store management to be appointed Sales Menswear Product Director in 2001. responsible for Group IT.
In 2010 he was Director in 2000, responsible for all store In 2005 he gained valuable experience appointed Group Operations Director, operations and training.
In 2006 Jane was in a similar role at another retailer.
adding Warehousing and Logistics to his given additional responsibility for Retail Richard returned to NEXT in 2006 portfolio.
Michael is now responsible for Marketing and in 2010 was appointed and has since that time been Group all Systems, Warehousing, Logistics and Group Sales and Marketing Director, Merchandise Director, responsible for Call Centres within the Group.
adding Directory and online marketing to NEXTs Merchandising function, Product her portfolio.
Systems, International Franchise, and Michael will step down from the Board on Clearance operations.
17 May, immediately after the 2018 AGM.
APPOINTED TO THE BOARD APPOINTED TO THE BOARD WILL BE APPOINTED TO THE BOARD July 2013 July 2013 May 2018 54 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Francis Salway Jonathan Bewes Company Secretary SENIOR INDEPENDENT INDEPENDENT Seonna Anderson NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Francis is also Chairman of Town & Country After qualifying as a Chartered Accountant Past Directors Housing Group, Chairman of the Property with KPMG, Jonathan spent 25 years in John Barton Advisory Group for Transport for London, a investment banking, with Robert Fleming, CHAIRMAN non-executive director of Cadogan Group UBS and Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
APPOINTED TO THE BOARD Limited and a Visiting Professor in Practice As a senior banker, he has provided advice February 2002 at the London School of Economics.
to the Boards of many UK and overseas Formerly Chief Executive of Land companies on a wide range of financial RETIRED FROM THE BOARD Securities Group plc and past president of and strategic issues, including financing, 1 August 2017 the British Property Federation.
In April 2017 he joined Standard Chartered Bank as Vice Chairman, Corporate and Institutional Banking.
Jonathan is a Fellow Steve Barber of the Institute of Chartered Accountants INDEPENDENT of England and Wales.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR APPOINTED TO THE BOARD June 2007 APPOINTED TO THE BOARD APPOINTED TO THE BOARD RETIRED FROM THE BOARD June 2010 October 2016 18 May 2017 COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Audit Chairman, Remuneration and Nomination Caroline Goodall Dame Dianne Thompson INDEPENDENT INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Board Committees Caroline is also a Trustee of the National Dianne has significant senior management Audit Committee Trust and Chair of its Audit Committee.
experience including fourteen years as Steve Barber Chairman to 18 May 2017 She was previously an independent nonChief Executive Officer of Camelot Group.
Jonathan Bewes Chairman from executive on the Partnership Board of the During her 42 year career, she has worked 18 May 2017 accountancy firm Grant Thornton UK LLP in marketing for several retail companies.
Caroline Goodall for seven years until June 2017 and was a More recently she was Chairman of Francis Salway non-executive director of SVG Capital plc, RadioCentre and a non-executive director Dame Dianne Thompson a FTSE 250 listed private equity investor, of the Home Office.
She is also a Trustee from 2010 to October 2014.
Prior to that, of the Born Free Foundation.
Caroline had over thirty years experience Remuneration Committee in corporate finance and was a corporate Caroline Goodall Chairman finance partner at the international law Jonathan Bewes firm Herbert Smith including five years as Michael Roney Head of the Global Corporate Division.
Francis Salway Dame Dianne Thompson APPOINTED TO THE BOARD APPOINTED TO THE BOARD Nomination Committee January 2013 January 2015 Michael Roney Chairman Jonathan Bewes Caroline Goodall COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Francis Salway Audit, Remuneration Chairman and Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Dame Dianne Thompson Nomination 55 Directors Report Disclosures required under the 2013 amendment to the Large and and valuable member of the Board.
The Board is satisfied that Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports each non-executive director offering themselves for re-election Regulations 2008 in respect of employee matters including the is independent in both character and judgement, and that their employment, training and advancement of disabled persons, experience, knowledge and other business interests enable them future developments, political donations and greenhouse gas to contribute significantly to the work and balance of the Board.
emissions are given in the Strategic Report.
Information on The interests of the directors who held office at 27 January 2018 financial instruments and the use of derivatives is given in Notes and their connected persons are shown in the Remuneration 24 to 27 of the financial statements.
Annual General Meeting Auditor The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general & Other Matters meeting at which its report and accounts are presented to Notice of the Annual General Meeting AGM is on pages shareholders.
 LLP, having been first 154 to 159 and includes the following business: appointed at the 2017 AGM following a tender process during 2016, has expressed its willingness to continue in office and its reDividends appointment will be proposed at the 2018 AGM.
This resolution also proposes that the auditors remuneration be determined by The directors recommend that a final dividend of 105p per the directors.
In practice, the Audit Committee will consider and share be paid on 1 August 2018 to shareholders on the register approve the audit fees on behalf of the Board in accordance with of members at close of business on 6 July 2018.
This resolution the Competition and Markets Authority Audit Order.
relates only to the final dividend.
The directors may decide to pay special dividends in line with the Companys policy of returning surplus cash generated from operations to shareholders Disclosure of information via special dividends or share buybacks.
Any such special to the auditor dividends will be paid by the directors as interim dividends.
The announcement of any dividend will clearly indicate whether In accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies it is a special dividend or not.
Act 2006 the 2006 Act, each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: The Trustee of the NEXT Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT has waived dividends paid in the year on the shares held so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit by it, refer to Note 23 of the financial statements.
information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have Directors taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant Directors biographies are set out on pages 54 and 55. audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Michael Law, Group Operations Director, will step down from the Board at the close of the 2018 AGM, prior to retiring from the Authority to allot shares business in July 2018.
Michael, accordingly, will not stand for reelection as a director at the AGM.
Under the 2006 Act, the directors may only allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares In February 2018, the Company announced that Richard Papp if authorised to do so by shareholders in general meeting.
will succeed Michael Law on the Board and will be appointed as The authority conferred on the directors at last years AGM under an executive director with effect from 14 May 2018.
Richard will Section 551 of the 2006 Act expires on the date of the forthcoming stand for election at the 2018 AGM and, subject to the outcome AGM and ordinary resolution 14 seeks a new authority to allow of that process, will become Group Merchandise and Operations the directors to allot ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal Director.
Richard has been with NEXT for over 25 years and has amount of 4,700,000, representing approximately one third of been Group Merchandise Director since 2006, responsible for the Companys existing issued share capital as at 22 March 2018.
NEXTs Merchandising function, Product Systems, International In accordance with institutional guidelines, resolution 14 will also Franchise, and Clearance operations.
He has worked extremely allow directors to allot further ordinary shares, in connection with closely with our Warehousing, Logistics and Systems teams to a pre-emptive offer by way of a rights issue, up to a total maximum develop our online platform and is perfectly placed to lead the nominal amount of 9,500,000, representing approximately two continued development of the Groups operations.
thirds of the Companys existing issued share capital as at that The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code recommends date.
As at 22 March 2018 being the latest practicable date that all directors of FTSE companies stand for election every year prior to publication of this document the Companys issued and all members of the Board, other than Michael Law, will do so share capital amounted to 14,347,898 comprising 143,478,977 at this years AGM.
Each of the directors standing for re-election ordinary shares of 10 pence each, none of which are held in has undergone performance evaluation and has demonstrated treasury.
The directors have no present intention of exercising that they remain committed to their role including making this authority which will expire at the conclusion of the AGM in sufficient time available for Board and Committee meetings 2019 or, if earlier, 17 August 2019. and other duties as required and continue to be an effective 56 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Special resolution 17 will renew the authority for the Company Authority to disapply to make market purchases as defined in Section 693 of the 2006 Act of its ordinary shares of 10p each provided that: pre-emption rights a. the aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be Special resolution 15 will, if passed, renew the directors purchased shall be the lesser of 21,521,000 ordinary shares authority pursuant to Sections 570 to 573 of the 2006 Act to allot of 10p each being less than 15% of the issued share capital equity securities for cash without first offering them to existing at 22 March 2018 and no more than 14.99% of the issued shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
This resolution ordinary share capital outstanding at the date of the AGM, limits the aggregate nominal value of ordinary shares which such limits to be reduced by the number of any shares to may be issued by the directors on a non pre-emptive basis to be purchased pursuant to special resolution 18: Off-market 717,000, representing 5% of the issued ordinary share capital purchases of own shares, see below: of the Company as at 22 March 2018 excluding treasury shares.
This authority also allows the directors, within the same aggregate b. the payment per ordinary share is not less than 10p and is an limit, to sell for cash, shares that may be held by the Company amount not more than the higher of: i 105% of the average of in treasury.
the middle market price of the ordinary shares of the Company according to the Daily Official List of the London Stock In March 2015, the Pre-Emption Group issued a revised Statement Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding of Principles stating that an allotment of up to an additional 5% of the date of purchase and ii an amount equal to the higher of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company may be made the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share of on a non pre-emptive basis if that allotment is in connection with the Company and the highest current independent bid for an an acquisition or specified capital investment within the meaning ordinary share of the Company as derived from the London given in the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles which Stock Exchange Trading system: and is announced at the same time as the allotment, or which has taken place in the six month period before and is disclosed in the c. the renewed authority will expire at the AGM in 2019 or, if announcement of the allotment.
Special resolution 16 seeks this earlier, 17 August 2019. separate and additional authority.
The directors intend that this authority to purchase the In accordance with the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Companys shares will only be exercised if doing so will result in Principles, the directors do not intend to issue more than 7.5% an increase in Earnings Per Share and, being in the interests of of the share capital of the Company for cash excluding treasury shareholders generally, it is considered to promote the success of shares under this or previous authorities in any rolling three year the Company.
The directors will also give careful consideration to period without prior consultation with shareholders, except in financial gearing levels of the Company and its general financial connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment.
The purchase price would be paid out of distributable profits.
It is the directors present intention to cancel any shares The directors do not have any present intention of exercising purchased under this authority.
this authority which will expire at the AGM in 2019 or, if earlier, 17 August 2019.
The repurchase of ordinary shares would give rise to a stamp duty liability of the Company at the rate currently of 0.5% of the consideration paid.
On-market purchase of own shares The Company has no warrants in issue in relation to its shares and NEXT has been returning capital to its shareholders through no options to subscribe for its shares outstanding.
Exercise of share repurchases as well as special and ordinary dividends all outstanding employee share options and share awards will since March 2000 as part of its strategy for delivering sustainable be satisfied by the transfer of market-purchased shares from the long term returns to shareholders.
Over this period, and up to ESOT refer to Note 23 of the financial statements.
22 March 2018, NEXT has returned over 3.8bn to shareholders by way of share buybacks and over 3.3bn in dividends, of which 907m comprised special dividends.
This buyback activity has enhanced Earnings Per Share, given shareholders the opportunity for capital returns as well as dividends and has been transparent to the financial markets.
Share buybacks have not been made at the expense of investment in the business.
Over the last five years, NEXT has invested over 631m in capital expenditure to support and grow the business.
57 Directors Report Special resolution 18 will give the Company authority to enter Off-market purchases of into contingent purchase contracts with any of Goldman Sachs International, UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Bank plc and own shares Barclays Bank plc under which shares may be purchased offThe directors consider that share buybacks are an important market at a discount to the market price prevailing at the date means of returning value to shareholders and maximising each contract is entered into.
The maximum which the Company sustainable long term growth in Earnings Per Share.
would be permitted to purchase pursuant to this authority would Contingent contracts for off-market share purchases offer be the lower of 3,000,000 shares or a total cost of 200m.
a number of additional benefits compared to on-market The principal features of the contracts are set out in the share purchases: appendix to the Notice of the AGM.
Copies of the agreements Contingent contracts allow the Company to purchase shares the Company proposes to enter into with any of the banks the at a discount to the market price prevailing at the date each Programme Agreements will be available for inspection at the contract is entered into.
No shares have been bought back registered office of the Company, and at the offices of Slaughter under contingent purchase contracts pursuant to the authority and May, One Bunhill Row, EC1Y 8YY during normal working granted at the 2017 AGM up to 22 March 2018. hours from the date of the Notice of the AGM up to the date of the AGM and at the Meeting itself.
Low share liquidity can often prevent the Company from purchasing sufficient numbers of shares on a single day Notice of general meetings without risk of affecting the prevailing market price.
Contingent contracts enable the Company to purchase shares The notice period required by the 2006 Act for general meetings over time without risk of distorting the prevailing share price, of the Company is 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter and also spread the cash outflow.
notice period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days.
However, the Companys AGM must always be held on at least Contingent contracts entered into prior to any closed 21 clear days notice.
At the AGM of the Company held in 2017, period allow the Company to take delivery of shares during shareholders authorised the calling of general meetings other these periods.
than an AGM on not less than 14 clear days notice and it is Competitive tendering involving up to five banks is used proposed that this authority be renewed.
The authority granted which minimises the risk of hidden purchase costs.
The pricing by special resolution 19, if passed, will be effective until the mechanism ensures the Company retains the benefit of Companys AGM in 2019.
In order to be able to call a general declared and forecast dividends.
meeting on less than 21 clear days notice, the Company will make electronic voting available to all shareholders for that meeting.
The Company would also have the option to set a suspension The flexibility offered by this resolution will not be used as a price in individual contracts whereby they would automatically matter of routine for such meetings, but only where the directors terminate if the Companys share price was to fall.
consider it appropriate, taking account of the business to be As with any share buyback decision, the directors would use this conducted at the meeting and the interests of the Company and authority only after careful consideration, taking into account its shareholders as a whole.
market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment opportunities and the overall financial position of the Company.
Recommendation The directors will only purchase shares using such contracts if, based on the contract discounted price rather than any future The Board are of the opinion that all resolutions which are to price, it is earnings enhancing and promotes the success of the be proposed at the 2018 AGM will promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders generally.
It is the Company and are in the best interests of its shareholders as a directors present intention to cancel any shares purchased under whole and, accordingly, unanimously recommend that they vote this authority.
in favour of the resolutions.
58 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Share capital and major shareholders Details of the Companys share capital are shown in Note 20 of the financial statements.
The Company was authorised by its shareholders at the 2017 AGM to purchase its own shares.
During the year the Company purchased and cancelled 2,174,357 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 10p each none of which were purchased off-market, at a cost of 106.1m and representing 1.5% of its issued share capital at the start of the year.
At the financial year end 27 January 2018, the Company had 144,882,205 shares in issue.
Subsequent to the end of the financial year and before the start of the closed period, the Company purchased for cancellation 1,403,228 of its own shares at a cost of 69.1m.
As at 22 March 2018 the number of shares in issue was 143,478,977.
As at 27 January 2018, the Company had been notified under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 5 of the following notifiable interests in the Companys issued share capital.
The information provided below was correct at the date of notification.
These holdings are likely to have changed since the Company was notified, however notification of any change is not required until the next notifiable threshold is crossed: Notifications received as at 27 January 2018 No.
of voting % of voting rights rights at date of at date of Nature of Date of notification notification holding notification FMR LLC Fidelity 17,638,953 11.99 Indirect interest 29 June 2017 BlackRock, Inc. 15,449,829 9.97 Indirect interest 8 January 2014 Invesco Limited 14,446,360 9.89 Indirect interest 4 January 2018 NEXT plc Employee Share Option Trust 4,484,874 3.05 Direct interest 8 May 2017 The following notification was received after 27 January 2018 up to 22 March 2018: No.
of voting % of voting rights rights at date of at date of Nature of Date of notification notification holding notification Invesco Limited 14,391,788 10.03 Indirect interest 12 March 2018 59 Directors Report Change of control Additional information The Company is not party to any significant agreements which Shareholder and voting rights take effect, alter or terminate solely upon a change of control of the Company.
However, in the event of a change of control, All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to attend and the Companys medium term borrowing facilities will be subject vote at the AGM.
On a show of hands at a general meeting every to early repayment in full if a majority of the lending banks give member present in person and every duly appointed proxy shall written notice or in part if a lending bank gives written notice have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person following a change of control.
or by proxy shall have one vote for every ordinary share held or represented.
It is intended that voting at the 2018 AGM will be In addition, the holders of the Companys corporate bonds will on a poll.
The Notice of Meeting on pages 154 to 159 specifies be entitled to call for redemption of the bonds by the Company deadlines for exercising voting rights.
at their nominal value together with accrued interest in the following circumstances: The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of should a change of control cause a downgrading in the credit securities and voting rights.
There are no restrictions on the rating of the Companys corporate bonds to sub-investment transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than certain grade and this is not rectified within 120 days after the change restrictions imposed by laws and regulations such as insider of control: or trading laws and market requirements relating to closed periods if already sub-investment grade, a further credit rating and requirements of internal rules and procedures whereby downgrade occurs and this is not rectified within 120 days directors and certain employees of the Company require prior after the change of control: or approval to deal in the Companys securities.
if the bonds at the time of the change of control have no credit The Companys Articles may only be amended by a special rating and no investment grade rating is assigned within 90 resolution at a general meeting.
Directors are elected or redays after the change in control.
elected by ordinary resolution at a general meeting: the Board may appoint a director but anyone so appointed must be elected The Companys share option plans, and its Long Term Incentive by ordinary resolution at the next general meeting.
Under the Plan, contain provisions regarding a change of control.
Articles, directors retire and may offer themselves for re-election Outstanding options and awards may vest on a change of control, at a general meeting at least every three years.
However, in line subject to the satisfaction of any relevant performance conditions.
with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors service contracts are terminable by the Company on directors will stand for re-election at the 2018 AGM other than giving one years notice.
There are no agreements between the Michael Law refer to page 66.
Company and its directors or employees providing for additional compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Corporate governance The corporate governance statement as required by the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2.
6 comprises the Additional Information section of the Directors Report and the Corporate Governance statement included in this Annual Report.
The following disclosures are required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 R: Publication of unaudited financial In January 2018, NEXT published a Profit Before Tax PBT forecast for the year to information January 2018 of 718m to 732m.
Actual PBT for the period was 726.1m.
Shareholder waivers of dividends The NEXT Employee Share Ownership Trust waived its rights to receive dividends during the year.
By order of the Board Amanda James Group Finance Director 23 March 2018 60
