Group Strategic Report Our Strategy Significant progress made in 2018 on continuing implementation of strategy The updated strategy outlined in 2017 continues to channel the Companys growth trajectory along a well-defined path.
Significant progress was made in the implementation of the three key tenets of the Groups strategy: capacity building, capabilities focus and geographic expansion.
Our strategy is built on three key tenets Capacity Build Capabilities Focus Geographic Expansion 2015 Strategy Update 2017 Strategy Update Accelerate the establishment of Centres of Excellence Addition of new verticals focused on highly underserved in key specialities within existing hospitals.
segments in the UAE and wider GCC and further development of Centres of Excellence.
Increase participation in the growing UAE medical tourism industry and establish NMC as a destination of choice.
Expanding the healthcare business target market from the GCC to wider emerging markets.
Grow NMCs medical specialty offering and clinic network within the UAE and maximising operational synergies.
Fertility to be developed as a global business taking advantage of substantial growth opportunities.
Establish a strategic presence outside the UAE with leading global medical institutions to enhance and expand technological know-how and medical expertise.
Increase NMCs footprint in Saudi Arabia and the broader GCC Rapid adoption and deployment of technological innovation via organic initiatives and acquisitions.
via both organic initiatives and acquisitions.
10 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information The updated strategy outlined in 2017 cosmetics business in the GCC, its reach into the Northern Emirates and continues to channel the Companys CosmeSurge substantially enhances now ranks as the only private healthcare growth trajectory along a well-defined NMCs capabilities in the high-margin operator in the country with a presence path.
Significant progress was made cosmetics business.
In fact, cosmetics in 6 out of the 7 Emirates.
Similarly, in the implementation of the three has been identified as the next potential pursuing its strategy of a pan-Saudi key tenets of the Groups strategy: vertical for the Group, as highlighted in approach, the addition of Riyadh extends capacity building, capabilities focus the 2018 Capital Markets Day.
Moreover, NMCs reach into 5 cities in the Kingdom.
the acquisition of UK-based Aspen Moreover, the recently concluded JV with Healthcare has considerably raised NMCs GOSI Hassana Investment Company The Group continued Capacity building expertise in Oncology and Orthopaedics, provides NMC the ideal platform to boost through organic and inorganic means in addition to providing ideal locations in its presence in the Kingdom.
As part of this process, NMC the UK for expansion of the Groups is adding over 300 new beds in the Dubai IVF business.
The Company also signed The highly fragmented IVF business market through brownfield expansions exclusive collaboration agreements with remains a truly global opportunity of its two existing facilities NMC Royal Cincinnati Childrens Hospital and Boston for NMC, with the company adding its DIP and Dubai Specialty Hospital and Childrens Hospital covering the entire GCC presence in another 5 countries: Sweden, a greenfield hospital in the underserved region.
Under the agreements, doctors Latvia, US, Oman and Kenya.
The Group from the two top-ranked US-based entry into the other three markets were also further enhanced its presence paediatric hospitals visit NMC Royal Abu achieved through acquisitions, expansion in the UAE through expansions into the Dhabi each month and are now offering into Oman and Kenya was achieved Northern Emirates through both organic medical services that did not exist through organic means.
NMCs IVF multispecialty clinic in Ajman and previously in the country.
The paediatrics operations are now spread across CosmeSurge clinic in Ras Al Khaimah segment remains underserved across a total of 11 countries.
as well as inorganic means Royal RAK the entire GCC and continues to offer Medical Centre.
Similarly, the Company strong growth opportunities.
In fact, The Group also started managing continues to add capacities in its key paediatrics was also identified in the healthcare facilities in Egypt, Kenya and markets of Oman and Saudi Arabia.
2018 Capital Markets Day as a potential Seychelles during 2018, extending the The latter witnessed NMCs expansion vertical over the longer term.
NMCs reach into the wider Emerging into Riyadh, the largest healthcare Markets.
As detailed in last years annual market in KSA, through the acquisition 2018 also witnessed a significant report, while NMCs capital expenditure of Al-Salam Medical Group.
expansion of NMCs Geographic reach.
As program remains sharply focused on highlighted in last years annual report as the GCC, O&M contracts offer a lucrative The acquisitions of CosmeSurge and well, the GCC remains the core focus for means of gaining exposure to attractive Aspen Healthcare during 2018 represent NMCs capital expenditure program, with Emerging Markets, without putting capital two of the most significant steps taken expansions outside the region focused at risk.
by the Group to enhance its suite of primarily on the IVF business or O&M Capabilities.
Within the UAE, NMC expanded NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 11
