Financial Statements Directors Statements Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors are required by Company Law to prepare financial statements for the Group and the Company in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS.
The financial statements are required to present fairly for each financial period the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
In preparing the Group and parent company financial statements the Directors are also required to: Properly select and consistently apply accounting policies: Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and Make an assessment of the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors also confirm that they consider the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors report and Directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We confirm to the best of our knowledge: The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
Disclosure of information to the Auditors Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors: The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving the Directors Report are set out on pages 38 and 39.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors and of the Companys Auditor, each of these Directors confirms that: to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no information that is, information needed by the groups Auditor in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
EY have confirmed that they are willing to be reappointed as auditor for the financial year ending 31 December 2019.
Going Concern and viability Going Concern NMC is a global healthcare provider operating multi-speciality hospitals and day care facilities across the Middle East, Europe, North and South America and Africa.
The Group operates a diverse business covering the provision of healthcare services, distribution of health care items and the provision of healthcare management services.
84 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Management have undertaken an assessment of the future prospects of the Group and the wider risks that the Group is exposed to.
In this assessment of whether the Group should adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements, management have considered: a Operating risk: The management team prepare a Group budget for each financial year and a cashflow forecast for the following 18 months which allows the Board to monitor the financial position of the Group and to consider appropriate risks which the business may face from a financial perspective.
Included in this review are future cashflow, both acquisition costs and subsequent cashflow generation, associated with acquisitions agreed and completed at the end of the 2018 financial year only.
The Board receives monthly management reports covering key operational matters, monthly comparison to budget and updated forecasts on a half yearly basis for the full financial year to ensure that its businesses are trading in line with its expectations.
b Financing risk: The Groups largest acquisitions during FY2018, the acquisition of CosmeSurge, Boston IVF and Fakih Medical Centre were largely financed via borrowings.
During the year, the Group entered into the following new long-term financing arrangements: Sukuk: On 21 November 2018, the Group issued US$400,000,000 Sukuk certificates Islamic finance with maturity for payment on 2023.
Sukuk carry a profit rate of 5.950%, payable half-yearly in arrears on 21 May and 21 November.
The facility is secured against corporate guarantee provided by NMC Health Plc and its certain operating subsidiaries.
Convertible bond: On 23 April 2018 we issued convertible bonds with an aggregate principal amount of US$450 million.
These bonds are listed on the Open Market of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange and bear interest at a cash coupon at the rate of 1.875% per annum, payable semi-annually.
They have a maturity of 7 years to 30 April 2025 and a conversion option for the bondholders.
The net proceeds of both the bonds were used to repay part of the US$1.0 billion bridge facility.
Term loans: The Group entered a syndicated facility amounting to US$2.0 billion.
The syndicated facility was used to settle an existing syndicated loan and for acquisition purposes.
The facility is structured into three sub facilities, these sub facilities are completely repayable within 18-60 months.
The facility is secured against a corporate guarantee provided by NMC Health Plc and its certain operating subsidiaries.
The facility carries interest at LIBOR plus margin.
The Group has banking arrangements through a spread of local and international banking groups.
Debt covenants are reviewed by the board each month.
The Board believes that the level of cash in the Group and the spread of bankers providing these facilities mitigates the financing risks that the Group faces from both its acquisitive growth strategy and in relation to working capital requirements.
c Customer and Supplier risk: Both the Healthcare and the Distribution divisions, and hence the Group as a whole, have delivered a robust performance in 2018.
All major financial and non-financial KPIs continued to show good improvement during the year.
Trade receivables across the Group are monitored regularly, provisions made where necessary and the Group has no history of significant bad debts.
Although the Group relies on the provision of the majority of its products from a small number of large suppliers, as well as a significant number of smaller suppliers, management do not believe that these suppliers are showing any signs of financial or operating difficulty.
Management maintain close working relationships with all major suppliers in order to continually assess and monitor supplier performance as well as signs of financial risk.
We do not currently assess there to be a heightened risk associated with supplier insolvency.
d Impairment risk: The Board has considered the carrying value and useful economic lives of inventories, accounts receivable, property and equipment and intangible assets and concluded that there are no indicators of material impairment of these items and therefore no material cash flow impact associated with any loss in those areas.
In its going concern review, management also considered other areas of potential risk, including regulatory risk, insurance and legal risks and potential areas of material contingent liability and found no matters which are likely to affect the viability of the Group in the medium term.
The Board has reviewed and considered managements formal assessment of the going concern concept of accounting and the cash flow forecast that has been prepared for the period to 30 June 2020 and has concluded that this assessment and forecast indicates that the Group has positive cash flows with sufficient headroom and will comply with all debt covenants.
The Directors therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the financial statements.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 85 Financial Statements Directors Statements continued Viability In order to protect longer term shareholder value, the Board have always considered how Group performance and its strategic decisions will affect the financial and operational prospects of the Group in the longer term.
As recommended by provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have considered a formal assessment of the prospects of the Group over a longer period than the 12 months review period required under the Going Concern basis of accounting.
Management conducted a formal viability review looking forward for a period of three years.
This period was selected as the most appropriate timeframe over which the future prospects of the Group should be considered given the Groups changing nature and significant growth, the time taken to fully integrate acquired businesses and ramp-up newly opened facilities and the maturity date of current debt obligations.
In its review, management considered the current position of the Group and the following principal financial risks associated with the business: Uncertainty relating to changes in the macro economic environment including regulatory changes impacting the healthcare and insurance sectors: Uncertainty attributed to competitor activity in key markets, changing patient demographics, demands attributes: and Uncertainty associated with integrating recently acquired entities.
The three year review considered the Groups profitability, cash flows, banking covenants and other key financial ratios over the period.
The plan makes certain assumptions about the ability to refinance debt as it falls due and the acceptable performance of the core revenue streams and market segments.
The plan is stress tested using sensitivity analysis which reflects severe but plausible combinations of the principal financial risks of the business and then the potential impact of each scenario, using certain assumptions on the following levers were stress tested: reductions in revenue per patient: reduction in market share impacting the number of patients and occupancies: increase manpower cost due to shortage of talent: cost escalation due to inflation and a new tax regime: impact on revenue due to currency fluctuation on overseas acquisition: increase in accounts receivable debtor days and rejections due to increase in insurance business: impact of digital patient engagement: one-off payments, investments and charges: and increase in interest rates.
Where appropriate, an analysis was carried out to evaluate the potential impact of any of these principal risks actually occurring.
Based on the results of this formal assessment, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period of the assessment.
By Order of the Board SIMON WATKINS Group Company Secretary 86 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
