Group Strategic Report Key Performance Indicators Financial KPIs Growth of the business, quality of earnings and efficient use of resources are crucial target areas for NMC and we employ a number of performance measures to monitor them.
The KPIs used to monitor the financial performance of the business are set out below.
through the provision of amortization, transaction goods or services to patients cost and impairment.
or corporate customers and is generally recognised when services have been delivered or goods sold.
2018 performance comment Group revenues increased EBITDA growth continued EBITDA margin improved Group net profit increased 28.3% YoY in 2018, supported to outpace revenue growth, 170bps YoY as contribution 20.4% YoY.
Net income by organic and inorganic rising 37.9% YoY.
The share of the higher margin for the year was expansion.
Organic growth Healthcare segment Healthcare segment rose impacted by US$31.6m for the year stood at 15.4%.
continues to be the biggest to 87.7% of Group EBITDA.
driver of top and bottom line growth.
20 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Non-financial KPIs We monitor non-financial areas in our businesses, with a particular focus on the patient and ensuring the best possible care available.
15.6 7.5 2,186 1,831 1,735 ROCE % Patient Numbers m Licensed Beds Operational Beds No.
inpatients treated approved by being utilized across across all of its at NMCs facilities regulatory authorities NMCs facilities to healthcare facilities.
across all of NMCs treat patients.
ROCE maintained its upward Total number of Total licensed beds Ramp-up at existing trend during 2018 as ramp-up patients treated increased 42.0% YoY facilities and addition of existing facilities and at the Group rose as organic and of further operational integration of acquired 30.1% YoY, crossing inorganic expansion beds through assets progresses.
the 7mn mark in 2018. continued during acquisitions led to a This large patient the year.
34.1% YoY increase in base remains one total operational beds of the key factors across the Group.
that differentiates NMC from its peers.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 21
