Long-term care A c q n u i o r i t e a d r o b a l l o Oncology IVF c & e s u o h - n I Maternity & Fertility Neurology Mothercare Nephrology Orthopedics s l a c Group Strategic Report Our Business Model How we create value Est.
2015 485 beds Centre of Excellence Est.
1975 c. 20k cycles 1,595 beds Healthcare division continues to increase Healthcares share of revenues as well as its contribution share of top and bottom lines continues to rise to profitability NMCs business is built upon 5 distinct Revenue Share EBITDA Share business verticals, 4 within Healthcare 2018 25.9% 74.1% 2018 12.3% 87.7% as well as Product Distribution.
The Companys primary focus in terms of expansion remains in the Healthcare 2017 29.5% 70.5% 2017 12.7% 87.3% businesses, as a result of which its contribution to the top and bottom lines continues to increase.
Healthcare Healthcare Distribution Distribution Source: NMC Source: NMC 8 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 i t r e V Distribution Infrastructure network Pediatrics Operational know-how & experience Cosmetics Operation & Management logy Uro Home care Long-term & Home Care Multi-specialty network Cardiology Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Healthcare Product Distribution Division & Wholesale The Healthcare division is built upon Operational clusters facilitate NMCs Distribution business ranks as one 4 verticals: Multi-Specialty, Maternity institutionalization of the business of the largest in the UAE, offering over & Fertility, Long-term & Home Care As detailed in last years annual report, 115,000 products across two segments: and Operations & Management.
The NMC created operational clusters in Pharma and non-pharma.
Offering Company has an expansive footprint, 2017 to delegate greater responsibility, a complete supply chain solution, operating and managing 189 facilities authority and business control in the the Distribution business provides its across 19 countries.
With a total of 2,186 hands of new General Managers GM clients a wide range of services: sales, licensed beds, the Group continues to appointed for each cluster.
This has marketing, merchandising, promotions, cater to underserved segments of the significantly facilitated real-time warehousing, delivery, analytics and healthcare industry, with a dual focus decision making, improved control technical service.
Customers are offered on 1 unaddressed medical service of day to day operations, better use payment terms ranging from 1 month requirements and 2 filling in geographic of delegated authority and hence, for small enterprises to 120 days for large gaps within its target markets.
Moreover, NMC also acquires inventory as part of the distribution chain The Healthcare business remains the From an operational point of view, and as such, the business requires biggest contributor to NMCs top and NMCs healthcare business is split funding for working capital.
The Companys business into 6 clusters.
This division has been model entails pan-geographic presence done either on the basis of geography In addition to a wide customer reach, within its target markets as well as such as Sharjah or service line such the Distribution business benefits covering the entire spectrum of patients as long-term & home care.
Moreover, from over 44% of its total SKUs being in economic terms.
Medical services the head of the largest asset in each distributed under exclusive agreements.
provided by NMC range from outpatient cluster also acts the General Manager This has proven instrumental in and inpatient services across its network of the respective cluster.
The cluster allowing NMC to sustainably maintain of clinics and hospitals to medical GMs report to three Regional Heads, significantly higher margins than diagnostics and sales at pharmacies.
who in turn report to the COO of the typical distribution businesses.
The Group also ranks as one of the most Healthcare division.
The reporting line of sophisticated private healthcare providers the latter culminates with the Group CEO.
The Groups distribution capabilities in UAE in terms of complexity of care, are supported by a network of over with plans to replicate this successful NMCs management feels that this 780,000 sqft of warehousing space model in other target markets in the cluster-based approach is the best across the UAE, more than 240 vehicles GCC as well.
means of managing the Groups rapid and 769 professionals across the entire expansion by essentially empowering value chain ensuring that over 15,000 The Multi-specialty vertical, which operations at the asset level, while customers of the Distribution division encompasses all of NMCs hospitals, simultaneously increasing accountability.
remains the single largest contributor Moreover, the Company has realized to the Companys income, accounting higher cost synergies as well as launched for 74.5% of Healthcare revenues in 2018. revenue enhancement projects on the Insured individuals account for the back of the new operational structure majority of NMCs patient base and in place since 2017. as such insurance accounts for 79% of Healthcare revenues, while cash payments account for the remainder.
Find out more: This business model reflects our evolved strategy which is described on pages 10 and 11.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 9
