Our Governance 128 Directors Remuneration Report Illustration of 2019 Directors Remuneration Policy The charts below provide estimates of the potential future reward opportunity for each of the Executive Directors based on the 2019 Policy outlined on pages 107 to 129.
Tim Steiner, Chief Executive Officer m Minimum 93% 0.71 7% Target 16% 20% 63% 4.23 1% Maximum 8.4% 22% 69% 7.75 0.6% 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Salary and benefits Pension AIP VCP Duncan Tatton-Brown, Chief Financial Officer m Minimum 93% 0.41 7% Target 26% 27% 45% 1.49 2% Maximum 15% 32% 52% 2.56 1% 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 Salary and benefits Pension AIP VCP Mark Richardson, Chief Operations Officer m Minimum 93% 0.41 7% Target 26% 27% 45% 1.49 2% Maximum 15% 32% 52% 2.56 1% 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 Salary and benefits Pension AIP VCP Neill Abrams, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary m Minimum 93% 0.34 7% Target 24% 23% 51% 1.32 2% Maximum 14% 26% 59% 2.29 1% 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 Salary and benefits Pension AIP VCP Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 2 December 2018 www.
indd 128 05-Feb-19 2:09:48 AM 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 Our Governance 129 Luke Jensen, CEO, Ocado Solutions m Minimum 93% 0.41 7% Target 26% 27% 45% 1.49 2% Maximum 15% 32% 52% 2.57 1% 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 Salary and benefits Pension AIP VCP The table below sets out the assumptions used to calculate the elements of remuneration for each of the scenarios.
AIP VCP Base salary, Benefits and Pension Minimum Performance is below threshold on each Performance is below threshold on each Fixed included metric no annual variable metric no multiple year variable Target or at Performance is in line with the Companys Performance is in line with the Companys Fixed included Expectation expectations 50% of maximum bonus expectations 50% of the average annual initial estimate of the accounting cost of award Maximum Maximum performance is achieved on Maximum performance is achieved Fixed included each metric 100% of maximum bonus 100% of the average annual initial estimate of the accounting cost of award 1.
Maximum bonus under the AIP is 275% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer, 190% for the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and 215% for all other Executive Directors.
The VCP is a one-off award with a performance period of five years and a minimum release period of five years.
The maximum value represents 100% of the average annual initial estimate of the accounting cost of the award, which is intended to give an estimate of the value of the award on grant.
The target value represents 50% of the average annual initial estimate of the accounting cost of the award.
For this illustration, the average annual value has been calculated by dividing the total initial estimate of the accounting cost of the award by five.
The figures use the 2018 base salary, benefits received in 2018 and a pension of 8% of base salary.
The performance related pay figures are based on the proposed awards for 2019, subject to the approval of the 2019 Directors Remuneration Policy at the 2019 AGM.
The Company is aware of the revised regulations requiring the maximum scenario in the above charts to reflect Company share price appreciation of 50% during the relevant performance period for performance targets or measures relating to more than one financial year i. e. Ocados VCP.
For the proposed VCP a share price appreciation of 50% over five years would result in a payout which is less than the payout shown in the target scenario above.
As such, the 50% share price growth scenario has not been included.
In addition, dividend equivalents have not been added to the AIP or VCP share awards.
Basis of Preparation and Audit This report is a Directors Remuneration Report for the 52 weeks ended 2 December 2018, prepared for the purposes of satisfying section 420 1 and section 421 2A of the Companies Act.
It has been drawn up in accordance with the Companies Act and the Code, the Regulations and the Listing Rules.
In accordance with section 497 of the Companies Act and the Regulations, certain parts of this Directors Remuneration Report where indicated have been audited by the Companys auditor, Deloitte LLP.
A copy of this Directors Remuneration Report will be available on the Companys corporate website.
This Directors Remuneration Report is approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Andrew Harrison Remuneration Committee Chairman Ocado Group plc 5 February 2019 Stock Code: OCDO Annual Report and Accounts Ocado Group plc Ocado AR2018 Governance.
indd 129 05-Feb-19 2:09:49 AM 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 Our Governance 130 Directors Report Introduction Amendment of the Articles 131 American Depositary Receipt ADR 134 This section of this Annual Report is a Directors Report required program by the Companies Act 2006 to be prepared by the Directors for Appointment and replacement of 131 the Company and the Group.
Directors Board of Directors CG Statement 61, 138-139 Index of Directors Report Disclosures Change of control 135 This Directors Report should be read in conjunction with the Community Corporate Responsibility 50-53 Strategic Report pages 13 to 57 which includes Corporate Directors insurance and indemnities 131 Responsibility pages 50 to 53, and the Corporate Governance Directors inductions and training CG Statement 70 Statement defined in the index below as the CG Statement Directors interests Directors Remuneration Report 98 pages 62 to 73, which are incorporated by reference into this Directors responsibility statement 136137 Directors Report.
Disclosure of information to auditor 136 Diversity Our People 55 The information required to be disclosed in the Directors Employee engagement Our People 57 Report can be found in this Annual Report on the pages listed Employees with disabilities 136 below.
4C, the information required Future developments of the business Strategic Report 13-57 to be disclosed in the Annual Report under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R is Going concern and viability Strategic Report 49 marked with an asterisk.
statements Greenhouse gas emissions Corporate Responsibility 51 Independent auditor 136 Long-term incentive plans under Directors Remuneration Report Listing Rule 9.4.
3 82-129 Political donations Corporate Responsibility 53 Post-balance sheet events 136 Powers for the Company to issue or 133 buy back its shares Powers of the Directors CG Statement 62-63 Profit loss and dividends 136 Research and development activities Strategic Report 13-57 Restrictions on transfer of securities 132 Rights attaching to shares 132 Risk management and internal control How the business manages risk Strategic Report 44-49 Note 4.8 to the consolidated 193-195 financial statements Share capital 132 Significant agreements 135 Significant related party agreements 134 Significant shareholders 133-134 Corporate governance statement CG Statement 62-73 Strategic Report 13-57, 131 Voting rights 132 Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 2 December 2018 www.
indd 130 05-Feb-19 2:09:56 AM 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 Our Governance 131 Directors Report This Annual Report The Directors are required under the Companies Act 2006 to prepare a Strategic Report for the Company and the Group.
The Strategic Report contains the Directors explanation of the basis on which the Group preserves and creates value over the longer term and the strategy for delivering the objectives of the Group.
The Companies Act requires that the Strategic Report must: contain a fair review of the Groups business and contain a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group: and be a balanced and comprehensive analysis of the development and performance of the Groups business during the financial year and the position of the Groups business at the end of that year, consistent with the size and complexity of the business.
The information that fulfils the strategic report requirements is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 13 to 57.
The Non-Financial Reporting Statement on page 137 forms part of the Strategic Report.
The Company has chosen to include some of the information required to be disclosed in the Directors Report within the Strategic Report pages 13 to 57, as noted above.
Certain matters, including those of sufficient importance, that would otherwise be required to be disclosed in the Directors Report, have been set out in the Strategic Report and Corporate Governance Statement, as noted in the index on page 130.
The Strategic Report and the Directors Report or parts thereof, together with sections of this Annual Report incorporated by reference, are the Management Report for the purposes of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 4.1.
The Strategic Report and the Directors Report, together with the sections of this Annual Report incorporated by reference, have been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon applicable English company law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
For an explanation of how the Board satisfies itself that this Annual Report meets the disclosure requirements, refer to the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 62 to 73 and the Directors responsibility statement on pages 136 and 137.
Amendment of the Articles The Companys Articles, which govern a number of constitutional aspects of the Companys management, may be amended by a special resolution of its shareholders.
Appointment and Replacement of Directors The appointment and replacement of Directors of the Company is governed by the Articles.
Appointment of Directors: A Director may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution of the shareholders or by the Board.
The Board or any committee authorised by the Board may from time to time appoint one or more Directors to hold any employment or executive office for such period and on such terms as they may determine and may also revoke or terminate any such appointment.
A Director appointed by the Board holds office only until the next annual general meeting of the Company and is then eligible for re-appointment.
Retirement of Directors: At every annual general meeting of the Company, each Director shall retire from office and may offer himself for reappointment by the members.
Removal of Directors by Special Resolution: The Company may by special resolution remove any Director before the expiration of his period of office.
Vacation of Office: The office of a Director shall be vacated if: i he resigns: ii his resignation is requested by all of the other Directors not less than three in number : iii he is or has been suffering from mental or physical ill health and the Board resolves that his office be vacated: iv he is absent without the permission of the Board from meetings of the Board whether or not an alternate Director appointed by him attends for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that his office is vacated: v he becomes bankrupt: vi he is prohibited by law from being a Director: vii he ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Act: or viii he is removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
For a description of any changes of the Companys Directors during the period see the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 62 to 73.
Directors Insurance and Indemnities The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance cover for its Directors and officers as permitted under the Articles and the Companies Act.
Such insurance policies were renewed during the period and remain in force as at the date of this Annual Report.
The Company also agrees to indemnify the Directors under an indemnity deed with each Director which contains provisions that are permitted by the director liability provisions of the Companies Act and the Articles.
An indemnity deed is usually entered into by a Director at the time of his or her appointment to the Board.
Stock Code: OCDO Annual Report and Accounts Ocado Group plc Ocado AR2018 Governance.
indd 131 05-Feb-19 2:09:59 AM 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 Our Governance 132 Directors Report Share Capital The Companys authorised and issued ordinary share capital as at 2 December 2018 comprised a single class of ordinary shares.
The shares have a nominal value of 2 pence each.
The ISIN of the shares is GB00B3MBS747.
The LEI of the Company is 213800LO8F61YB8MBC74.
As at 21 January 2019, being the last practicable date prior to publication of this report, the Companys issued share capital consisted of 698,309,337 issued ordinary shares, compared with 631,298,705 issued ordinary shares per the 2017 annual report.
Details of movements in the Companys issued share capital can be found in Note 4.9 to the consolidated financial statements.
During the period, shares in the Company were issued to satisfy options and awards under the Companys share and incentive schemes, as set out in Note 4.9 to the consolidated financial statements.
During the year, the Company completed two placings of shares.
More information can be found on pages 196 and 197.
Rights Attaching to Shares The Companys shares when issued are credited as fully paid and free from all liens, equities, charges, encumbrances and other interests.
All shares have the same rights including voting and dividend rights and rights on a return of capital and restrictions as set out in the Articles, described below.
Except in relation to dividends which have been declared and rights on a liquidation of the Company, the shareholders have no rights to share in the profits of the Company.
The Companys shares are not redeemable.
However, the Company may purchase or contract to purchase any of the shares on or off-market, subject to the Companies Act and the requirements of the Listing Rules, as described below.
No shareholder holds shares in the Company which carry special rights with regard to control of the Company.
There are no shares relating to an employee share scheme which have rights with regard to control of the Company that are not exercisable directly and solely by the employees, other than in the case of the JSOS, where share interests can be transferred to a spouse, civil partner or lineal descendant of a participant in the JSOS or certain trusts under the rules of the JSOS as noted below.
Voting Rights Each ordinary share carries one right to vote at a general meeting of the Company.
At any general meeting, a resolution put to the vote of the meeting shall be decided on a show of hands unless a poll is demanded.
On a show of hands, every member who is present in person or by proxy at a general meeting of the Company shall have one vote.
On a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which they are a holder.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
No shareholder shall be entitled to vote in respect of a share held by him if any call or sum then payable by him in respect of such share remains unpaid or if a member has been served a restriction notice, described below.
JSOS Voting Rights: Of the issued ordinary shares, as at 2 December 2018, 6,401,306 2017: 32,800,390 were held by Wealth Nominees Limited on behalf of Estera Trust Jersey Limited, the independent company which is the trustee of Ocados employee benefit trust the EBT Trustee.
The EBT Trustee has waived its right to exercise its voting rights in respect of 4,516,292 of these ordinary shares, although it may at the request of a participant vote in respect of 1,885,014 ordinary shares which have vested under the JSOS and remain in the trust at period end.
The total of 6,401,306 ordinary shares held by the EBT Trustee are treated as treasury shares in the Groups Consolidated Balance Sheet in accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
As such, calculations of earnings per share for Ocado exclude the 6,401,306 ordinary shares held by the EBT Trustee.
Note 4.9 to the consolidated financial statements provides more information on the Groups accounting treatment of treasury shares.
Restrictions on Transfer of Securities The Companys shares are freely transferable, save as set out below.
The transferor of a share is deemed to remain the holder until the transferees name is entered in the register.
The Board can decline to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share.
The Company does not currently have any partially paid shares.
The Board may also decline to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer: A is duly stamped or certified or otherwise shown to be exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied by the relevant share certificate: B is in respect of only one class of share: and C if to joint transferees, is in favour of not more than four such transferees.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules as defined in the Articles and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 2 December 2018 www.
indd 132 05-Feb-19 2:09:59 AM 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 Our Governance 133 Restriction on Transfer of JSOS Interests: Participants interests under the JSOS are generally non-transferable during the period beginning on acquisition of the interest and ending at the expiry of the relevant restricted period as set out in the JSOS rules.
However, interests can be transferred to a spouse, civil partner or lineal descendant of a participant: a trust under which no person other than the participant or their spouse, civil partner or lineal descendant has a vested beneficial interest: or any other person approved by the EBT Trustee.
If a participant purports to transfer, assign or charge his interest other than as set out above, the EBT Trustee may acquire the participants interest for a total price of 1.
Other than as described above and on page 98 with respect to agreements concerning the Directors shareholdings, the Company is not aware of any agreements existing at the end of the period between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Powers for the Company to Buy Back its Shares The Company was authorised by shareholders on 2 May 2018, at the annual general meeting, to purchase in the market up to 10% of its issued ordinary shares excluding any treasury shares, subject to certain conditions laid out in the authorising resolution.
This standard authority is renewable annually: the Directors will seek to renew this authority at the AGM.
The Directors did not exercise their authority to buy back any shares during the period.
Powers for the Company to Issue its Shares The Directors were granted authority at the previous annual general meeting on 2 May 2018, to allot shares in the Company under two separate resolutions: i up to one-third of the Companys issued share capital: and ii up to two-thirds of the Companys issued share capital in connection with a rights issue.
These authorities apply until the end of the AGM or, if earlier, until the close of business on 1 August 2019.
The Directors were also granted authority at the previous annual general meeting on 2 May 2018 to disapply pre-emption rights.
This resolution which is in accordance with the guidance issued by the Pre-Emption Group the PEG Principles sought the authority to disapply pre-emption rights over 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
A further authority was granted to the Directors to disapply pre-emption rights for an additional 5% for certain acquisitions or specified capital investments as allowed by the PEG Principles.
The Company sought similar authorities at the 2017 annual general meeting, though not in respect of the additional 5%.
The Company will, consistent with the 2018 annual general meeting, continue to seek authority to allot shares on the basis of the authorities sought at the 2018 annual general meeting.
The Company believes such approach is appropriate given that it follows the guidance set by the Pre-Emption Group and Investment Association on the allotment of shares.
During the period, shares in the Company were issued to satisfy options and awards under the Companys option and incentive schemes and to do share placings.
During the period, on 6 February 2018, the Company used the relevant authorities to place 31,463,500 new ordinary shares.
The placing represented approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company prior to the placing.
On 24 May 2018, the Company used the relevant authorities to issue 33,146,200 new ordinary shares.
The placing represented approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company prior to the issue.
Engagement with Shareholders At the 2018 annual general meeting, the Companys share allotment resolution in connection with a rights issue only Resolution 18 received less support than expected by management.
The Company consulted the large shareholders who did not support the resolution.
The Company Secretary received feedback from the larger unsupportive shareholders that indicated they had governance policies that were not wholly aligned with the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles and Investment Association guidance.
The Company will propose an equivalent resolution at the 2019 AGM that follows this guidance, in line with previous years.
This year the Company has conducted an extensive consultation with shareholders about the 2019 Directors Remuneration Policy.
More information about the consultation can be found on pages 83, 110 and 111.
indd 133 05-Feb-19 2:09:59 AM 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 Our Governance 134 Directors Report Significant Shareholders During the period the Company has received notifications, in accordance with Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2R, of interests in 3% or more of the voting rights attaching to the Companys issued share capital, as set out in the table below: Number of Ordinary Percentage of Shares Voting Issued Share Nature of Rights Capital Holding The London & Amsterdam Trust Company Limited 105,041,409 15.05 Direct Indirect The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 94,134,661 13.50 Indirect The Kroger Co. 42,282,300 6.06 Direct Citigroup Global Markets Limited 35,272,069 5.31 Direct Indirect Generation Investment Management LLP 28,618,673 4.54 Indirect These figures represent the number of shares and percentage held as at the date of notification to the Company.
No changes have been disclosed in accordance with Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2R in the period between 2 December 2018 and 21 January 2019 being not more than one month prior to the date of the Notice of Meeting, except as set out in the table below: Number of Ordinary Percentage of Shares Voting Issued Share Nature of Rights Capital Holding The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 90,697,454 12.9885% Indirect These figures represent the number of shares and percentage held as at the date of notification to the Company.
American Depositary Receipt Program The Company has a sponsored level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR program with The Bank of New York Mellon as depositary bank.
Each ADR represents two ordinary shares of the Company.
The ADRs trade on the over-the-counter OTC market in the United States.
The CUSIP number for the ADRs is 674488101, the ISIN is US6744881011 and the symbol is OCDDY.
An ADR is a security that has been created to permit US investors to hold shares in non-US companies and, in a level 1 programme, to trade them on the OTC market in the United States.
In contrast to underlying ordinary shares, ADRs permit US investors to trade securities denominated in US dollars in the US OTC market with US securities dealers.
Were the Company to pay a dividend on its ordinary shares, ADR holders would receive dividend payments in respect of their ADRs in US dollars.
Senior Secured Notes Due 2024 and Irish Stock Exchange The Company has Senior Secured Notes due 2024 the Notes listed on the Irish Stock Exchange and trade on the Global Exchange Market which is the exchange regulated market of the Irish Stock Exchange.
The ISIN of the Notes is XS163400189.
Interest on the notes is payable semi-annually in arrears.
The Notes will mature on 15 June 2024.
The Company may redeem the Notes in whole or in part at any time on or after 15 June 2020, in each case, at the redemption prices set out as part of the offering.
Prior to 15 June 2020, the Company will be entitled to redeem, at its option, all or a portion of the Notes at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest and additional amounts, if any, to the redemption date, plus a make-whole premium.
Prior to 15 June 2020, the Company may, at its option, and on one or more occasions, also redeem up to 40% of the original aggregate principal amount of the Notes with the net proceeds from certain equity offerings.
Prior to 15 June 2020, the Company may redeem during each 12-month period commencing on the Issue Date up to 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes originally issued including the aggregate principal amount of any additional Notes at a redemption price equal to 103% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the applicable redemption date.
Additionally, the Company may redeem the Notes in whole, but not in part, at a price equal to their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest and additional amounts, if any, upon the occurrence of certain changes in applicable tax law.
Significant Related Party Agreements There were no contracts of significance during the period between the Company or any Group company and: 1 a Director of the Company: 2 a close member of a Directors family: or 3 a controlling shareholder of the Company.
indd 134 05-Feb-19 2:09:59 AM 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 Our Governance 135 Change of Control The Company does not have any agreements with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover bid except that it should be noted that: i provisions of the Companys share schemes may cause options and awards granted to employees under such schemes to vest on a takeover: and ii certain members of senior management not including the Directors who were employed prior to 2010 are entitled to a payment contingent on a change of control of the Company or merger of the Company irrespective of loss of employment as set out in his or her respective employment contract.
For further information on the change of control provisions in the Companys share schemes refer to the Directors Remuneration Report on page 126.
Significant Agreements There are a number of key agreements to which the Group is a party that contain certain rights triggered on the change of control of the Company.
Details of the significant agreements are summarised below.
Solutions agreements: The Group has a number of agreements to provide overseas retailers with access to the Ocado Smart Platform comprising the Ocado Groups proprietary MHE and end-to-end software platform.
The key Solutions agreements are those with Casino Supply Chain SAS, Sobeys Capital Incorporated, ICA Sverige AB and The Kroger Co.
Under those agreements, the retailer is entitled to terminate for convenience at any time following the commencement date of the relevant services.
On termination in these circumstances the client would be obliged to pay Ocado termination fees calculated relative to the length of time for which the service has been live.
However, such termination fees are not payable should the client terminate within a certain period following the Company coming under the control of certain of the retailers competitors or if there is a marked deterioration in service levels following the Company coming under the control of any person.
Morrisons Agreements: The Group has a number of commercial arrangements with Morrisons.
If certain competitors of Morrisons acquire more than 50% of the voting rights in the Companys shares or take control of the composition of the Companys Board, or acquire all or substantially all of the Groups business and undertakings, then Morrisons would be entitled to give notice to terminate the agreements by giving not less than four but not more than four and a half years notice.
Following Morrisons giving such a notice, Morrisons would be entitled to procure equivalent services from third parties, the Company ceasing to be Morrisons exclusive supplier of online grocery fulfilment services.
Similarly, all restrictions on the UK retail grocers to whom the Company is entitled to provide certain services would fall away.
At the end of the four to four and a half years notice period, the Company would be required to purchase Morrisons shares in MHE JVCo Limited the owner of the mechanical handling equipment in Dordon CFC.
Sourcing Agreement with Waitrose: The Companys primary retail operating subsidiary, Ocado Retail Limited ORL, is party to the Sourcing Agreement with Waitrose and its parent company, John Lewis.
If certain competitors of Waitrose or John Lewis acquire 50% or more of the shares or control of the Companys Board, then each of ORL, Waitrose and John Lewis may terminate the Sourcing Agreement.
In these circumstances, ORL is obliged to pay Waitrose the lower of 40 million and 4% of the market capitalisation of the Company.
This change of control provision will cease to bind the parties if, prior to the change of control, any party has already given a valid notice of termination.
Amended and Restated Credit Facility Agreement: The Group has an unsecured 100 million credit facility with Barclays Bank PLC, HSBC Bank plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Cooperative Rabobank UA and Goldman Sachs Bank USA for general corporate and working capital purposes.
If there is a change of control of the Company, and agreeable terms cannot be negotiated between the parties within 30 days from the date of the change of control, any lender may cancel their commitment under the facility and all outstanding utilisations for that lender, together with accrued interest, shall be immediately payable.
Senior Secured Notes due 2024: Following a change of control of the Company, holders of the Senior Secured Notes may require it to repurchase all or part of their holding at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of their holding, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
Research and Development Activities The Group has dedicated in-house software, logistics and engineering design and development teams with primary focus on IT and improvements to the customer interfaces, the CFCs and the automation equipment used in them.
Costs relating to the development of computer software are capitalised if it is probable that the future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will accrue to the entity and the costs can be measured reliably.
The Company is carrying out a number of IT and engineering design and build projects with the intention of developing new and improved automation equipment and processes for its warehouses.
Further information is contained in the Strategic Report on pages 13 to 57.
indd 135 05-Feb-19 2:09:59 AM 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 Our Governance 136 Directors Report Future Developments of the Business The Groups likely future developments including its strategy are described in the Strategic Report on pages 13 to 57.
Employees with Disabilities Applications for employment by people with disability are given full and fair consideration bearing in mind the respective aptitudes and abilities of the applicant concerned and our ability to make reasonable adjustments to the role and the work environment.
In the event of existing employees becoming disabled, all reasonable effort is made to ensure that appropriate training is given and their employment within the Group continues.
Training, career development and promotion of a disabled person is, as far as possible, identical to that of an able bodied person.
Profit and Dividends The Groups results for the period are set out in the Consolidated Income Statement on pages 149 and 150.
The Groups loss before tax for the period amounted to 44.4 million 2017: 8.3 million.
The Directors do not propose to pay a dividend for the period 2017: nil.
Post-Balance Sheet Events There have been no material events after the balance sheet date of 2 December 2018 to the date of this Annual Report.
Independent Auditor The Companys auditor, Deloitte, have indicated their willingness to continue their role as the Companys auditor.
Resolutions concerning the reappointment of Deloitte as auditor of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM and set out in the Notice of Meeting.
For further information on the re-appointment of the auditor, refer to pages 80 and 81 of the Audit Committee report.
Disclosure of Information to Auditor In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2016, each Director who held office at the date of the approval of this Directors Report whose names and functions are listed in the Board of Directors section on page 61 of this Annual Report confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditor is unaware, and that each Director has taken all of the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditor is aware of that information.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing this Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the result of the Company and the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Groups corporate website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
indd 136 05-Feb-19 2:09:59 AM 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 Our Governance 137 The Directors consider that this Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors who held office at the date of the approval of this Annual Report whose names and functions are listed on page 61 of this Annual Report confirms, to the best of his or her knowledge, that: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group: and the Management Report as defined in the Directors Report on page 131 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements made in this Annual Report are forward-looking statements.
Such statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from any expected future events or results expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements.
They appear in a number of places throughout this Annual Report and include statements regarding the intentions, beliefs or current expectations of the Directors concerning, amongst other things, the Groups results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the business.
Persons receiving this report should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.
Unless otherwise required by applicable law, regulation or accounting standard, the Group does not undertake to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
Non-Financial Information Statement The table below sets out where stakeholders can find information in our strategic report that relates to non-financial matters, as required under the new requirements.
Reporting requirement Relevant Ocado policies and procedures Where to read more in this report Page Business model Our Business Model 20 Non-financial Our Strategic Objectives: Driving Growth 28 KPIs Our Strategic Objectives: Maximising Efficiency 30 Key Performance Indicators 3435 Employee The Ocado Citizenship Code Our Business Model 20 Engagement The Ocado Way Our People 5457 Group Health and Safety policy Audit Committee Report 55 Whistleblowing policy Nomination Committee Report 75 Ocado Council Directors Remuneration Report 7681 Board diversity policy Directors Report 82129 Employee engagement platform Fuse Human rights The Ocado Citizenship Code Our people 5457 Human Rights policy Social matters The Ocado Way Corporate Responsibility 5053 Our people 5457 Anti-bribery and Anti-Bribery and Money Laundering policy Our people 5457 corruption Environmental The Ocado Way Corporate Responsibility 5053 matters Stock Code: OCDO Annual Report and Accounts Ocado Group plc Ocado AR2018 Governance.
indd 137 05-Feb-19 2:10:00 AM 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 Our Governance 138 Directors Report Lord Rose Tim Steiner, OBE Duncan Tatton-Brown Ruth Anderson Chairman, 69 Chief Executive Officer, 49 Chief Financial Officer, 53 Non-Executive Director, 65 Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 11 March 2013 13 April 2000 1 September 2012 9 March 2010 Committee Membership Relevant Experience Relevant Experience Committee Membership Nomination Chairman Tim is the founding Chief Executive Officer of Ocado, Prior to joining Ocado, Duncan was Chief Financial Audit Chairman, Remuneration, Nomination which he started in 2000.
Prior to Ocado, he spent Officer of Fitness First plc, and previously Group External Appointments External Appointments eight years at Goldman Sachs, during which time Finance Director of Kingfisher plc, one of the worlds Chairman of Fat Face Group Limited: Chairman of Non-Executive Director of Travis Perkins plc: Trustee he was based in London, Hong Kong and New York largest home improvement retailers.
He has also Stylemania Limited, trading as Dressipi: Nonand Director of The Royal Parks: Trustee and in the Fixed Income division.
Tim graduated from been Finance Director of B&Q plc, Chief Financial Executive Director of RM2 International S. A. : Director of The Duke of Edinburghs Award Manchester University in 1992 with an honours Officer of Virgin Entertainment Group and held Chairman of Majid Al Futtaim Retail based in Dubai: degree in Economics, Finance and Accountancy.
various senior finance positions at Burton Group Relevant Experience Non-Executive Director of Time Out Group plc: Plc.
He has previously held Non-Executive Director Since retiring from KPMG ten years ago, Ruth has Chairman of Zenith positions at Rentokil Initial plc and ZPG plc.
been a non-executive director at three UK listed Relevant Experience companies.
Following her retirement from the Lord Rose has worked in retail for over 40 years.
Coats Group plc board last year she chairs the audit He has held Chief Executive Officer positions at committee of two listed companies and of The Argos plc, Booker plc, Arcadia Group plc and Marks Royal Parks charitable public corporation.
He was Chairman of Marks and vice chairman of KPMG in the UK from 2004 to 2009 Spencer plc from 2008 to 2011.
Lord Rose was and prior to that a member of the KPMG UK board knighted in 2008 for services to the retail industry from 1998 to 2004.
She is a fellow of the Institute of and corporate social responsibility, and granted a Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and a life peerage in August 2014. member of the Chartered Institute of Taxation.
Ruth holds a BA joint honours degree in French and Spanish from the University of Bradford.
Mark Richardson Neill Abrams Luke Jensen Andrew Harrison Group General Counsel and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operations Officer, 54 Non-Executive Director, 48 Company Secretary, 54 Ocado Solutions, 52 Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 1 March 2016 3 February 2012 8 September 2000 1 March 2018 Committee Membership External Appointments External Appointments External Appointments Audit, Remuneration Chairman, Nomination Non-Executive Director of Paneltex Limited Non-Executive Director of Mr Price Group Limited, Non-Executive Director of Hana Group SAS, External Appointments Relevant Experience listed in South Africa registered in France Trustee of The Mix: Chairman of House Simple Mark was Head of Technology at Ocado from 2001 Relevant Experience Relevant Experience Ltd: Partner of Freston Ventures Investments LLP: until he joined the Board in 2012.
He is responsible Neill was on the founding team of Ocado, joining Luke joined Ocado as Chief Executive Officer of Director of Chikn Ltd for the day-to-day running of the Ocado operation, the Board in September 2000.
He has Board Ocado Solutions in 2017, before joining the Board including CFCs, logistics developments, customer Relevant Experience responsibility for the General Merchandise division in 2018.
Prior to joining Ocado, Luke was a Senior service, business planning, engineering and Andrew is a partner at Freston Road Investments and the Corporate Infrastructure departments Advisor at Boston Consulting Group and previously technology.
Mark is a Director of Paneltex Limited, which invests in consumer brands that challenge Legal, Governance, Insurance, Real Estate, Human Group Development Director at Sainsburys, where a company in which the Group holds a 25% the status quo.
He chairs one of the investments, Resources, Government Relations and Corporate he was responsible for online and digital and all shareholding.
Prior to joining Ocado, Mark held a House Simple, an online estate agent, and advises Responsibility.
Prior to Ocado, he was a barrister in customer facing digital activities.
During his career, number of IT positions at the John Lewis Partnership, and works with others such as Five Guys, MOD Pizza, practice at One Essex Court and spent nine years Luke has also worked at OC&C Strategy Consultants including Head of Selling Systems at Waitrose.
Andrew previously served at Goldman Sachs in London in the investment where he was Partner and Head of the Retail and graduated from University College, London with a as Chairman of Carphone Warehouse Ltd and was banking and legal divisions.
Neill holds degrees in Consumer practice.
He graduated from ESCP and degree in Physics.
formerly Group CEO of Carphone Warehouse PLC industrial psychology and law from the University of holds a Masters in Business and Administration before its merger which he led with Dixons Group the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg and a Masters from INSEAD.
During his career he has successfully grown in Law from Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge.
numerous new businesses, has international retail He is admitted as a barrister in England & Wales, experience and developed and ran a global services an attorney in New York and an advocate in South business.
Andrew graduated from The University of Africa.
Leeds with a BA Hons in Management Studies in 1992.
indd 138 05-Feb-19 2:10:00 AM 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 26237 4 February 2019 10:05 pm Proof 1 Our Governance 139 Duncan Tatton-Brown Ruth Anderson Douglas McCallum Jrn Rausing Chief Financial Officer, 53 Non-Executive Director, 65 Non-Executive Director, 52 Non-Executive Director, 58 Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 1 September 2012 9 March 2010 3 October 2011 13 March 2003 Relevant Experience Committee Membership Committee Membership Committee Membership Prior to joining Ocado, Duncan was Chief Financial Audit Chairman, Remuneration, Nomination Remuneration, Nomination Nomination Officer of Fitness First plc, and previously Group External Appointments External Appointments External Appointments Finance Director of Kingfisher plc, one of the worlds Non-Executive Director of Travis Perkins plc: Trustee Chairman of Trainline and PhotoBox Group Board Member of Tetra Laval: Board Member largest home improvement retailers.
He has also and Director of The Royal Parks: Trustee and of Alfa Laval AB: Board Member of DeLaval Holding been Finance Director of B&Q plc, Chief Financial Relevant Experience Director of The Duke of Edinburghs Award AB: Member of the Board of Governors of the Officer of Virgin Entertainment Group and held Douglas has been a pioneer of the Internet industry Museum of London various senior finance positions at Burton Group Relevant Experience for a number of years, having been at eBay Inc. from Plc.
He has previously held Non-Executive Director Since retiring from KPMG ten years ago, Ruth has 2001 to 2014, where he led the UK business and Relevant Experience positions at Rentokil Initial plc and ZPG plc.
been a non-executive director at three UK listed then turned around the pan-European business.
Jrn has over 25 years experience in corporate companies.
Following her retirement from the Prior to joining eBay Inc. he was founder and development and international mergers and Coats Group plc board last year she chairs the audit general manager of a number of businesses in the acquisitions.
Jrn holds a degree in Business committee of two listed companies and of The Internet, broadcasting, software and hardware Administration from Lund University, Sweden.
Royal Parks charitable public corporation.
Douglas read Philosophy, Politics and vice chairman of KPMG in the UK from 2004 to 2009 Economics at the University of Oxford, and has an and prior to that a member of the KPMG UK board MBA from Harvard Business School.
She is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and a member of the Chartered Institute of Taxation.
Luke Jensen Andrew Harrison Emma Lloyd Julie Southern Chief Executive Officer, Non-Executive Director, 48 Non-Executive Director, 49 Non-Executive Director, 58 Ocado Solutions, 52 Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 1 March 2016 1 December 2016 1 September 2018 1 March 2018 Committee Membership Committee Membership Committee Membership External Appointments Audit, Remuneration Chairman, Nomination Nomination Audit, Nomination Non-Executive Director of Hana Group SAS, External Appointments External Appointments External Appointments registered in France Trustee of The Mix: Chairman of House Simple Group Director of Business Development, Strategic Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Relevant Experience Ltd: Partner of Freston Ventures Investments LLP: Partnerships and Investments of Sky, a Comcast Committee of Cineworld Group plc: Non-Executive Luke joined Ocado as Chief Executive Officer of Director of Chikn Ltd Company Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Ocado Solutions in 2017, before joining the Board DFS Furniture plc stepping down on 31 March 2019 : Relevant Experience Relevant Experience in 2018.
Prior to joining Ocado, Luke was a Senior Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Andrew is a partner at Freston Road Investments As Skys Group Director of Business Development Advisor at Boston Consulting Group and previously Committee of Rentokil Initial plc: Non-Executive which invests in consumer brands that challenge and Strategic Partnerships, Emma identifies and Group Development Director at Sainsburys, where Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee at the status quo.
He chairs one of the investments, nurtures key strategic relationships with Skys he was responsible for online and digital and all NXP Semiconductors NV: Non-Executive Director and House Simple, an online estate agent, and advises technology and content partners.
Emma has customer facing digital activities.
During his career, Chairman of the Audit Committee of easyJet plc and works with others such as Five Guys, MOD Pizza, overseen the creation of Skys start-up venture Luke has also worked at OC&C Strategy Consultants Secret Cinema, Cubitts.
Andrew previously served investment function and US presence, leading to the Relevant Experience where he was Partner and Head of the Retail and as Chairman of Carphone Warehouse Ltd and was investment in over 25 technology start-ups.
Emma Previously a finance director at Virgin Atlantic and at Consumer practice.
He graduated from ESCP and formerly Group CEO of Carphone Warehouse PLC graduated with a BA Joint Hons in Management Porsche Cars Great Britain, Julie has extensive executive holds a Masters in Business and Administration before its merger which he led with Dixons Group Studies and Geography from the University of Leeds experience and has chaired audit committees at from INSEAD.
During his career he has successfully grown in 1992. various FTSE listed companies with operations both in numerous new businesses, has international retail the UK and internationally.
She is also an experienced experience and developed and ran a global services remuneration committee chairman.
Andrew graduated from The University of Hons in Economics from the University of Cambridge Leeds with a BA Hons in Management Studies in and is a Chartered Accountant.
The Directors Report is approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Neill Abrams Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Ocado Group plc 5 February 2019 Stock Code: OCDO Annual Report and Accounts Ocado Group plc Ocado AR2018 Governance.
