Strategic Report 20 Business Model We established our business to revolutionise the way the world shops.
We provide our retail customers and Solutions partners with the best proposition in online shopping, based on our constantly evolving proprietary, market-leading technology.
Our Inputs Ocado Smart Platform People Our business is built by passionate people who can find solutions to problems, and go the extra mile to deliver a high quality service.
Our technology and engineering development teams are crucial to our ability to improve and advance OSP is our modular, automated online retail fulfilment and delivery our intellectual property rapidly, allowing us to maintain solution.
Being modular, it will be highly scalable with the capability technological leadership.
of being flexible to each partners needs.
We are continuously Read more about Our People on pages 56 and 57 developing it to support our current and future Solutions partners.
OSP gives us the opportunity to continue to disrupt retail markets around the world, while satisfying the changing needs of consumers.
Technology We believe it is the leading end-to-end e-commerce solution in Our technology estate is broad and deep, covering the world, both for the consumer experience and its operational real-time control systems and robotics, computer vision economics.
OSP is what brings us real and sustained competitive systems, machine learning and AI, data science, forecasting advantage.
and routing systems, inference engines, the cloud, the Internet of Things, big data and more.
Read more about Our Proprietary Knowledge on pages 32 and 33 Read more about how our technology improves our Operational Efficiency on page 30 Intellectual property To retain our competitive advantage through our technology, we take rigorous measures to protect our intellectual property, and file many patent applications to safeguard it.
Read more about Our proprietary Knowledge on pages 32 and 33 Financial We invest in our people, our technologies and our infrastructure, aiming to ensure we remain a market leader.
Read more about our Capital Efficiency on page 31 Our culture and values We are proud of what we do connect, guide and inspire our people Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 2 December 2018 www.
