Ocado Solutions and Ocado Retail Creating Value for: Solutions Customers Our Solutions business supports We offer our retail partners a faster, more flexible and more our partners with their online cost-efficient way of operating online retail.
proposition in grocery retail Ocado Solutions takes our online know-how to retailers around the Shareholders world.
Using our proprietary best-in-class technology, combined As revenue grows from both our Retail customers and with the knowledge and experience of our Retail business, we from new Solutions partners, we will be able to reinvest aim to become the e-commerce solutions partner of choice for in innovation, grow our business and improve our leading retailers around the world: those looking for market-leading profitability, increasing shareholder value.
efficiency, with unsurpassed operational economics, consumer experience and service.
Current partners include: Retail Customers Bon Preu: The leading Kroger: One of the worlds We offer consumers a highly attractive service, wider and Catalan food retailer largest grocery retailers and a fresher ranges, and competitive prices.
Groupe Casino: A multiple market leader in the US brand retailer with top-three Morrisons: A leading UK positions in several countries supermarket group Our People ICA Group: Swedens leading Sobeys: Canadas second We invest a significant amount of time and resources in grocery retailer largest food retailer recruiting talented employees and developing their skills, aiming to make Ocado an employer of choice.
Our Retail business demonstrates Society the depth of our online experience The Ocado Foundation helps our customers and employees make a difference through charitable and Our growing retail business encompasses both our Ocado.
fundraising activities across the UK.
com webshop and our general merchandise destination sites Fetch, Fabled and Sizzle.
com, customers can shop our extensive product range of over 54,000 products, at The Environment competitive prices and on their chosen devices, and receive We aim to continually reduce our carbon emissions and what we believe to be industry-leading customer service levels.
improve our waste efficiency, helped by the automation We constantly improve the proposition based on continual within our infrastructure.
learning and customer feedback and needs thus continually improving our Solutions offer to partners and our service to Read more about How We Create Value consumers.
on page 22 We are in it together We can be even better Read more about our values in the People section on page 56 Stock Code: OCDO Annual Report and Accounts Ocado Group plc Ocado AR2018 Strategic Report.
