Strategic Report 22 How We Create Value The model below describes how we take our capital inputs and, through a virtuous circle of investment, innovation, efficiency and growth, turn them into value for our two business units.
By taking advantage of international opportunities, this virtuous cycle will turn faster over time, which we expect to translate into higher returns on capital.
Investment We continuously invest in our people, our technology and our platform, to ensure we maintain a competitive edge and market leadership.
The efficiencies of our model and the growth we achieve in the online channel enable us to invest to innovate and grow.
Innovation Growth We have nearly 20 years Our platform allows an 1 experience of creating new outstanding shopping experience ways of making the consumer with high order accuracy, minimal shopping experience easier and substitutions, fresher products due more exciting.
We have developed to shorter supply chains, extensive 2 4 a unique end-to-end operating ranges and competitive pricing.
solution for online grocery retail This helps us, and will help our based on proprietary technology partners, attract and retain and IP, and we are continuously customers for further growth 3 enhancing this, to maintain within the business.
Efficiency We use technology and automation to ensure high levels of operational efficiency with, for example, high labour productivity, low product waste, high stock turnover, and high product accuracy.
We have been able to do this with high capital efficiency.
Ocado Solutions Ocado Retail Customer Segment Customer Segment Creating the best platform for retailers around the world Creating the best grocery shopping experience for UK retail looking to build winning e-commerce operations.
Value Proposition Value Proposition We offer our solutions as As their online retail Market-leading service in Extensive range and fresher an end-to-end service, with business grows, we can order accuracy, on-time products.
fee structures aligned to scale our flexible solutions, delivery and ease of use.
Competitive prices and low the growth of each partner.
Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 2 December 2018 www.
indd 22 05-Feb-19 2:09:31 AM 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 Strategic Report 23 Our Solutions Business Partnering with leading retailers We offer these partners: We offer the worlds retailers a unique, scalable, customised end-toSoftware: a cloud-based architecture that allows us to deploy the end e-commerce and fulfilment solution.
We are building a platform constantly updating Ocado Smart Platform.
that will bring them market-leading efficiency with unsurpassed Fulfilment hardware: warehouse automation that can grow in a operational economics, consumer experience and service.
ensures their continuing competitiveness against challengers, big Services and support: account management and support services and small.
to enable a smooth launch and ongoing support.
We partner with grocery retailers that can become market leaders online, allowing us to be with the largest player in any given market.
The greater the potential of each retail partner, the higher the value generated in the medium to long term.
Key Sobeys Morrisons Existing CFC Planned CFC Developing a CFC for the Two existing CFCs including Erith Greater Toronto area and store pick fulfilment for regions not served by CFCs ICA Group Developing a CFC for Greater Stockholm area and store pick fulfilment nationwide Groupe Casino Developing a CFC to serve the Paris area and neighbouring regions Bon Preu Kroger Business launched using Working on three initial OSP software in manual CFC sites, with 20 planned warehouse for first three years How we typically structure these deals Short-term: The signing-on fee is payable Medium-term 02 years : The CFC Long-term 2 years : Capacity-related fees immediately when a new deal is signed.
preparation fees reflect the future size of the which grow as the partner takes on more CFC and the costs associated with adapting the capacity.
platform to the needs of the partner.
Timeline of deals Number of existing or 20 planned CFCs or part CFCs May August June November January May May 2013 2016 2017 2017 2018 2018 2018 Morrisons Morrisons Bon Preu Groupe Casino Sobeys ICA Group Kroger 1 1 1 1 1 Stock Code: OCDO Annual Report and Accounts Ocado Group plc Ocado AR2018 Strategic Report.
