Strategic Report 18 The Marketplace The Global Grocery Market The UK Grocery Market The global market we operate in represents around half of all retail Grocery is the largest retail segment in the UK, and is forecast to grow sales.
The global food distribution market is worth 5.6 trillion.
by 15% over the next five years, from 190 billion to 218 billion IGD.
IGD also forecasts that over the next five years, the online share of the Roughly 30% of all supply chain costs are spent on warehousing and market will grow 52% to over 17 billion.
UK shoppers are increasingly last mile delivery.
digitally dependent, and it is becoming more important to use The Institute of Grocery Distribution IGD estimates that by 2022, technology to improve the customer experience, whether online or the global grocery retail market will expand by approximately $2.7 in store, as well as in managing costs and enhancing loyalty across trillion 2.12 trillion at current exchange rate due to growth in both the industry.
UK retailers have also been experiencing cost increases, population and spending power.
This will provide attractive and primarily from labour inflation.
Alongside this, retailers and the market sustainable opportunities for retailers.
Europe and North America have been having to adapt to the fall in the value of sterling which has combined will account for 40% of total grocery sales by 2022. increased the cost of imported goods.
An IGD research report confirms grocery retail is undergoing a revolution, driven by rising shopper expectations.
While long-standing needs remain Ocado acts as a key catalyst for this shift as a retailer in its value, choice and convenience, shoppers expectations of how these own right in the UK, and because it can license its unique and needs are met will continually evolve.
Societal shifts and transformative proprietary technology to third parties in other markets.
technology in particular, will shape the online store of the future.
The Options for Grocery Retailers Societal Shifts Globally the population is ageing meaning Aside from the choice of developing online capabilities in-house, appropriate products and convenient ordering, urbanising meaning retailers have three main options when considering how to grow smaller kitchens and less storage and becoming more health and manage their online proposition: conscious.
Ranges and services will need to evolve to succeed.
Store pick: Fulfilment is done at a local level, in either a live store Transformative Technology Artificial intelligence AI will enable environment or dark store using a degree of automation.
online stores to be more personalised and to anticipate demand, 2.
Outsourcing to third parties: A customer orders from their while developments in robotics can provide more convenient, efficient chosen retailer, and their shopping is delivered through fulfilment.
Smart, interconnected devices mean shoppers can access the a third-party shopping service.
store whenever and wherever they want.
Centralised fulfilment centre: A customer orders from their The shopper of the future will therefore expect more choice, chosen retailer who operates through a manual or automated convenience, inspiration, personalisation and transparency.
Ocado Solutions provides the only complete package stores will play an essential part in meeting these needs.
with all the proven mechanical handling equipment and software needed.
The Online Grocery Market Worldwide Consumers shifting channel to online is taking place not only in the What This Means for Ocado UK, but in all other markets where the service is available to them at a Ocado is in an advantageous position, as a leading pure online competitive price.
retailer in the UK, and as a partner to other innovative and forward-looking grocery retailers the world over.
The US online grocery market will grow by 149% by 2023 and account for 3.5% of the total US grocery market Ocado Retail Chinas online grocery market will grow by 286% by 2023 and As a pure play online retailer, we are well placed to capitalise on account for 11.2% of the total Chinese grocery market the shift to online channels.
We continue to grow in excess of growth rate in the market, building capacity and capturing market IGDs research notes that online and offline grocery shopping are share.
Growth enables us to further invest and innovate.
merging, and an online store will be increasingly vital to complement the physical store.
The digital world typically evolves faster than the Ocado Solutions physical world, and new generations of shoppers will be more likely to Based on our Ocado Smart Platform, we are ideally positioned view online ordering as the norm.
to take advantage of the accelerating changes in e-commerce.
Working with the worlds leading grocery retailers, we can change the way the world shops.
Stock Code: OCDO Annual Report and Accounts Ocado Group plc Ocado AR2018 Strategic Report.
