Strategic Report 24 Our Retail Business Ocado is online only and 100% home delivery Ocado offers consumers a different proposition because we are built differently.
We are built to be online and home delivery only.
But more importantly, we are built to offer an outstanding shopping and customer service experience, based on doing the right things for our customers and offering them the best place to shop.
1.6bn 14% 721,000 sales, 12% share of UK online active customers, in 2017 18 grocery market 11% in 2017 18 Dispelling the myths Our compelling, marketAwards Ocado Retail has demonstrated that it is Ocados proposition has been recognised leading proposition possible to make money in online food in many awards: Were changing the way the world shops, with retail, that fresh food delivery can thrive, our service, range, value and ease of use all and that online grocery is used across all focused on offering our customers a superior demographics: service.
A Ocado Retail is profitable, with an EBITDA Industry leading service with 99% order margin of 5.6%.
accuracy and 95% of orders delivered on Approximately half our sales are fresh time.
Customers choose 1-hour delivery goods, and at 0.8%, our waste figures are slots, available every 30 minutes between significantly below the industry average.
Today, 6% of the UK grocery market The widest range 54,000 separate items is online, and those who use Ocado available on ocado.
com, including Ocado are increasingly representative of UK own-label, with freshness guaranteed.
Attractive prices price matched with We continue to grow even in catchments Tesco.
com to keep us competitive, with where more than 25% of households shop regular offers.
Ease of use simple shopping interfaces, with continually improved functionality, via the app, website and Alexa voice ordering, on a customers chosen device.
A See Alternative Performance Measures on pages 229 and 230 Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 2 December 2018 www.
indd 24 05-Feb-19 2:09:48 AM 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 Strategic Report 25 The benefits our unique model brings to our consumer proposition Centralised hub and Supplier relationships spoke network The ability for suppliers to deliver in bulk to our CFCs brings From four CFCs and 16 spokes we reach over 74% 1. them a huge advantage, especially for small suppliers.
Around 30% of deliveries are four CFCs offer them over 74% UK coverage, so our model made directly from CFCs.
The centralised network means we can support smaller suppliers.
We promote this, of large CFCs allows us to offer a wider range and supporting those quality suppliers who are unable to supply fresher products than supermarkets.
It also results in other supermarkets, in our search for the next new wave of lower wastage and better economies of scale.
Read more about Responsible Sourcing on page 53 Proprietary automated fulfilment With our order fulfilment system, our planned sales 2.
General Merchandise capacity for our Andover and Erith CFCs is 1.5 Alongside our traditional grocery range we also have a growing billion, which would mean over 280,000 orders per general merchandise business, which now contributes over 7% week.
Total labour hours used to fulfil an order A of our retail revenue.
This includes categories you may typically including inbound delivery to CFC but not delivery find in supermarkets, either available within our Ocado.
com to customer runs at 14 minutes, which we believe hypermarket, or at our specialist sites.
These sites include Fetch, typically saves up to one hour of labour when our specialist pet shop: Sizzle, our kitchen and dining ware store: compared with store-based fulfilment used by and Fabled, in partnership with Marie Claire, our beauty store.
These options allow us to vastly extend our range beyond that of conventional supermarkets, while also providing existing and expanding high street brands with an online outlet.
End-to-end software Read more about General Merchandise capabilities on page 28 The customer interface, fulfilment, and delivery 3. are all dynamically interlinked, with advanced analytics optimising the entire process.
This enables a personalised and accurate customer experience through real-time inventory monitoring, slot booking, guaranteed product life, and much more.
Everything is tested in a live environment, with real-time feedback and experience from 700,000 customers, allowing us to learn, iterate and improve quickly.
A See Alternative Performance Measures on pages 229 and 230 Stock Code: OCDO Annual Report and Accounts Ocado Group plc Ocado AR2018 Strategic Report.
indd 25 05-Feb-19 2:09:50 AM 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 Strategic Report 26 Strategy This is a transformational period for Ocado.
We have developed unique and proprietary technology to offer retailers an end-to-end operating solution for grocery retail that enables them to meet the changing needs of consumers.
Tim Steiner CHANGING THE WAY THE WORLD SHOPS Chief Executive Officer We are transforming shopping, making it as easy and efficient as possible.
We are online grocery Our UK Retail business demonstrates the success of this technology platform, and it continues to outpace our competition in service pioneers.
We have unique knowledge and inspired and growth.
Our new CFC in Erith, at full capacity, will be the largest people delivering unsurpassed service to all our automated warehouse for online grocery retail in the world.
It will customers and continuous advantage to our also demonstrate the success of our platform, and its scalability, partners with our innovative technologies and adaptability and efficiency.
We are now beginning to partner with some of the worlds biggest, best and most innovative retailers, to help them redefine the shopping experience for their own customers.
As a result, we are beginning to fulfil our ambition to change the way the world shops.
Driving growth: continually Maximising efficiency: always Utilising proprietary knowledge: enhancing the value of our striving to develop our technology using our IP to create competitive proposition for our retail customers and operations, to consistently advantages in our retail business, and and Solutions partners.
improve our economic and operating further monetising our IP through our performance.
Read more about Driving Growth Read more about Maximising Read more about Utilising on pages 28 and 29 Efficiency on pages 30 and 31 Proprietary Knowledge on pages 32 and 33 Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 2 December 2018 www.
indd 26 05-Feb-19 2:09:52 AM 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 Strategic Report 27 Actions Constantly improve our Strengthen Continuously develop more proposition to customers our brands capital and operationally efficient infrastructure For our retail customers, this is based Develop and expand brand offerings solutions on service, range, price and ease of use.
to our retail customers, aligning the Ocado brand with our leading Operating efficiency: optimise every For our Solutions partners, it means proposition.
aspect of the fulfilment and delivery life continually enhancing the Ocado Smart cycle, to improve our economics and Platform and extending our offer with Reinforce the Ocado Solutions brand customer proposition.
based on partnership announcements and validity of model.
Promote the Capital efficiency: continuously lower strength and value of our Technology the cost of investment required for and Engineering brands to attract the online grocery activities, to support highest quality talent.
growth in our own retail business and for our platform partners.
Constantly enhance Enable current and end-to-end technology future partners systems online businesses Retain our technological leadership Continuously develop and enhance through ceaseless pursuit of innovation our Ocado Smart Platform to enable ahead of the market.
a compelling customer proposition, which will add significant value for Use this cutting-edge IP to power our partners.
world-leading end-to-end e-commerce, fulfilment and logistics solutions.
Stock Code: OCDO Annual Report and Accounts Ocado Group plc Ocado AR2018 Strategic Report.
indd 27 05-Feb-19 2:09:53 AM 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 Strategic Report 28 Strategy Driving Growth Progress Grocery retail With 1.6 billion sales, we have grown strongly over the year, our 12% Ocado Retail is changing the way the world shops, demonstrating growth in 2018 outperforming a slow total UK grocery market that superior service, range, value and ease of use, all focused on offering grew 2.8%, and outgrowing the online retail market where compound our customers a world-class service.
This breeds loyalty, and attracting annual growth is forecast to be 8.8% through 2023.
We now have and retaining more customers drives our growth and market share.
721,000 active customers, an increase of 11% over the year.
This is why we analyse and constantly improve every element of the consumer shopping experience, whether through the easy-to-use We have introduced new ways to help customers shop, such as interfaces, the freshness of our products, the breadth and availability our in app Meals and Lists feature.
This allows customers to group of our range, or the competitiveness or our prices.
items together into a meal and add it to their basket with one click.
We have also added receipts into the app.
This gives live updates of when your product will expire, what you had delivered, and the price you pay for substitutions.
We are currently testing a new immediacy proposition offering groceries within the hour in certain London postcodes.
We are always experimenting, and if customers approve of the service, well be expanding it.
KPIs: We have also led the market in product innovation, for example, increasing our vegetarian and vegan ranges by 15% and adding 600 296,000 106.85 new products to our organic ranges.
Ocado Own Brand continues to Average orders per week Average order size grow from strength to strength.
Last year sales increased by 15%, FY17: 264,000 FY17: 107.28 making this a brand that is now worth over 140 million a year.
Future focus We will continue to provide a superior proposition based upon our 721,000 54,000 ability to do unique things for our customer, and our ability to test in a Active customer base SKU count live environment, iterating quickly to refine our offering across our four FY17: 645,000 FY17: 49,000 retail pillars of range, value, ease of use and service.
General merchandise retail 6 Thanks to our centralised operating model, weve been able to expand our offer beyond what would typically be found in a supermarket.
Number of Ocado Solutions Alongside the general merchandise products we sell on our hypermarket, deals signed to date we operate three speciality destination sites.
These include Fetch, our FY17: 3 pet store: Sizzle, our kitchen and dining store: and Fabled, in partnership Numbers on a 52 week basis with Marie Claire, our premium beauty offering.
Risks: Progress Risk of decline in high service levels Our general merchandise offer continues to grow.
We have expanded our range, adding high-quality retail brands such as Failure to develop retail proposition to appeal to broader Joules, FatFace and Cowshed to the market-leading brands we customer and sustain growth rates, and the risk of discontinuing offer.
Such highly regarded names are helping us create an online the Waitrose sourcing agreement when it expires in 2020 high street, where people need not shop anywhere but Ocado.
Failure to develop sufficient management, technology and engineering capability or bandwidth to achieve all our strategic In addition, this year, we opened our second General Merchandise priorities Distribution Center GMDC, close to Erith, as we have hit maximum sales capacity at our first GMDC.
This has given us the Risk of not being able to execute effectively and efficiently the capacity to continue to grow our GM business.
many Ocado Solutions deals, including where the platform performance proves to be less reliable, potentially resulting in increased project costs and less profitable Solutions deals, also affecting our ability to attract and retain Ocado Solutions partners Risk of negative implications caused by final Brexit terms, such as disruption to supply chains and increased in import costs or difficulty in hiring employees Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 2 December 2018 www.
indd 28 05-Feb-19 2:09:54 AM 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 Strategic Report 29 Case Study Solutions business Our Solutions business offers us the ability to take advantage of our best-in-class technology, and the knowledge and experience we gain from our retail business.
We can do this by signing partnership Opening in Ohio agreements with leading retailers around the world, who wish to develop and grow their online presence.
We aim to be the leading end-to-end solution anywhere in the world, from both a consumer experience and operational economics perspective.
We believe this goal will be reinforced by working with leading global retailers.
Progress We signed three further international partnership agreements in 2018.
For Sobeys, Ocado will develop their first CFC in the Greater Toronto area.
Working with ICA in Sweden, we are adapting our model to suit the needs of a different business model, based on stores owned by independent retailers, demonstrating the adaptability of the platform.
The partnership with Kroger represents an exciting step up in scale, with 20 CFCs planned for the US.
This is a significant step toward both solidifying In parallel, we continue to support our existing partners.
For Morrisons, our partnership with Ocado and redefining the this means the continued roll-out of store-picking capability, and Kroger customer experience.
The alliance will shipping orders from Erith.
For Casino, this means the ongoing design bring to the US Ocados unparalleled innovation and development of a CFC in the South of Paris, and for Bon Preu this means continued support of their online solution, powered by OSP, and technologies.
This is exciting news and which went live in November.
will help accelerate our vision to serve America through food inspiration and uplift.
We are making the necessary changes to organisational structure and allocation of resource to meet the increased demands of scaling Alex Tosolini Solutions activity.
As we increase in scale, we increase our ability to SVP of Business Development innovate to improve the experience for our customers and partners.
Future focus In an agreement announced in May 2018, Kroger and Ocado formed a As the shift of shopping channel continues to accelerate around the strategic partnership.
The US grocery retailer ordered three CFCs from world, we remain well positioned to act as a market leader within us by the end of 2018, and is expected to order 20 CFCs over the first online grocery.
The deals with Sobeys, ICA and Kroger provide three years of the agreement.
With Kroger, well open the first of these continued validation of our business model.
We expect to do more in Monroe, Ohio, just north of Cincinnati, where Kroger is based.
The deals in the medium term, in a number of regions.
investment by Kroger is intended to optimise its already significant density in a large region, which also includes the Indianapolis, Columbus and Louisville markets.
The Monroe facility will cover 335,000 sq ft and is expected to generate more than 410 new jobs.
It will go live in 2021, with each new CFC expected to go live two years from the order being placed.
Kroger is investing across the business to scale its e-commerce operations, and is investing $55 million to build the CFC.
Ocado will be installing Key: and maintaining modules of mechanical handling equipment, and Constantly improve proposition to customers digital and robotic capabilities sufficient to provide an agreed level of throughput.
Stregthen our brands Continuously develop more capital and operationally efficient infrastructure solutions Stock Code: OCDO Annual Report and Accounts Ocado Group plc Ocado AR2018 Strategic Report.
indd 29 05-Feb-19 2:09:54 AM 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 Strategic Report 30 Strategy Maximising Efficiency While weve been developing this second-generation bot, which Operational efficiency forms the majority of the fleet in Erith, we are also developing the We aim for efficiency in every process throughout our operations, third-generation bot, and were currently testing this.
We have from our customer-facing interfaces in the webshop, mobile and concurrent teams developing new generations, because of the length tablet applications, through to the routing software that supports of the development cycle.
This is the bot well use for the majority our deliveries.
That means adhering to our key design principles of of our international customers.
The third-generation bot is built on automation, use of our own technology, and centralisation the three 75% new components compared to the second generation, so is a foundations behind our industry-leading CFCs.
Removing several of the typical human processes from grocery retail and Weve dramatically increased our testing capabilities to build this.
A distribution helps us operate with product waste of 0.8% of retail revenue In 2017 we had one test grid in Hatfield that ran ten hours a day, five which we believe is the lowest in the industry and our digital stock days a week.
Weve now moved into a new facility three times larger, management systems enable perfect first in, first out stock rotation.
and have six test grids running 24 7, giving us a significant increase Progress in our capability to design and engineer and prove new hardware.
Our fulfilment solution is critical, and we are planning to roll more of Today, before we make a software change to the fleet running in it out faster than even we anticipated.
Developing a new generation Andover, that software will have been through over 1,000 hours of bots helps us bring down long-term cost of ownership, the of testing, which we werent previously capable of doing.
All in all, combination of capital and running costs.
In the first half of the year, improvements mean the engineering cost on the Andover fleet is we started to take delivery of our second-generation bot.
This has reducing dramatically, with costs per order reduced 66% during about 25% new components compared to our first generation.
We measure efficiency within our CFCs by average units processed per labour hour UPH.
In our mature CFCs, this year the UPH figure was 164, stable on the prior year.
As we increase customer density in existing geographies this brings KPIs: efficiencies as the distances between our customer drops get shorter.
We continue to find opportunities to improve our drops per van DPV measure of delivery efficiency, through improvements in our complex algorithms 1,601m 82.5m which calculate delivery routes and cover variables such as timing of A Gross Sales Retail EBITDA Retail delivery slot, house location and order volumes.
Increased demand in our FY17: 1,429m FY17: 79.2m existing catchment areas increases the density of customer orders, so we are continuously improving the efficiency of routing.
Future focus 94.9% 164 We are constantly looking for ways to use pioneering technology to Delivery punctuality CFC efficiency UPH Mature improve our operational efficiency.
We have multiple strands of both FY17: 95.0% FY17: 164 business-sponsored and more speculative research under way.
One example is the robotic picking and packing of customer orders.
0.8% 194 In grocery, this challenge is made more difficult by varying product characteristics such as the size, rigidity, and fragility of each of our Product waste Average deliveries per van 50,000 products, coupled with the added complexity of packing FY17: 0.7% FY17: 182 into bags.
Solving this challenge requires a combination of grippers Numbers on a 52 week basis that can mimic the capabilities of the human hand, advanced vision systems that recognise how to pick up different products, and Risks: advanced machine learning that can make smart decisions on the fly.
Our robotic picking cell in Andover has operated for a year now as a Delays in implementing new capacity for Ocado.
living lab, and will go into production in 2019.
Failure to achieve projected improvements to the fulfilment One of the most exciting applications of pioneering technology is solution, impacting ability to lower long term cost of ownership attaching a machine learning model to highly realistic simulations and as expected visualisations of our business.
Similar to DeepMinds simulation of the game Go, this approach will enable us to discover new optimisation A See Alternative Performance strategies and solutions that might have otherwise remained hidden.
Measures on pages 229 and 230 Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 2 December 2018 www.
indd 30 05-Feb-19 2:09:54 AM 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 Strategic Report 31 Future focus Capital efficiency In 2018, we successfully applied our learnings from Andover to The core design principles behind our efficiency are automation, use of significantly improve our ability to deploy and ramp up our latest proprietary technology, and aggregation of scale through the use of our generation solution in Erith.
As we continue on this trajectory, we large CFCs.
Combining these attributes, we believe we have developed expect to see further improvements in the speed of deployment the most sophisticated and operationally efficient grocery shopping allowing for reduced upfront capital commitment and shorter and delivery solution in the world.
ROI timescales, automation enhancements that further increase As we develop new CFCs we have been able to improve the capital throughput, and the gradual introduction of robotic picking for efficiency of our operations.
We have demonstrated this through additional efficiency gains.
As we continue to progress our own CFCs continuous improvement within our mature CFCs, where we have and garner new learnings along the way, we naturally pass these extracted additional capacity without significant investment.
The benefits to our Solutions partners.
proprietary technology we use in our newer CFCs enables us to achieve an attractive return on investment, estimated at over 50% for our Erith Case Study CFC, even before any further efficiency benefits from other innovations such as robotic picking.
Our proprietary materials handling equipment MHE solution in Bot Healthcare Erith and Andover is modular, allowing for reduced upfront capital commitment as it can be added to as volumes grow.
This also means Improves Efficiency we can build in smaller spaces if required, making our capabilities more customisable to the varying capacity requirements of our Solutions partners.
Progress With our need to bring new capacity online, we have been delighted with our successful ramp-up at Andover, more than doubling the volume over the year.
It is now running at 30,000 orders a week, almost 50% of its projected volume.
We have over 600 robots on the grid, over half of the projected total.
We also opened our fourth CFC, in Erith.
This is the same solution but with some enhanced components.
For example, a redesigned grid thats more structurally durable, and with improved peripherals.
More importantly, in its first three weeks it reached In 2018, our technology teams have achieved further significant the same volume that it took us 32 weeks to achieve in Andover.
breakthroughs in applying advanced AI, machine learning, and We are designing our platform so that every lesson we learn at simulation techniques to make our systems smarter and more Andover, every enhancement to automation and software can be autonomous than ever before.
One area where we have seen quickly transferable to every future site.
significant progress is in our ability to predict deviations in the behaviour of bots.
Erith is four times the size of our nearest UK competitors largest automated facility, yet we expect to achieve 16 times the volume.
With tens of thousands of bots that will run on the Ocado Smart Our investment will achieve lower long-term cost of ownership.
Platform in the foreseeable future, the real time monitoring of these swarms of bots will soon be beyond human scale.
To address this, all Thanks to design enhancements to our bots, we have been able to the operational and sensor data from the bots are streamed to the increase the weekly production of bots by 100%.
cloud where a machine learning based healthcare system performs Our first two CFCs in Hatfield and Dordon continue to operate powerful predictive analytics and drives preventative maintenance.
at high levels of accuracy and with improved efficiency.
With Due to the fundamental nature of our swarm of identical bots, any engineers constantly on site to ensure what are they are well bot requiring maintenance can instantly and seamlessly be replaced maintained, we incur minimal maintenance capex.
Cash flow by another one, with no loss of throughput.
In the future, we will return from these CFCs is nearly 10% of revenue a year, illustrating further enhance this bot healthcare by embedding machine learning the significant cash we can generate once a CFC has scaled and processors into each bot, enabling it to perform smart self test, reached maturity.
diagnostics and exception handling, in order to drive even greater efficiencies of scale.
