Strategic Report 16 Chairmans Statement with Tim Steiner Chief Executive Officer Q What risks do retailers face if they dont have an I am pleased to introduce this years e-commerce presence?
The year to December A I think the biggest risk we can see in the UK is not simply losing your best customers primary shopping trip, but losing your best 2018 has been one of the most exciting customers full stop.
yet, both in the lifetime of Ocado and in Q How is technology changing the e-commerce grocery my time as Chairman of Ocado.
A As an e-commerce operator, were expected to do the work the Ive had the privilege of seeing, first-hand, the results of a business consumer does in a traditional supermarket driving, walking the made up of talented and committed people who are focused on aisles, picking goods, taking them to the till, packing them up and continuing to grow this business and deliver while exceeding the taking them home.
What weve been doing for the last 15 years is expectations of customers, building and improving our ground deploying technology so we can do that extra work, yet at a lower breaking technology, and making a positive contribution to the cost.
So were producing the best service for the consumer, while communities and wider society that the Company serves.
actually creating a fully economic and sustainable model.
Weve done that by taking a different approach.
It has been a year of transformational change at Ocado, with significant development of the Solutions business, continued growth of the Retail Q What role does innovation play at Ocado?
business in the UK, and ongoing investment in and advancement of A Were increasing automation to lower the warehouse cost, and Ocado Smart Platform OSP.
The increase in the value of the Company creating new delivery solutions to lower delivery costs, to help was reflected in it joining the FTSE 100 index for the first time, a improve margins.
Were investing in the front end to build a better significant achievement for such a young company.
experience for the consumer, to build loyalty.
In fact, were working on innovation for every place where we interact with a customer.
We aim to provide our retail customers and commercial partners with an advanced online grocery shopping solution.
The Ocado Solutions Q Why has Ocado made its Ocado Smart Platform OSP business took exciting steps in delivering this strategy and has now available to others?
During the prior year, Ocado A Weve built a successful e-commerce business in the UK, and signed an agreement to provide OSP to Groupe Casino in France and think were in a powerful position to help retailers in other parts we secured an agreement with Bon Preu in Spain to help build its of the world do the same.
Retailers have a significant presence in online grocery business using OSP.
We signed further deals this year their local markets, with customer knowledge, buying power and with Sobeys in Canada and ICA in Sweden to allow them to grow presence.
The combination of their skills, knowledge and presence with our IP, technology and logistics skills can be a very powerful combination.
We aim to provide our retail and commercial Q How will an OSP partner of Ocado benefit from Ocados constant innovation?
customers with an advanced online grocery A Theyll get the benefit of all our innovations.
For example, when shopping solution.
The Ocado Solutions business were able to add more robotics and automation at facilities, to took exciting steps in delivering this strategy and reduce the amount of people it takes to serve the same number of has now signed five international customers.
customers, thats what theyll also get offered.
Thats the best thing about being an OSP customer the ability to continue to benefit Lord Rose from all our ongoing investment.
Chairman Q How does Ocado stimulate customer loyalty?
A We provide the best possible service by improving our interfaces to allow customers to buy from the widest range of products quickly and by operating our model accurately and efficiently so the customer gets what they want when they want.
As we do this consistently our customers trust us and stay loyal.
indd 16 05-Feb-19 2:09:09 AM 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 Strategic Report 17 Chairmans Statement and develop their online food businesses.
We signed a partnership The increase in UK capacity and development of our proprietary agreement with Kroger in May 2018 and a Master Services agreement platform continues to require significant expenditure.
The Group in October under which Ocados technology will be used in the US increased the funding available to support this investment during the exclusively by Kroger for grocery and other food distribution related period.
The Group issued a placing of 5% of its shares in February 2018, activities.
These significant commitments, although having negative raising a total of 143 million.
Additionally, on signing the partnership impact on reported earnings in 2018 and 2019, partly due to the agreement in May 2018, Kroger subscribed for new shares in Ocado, adoption of the IFRS 15 accounting standard on revenue recognition equivalent to 5% of the existing issued share capital of Ocado, at a I am pleased to introduce this years for contracts with customers, are expected to create significant longvalue of 183 million.
The increase in funding available will allow Strategic Report.
The year to December term value.
Ocado to commit to investment capital expenditure relating to the 2018 has been one of the most exciting signing of Ocado Solutions partnerships globally and to increase While these deals are exciting and have changed the business, we now Ocados technology engineering and software capabilities.
yet, both in the lifetime of Ocado and in face the task of delivering them.
I have had the opportunity to meet with colleagues in the business and examine the challenges we face.
Continuing to innovate and invest in new technology is key to the my time as Chairman of Ocado.
There is no doubt in my mind that we have a great deal of work to do creation of long-term shareholder value for Ocado and will be key to in the coming years, and that transformational changes are needed in our continued growth.
The management team is aware that as the Ive had the privilege of seeing, first-hand, the results of a business the business.
These challenges are not only in delivering what we have business grows, the objective of retaining and recruiting talented made up of talented and committed people who are focused on promised to customers, but in ensuring that we have the resources, people becomes ever more important.
Growing headcount in continuing to grow this business and deliver while exceeding the governance and controls in place to position this Company for its future.
specialist areas of technology and engineering is crucial to meeting expectations of customers, building and improving our ground our innovation and development plans.
We remain focused on this Our Retail business continues to grow profitably while operating in breaking technology, and making a positive contribution to the and ensuring that available resources are allocated effectively and a tough sector, with inflationary pressures on imported food prices communities and wider society that the Company serves.
prioritised on the Groups most important strategic objectives.
Looking and continued competition from the discounters.
We expect these It has been a year of transformational change at Ocado, with significant forward, we will remain committed to continuing to successfully challenges to continue, and the business is working to address these development of the Solutions business, continued growth of the Retail develop our online grocery shopping solution both for our retail market challenges as well as the shift in market dynamics towards business in the UK, and ongoing investment in and advancement of customers and our commercial partners in the UK and internationally.
increased shopping frequency and greater convenience.
Additionally, Ocado Smart Platform OSP.
The increase in the value of the Company We look forward to delivering this and pursuing many more successful Brexit has the potential to restrict supply and increase the cost of food was reflected in it joining the FTSE 100 index for the first time, a collaborations with leading retailers across the globe.
Limited availability could impact the range significant achievement for such a young company.
and volume of products we can offer, which is a key part of our appeal Lord Rose We aim to provide our retail customers and commercial partners with to customers.
Extensive work with suppliers has been undertaken to Chairman an advanced online grocery shopping solution.
The Ocado Solutions mitigate these risks, for each eventuality.
5 February 2019 business took exciting steps in delivering this strategy and has now Both the Board and I continue to believe that our retail strategy is signed five international partners.
During the prior year, Ocado the right one: namely to drive growth by broadening our addressable signed an agreement to provide OSP to Groupe Casino in France and market and differentiating on service and range, while price following we secured an agreement with Bon Preu in Spain to help build its the market leader.
As well as improving the customer experience, we online grocery business using OSP.
We signed further deals this year aim to maximise efficiency by focusing on technology innovation and with Sobeys in Canada and ICA in Sweden to allow them to grow operational improvements.
These changes help to decrease the costs per order and increase the Groups overall profitability and to offset the impact of some of the wider market headwinds, namely rising labour costs.
We aim to provide our retail and commercial customers with an advanced online grocery Our latest CFCs at Andover and Erith will facilitate the growth of the Retail business.
One of the biggest challenges facing the Group is shopping solution.
The Ocado Solutions business ensuring that capacity is made available in time to meet our expected took exciting steps in delivering this strategy and growth in customers.
We expect both CFCs to continue to scale with has now signed five international customers.
the planned future improvements to the reliability and resilience of Lord Rose software and material handling equipment.
Ongoing investment Chairman in our technology and engineering capabilities should help ensure we advance towards our operational efficiency targets, though as experienced in the past two years, we do not expect this progress to be without difficulties.
Stock Code: OCDO Annual Report and Accounts Ocado Group plc Ocado AR2018 Strategic Report.
