Strategic Report 32 Strategy Utilising Proprietary Knowledge Our Intellectual Property Developing a sustainable, profitable and scalable online grocery sales operation has, until now, been an almost unsolvable challenge.
With constantly varying product ranges with diverse shelf lives and temperature requirements, coupled with customer demands for accuracy and reliable delivery slots, grocery far surpasses the complexity of other retail segments.
However, we believe Ocados 18 years of learning, research and development have enabled us to build the worlds most advanced endto-end e-commerce, fulfilment and logistics solution.
Thanks to our cutting-edge IP, we are in a favourable position to capitalise on the shift to the online channel for grocery sales.
Recognising the fundamental competitive advantages of our pioneering technology, some of the worlds leading grocery retailers have chosen to partner with Ocado, to help them remain competitive, now and in the future.
Ocado operates at the intersection of five disruptive technologies: AI, robotics, the cloud, big data, and the Internet of Things.
Our capabilities span physical infrastructure solutions, software and systems, to provide an end-to-end solution for selling grocery online sustainably, profitably, and with the ability to scale.
Progress During the last year, we have achieved significant progress in all our divisions.
In March, we announced significant improvements in our ability to detect fraudulent events through applying a pioneering 100% OSP machine learning model.
Instead of analysing numerous data points to establish fraud, agents will now be able to swiftly apply a predictive model in an excellent illustration of how technology can augment humans for great efficiencies of scale.
Other highlights include progress in developing technologies for robotic picking and packing and improvements in bot healthcare by using predictive analytics to drive preventative maintenance.
To retain our leadership in technology, we have continued to recruit.
We now have over 1,300 Technology employees based in development centres in the UK, Bulgaria, Poland and Spain and over 500 Engineering employees.
We are able to attract and retain some of the best technology and engineering talent by providing teams with a licence to innovate.
We are not afraid to tackle previously untouched problems, and encourage disruptive thinking beyond conventional grocery issues, to constantly exceed what was thought possible to achieve.
Our outstanding achievements during the last year have been acclaimed throughout the industry, in numerous prestigious awards, including Tech Company of the Year, Tech Pioneer of the Year, and Best Case Study in AI Deployment.
On 9 November 2018, Catalonia-based supermarket chain Bon Preu went live using Ocados store pick solution.
This is the first 100% OSP partner Ocado Solutions signed.
Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 2 December 2018 www.
indd 32 05-Feb-19 2:10:05 AM 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 26237 5 February 2019 1:58 am Proof 6 Strategic Report 33 Patents Case Study Protecting our IP is instrumental to retaining our competitive advantage.
Robotic Picking We take careful measures to create a web of protection to safeguard our Solutions.
During the year, we filed applications covering 19 new As part of our ongoing aim to lower costs and drive efficiencies within innovations.
our model, we have been developing the technologies required to perform robotic picking and packing within our CFCs.
We now hold 65 granted patents across 17 innovation families.
In 2018, we have achieved significant progress in both of these areas, Progress with our first live robotic picking lab expected to go into production in The majority of our patents and patent applications relate to our Andover in early 2019. physical infrastructure solution and developments thereof, some of SoMa Soft Manipulation Project which are operational in Andover and Erith, and some of which will be used in our partnerships with Groupe Casino in France, Sobeys in Our ongoing research within the SoMa project, funded by the European Canada, ICA in Sweden, and Kroger in the US.
Union Horizon 2020 framework programme, has enabled us to achieve further significant progress in our ability to handle easily damageable For example, we have continued to protect a significant number of and unpredictably shaped items, such as fruit and vegetables.
In 2018, innovations to improve operational efficiency, including our robotic we investigated a number of different grippers that could overcome picking capabilities, our new  fraud detection these challenges and that are also sufficiently versatile to pick a wide system, improvements to our demand forecasting models, and the variety of products.
The goal is to develop robust, cost-effective, and simulation of our routing system to test new algorithms.
safe robotic grasping and manipulation capabilities for a major subset Future focus of our 50,000 product range.
Our leadership in technology and innovation in one of the most Progress this year has included a comparison of the performance of complex retail sectors grocery is providing significant opportunities three different compliant grippers that employ three different actuation for growth and long-term shareholder value.
As we work to optimise mechanisms.
The assessment has been performed using a scientific every aspect of our e-commerce, fulfilment and logistics platform, we benchmarking framework that our robotics team developed to reflect achieve dramatic efficiencies of scale.
These advancements mean we the requirements of Ocados production process and has entailed a can explore opportunities in immediacy with a potentially attractive significant amount of practical experimentation.
We are also exploring opportunities beyond the retail The experimental work has also moved on from manipulating single sector, where we can apply our disruptive technology to tackle other items to using a vision system to aid the planning of manipulation complex challenges in new and innovative ways.
strategies in more complex, real-world scenarios that include disorderly arrangements and additional environmental constraints.
OSPick In 2018, we developed and trialled an alternative type of picking Key: station, called OSPick.
OSPick is a system designed to pick a range of Constantly enhance end-to-end technology systems groceries within our CFCs using a simple suction cup mounted on an Enable current and future partners online businesses articulated robot arm.
While the system is conceptually straightforward from a mechanical perspective, its underlying power lies in the intelligent vision system that can pick a wide range of products without prior knowledge of the items presented to it.
The smart vision system can handle real-life cluttered scenes and Risks: autonomously decide what is the best item to pick next, and how it should Technology innovation supersedes our own and offers be grasped in order to be safely placed into a customers shopping bag.
improved methods of food distribution to consumers We expect the development and roll-out of this picking solution within Failure to protect our IP our CFCs to allow us to reduce the cost of fulfilment both within our Failure to ensure our technology can be freely operated without operations and those of our commercial partners.
infringing a third partys IP Future evolutions of this robotic pick station will see the suction cup Failure to recruit and retain the skilled people needed, as replaced by more advanced grippers, such as those being developed competition for such talent intensifies.
Stock Code: OCDO Annual Report and Accounts Ocado Group plc Ocado AR2018 Strategic Report.
