Chair of the Board report I am delighted to provide the Groups results for the year ended 30 September 2018 FY18.
On the Beach has seen another year of strong growth and is at an exciting time in its development.
My fellow directors and I, and the executive team, look forward to working together to create further value for all stakeholders.
On the Beach success story: another milestone One of the highlights of the year was On the Beachs entry into the FTSE 250 in March 2018 which marked an important milestone in the Groups history and reflected the success that On the Beach continues to enjoy.
The Groups success is attributable to a number of factors, including strong leadership, a dedicated and talented workforce, a clear strategy and vision, investment in people and technology, a strong and resilient business model and the Groups entrepreneurial, innovative and dynamic culture.
On the Beach continues to focus on driving long-term, sustainable growth, building strong relationships with key stakeholder groups and establishing a culture which is aligned with the Groups strategy, vision and values.
FY18: financial performance and final dividend In each of the three years since listing, On the Beach has encountered significant headwinds, including terrorism, the Brexit referendum, currency fluctuations, shifting consumer demand and reduced consumer confidence.
FY18 presented its fair share of headwinds, including the collapse of Monarch airlines, flight capacity constraints, the hottest summer for 40 years and the football World Cup in which England performed strongly, all of which have affected consumer confidence and The Groups success is demand for beach holidays.
attributable to strong Despite this challenging and unstable trading backdrop, On leadership, clear strategy and the Beach has consistently delivered impressive growth in the face of these headwinds, underlining its strong and resilient vision, investment in people and business model, which is evident more than ever in the financial results for FY18.
technology, a resilient business In FY18, Group revenue was 104.1m FY17: 83.6m model and entrepreneurial, 24.5%.
This included 13.2m of revenue from Classic innovative and dynamic culture.
which was acquired on 15 August 2018.
Groups gross profit increased 10.8% to 92.6m FY17: 83.6m.
Although revenue Lee Ginsberg growth was slower than expected, increased marketing Chair of the Board, On the Beach Group plc efficiency led to strong growth in revenue after marketing which was 52.0m FY17: 44.9m 15.8% year on year and Group adjusted profit before tax which was 33.6m FY17: 28.5m, an increase of 17.9% on the prior year.
Group gross profit m Group profit before tax m At the year-end, On the Beachs balance sheet was strong with 92.6m 26.1m net external cash balances of 47.3m FY17: 33.0m and the 10.8% 23.7% Board is pleased to declare a final dividend of 2.2p per share, FY17: 83.6m FY17: 21.1m totalling 3.3p per share for the year, an increase of 17.9%.
3 Core revenue after marketing costs m Net external cash m 52.0m 47.3m 15.8% FY17: 44.9m FY17: 33.0m 8 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Investment in people, technology & brand Diversity & inclusion On the Beach is committed to investing in its people, The benefits of a diverse and inclusive leadership and technology and brand.
workforce are clear, with the widest range of perspectives leading to increased creativity, innovation, debate, To support our continued ability to out-innovate the market understanding and ultimately better decision making.
Our and attract and retain top talent in a fiercely competitive company values are respect, innovation, simplicity, customer environment, we have relocated our head office to a bespoke, experience and communication.
It therefore follows that state of the art digital office space in central Manchester, and diversity and inclusion have to be at the very heart of our we will be refurbishing our current office space in Cheadle culture and fully embedded in the business if we are to live up where our Contact Centre will continue to be based.
We to our values and achieve our strategy.
recently welcomed Stefan Nordin to the business as our new Chief Technology Officer, whose experience and leadership As diversity and inclusion are so critical to the long-term skills will support us to achieve our ambition to double the size success of the company, this has been an area of particular of our tech team in the next three to five years.
focus during FY18, and has been central to a number of initiatives during the year, including Board appointments, On the Beach continues to develop its people strategy to senior management appointments and succession planning, align with overall business strategy, and the Remuneration stakeholder engagement both employee and shareholder, Committee has expanded its remit to incorporate remuneration our people strategy, and our review of our corporate culture.
and benefits for the wider business rather than just Executive Directors and senior management.
The Committee has The appointment to the Board of Elaine ODonnell has gone introduced new reward mechanisms for top performers some way to addressing the gender imbalance on the Board, throughout the business, as well as reviewing the Directors but the Board continues to consider its composition and the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors, to ensure the Nomination Committee will continue to focus on diversity business has the tools to attract and retain the talent it needs to in the widest form when considering any further Board achieve its strategy.
The Board will continue its focus on diversity and inclusion to ensure the Groups succession planning, people We have continued to invest in the On the Beach brand strategy, and culture supports an increasingly diverse pipeline through both online and offline marketing.
Our brand continues of talent feeding into the most senior levels of the business.
to strengthen, supported by a national TV marketing campaign and sponsorship of the ITV programme, Benidorm.
As a result, Corporate governance and Board changes On the Beach is now one of the most visible online beach The Board works effectively as a team with the appropriate holiday brands, leading to consumers having more trust and combination of examination, control, challenge, support and confidence in the brand.
encouragement of the Executive Directors from the NonExecutive Directors.
The Board carefully reviews ongoing Strategic expansion & international markets trading performance, agrees upon the Groups future strategic As well as driving growth in the core business, On the Beach direction, monitors risk and control processes and ensures continues to explore further opportunities for strategic growth, that corporate governance is appropriately managed.
We including international growth, expansion of the Groups undertook an evaluation of the directors and the functioning long-haul offering, distribution via travel agents through the of the Board and its committees during the year which Groups recent acquisition of Classic, and strategic acquisition demonstrated that the Board has the appropriate balance of opportunities.
skills and experience and operates effectively.
On the Beach has continued to make progress in our We had a number of Board changes during the year, which international markets, with the launch of eBeach.
dk in Denmark were overseen by the Nomination Committee.
during the year, completing our Scandinavian rollout.
Elaine ODonnell was appointed as a Non-Executive After significant growth of 51% in H1 FY18, the whole of Director in July 2018, and took up the post of Chair of Audit Scandinavia experienced unprecedented warm weather from Committee in September 2018.
We extend a warm welcome May until August, which weakened demand and severely to Elaine, who brings to the Board a wealth of experience affected eBeachs competitive position in the market due to across a range of businesses and her expertise will be of heavy discounting by the tour operators.
This led to a significant enormous benefit.
impact on full year revenue performance International revenue decreased by 5.9% compared with 48% in FY17 but we reduced marketing spend in line with reduced demand.
ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 9 Chair of the Board report Richard Segal, who served as On the Beachs Chairman Current trading and outlook since 2013, stepped down in September 2018.
The Directors The first quarter of our financial year calendar Q4 is historically express their sincere thanks for the valuable contribution made the quietest trading period for the Group.
We are pleased to by Richard over the years and wish him every success for report a strong early trading performance, supported by a the future.
Following the recommendation of the Nomination slightly earlier release of summer capacity by major low cost Committee, I took the role as Chair of the Board and of the carriers, lower year-on-year seat prices for winter departures Nomination Committee, and I stepped down from my role as and a continued efficiency in marketing spend.
This current Senior Independent Director and Chair of Audit Committee, in performance is in line with our expectations and the Board September 2018.
At the same time, David Kelly was appointed believes the business is well positioned for the key trading as Senior Independent Director.
period that commences in late December and continues into Q1 2019.
I will step down as Chair of the Board and of the Nomination Committee at the end of November in order to focus on other Whilst the consumer environment continues to be challenging, time-commitments, but I will continue to serve as Nonwe remain confident in the resilience and flexibility of our Executive Director of the Company.
David Kelly will serve as business model.
The Board will also continue to evaluate Chair of the Board on an interim basis while the Nomination acquisition opportunities that will both increase scale and Committee oversees the search for a permanent Chair of the deliver value for shareholders.
The Board will provide a further update on trading at the AGM The Board is committed to ever-increasing standards of on 7 February 2019. corporate governance.
Although the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code will not apply to the Company until the AGM reporting year ending 30 September 2020, the Board is already Our AGM will be held at 11am on 7 February 2019 at the taking steps to comply with the new code, in particular in Groups new headquarters at Aeroworks, 5 Adair Street, relation to stakeholder engagement and corporate culture.
We look forward to welcoming shareholders.
Lee Ginsberg Chair of the Board, On the Beach Group plc 28 November 2018 10 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
