STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other statutory and regulatory disclosures Statutory information UK Corporate Governance Code Information required to be part of the Directors Report can be The Companys statement with regards to its adoption of found elsewhere in this document, as indicated in the table the UK Corporate Governance Code can be found in the below and is incorporated into this Report by reference: Corporate Governance Statement on page 43.
The Corporate Governance Statement forms part of this Directors Report and Section of report Page reference is incorporated into it by reference.
Community Strategic report: Corporate social Appointment and replacement of Directors responsibility page 38 The appointment and replacement of directors is governed by the Companys Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Employee involvement Corporate social responsibility Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related pages 34, 38 to 39 legislation.
The directors may from time to time appoint one or more directors.
The Board may appoint any person to be a Employees with Corporate social responsibility director so long as the number of directors does not exceed disabilities page 39 the limit prescribed in the Articles.
Under the Articles, any such director shall hold office only until the next AGM and shall Future developments Strategic report page 14 then be eligible for election.
The Articles also require that at of the business each AGM any director who held office at the time of the two preceding AGMs and who did not retire at either of them must Going concern Strategic report page 32 retire, and any director who has been in office, other than a director holding an executive position, for a continuous period Greenhouse gas Corporate social responsibility of nine years or more must retire from office.
Any director who emissions page 40 retires at an AGM may offer himself for re-appointment by the shareholders.
Risk management Strategic report page 23 to 32 and note 23 to the consolidated All current directors will retire and stand for re-election at the financial statements AGM on 7 February 2019.
Significant related Note 25 to the consolidated Amendment of Articles of Association party agreements financial statements The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by way of a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
No amendments are proposed to be made at the Directors report forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
All sections under the heading Governance on page 42 of this document comprise the Directors report for On the Beach Share capital and control Group plc company number 09736592 the Company and The Companys issued share capital comprises ordinary shares its subsidiaries together the Group for the financial year to of 0.01 each which are listed on the London Stock Exchange 30 September 2018.
L. The ISIN of the shares is GB00BYM1K758.
Strategic report The issued share capital of the Company as at 30 September All sections under the heading Strategic report on page 4 of 2018 comprised 131,042,510 ordinary shares of 0.01 each.
this document comprise the Strategic Report.
The Strategic Further information regarding the Companys issued share Report sets out the development and performance of the capital can be found on page 121 of the financial statements.
Groups business during the financial year, the position of the Details of the movements in issued share capital during the Group at the end of the year and a description of the principal year are provided in note 21 to the Groups financial statements risks and uncertainties including the financial risk management contained on page 121.
All the information detailed in note position which is set out on pages 23 to 32.
21 on page 121 forms part of this Directors Report and is incorporated into it by reference.
Management report The Directors report pages 42 to 94 together with the At the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held Strategic report pages 4 to 41 form the Management report on 7 February 2019 the Directors will seek authority from for the purposes of DTR 4.1.
shareholders to allot shares in the capital of the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 873,616.73 87,361,673 shares of 0.01 each.
85 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 Other statutory and regulatory disclosures Employee share schemes the case of the On the Beach Share Incentive Plan and the On The Company has three employee share schemes in place: the Beach Long Term Incentive Plan, where share interests of 1.
A HMRC-approved Share Incentive Plan SIP to a participant in such schemes can be exercised by the personal encourage wide employee share ownership and thereby representatives of a deceased participant in accordance with align employees interests with shareholders: the Scheme rules.
A Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP under which nil cost share options are granted to Executive Directors and Voting rights senior management linked to achievement in delivering Each ordinary share entitles the holder to vote at general goals which are closely aligned with the Companys meetings of the Company.
A resolution put to the vote of strategy and the creation of value for shareholders.
The the meeting shall be decided on a poll and every member Company also makes grants of nil cost share options under who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for the LTIP plan in the form of restricted stock awards to key every share of which they are a holder.
The Articles provide a employees not including the Executive Directors for deadline for submission of proxy forms of not than less than 48 retention purposes, and these are hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting accompanied by a CSOP market value option for tax or adjourned meeting.
No member shall be entitled to vote at efficiency purposes: and any general meeting either in person or by proxy, in respect of 3.
A Save As You Earn Plan SAYE which is an all employee any share held by them, unless all amounts presently payable savings related share option plan.
Although the SAYE was by him in respect of that share have been paid.
Save as noted, approved at the 2017 AGM, it has not yet been rolled out to there are no restrictions on voting rights nor any agreement that employees and there are no immediate plans to do so.
may result in such restrictions.
Further details are provided in the Directors Remuneration Restrictions on transfer of securities Report on pages 69.
The Articles do not contain any restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than the usual Authority to purchase own shares restrictions applicable where any amount is unpaid on a The Company was authorised by shareholders at the last share.
Certain restrictions are also imposed by laws and AGM to purchase, in the market, up to 10% of the Companys regulations such as insider trading and marketing requirements ordinary share capital, as permitted by the Companys relating to close periods and requirements of the Market Articles of Association.
No shares were bought back under Abuse Regulation and the Companys securities dealing code this authority for the year ended 30 September 2018.
This whereby all employees of the Company require approval to standard authority is renewable annually and the Directors will deal in the Companys securities.
seek to renew the authority at the forthcoming AGM to allow the Company to purchase, in the market, up to a maximum Change of control of 10% of its own ordinary shares either to be cancelled or Save in respect of a provision of the Companys share retained as treasury shares.
The Directors will only use this schemes which may cause options and awards granted to power after careful consideration, taking into account the employees under such schemes to vest on takeover, there financial resources of the Company, the Companys share price are no agreements between the Company and its Directors and future funding opportunities.
The Directors will also take or employees providing for compensation for loss of office into account the effects on earnings per share and the interests or employment whether through resignation, purported of shareholders generally.
redundancy or otherwise because of a takeover bid.
Rights attaching to shares The Revolving Credit Facility contains customary prepayment, All shares have the same rights including voting and dividend cancellation and default provisions including, if required by rights and rights on a return of capital and restrictions as a lender, mandatory prepayment of all utilisations provided set out in the Articles, described below.
Except in relation to by that lender upon the sale of all or substantially all of the dividends which have been declared and rights on a liquidation business and assets of the Group on a change of control.
of the Company, the shareholders have no rights to share in the profits of the Company.
The Companys shares are Annual General Meeting not redeemable.
However, following any grant of authority The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11am on 7 from shareholders, the Company may purchase or contract February 2019 at the Companys new headquarters at to purchase any of the shares on or off market, subject to the Aeroworks, Adair Street, Manchester.
Companies Act 2006 and the requirements of the Listing Rules.
The Notice of Meeting which sets out the resolutions to be No shareholder holds shares in the Company which carry proposed at the forthcoming AGM specifies deadlines for special rights with regard to control of the Company.
There exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to are no shares relating to an employee share scheme which vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the AGM.
All have rights with regard to control of the Company that are not proxy votes will be counted and the numbers for, against or exercisable directly and solely by the employees, other than in withheld in relation to each resolution will be announced at the AGM and published on the Companys website.
86 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Interests in voting rights Transactions with related parties During the year the Company has been notified, in accordance There were no related party transactions during the year.
with Chapter 5 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR5 of the following Events post year end increases or decreases in significant interests in the issued There are no events post year end to report.
ordinary share capital of the Company.
Indemnities and insurance These figures represent the number of shares and percentages The Company maintains appropriate insurance to cover held as at the date of notification to the Company.
These Directors and officers liability for itself and its subsidiaries.
The holdings may have changed since notification however Company also indemnifies the Directors under a qualifying notification of any change is not required until the next indemnity for the purposes of section 236 of the Companies applicable threshold is crossed.
Such indemnities contain provisions that are permitted by the Director liability provisions of the Companies Act and the Companys Articles.
Such indemnities Name of Number of Nature of Date of were in force throughout the period under review and are in Shareholder shares holding notification force as at the date of this report.
as per disclosure Save for the indemnities disclosed in this report, there are no other qualifying third party indemnity provisions in force.
Standard Life 6,953,122 5.33% 20 11 17 Research and development Standard Life 6,366,841 4.88% 28 03 18 Innovation, specifically in the customer proposition on the website, is a critical element of the strategy, and therefore Schroders plc 5,881,081 4.51% 18 04 18 of the future success of the Group.
Accordingly the majority of the Groups research and development expenditure is Royal London Asset 6,666,441 5.11% 24 05 18 predominantly related to this area.
Management Environmental Armor Advisors 4,033,400 3.00% 25 07 18 Information on the Groups greenhouse gas emissions is set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility section on page 40 and forms part of this report by reference.
Between 30 September 2018 and the date of this report, no further interests have been notified to the Company in Financial instruments accordance with DTR5.
Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group, including hedging policies and exposure of the entity to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are given on pages 123 to 127 in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements, and forms part of this report by reference.
Political contributions Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries made any political donations or incurred any political expenditure during the year.
87 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 Other statutory and regulatory disclosures External branches Independent auditors The Group has a Swedish branch identity number 516408- KPMG LLP has confirmed its willingness to continue in office as 9186 to enable it to execute its strategy on international auditor of the Group.
The Group will shortly commence a tender expansion.
process for the appointment of the external auditor.
The tender process will be supervised by the Audit Committee, who will Results and dividends then make a recommendation to the Board on the appointment The Groups and Companys audited financial statements for or reappointment of the external auditor.
Following the the year are set out on pages 96 to 135. appointment, an annoucement will be made.
In the meantime, a resolution to re-appoint KPMG LLP as external auditor will be The Group has adopted a progressive dividend policy.
Whilst proposed at the AGM on 7 February 2019. the Group operates a highly cash generative business model, a significant majority of profits are reinvested in the business to Disclosure of information to auditor support further growth.
Each of the Directors has confirmed that: i so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit The Directors recommend payment of a final dividend of 2.2 information of which the Groups auditors are unaware: pence per share, totalling 3.3 pence per share for the year and 2017: 2.7 pence per share to be paid on 14 February 2019 to ii the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to shareholders on the register of members at 11 January 2019, have taken as a Director to make him herself aware of any subject to approval at the 2019 AGM.
relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditor is aware of that information.
Information to be disclosed under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R Information required to be disclosed pursuant to LR 9.8.
4R 4 This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in on long-term incentive schemes can be found on page 78 accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
There is no information to disclose in relation to LR 9.8.
Approval of the Annual Report The Strategic Report and Corporate Governance Report were approved by the Board on 28 November 2018.
Approved by the board and signed on its behalf: K Vickerstaff Company Secretary 28 November 2018 88 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
