STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Introduction from Chair of the Board Board composition and diversity There have been a number of changes to the Board during the course of the year.
Following a recruitment process described in detail on page 56 we were delighted to welcome Elaine ODonnell to the Board on 3 July 2018.
Elaine has completed a thorough induction process and has immersed herself in the Group and, she continues to add value in a number of areas.
On 3 September 2018 I succeeded Richard Segal as Chair of the Board and Chair of the Nomination Committee.
On the same day, David Kelly succeeded me as Senior Independent Director and Elaine ODonnell succeeded me as Chair of the Audit Committee.
I will step down as Chair of the Board and of the Nomination Committee at the end of November in order to focus on other time-commitments, but I will continue to serve as NonExecutive Director of the Group.
David Kelly will serve as Chair of the Board on an interim basis while the Nomination Committee oversees the search for a permanent Chair of the Board.
I am pleased to present our corporate governance report, which Elaines appointment has gone some way to addressing the outlines the details of our corporate governance arrangements gender imbalance on the Board.
However, the Board continues and reports on the activities of the Nomination, Remuneration to consider its composition and diversity will continue to be a and Audit Committees during the year.
key matter considered by the Nomination Committee in any future Board recruitment process.
Diversity and inclusion were The Board continues to engage with its various different considered by the Nomination Committee during the year and stakeholders as illustrated on the opposite page.
continue to be a key area of ongoing focus for the Board and management see pages 39 and 56.
Compliance with UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 The 2016 edition of the Financial Reporting Council FRC UK Board evaluation Corporate Governance Code the Code applied to the Group We have carried out a full, thorough and tailored internal Board during the course of this year and I am pleased to confirm that evaluation exercise this year.
This covered the Board itself, the Group is in full compliance.
During FY18, the Group was each of the Committees, and an evaluation of each individual classed as a smaller company for the purposes of the 2016 Directors performance.
Details are provided on page 53.
Due to the Groups promotion to the FTSE 250 in FY18, the Group will cease to be a smaller company in FY19 and a Shareholder engagement number of additional provisions will apply to the Group during We are committed to engaging and maintaining an active the course of FY19 and the Group is taking steps to facilitate dialogue with all our shareholders.
I would like to encourage our compliance with the reporting requirements which will apply to shareholders to attend our Annual General Meeting which will it in FY19.
be held at 11am on 7 February 2019 at our new headquarters at Aeroworks, 5 Adair Street, Manchester, M1 2NQ.
It will The FRC released an updated version of the Code on 16 July provide an excellent opportunity to meet the Executive and 2018 which applies to accounting periods beginning on or Non-Executive Board Directors and to visit our new digital after 1 January 2019.
The new Code will therefore apply to headquarters in Manchester.
the Group during the course of the financial year ending 30 September 2020 FY20.
However, the Board is fully supportive We will continue to review developments in Corporate of the new Code, particularly around the importance of Governance best practice and we are mindful of the increasing stakeholder engagement and corporate culture, and the Board focus on all stakeholders.
is taking steps to comply with the new Code in FY19.
Lee Ginsberg The report which follows this introduction will set out in detail Chair of the Board how the Group ensures compliance with the provisions of the 2016 Code and how it is moving towards compliance with the additional provisions of the 2016 Code which will apply in FY19, and its progress to preparing for compliance with the 2018 Code.
43 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
