20 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategy in action We continue to invest in the Groupto ensure we remain a leader in our markets and become our customers favourite bank, enabling usto create sustainable growth and returns.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 21 Be a leading specialist lender in our chosen markets Leading lender in our chosen markets Our key strengths to offer the best solution for each of our customers.
No case is too complex for Focus on specialist market usand for those borrowers with more tailored or larger borrowing requirements sub-segments our Transactional Credit Committee meets Bespoke underwriting twice a week demonstrating our responsiveness to broker needs.
Deep relationships with Intermediary relationships intermediaries Access to our specialist products and multiple brands is via intermediaries.
Relationships are key and partnerships The market sub-segments we focus continue to flourish with our panel on are: ofselected specialist mortgage Buy-to-Let intermediaries, who are leaders commercial and semi-commercial intheirsub-segments.
residential development bespoke specialist residential second charge residential shared ownership bridging and short-term loans funding lines, and asset finance.
Bespoke underwriting At OSB, we do not use automated or scorecard-based processes.
All of our loans are underwritten by experienced and skilled underwriters, supported by technology to reduce the administrative burden on our underwriters and mortgage intermediaries.
We take each loan on its own merit, responding quickly and flexibly Gross new organic lending 15% 2018: 3.0bn 2017: 2.6bn 22 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Maintain and build upon over 150 years of heritage in savings Customer satisfaction and retention Our key strengths Stable retail savings platform We attracted over 40,000 new savings OSBs proposition for savers is simple: customers during 2018, and retained 95% Customer focused weoffer consistently good value savings of maturing fixed term deposit balances, products to attract and retain a loyal demonstrating the strength of our Transparent, good value customer base.
Our retail savings franchise long-term proposition.
has been a valued and recognised brand savings products for over 150 years.
Customer retention Transparent savings products We deliver straightforward products that meet customer needs for cash savings.
We offer good and consistent value, without having to price at the very top of the best buy tables, and existing customers benefit 9 5% from loyalty rates.
2017: 90% Provide access to customers through the channel of theirchoice.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 23 Leverage unique and costefficient operating model OSBIndia unique competitive advantage Focused on customers efficient service management, matching Our key strengths Our customer service functions, based those to business needs both in India and Excellent customer inour wholly-owned subsidiary OSBIndia, the UK.
support our aim of putting customers first.
experience We are proud of our low employee We reward our people based on turnover in India, with a remarkable 11% High customer NPS thequality of service they provide to regretted attrition rate, substantially High employee customers, further protecting our retail outperforming industry averages.
savings franchise and leading to high retention rates customer satisfaction with a customer Investment in infrastructure NPS of 63. andsystems We aim to deliver efficient, scalable and Focused on quality and cost discipline resilient infrastructure and invest in IT At OSBI we employ highly talented and security, supported by market leading motivated employees at a competitive datasecurity and resilience experts.
We benchmark our processes against industry best practice, challenging what we do and eliminating customer pain points as they arise.
We continue investing in developing skills that enable highly Put customer service at the heartof everything thatwe do.
