10 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Market review UK Buy-to-Let gross advances The UK housing and 37.1bn mortgage market 2018 37.1bn 2017 35.8bn 2016 40.6bn In 2018, the housing market saw a continuation of trends seen Source: UK Finance, New and outstanding Buy-to-Let in the previous year.
Whilst political uncertainty surrounding mortgages, Feb 2019 Brexit has undoubtedly had some impact, the combination of affordability challenges and low housing supply also contributed to slowing levels of activity in some parts of the country.
Price growth declined and even reversed in some parts of London UK average house price inflation andthe South East, whilst in other parts of the country, house prices continued to grow, including in many of the UKs major cities.
The record low mortgage rates in mainstream markets, 2.5% ashigh street banks competed for market share, continued to support the market with low loan servicing costs but deposits 2018 2.5% required were still a barrier to entry for many.
This drove the 2017 5.2% extension of the governments Help to Buy equity loan scheme.
2016 7.2% Government policy and the intention to support home ownership Source: ONS, UK house price index, Dec 2018 and increase the supply of social housing has been positive, including lifting the borrowing cap for councils and the move to abolish stamp duty land tax for first-time buyers on properties worth up to 300,000.
However, this activity was somewhat overshadowed by political uncertainty and noise surrounding Brexit.
It is reasonable to expect increased support for building new homes and the housing market in general once clarity around the political landscape returns.
According to UK Finance, gross mortgage lending reached 1 269.3bn in 2018, up 3% compared to 260.4bn in 2017 with remortgage activity driving lending growth.
UK Finance, New mortgage lending by purpose of loan, 30 Jan 2019.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 11 The UK savings OneSavings Banks market lending markets The UK savings market continued to grow in 2018 with c. 64bn UK Buy-to-Let specialist SME market 2 added in the year to reach a total of 1,671bn 2017: 1,607bn.
PRS broadly stable The year also saw new competition entering the market offeringattractive rates to savers, with existing banks taking The Private Rented Sector PRS remained at approximately note.
Savingsrates showed a gradual increase during 2018 with 4.5 million households in 201718, broadly stable for the last average one-year fixed rate bonds paying 1.45% in December 4 five years.
As has been well documented, the lack of growth 2018, up from an average of 1.16% at the start of the year.
is attributable to the political and regulatory interventions Average rates on no-notice accounts increased from 0.45% to announced under the previous Conservative administration.
0.63% at the end of 2018, demonstrating that the Bank of England These delivered the desired reduction in Buy-to-Let market base rate rise to 0.75% in August 2018 had some effect on the growth.
In the year, new Buy-to-Let lending of 37.1bn was up 4% 3 wider savings market.
on 2017 35.8bn, a figure that should be measured against the 5 context of2016s 40.6bn.
However, despite a softening of house Aside from the rate offered, two clear trends are emerging in the price inflation, house prices are still generally up, and affordability savings market: measures have not eased, hence, the changes to Buy-to-Let taxation have arguably done little to achieve their primary there are signs that customers are becoming more political aim, of increasing levels of home ownership.
Given this technologically aware and are choosing their savings providers continuing context of a shortage of housing supply that keeps based on service and convenience over their return, and some house prices relatively high and mortgage regulation and new entrants to the market are exploiting this opportunity.
mortgage finance beyond the reach of many, the market Weexpect this trend to continue, however: for rental property is expected to remain strong.
it has also been observed that traditional ways of interacting with savings customers, via branches, are regaining popularity.
This demand is, however, being met by a reducing number of landlords.
The dinner party landlords who flocked to the market Variable rate easy access products proved to be popular accounts in the period from approximately 20122015, have diminished, for the industry in 2018, as customers sought flexibility and putoff by, in particular, changes to personal taxation.
This has left accessibility of their funds over higher returns, potentially professional landlords, those whose primary income is obtained reflecting the current macroeconomic uncertainty.
from their property portfolio, to pick up demand.
The professional market, whilst not immune to the changes, has persisted because of the strong fundamentals which underpin it: sustained demand from tenants and the potential for long-term capital gains.
This long-term perspective drove a change in buying behaviour from professional landlords, in the form of significant growth inthe market for long-term fixed mortgage rates.
In a time of economic turmoil, these provide a degree of certainty as well as enable greater leverage under the PRA rules.
Borrowing through limited company structures also continues to be a feature of this market, with professional landlords continuing to mitigate the impact of income tax changes via this route.
OSB isa respected lender within the specialist Buy-to-Let sector, with astrong reputation for limited company lending which has been beneficial to date and is expected to continue to be so.
Bank of England, Monthly amounts outstanding of monetary financial institutions 4.
English Housing Survey, Headline Report 201718, 31 Jan 2019. sterling retail deposits from private sector in sterling millions seasonally adjusted, 5.
UK Finance, New and outstanding buy-to-let mortgages, 19 Feb 2019.
Moneyfacts, UK Savings Trends Treasury Report, Dec 2018.
12 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Market review continued Commercial Residential development Resilience in UK yields Continued under-supply The UK commercial property market saw investment reduce The UK has experienced a long-term upward trend in real in 2018 compared to 2017, although the total exceeded 55bn house prices, creating affordability problems as demand 6 for the fifth consecutive year.
The uncertainty surrounding the for housing outstripped both supply and real wage growth.
UKs withdrawal from the EU continues to have an effect, with Turnover in the second-hand housing market has fallen, indications that some investment decisions are being delayed resulting in reduced liquidity within this market.
until a clear way forward has been agreed.
The new-build market has also been adversely affected, However, the UK remains an attractive investment proposition.
especially in London, with some regions structurally reliant Yields are high compared to much of Europe and Asia, while on the governments Help to Buy product, which will be sterling is weak and interest rates are relatively low.
As a restricted to first time buyers and be subject to regional result, overseas investments accounted for more than half caps from April 2021.
The support required by the small of investments in 2018, an established trend that is expected and medium-sized developers who form our core audience 7 to continue.
for development finance will continue to increase.
Furthermore, high demand for offices in and around London, partly due to a lack of development opportunities, suggests that 8 London may be more resilient to Brexit than initially thought.
Research from Savills highlights increasing demand for industrial Specialist residential lending and warehouse properties which provide logistical support, usually for e-commerce.
Also featured is the potential for commercial property growth in regions outside London and New initiatives gaining traction the South East, aided by stronger house prices and consumer 8 confidence, together with a relative lack of supply.
OneSavings Banks manual underwriting and individual case assessment model provides a strong platform for specialist As in previous years, yields weakened across the retail property residential lending.
Customers with non-standard asset and sector except in prime central London, reflecting the rise of income structures, or complex credit histories as well as those technology, changing consumer habits and a resulting lack of seeking shared ownership mortgages, are ill-served by the demand.
This trend is not expected to change, but it may create commoditised and inflexible decision-making processes of opportunities for investors looking to repurpose vacant shops, mainstream lenders.
8 creating a greater mix of uses and services.
OneSavings Bank implemented a number of tactical product The lending market is dominated by the high street banks.
initiatives in this market in 2018.
We are seeing encouraging Opportunity exists for specialist lenders whose manual results which we will build on in 2019. underwriting approach, and willingness to engage in a dialogue to ensure a robust understanding of customer requirements, can provide a service differential.
Colliers International, UK Property Snapshot, Jan 2019.
CBRE Research, UK Real Estate Market Outlook 2019.
Savills, UK cross sector outlook, 8 Jan 2019.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 13 Second charge lending Controlled high standards The second charge market saw approximately 1.07bn of gross 9 new lending in 2018 2017: 1.02bn.
This market continues to adjust to the changes in regulation that came into effect in March 2016 and the short-term outlook remains neutral: any significant increase in market size is considered unlikely.
2018 saw the first regulatory reviews of lending practice in the sector, leading to some lenders revising their risk appetite and lending practices.
We expect further regulatory involvement in the broker market in the short term.
This is expected to maintain the subdued outlook for this market.
As a regulated lender in other markets, OSB has always maintained high standards of conduct and prudential regulation so we do not see this having any material impact on our lending.
Funding lines Strong pipeline There are a number of successful non-bank or alternative providers of finance to retail and SME customers in the UK.
These businesses are funded through a variety of means including wholesale finance provided by banks and securitisation bond markets, high net worth investors and market-based peer-to-peer platforms.
OSB is an active provider of secured funding lines to these specialty finance providers, to date focusing on shortterm real estate finance, leasing and development finance.
Through these activities the Bank has achieved senior secured exposure at attractive returns to asset classes that it knows well.
This financing activity covers a broad range of business sectors and its overall size is thus difficult to quantify.
OSB sees a regular flow of opportunities, adopts a very selective approach and has a strong pipeline of new business.
FLA, Second charge mortgage market reports volumes up by 13% in December, 8Feb 2019.
