68 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors Report Board of Directors biographies David Weymouth Andy Golding April Talintyre Graham Allatt Eric Anstee Sarah Hedger Rod Duke Margaret Hassall Mary McNamara Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Director Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointment David was appointed to the Andy was appointed to the April joined the Bank in May Graham was appointed to the Eric was appointed to the Sarah was appointed to the Rod was appointed to the Margaret was appointed to the Mary was appointed to the Board in September 2017.
2012 and was appointed to Board in May 2014.
Board in July 2012 and was Board in July 2016.
Board in May 2014. the Board in June 2012. appointed Senior Independent Director in 2014.
Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Member of the Nomination None.
Member of the Risk Chair of the Risk Committee Chair of the Audit Committee None.
Chair of the Nomination and Member of Audit and Risk Chair of Remuneration and and Governance Committee Committee.
and member of the Audit and member of the Risk Governance Committee and Committees.
member of Risk and and the Remuneration Committee.
member of the Remuneration Nomination and Governance Committee.
Key skills Key skills Key skills Key skills Key skills Key skills Key skills Key skills Key skills David has over 40 years Andy has over 30 years April has broad financial Graham has significant Eric has extensive corporate Sarah has significant capital Rod has extensive experience Margaret brings a broad range Mary has broad senior experience in the financial experience in financial services experience.
She has banking, credit risk and finance and mergers and management and mergers in operations, investments, of experience developed management experience in services industry and has a services.
been a member of the financial services experience.
acquisitions experience over a and acquisitions experience in risk management and across various industry sectors the banking and finance degree in Modern Languages Institute of Chartered broad range of business financial services.
She is a corporate finance across retail including manufacturing, sectors.
from University College Accountants in England and sectors.
qualified chartered and commercial banking.
London and an MBA from the Wales since 1992. accountant.
He is a member of the Takeover Panel Appeals Board and Visiting Professor, London Metropolitan University Business School.
Experience & qualifications Experience & qualifications Experience & qualifications Experience & qualifications Experience & qualifications Experience & qualifications Experience & qualifications Experience & qualifications Experience & qualifications David was previously Chief Andy was previously CEO of April was previously an Graham was previously Acting Eric was Chairman of CPP Sarah held leadership Rod was previously Group Margaret spent seven years Mary is a Non-Executive Information Officer at Barclays Saffron Building Society, where Executive Director in the Group Credit Director at Lloyds Group plc from 2014 to 2015. positions at General Electric General Manager, HSBC with working for Deloitte and Director of Dignity plc and Bank plc and Chief Risk Officer he had been since 2004.
Prior Rothesay Life pensions TSB and Chief Credit Officer at Prior to this he was Chief for 12 years in its Corporate, responsibility for UK Touche as a consultant and Motorpoint plc.
She was at RSA Insurance Group plc.
He to that he held senior positions insurance business of Abbey National.
Prior to this he Executive of the City of London Aviation and Capital business distribution branches, call led the financial services previously CEO of the sat on the Executive at NatWest, John Charcol and Goldman Sachs and worked spent 18 years in the NatWest Group plc, the first Chief development teams, leaving centres and internet banking consulting business for Commercial Division and Committee of both Bradford & Bingley.
Andy for Goldman Sachs Group culminating in the role Executive of the Institute of General Electric as Leader of for both personal and Charteris Plc.
More latterly, Board Director of the Banking companies.
He served as a currently holds a number of International for over 16 of Managing Director, Credit Chartered Accountants in Business Development and commercial customers.
Rod Margaret has been engaged as Division at Close Brothers Non-Executive Director of posts with industry institutions years, including as an Risk at NatWest Markets.
A England and Wales and Group M&A for its global GE Capital was with HSBC for 33 years.
Chief Operations Officer or Group PLC.
Prior to that, Mary Bank of Ireland UK plc.
His including membership of the Executive Director in the Fellow of the Institute of Finance Director of Old Mutual division.
Prior to General Previous directorships include Chief Information Officer for was Chief Operating Officer of experience as an executive UK Finance Executive Controllers division in London Chartered Accountants, plc.
Eric was also Group Electric, she worked at Lazard VISA UK, HFC Bank plc and divisions within some of the Skandia, the European arm of includes a wide range of senior Committee, the Building and New York.
April began her Graham was involved with Finance Director at The Energy & Co. Limited for 11 years, HSBC Life.
He also served on worlds largest banks, namely Old Mutual Group.
Mary spent roles in operations, Societies Associations Council career at KPMG in a general housing associations for Group plc and advisor to Lord leaving as Director, Corporate the Board of Alliance & Bank of America Merrill Lynch, 17 years at GE Capital, running technology, risk and and the Financial Conduct audit department.
nearly 30 years as Treasurer Hanson on the demerger of Finance.
Sarah also spent five Leicester plc until its takeover Barclays and RBS.
Margaret is a number of businesses leadership.
David is also Authoritys Small Business and Board member in the Hanson plc.
Prior to this Eric years as an auditor at by Santander.
Rod is a Fellow a Non-Executive Director for including GE Fleet Services Chairman of Mizuho Practitioners Panel.
He is also North of England and in spent 17 years at Ernst & .
of the Institute of Financial Ascension Trust Scotland Europe and GE Equipment International Plc and his other a Director of the Building London.
Eric is also a Sarah is an Independent Services.
and, since July 2018, of Finance.
current Non-Executive Societies Trust and has served Non-Executive Director of Sun Non-Executive Director of Nucleus Financial Group plc.
directorships include Fidelity as a Non-Executive Director Life Financial of Canada Balta Group NV, a Belgian International Holdings UK for Northamptonshire NHS and Limited and Insight Asset company listed on Euronext.
Limited and The Royal London Kreditech.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 69 David Weymouth Andy Golding April Talintyre Graham Allatt Eric Anstee Sarah Hedger Rod Duke Margaret Hassall Mary McNamara Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Director Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointment David was appointed to the Andy was appointed to the April joined the Bank in May Graham was appointed to the Eric was appointed to the Sarah was appointed to the Rod was appointed to the Margaret was appointed to the Mary was appointed to the Board in September 2017.
