70 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Executive team biographies Jason Elphick Richard Wilson Group General Counsel and Group Chief Credit Officer Company Secretary Experience & qualifications Experience & qualifications Jason joined the Bank in June 2016.
He has over 20 Richard joined the Bank in 2013. years of legal private practice and in-house financial services experience.
Prior to joining the Bank, Richard was head of the credit function for Morgan Stanleys UK origination Jasons private practice experience was primarily in business and subsequently looked after Credit and Australia with King & Wood Mallesons and in New Collections strategy within its UK, Russian and York with Sidley Austin LLP and he has been Italian businesses.
Between 1988 and 2006, Richard admitted to practice in Australia, New York and held various roles at Yorkshire Building Society, England and Wales.
including the position of Mortgage Application Centre Manager.
Jasons in-house financial services experience was most recently as Director and Head of Bank Legal at Santander in London.
Prior to this Jason held various roles at National Australia Bank, including General Counsel Capital and Funding, Head of Governance, Company Secretary and General Counsel Product, Regulation and Resolution.
Jens Bech Lisa Odendaal Group Commercial Director Chief Internal Auditor Experience & qualifications Experience & qualifications Jens joined the Bank as Chief Risk Officer in 2012, Lisa joined the Bank in April 2016 as Group Head of before becoming Group Commercial Director in Internal Audit.
Prior to joining the Bank, Lisa worked 2014. for Grant Thornton where she was an Associate Director within its Business Risk Services division.
Jens joined the Bank from the Asset Protection Agency, an executive arm of HM Treasury, where he Lisa has over 20 years of internal audit and held the position of Chief Risk Officer.
Prior to joining operational experience gained in the UK, UAE and the Asset Protection Agency, Jens spent nearly a Switzerland, having worked at several financial decade at management consultancy Oliver Wyman institutions, including PwC, Morgan Stanley, HSBC where he advised a global portfolio of financial and Man Investments.
services firms and supervisors on strategy and risk management.
Jens led Oliver Wymans support of Iceland during the financial crisis.
Hasan Kazmi Clive Kornitzer Chief Risk Officer Group Chief Operating Officer Experience & qualifications Experience & qualifications Hasan joined the Bank in September 2015 as Chief Clive joined the Bank in 2013.
Clive has over 25 years Risk Officer.
of financial services experience, having worked at several financial organisations including Yorkshire Hasan has over 19 years of risk experience having Building Society, John Charcol and Bradford and worked at several financial institutions, including Bingley.
Barclays Capital, Royal Bank of Canada and Standard Chartered Bank.
Prior to joining the Bank, Prior to joining the Bank, Clive spent six years at Hasan was a Senior Director at Deloitte within the Santander where he was the Chief Operating Officer Risk and Regulatory practice with responsibility for for the intermediary mortgage business.
Clive has leading the firms enterprise risk, capital, liquidity, also held positions at the European Financial recovery and resolution practice.
Hasan graduated Management Association and has been the Chair of from the London School of Economics with a MSc in the FS Forums Retail Banking Sub-Committee.
Clive Systems Design and Analysis and a BSc in is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers.
Richard Davis Chief Information Officer Experience & qualifications Richard joined the Bank in 2013.
Richard has worked in financial services for 20 years, rising to Chief Information Officer at GE Money UK in 2004.
He subsequently helped launch MoneyPartners an Investec subsidiary, as IT Director, through to the eventual sale to Goldman Sachs.
Prior to joining the Bank, Richard worked for four years at Morgan Stanley covering IT, Projects and Transaction Management for the European residential business as an Interim Director.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 71 Top row from left to right: Clive Kornitzer: Jason Elphick: Lisa Odendaal: Richard Wilson.
Bottom row from left to right: Jens Bech: Richard Davis: Hasan Kazmi.
