36 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk review Executive summary During the year, the Group maintained a low and stable risk Key risk Commentary profile, in line with the Boards risk management objectives.
indicators TheGroup continued to enhance its risk identification and management capabilities to ensure ongoing compliance CET1 ratio The Groups fully-loaded CET1 withemerging industry and regulatory standards.
ratio remained well above 13.7% regulatory minimums at 13.3% 13.3% By leveraging its risk management framework, the Group actively at the end of 2018 2017: 13.7%.
managed its risk profile in accordance with the Board-approved risk appetite.
Through continuous monitoring and assessment of the underlying risk drivers, the Group took appropriate and timely actions in response to the changing economic, business and regulatory environment.
2017 2018 The Group has maintained its focus on risk-based investment toenhance data governance and controls, and made good Total capital The Groups total capital ratio progress towards building Internal Ratings-Based Approach IRB ratio remained strong at 15.8% capabilities.
The discipline associated with effective operational 16.9% in2018 2017: 16.9%.
15.8% resilience has continued to be an important area of enhanced risk management.
The Group has established effective and scalable operating models across all risk functions, which include leveraging its OSBI operations.
The Group delivered strong and profitable growth whilst maintaining a low and stable risk profile.
The loan assets have 2017 2018 continued to exhibit strong performance and the Group has maintained high quality capital and liquidity buffers to meet 3 months in The percentage of loans more itscurrent and future requirements.
arrears than three months in arrears 1.5% was1.5% in 2018 2017: 1.2%.
Ongoing stress testing demonstrates that the Group is resilient 1.2% toextreme but plausible scenarios in the context of the ongoing uncertainty surrounding the economic, political and regulatory environment.
In particular, the Group continues to actively monitor the developments relating to Brexit negotiations.
2017 2018 The Group has successfully managed its funding and liquidity profile post the withdrawal of the Term Funding Scheme by Impairments increased to 0.10% Cost of risk theBank of England in February 2018.
2017: 0.07% driven by changes 0.10% to the IFRS 9 impairment The other key regulatory developments to which the Group approach, specifically the isresponding include the General Data Protection Regulation 0.07% implementation of a fourth GDPR and the Second Payment Services Directive PSD2.
macroeconomic scenario, aligned TheGroup has appropriate systems and controls to comply to a disorderly no-deal Brexit withthe requirements and these continue to be enhanced scenario, which increased the astheGroup improves its capabilities.
2017 2018 The Groups liquidity ratio Liquidity ratio remained well above regulatory 15.2% and risk appetite limits in 2018 14.5% finishing the year at 14.5% 2017:15.2%.
The liquidity coverage ratio of 224% 2017: 250% is significantly above the regulatory minimum 2017 2018 of 100%.
Note: 3 months in arrears ratio excludes legacy problem loans.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 37 High level key risk indicators Priority areas for 2019 The Group aligns its risk appetite to a select range of key The Group has established a comprehensive and scalable risk performance indicators that are used to assess its success against management framework covering current and forward-looking strategic, business, operational and regulatory objectives.
During 2019, the Group will further refine and embed its risk performance against these indicators is continually assessed and management capabilities in the context of changing economic, reported.
The table opposite outlines the comparative analysis business and operating conditions.
In particular, the Group has ofthe leading risk indicators with supporting commentary.
identified the following key areas to further improve its risk and compliance capabilities: Key achievements in 2018 Delivery of an enhanced and integrated data governance and The Group continued to improve its risk appetite and stress testing controls framework which is integrated with the Groups risk, procedures to identify, monitor and manage the risks associated financial and regulatory reporting procedures.
In particular, the Group has leveraged its IRB and IFRS Integration of second generation IRB credit risk models with 9 models to assess capital and provision requirements across credit portfolio monitoring, stress testing and capital planning, arange of macroeconomic and business scenarios.
risk appetite and risk-based pricing.
Development of IRB waiver documentation demonstrating Liquidity and funding forecasting procedures have further compliance with approval requirements.
improved and the Group is fully prepared to access wholesale funding through securitisation at a commercially opportune time.
The Board and senior management continue to provide The Group continues to make investment to further enhance appropriate oversight and direction to all risk and compliance itsretail and SME funding propositions.
The Group also engages external subject matter experts and consults with supervisory authorities to ensure Good progress continues to be made on delivering a robust appropriate levels of transparency and successful outcomes andcompliant IRB programme.
The IRB programme has been are achieved.
focused on the delivery of second generation IRB models, further embedding model governance and validation procedures and Risk management improved adherence to regulatory requirements.
Approach to risk management The Group views its capabilities to effectively identify, assess Improvements have been made to the Groups data management and manage its risk profile as critical to its growth strategy.
and governance capabilities driven by the Groups strategic data The Groups approach to risk management is outlined within management objectives.
This initiative is designed to deliver the Strategic Risk Management Framework SRMF.
integrated data controls, aggregation and reporting capabilities.
The SRMF is the overarching framework which enables the Board The Group established the core components of an effective and senior management to actively manage and optimise the risk andregulatory compliant operational resilience framework.
The profile within the constraints of the risk appetite.
The SRMF also operational resilience framework ensures that all critical services enables informed decisions to be taken in a timely manner by and operations are supported by a resilient infrastructure of factoring the interests and expectations of key stakeholders.
systems and processes which are subject to ongoing monitoring and testing.
The Group has improved its procedures relating The SRMF also provides a structured mechanism to align all tobusiness continuity planning and disaster recovery.
components of an effective approach to risk management.
The SRMF links overarching risk principles to day-to-day risk The launch of our asset finance business was subject to extensive management activities.
review and development of appropriate policies, systems and controls to ensure that the underlying risks were fully understood and appropriately priced and managed.
The Group continued to make significant investment in people across the Risk and Compliance functions, ensuring that there issufficient capacity and capability to ensure it is well positioned to deliver against its growth strategy.
Risk-based management information has been an important area of continued improvement across all risk types.
38 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk review continued The modular construct of the SRMF provides for an agile approach Further detail on these modules is set out in the Groups to keeping pace with the evolving nature of the risk profile and Pillar 3 Disclosures.
The SRMF and its core modular components are subject to periodic review and approval by the Board and its The following diagrams outline the core components of the SRMF relevant Committees.
and the organisational arrangements to ensure that the Group operates in accordance with the requirements of the SRMF.
The key modules of the SRMF structure are as follows: 1: Risk principles and culture 2: Risk strategy and appetite 3: Risk governance and function organisation 4: Risk definitions and categorisation Strategic Risk Management Framework SRMF Key Risk principles and culture elements Risk strategy and appetite Risk governance and function organisation Risk definitions and categorisation Financial risks Non-financial risks Principal risks Credit risk Strategic and business risk Market risk Operational risk Reputational risk Liquidity risk Conduct risk Compliance regulatory risk Solvency risk Capabilities Risk framework Risk data and IT Risk analytics Risk MI and policies Risk Recovery Plan regulatory ICAAP ILAAP Resolution Pack submissions Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 39 The OSB risk organisational structure is detailed below: Board of Directors Board Committees Remuneration Nomination and Audit Committee Risk Committee CommitteeGovernance Committee Management Executive Committee Committees Credit Executive Operations Risk Management Regulatory Assets and Executive Committee M&A Committee Committee Governance Liabilities Disclosure Committee Committee Committee Committee First Line of Defence Second Line of Defence Third Line of Defence Business Ensures that risks are identified, Provides an independent review and Provides independent assurance on the and control measured, monitored a nd reported in challenge to the business and control effectiveness of the SRMF, compliance functions line with policy in an effective manner.
functions to ensure that all aspects of with regulations, adherence to policies the risk profile are managed and e ffectiveness of controls.
Key Brands inadherence to risk appetite Finance and HR andpolicies.
Operations Risk and Compliance Internal Audit IT and Change Credit Strategy Commercial Sales and Marketing Legal and Regulation Chief Executive Officer Executives Chief Financial O fficer Chief Risk Officer Chief Internal Auditor Group Chief Operating O fficer Group Chief Credit Officer Chief Information O fficer Group General C ounsel and Company Secretary Group Commercial Director Brand-Level S enior Management 40 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk review continued Risk appetite Overarching risk appetite statement The Group aligns its strategic and business objectives with its risk The Group aims to ensure that it is able to withstand a severe appetite, enabling the Board and senior management to monitor butplausible stress without breaching its key performance the risk profile relative to its strategic and business performance indicators and underlying risk limits.
In particular, it should remain objectives.
Risk appetite is a critical mechanism through which the profitable and meet its prudential requirements under a 1 in 20 Board and senior management are able to identify adverse trends intensity stress where applicable, by factoring for corrective and respond to unexpected developments in a timely and management actions.
The Group has a prudent and proportionate approach to risk Risk appetite is calibrated to reflect the Groups strategic taking and management, which is reflective of its straightforward objectives, business operating plans, as well as external economic, business model.
The inherent resilience of the Groups business business and regulatory constraints.
In particular, risk appetite is model is underpinned by the fact that the Group only lends on a calibrated to ensure that the Bank continues to deliver against its secured basis, has established robust underwriting practices and strategic and business objectives and maintains sufficient relies on intermediary-based distribution.
The Group supports its financial resource buffers to withstand plausible but extreme lending activities by being predominantly reliant on stable retail stresses.
The primary objective of the risk appetite is to ensure funding, with strong and high quality financial buffers.
The highly that the Groups strategy and business operating model is efficient business operating model is an important source of sufficiently resilient.
The Group also places significant importance on its strong conduct and compliance culture The risk appetite is calibrated using statistical analysis and stress as an important driver of its overall success.
testing to inform the process for setting management triggers and limits against key risk indicators.
The calibration process is designed to ensure that timely and appropriate actions are taken to maintain the risk profile within approved thresholds.
The Board and senior management actively monitor actual performance against approved management triggers and limits.
Current assessment of our principal risks The Banks principal risks are set out in the following heat map and in detail on pages 41 to 46.
1 Strategic and business risk 2 Reputational risk 3 Credit risk 4 Market risk 5 Liquidity and funding risk 9 1 7 6 Solvency risk Operational risk 7 8 Conduct risk 3 9 Compliance regulatory risk 5 8 2 4 6 Low High Impact Likelihood Low High
