Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51 Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate The Group has identified a broad suite of credible management Governance Code, the Board of Directors have assessed the actions which can be implemented to manage and mitigate the prospects and viability of the Group over a three-year period by impact of stress scenarios.
These management actions are comprehensively assessing the principal risks and uncertainties assessed under a range of scenarios varying in severity and towhich it is exposed and have concluded that they have a duration.
Management actions are evaluated based on speed of reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue to implementation, second order consequences and dependency on operate and meet its liabilities as they fall due over that period.
Management actions are used to inform capital, liquidity and recovery planning under The three-year time period was selected for the following reasons: stress conditions.
The Groups operating and financial plan covers a three-year period In addition, the Group identifies a range of catastrophic scenarios, The three-year operating and financial plan considers, among which could result in the failure of its current business model.
other matters: the Boards risk appetite, macroeconomic Business model failure scenarios Reverse Stress Tests or RSTs outlook, market opportunity, the competitive landscape, and are primarily used to inform the Board and executive sensitivity of the financial plan to volumes, margin pressures management of the outer limits of the Groups risk profile.
RSTs and capital requirements play an important role in helping the Board and its executives The ongoing assessment of financial performance and assess the available recovery options to revive a failing business prudential requirements through the use of scenario and model.
The RSTs exercise is based on analysing a range of sensitivity analysis covering this period, and scenarios, including an extreme macroeconomic downturn 1 in It incorporates a forward-looking time period which captures 200 severity, a cyber-attack leading to a loss of customer data business and economic uncertainty following the EU which is used for fraudulent activities, extreme regulatory and referendum outcome.
taxation changes impacting Buy-to-Let lending volumes and a liquidity crisis caused by severe market conditions combined with The Company is authorised by the PRA, and regulated by the idiosyncratic consequences.
FCAand the PRA, and undertakes regular analysis of its risk profile and assumptions.
It has a robust set of policies, procedures and The Group has established a comprehensive operational resilience systems to undertake a comprehensive assessment of all the framework to actively assess the vulnerabilities and recoverability principal risks and uncertainties to which it is exposed on a current of its critical services.
The Group also conducts regular business and forward-looking basis as described in Principal risks and continuity and disaster recovery exercises.
The ongoing monitoring of all principal risks and uncertainties that The Group manages and monitors its risk profile through its could impact the operating and financial plan, together with the Strategic Risk Management Framework, in particular through its use of stress testing to ensure that the Group could survive a risk appetite statement and risk limits as described in the Risk severe but plausible stress, enables the Board to reasonably review on pages 36 to 40.
Potential changes in its risk profile are assess the viability of the business model over a three-year period.
assessed across the business planning horizon by subjecting the operating and financial plan to severe but plausible The UKs departure from the European Union without defined and macroeconomic and idiosyncratic scenarios.
agreed terms could have a significant impact on the economic and business outlook for the Group.
To address this uncertainty Stress testing is an integral risk management discipline, used the Group has develop a range of Brexit-related scenarios of toassess the financial and operational resilience of the Group.
varying severities and probabilities to inform its IFRS 9 and capital TheGroup developed bespoke stress testing capabilities to assess planning processes.
the impact of extreme but plausible scenarios in the context of itsprincipal risks impacting the primary strategic, financial and regulatory objectives.
Stress test scenarios are identified in the context of the Banks operating model, identified risks, business and economic outlook.
The Group actively engages external experts to inform the process by which it develops business and economic stress scenarios.
A broad range of stress scenarios havebeen analysed, including the economic impact of differing outcomes for the UK leaving the European Union, regulatory changes relating to lending into the UK housing sector, governmental housing policy shifts and scenarios prescribed bythe Bank of England.
Stresses are applied to lending volumes, capital requirements, liquidity and funding mix, interest margins and credit and operational losses.
Stress testing also supports key regulatory submissions such as the ICAAP, ILAAP and the Recovery Plan.
TheGroups stress testing activities generally test the viability ofthe Group over a five-year period.
