04 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our business model Our purpose is to enable our customers to achieve their personal and business goals by providing access to fair financial services.
Resources and relationships What we do Brands and heritage Attractive retail savings We have a family of specialist lending brands supported by Our channels oursavings franchise with Our key strengths Our channels Strategic priorities Strategy in action Provide a stable funding platform a150-year heritage.
Stable funding platform Customer satisfaction Our channels for the Bank to grow its loan book Customer focused and retention Maintain and build upon over Transparent, Improved ISA transfer process 150 years of heritage in savings Employees leading to successful ISA season good value Deliver good and consistent value Our team of highly skilled raising deposits at below our savings products savings products Online 39% employees possess expertise target cost of funds Direct 38% 2 andin-depth knowledge of the Increased bond retention to 95% Online 39% Branches 23% despite high profile competitor propertyand savings markets.
Online 39% Direct 38% launches supported by significant For more information go to page 18 Direct Branches 23% 38% marketing spend Infrastructure Branches 23% We benefit from cost andefficiency advantages Specialist lending business provided by our wholly-owned subsidiary OSBIndia.
Our segments Our key strengths Our segments Strategic priorities Strategy in action Be a leading specialist lender in Excellent loan performance Exploring core and adjacent Our segments our chosen markets Award-winning products areas for growth Relationships with Retain focus on bespoke and Strong relationships with Successfully launched InterBay intermediaries responsive underwriting asset finance targeting hard intermediaries We have strong and deep Further deepen relationships and assets critical to businesses relationships with the mortgage reputation for delivery Buy-to-let Successful pilot introduction of intermediaries who distribute SME lending 82% with intermediaries new residential product range ourproducts.
Residential Buy-to-let 18% Buy-to-let SME lending 82% SME lending 82% Residential 18% For more information go to page 18 For more information go to page 21 Financial Residential 18% We have a strong CET1 ratio andproven capital generation Unique operating model capability to support significant loan book growth through Cost to income profitability.
Our key strengths Cost to income Strategic priorities Strategy in action ratio ratio Deliver distribution, sales and risk Integrated multi-brand OSBIndia unique processes under a coordinated Cost to income approach competitive advantage ratio structure Excellent customer experience Best-in-class customer Leverage our unique and cost High customer Net Promoter Score service efficient operating model Highly qualified and dedicated High employee retention Maintain an efficient, scalable and staff with market leading Ratio 28% resilient infrastructure rates employee retention rate OSBIndia Ratio 28% Ratio 28% For more information go to page 18 For more information go to page 23 Underpinned by our core values For more information go to page 62 Stronger together Aim high Take ownership Create your future Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 05 What we do Outcomes and value creation For shareholders Attractive retail savings 1 Underlying basic EPS Our channels Our key strengths Our channels Strategic priorities Strategy in action Provide a stable funding platform 58.5p Stable funding platform Customer satisfaction Our channels for the Bank to grow its loan book Customer focused and retention Dividend per share Maintain and build upon over Transparent, Improved ISA transfer process 150 years of heritage in savings leading to successful ISA season good value 14.6p Deliver good and consistent value raising deposits at below our savings products savings products Online 39% target cost of funds Direct 38% 2 For customers Increased bond retention to 95% Online 39% Branches 23% despite high profile competitor Online 39% Direct 38% Customer NPS launches supported by significant For more information go to page 18 Direct Branches 23% 38% marketing spend 63 Branches 23% 2 Customer retention Specialist lending business 95% Our segments Our key strengths Our segments Strategic priorities Strategy in action Be a leading specialist lender in For intermediaries Excellent loan performance Exploring core and adjacent Our segments our chosen markets Award-winning products areas for growth Retain focus on bespoke and Broker NPS Strong relationships with Successfully launched InterBay responsive underwriting asset finance targeting hard intermediaries Further deepen relationships and 28 assets critical to businesses reputation for delivery Buy-to-let Successful pilot introduction of SME lending 82% with intermediaries new residential product range For employees Residential Buy-to-let 18% Buy-to-let SME lending 82% SME lending 82% Number of employees promoted Residential 18% For more information go to page 18 For more information go to page 21 in2018 Residential 18% 88 Unique operating model Number of learning events attended by employees in 2018 Cost to income Our key strengths Cost to income Strategic priorities Strategy in action ratio ratio Deliver distribution, sales and risk 1,258 Integrated multi-brand OSBIndia unique processes under a coordinated Cost to income approach competitive advantage ratio structure Excellent customer experience Best-in-class customer For communities Leverage our unique and cost High customer Net Promoter Score service efficient operating model Highly qualified and dedicated Sponsorship and donations High employee retention Maintain an efficient, scalable and staff with market leading Ratio 28% resilient infrastructure rates employee retention rate 260k OSBIndia Ratio 28% Ratio 28% For more information go to page 18 For more information go to page 23 Underpinned by 1.
25% of underlying profit after tax attributable to ordinary shareholders.
our core values For more information go to page 62 2.
Retention is defined as average maturing fixed contractual retail deposits that remain with the Stronger together Aim high Take ownership Create your future Bank on their maturity date.
06 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our business model explained Leveraging our unique business model to differentiate ourselves from competition, offering well-defined propositions in our chosen markets.
Attractive retail savings Specialist lending business Our retail savings brand Our Buy-to-Let SME brands 2018 balance by channel 2018 Buy-to-Let SME Net loans and Gross new Average book LTV Online Direct Branches advances lending at 31 December 39% 38% 23% 7.4bn 2.8bn 70% 2017: 36% 2017: 41% 2017: 23% 2017: 5.6bn 2017: 2.4bn 2017: 69% Online Buy-to-Let mortgages We attract retail savings deposits via We provide loans to limited companies and the internet.
individuals, secured on residential property held for investment purposes.
Our target market is Direct experienced and professional landlords or high The direct channel sources savings products net worth individuals with established and via telephone and post.
High street branches Commercial mortgages Our Kent Reliance branded network operates We provide loans to limited companies in the South East of England and offers a variety and individuals, secured on commercial of fixed, notice, easy access and regular savings and semi-commercial properties held for products, including ISAs.
investment purposes or for owner-occupation.
Residential development We provide development loans to small and medium-sized developers of residential property.
Loans are staged, with monitoring surveyors signing off each stage of the development beforefunds are released.
Funding lines We provide funding lines loans to non-bank finance companies secured against portfolios of financial assets, principally mortgages and leases.
Asset finance We provide loans under hire purchase, leasing and refinancing arrangements to UK SMEs and small corporates to finance business-critical assets.
For further information about Buy-to-Let SME segment, go topage 26.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 07 Unique operating model Our residential mortgage brands Our brand 2018 Residential mortgages OSBIndia OSBI is a wholly-owned subsidiary Net loans and Gross new Average book LTV advances lending at 31 December based in Bangalore, India.
1.6bn 0.3bn 56% OSBI puts customer service at the heart of 2017: 1.7bn 2017: 0.2bn 2017: 56% everything it does demonstrated by our excellent customer Net Promoter Score.
First charge Various functions are supported by OSBI, We provide loans to individuals, secured including support services, operations, IT, finance by a first charge against their residential home.
Our target market includes high net worth and We have a one team approach between the UK complex income customers.
We are also experts in shared ownership, OSBI operates a fully paperless office all data lending to first-time buyers and key workers and processing are in the UK.
buying a property in conjunction with a housing association.
Second charge We provide loans to individuals seeking to raiseadditional funds secured by a second charge against their residential home.
We predominantly target good credit quality borrowers.
Funding lines We provide funding lines to non-bank lenders who operate in high yielding, specialist subsegments such as residential bridge finance.
For further information about Residential segment, go to page28.
08 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strong relationships Relationships with withourstakeholders are fundamental to achieving our key stakeholders thisvision, and are central tothe Banks culture.
We encourage effective and Our vision is to become honest engagement from our customers favourite allof our people when dealing bank: one that delivers with stakeholders including customers, shareholders, its very best, challenges business partners, colleagues, convention and opens and the communities in doors that others cant.
Customers We pride ourselves on delivering straightforward and transparent products and propositions to both our borrowers and our savers.
Our value Aim High encourages us tokeepour customers at the centre of everything we do.
Every time a customer calls or interacts with the Bank we offer them the opportunity to let us know how Our success depends we did.
We listen to them and act upon what they tell us.
Customer satisfaction is on close relationships high and our customer Net Promoter Score increased to 63 which is testament to the and effective outstanding customer service we provide.
engagement with our We added over 40,000 new savings customers in the year and we pride key stakeholders and ourselves on high retention rates for upholding the values savings and borrowing customers.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 09 Shareholders Intermediaries Colleagues OSB maintains an open dialogue with Our straightforward lending proposition Our experienced and dedicated colleagues its shareholders and is recognised is based on our goal to make it easier for work together to create a business in for its straightforward and intermediaries to serve our borrowers.
which we can all take pride and prosper.
We continuously enhance relationships Our people are a key asset and our with our intermediaries through training success depends on the talented Clear and comprehensive reporting is and growing our team as the number individuals we employ.
supported by the OSB Investor Relations of intermediaries grow.
Management is available for meetings development managers listen and work In 2018, we reached a milestone of 1,000 with shareholders through investor with intermediaries, making themselves employees across the UK and India.
What roadshows, conferences and one to one available to discuss cases and helping our employees think is paramount to us meetings.
These interactions provide us with to obtain swift and reliable decisions.
and we regularly ask for their opinion in direct feedback on the market and Bankcompany-wide surveys.
Responses from specific issues that interest our shareholders.
The OSB Sales team attended 170 UK employees enabled us to enhance intermediary events during 2018, the working experience, resulting in the The Annual General Meeting is attended by interacting with brokers and keeping Bank being included for the first time in the members of the Board and Management.
abreast of industry developments and The Sunday Times 100 Best Companies intermediary requirements.
We take the same The Investor Relations team also maintains NPS score was 28 at the end of 2018. approach at OSBIndia, which was officially strong relationships with analysts and certified as a Great place to work in 2018. attends relevant conferences.
The Group also engages with employees via a new dedicated intranet site launched The Groups results are available on our in 2018, regular newsletters and companywebsite at www.
wide events, including the Mission, Vision and Values events, for more details, see page 62.
For more information on For more detail about OSB how Directors engaged with non-financial information our key stakeholders, see regarding environmental, the Corporate Governance employees and social Report on page 72. matters, respect for human rights, anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters, see Communities the Corporate Responsibility Report on page52.
OSB cares about the communities in which it is based.
Each year OSB engages with the people in the county of Kent taking part in a variety of charitable events and partnerships.
In 2018, the Bank raised 260,000 for its charity partners and our employees dedicated time in a variety of volunteering activities.
OSBIndia is also heavily involved with the community local to the office in Bangalore, as well as in areas where there are critical needs.
For more information on how the Group engages with the communities it operates in, see page 64.
