Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CONNECTED TO CUSTOMERS CREATING BETTER CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS We are building a connected customer experience, this is how we acquire, engage with, and then nurture our customers on an ongoing basis.
Our Digital & Technology strategy is agile, working within a rapidly changing media ACQUIRE landscape, to ensure how we acquire our customers, be that clients or candidates, is efficient and effective.
ENGAGE We are delivering customers for ENGAGE the longer term.
Our programmes engage with customers across their whole career journey, not just delivering more, but better, more relevant candidates and clients.
We see Digital and Technology doing more of the heavy lifting in the Acquire and Engage stages.
NURTURE By using technology to do this work, it allows our people to focus on building and nurturing relationships, which will always remain at the heart of our business.
We are seeking to use technology from outside of recruitment, through our scale, capability and investment, to give our people the best tools to do their jobs.
15 | Strategic Report Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Annual Report and Annual Report and Accounts Accounts 2018 2018 Strategic partners in recruitment media ACQUIRE We have strategic partnerships with all of the key recruitment sector players in candidate acquisition LinkedIn, Seek, Zhaopin.
Our global scale and capability allows us to work closely with traditional digital media such as Facebook, Baidu, WeChat and Google, where we see fast deployment of our jobs on Google for Jobs through code integrated into our Targeting digital media single global web platform.
A key element of our technology strategy is Mobile.
Just under half of our traffic comes through mobile devices and we believe that we are ahead of the competition.
We were the first recruiter to develop a responsive website, Job matching technology which adjusts to whichever device people use to access it.
We are running a pilot mobile app in France, the UK, Japan and the Netherlands, using native technologies such as push Mobile App messaging, facial recognition and thumbprint log-in to make the candidate journey easier.
This allows us to deliver a service which is far in advance of that currently available elsewhere in the market.
We have job matching technology deployed in seven of our markets.
Here, a candidate uploads their CV and the tool matches them with available jobs.
The candidate can then adjust and refine as necessary.
Displaying more relevant jobs gives a better customer experience but also creates efficiencies by surfacing better qualified candidates to our consultants.
ENGAGE Salesforce Marketing Cloud has been running in all of our markets for a number of years, helping us send relevant content automatically, driven by the candidates own actions.
Based on a career lifecycle, we undertake continuous contact with candidates, supporting them with tools and guidance so that we remain front of mind and are their recruiter of choice.
Our open rates are twice the industry average and our engagement rates are three times that of the benchmark.
Going further we now run Salesforce Interaction Studio, previously Thunderhead, to understand more about individual customer journeys enabling us to deliver personalised interactions to our candidates.
We know where each of them are on their journey, and can offer them the best next step on their career path.
Based on their interactions, we deliver them personalised communications and opportunities.
We have seen that this has generated levels of engagement that are sector leading.
Critical to all of our programme is data-driven decision making The final component of our engagement programme is using investments in technology, digital partners and innovation pilots Salesforce Pardot to enable a lead generation programme of are measured in detail.
We will not shy away from an impressive clients.
Measuring likelihood of clients to recruit through their partner logo, but each time it is based against a solid decision interaction across the PageGroup digital landscape allows us framework backed by data to make a sound business case.
Any to inform our consultants of what call to make and when to case for investment is considered and must lead to meaningful generate or recapture business.
