Additional information Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Review I would like to welcome you to our Strategic Review, where we have outlined how we see current market dynamics, together with PageGroups business model and strategy.
This review will take you through the source of our competitive advantage and the relationship to our Strategic Plan.
Then following on from this, how we approach our investment plan in our markets.
I will also outline our updated Vision for the Group, as we presented at our Investor Afternoon in May 2018.
We continue this year to relate how we measure performance, through our KPIs both financial and non financial with associated risks.
These risks then link directly to the four elements financial, strategic, people and operational of the performance criteria in our current executive share plans.
Steve Ingham CEO PageGroup 7 | Strategic Report Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Additional information K R O W T A L Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our value proposition Our value proposition is based around expertise and specialism and for this to be delivered in a consistent manner, supported by high quality processes.
We offer a premium service which is valued by clients and attracts the highest calibre of candidates, due to our focus on opportunities where our market and industry knowledge can set us apart.
When these elements are brought together, the potential for a successful outcome for both client and candidate is maximised.
Such successes enhance our reputation, brings greater repeat business and turns candidates into clients and vice-versa.
Clients Leads to... Sector expertise Repeat business Appropriate candidate Greater exclusivity Specialist industry and shortlist Future candidates market knowledge Professional high quality service Global reach, with deep local knowledge Consultants Leads to... Team-based structure and Rapid career promotion compensation Career opportunities Expertise in premium Access to jobs across entire Reward and recognition candidate sourcing PageGroup Consistent process Experienced advocate for client and candidate Candidates Leads to... Professional high quality Career-long relationship service Peer recommendations Consistent, high quality Market understanding and Future client processes client profiling Career advice Strategic Organic, high margin and diversified growth framework Our business model is centred around greatest potential for long-term growth PageGroup is focused on delivering organic and diverse growth.
The key in gross profit at attractive conversion against three key objectives to elements are derived from our teamrates.
achieve its strategic vision and led approach as set out on page 9, sustainable financial returns.
This enables us to offer a premium with great value placed on structured service that is valued by clients These are to: career development and the value that and attracts the highest calibre of experienced management brings to the 1 look for organic, high margin and candidates.
diversified growth: PageGroups historic success in each PageGroups diversification strategy has 2 position the business to be of our markets has helped identify led to a well-balanced business profile efficiently scalable and highly which geographies will likely produce and mitigation of exposure to any one flexible to react to market high margin growth, with the greatest geographic area, brand or discipline.
conditions: and potential for long-term success.
In 2007 the UK represented 39% of Our background is in permanent 3 nurture and develop our people, our business.
Over a decade later this recruitment, but 24% of the business driving our meritocratic growth has fallen to 17% as we have invested is now in the temporary market, with model.
heavily in our Large, High Potential this being dependent on local culture markets.
Our service Through global diversification, we have offering covers a broad set of disciplines a clear strategic vision: to be the leading and specialisations, solely within the specialist recruiter in the markets in professional and clerical recruitment.
Our presence in major global economies enables the Strategic Report | 8 E D O M R U O Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Market dynamics Strategic Review Innovation Efficiently scalable and highly flexible Our scale enables us to build quality of service provided The world in which we operate has resulted in click-through an unrivalled skillset, together to our operational business.
Newly rates twice the industry with the ability to respond Collectively these Shared emerging technologies affect average.
Service Centres allow us to be quickly to changing market the behaviour of our clients, Our internal Business more agile, reduce our fixed conditions, which are explained candidates and own people.
Technology function focuses costs and remove constraints in more detail on page 10.
Our Innovation approach is on designing, implementing on how fast we can react to Our global footprint requires focussed on how best to and exploiting scalable global changing market conditions.
high levels of operational acquire, engage and nurture systems.
By improving our efficiency in order to achieve During 2018 we also created a customers to build long-term processes and tools we this strategic objective.
Our new Chief Operational Officer relationships.
empower consultants to be focus on Shared Service role that is jointly held by two of more productive.
In our operational business, we Centres has delivered greater our Executive Board members.
are utilising technologies such The use of technology allows economies of scale and This new role will allow us to as Salesforce and Thunderhead us to leverage growth in the greater efficiencies.
It has build capability, deliver initiatives to engage with customers business and improve our driven consistency, increased more rapidly and then translate throughout their career journey.
flexibility and improved the this into increased productivity.
Our use of these technologies Nurture and develop our people, driving Capital Allocation Policy our meritocratic growth model Our PageVision is to increase to become Senior Managers or The Groups strategy is to Our policy is to grow the our total headcount to 10,000 Executive Board members.
operate a policy of financing ordinary dividend over the in the near-term and this starts the activities and development course of the economic cycle, Internal moves also ensure with retaining our best and of the Group from our retained in line with our long-term that best practice knowledge brightest.
earnings and to maintain a growth rate: we believe this is shared throughout countries strong balance sheet position.
enables us to sustain the level The recruitment, retention and across disciplines.
We first use our cash to satisfy of ordinary dividend payments and development of talent is The mobility and loyalty of our operational and investment during a downturn as well fundamental in our ability to our people enable Senior requirements and to hedge as increasing it during more achieve long-term sustainable Management to react to market our liabilities under the Groups prosperous times.
We create conditions and ensure we share plans.
We then review worldwide opportunities and Cash generated in excess of allocate resources efficiently to our liquidity over and above this clear career paths for our these first two priorities will achieve the greatest returns.
requirement to make returns to consultants on their journeys be returned to shareholders shareholders, firstly by way of through supplementary returns, ordinary dividends.
using special dividends or share buybacks.
9 | Strategic Report Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Market dynamics The professional recruitment sector has always been highly In a number of geographic regions, such as Latin America or sensitive to fluctuating economic conditions and is strongly Greater China, our potential markets are very large, yet relatively influenced by client and candidate confidence.
This provides not only significant market share can change rapidly, whether in terms of availability of jobs and opportunities, but also business development challenges.
New candidates, or candidate confidence in taking the next step in markets can take time to crack, but the advantages of being an their career.
early participant and building scale can be considerable.
It can also be localised, whether by geography or discipline, As set out in the table below, PageGroup views certain key and differ between temporary and permanent placements in the features as defining a particular recruitment market profile, same market.
We intend to maintain our strategy of retaining categorised by the proportion of roles filled through a recruitment our market presence throughout downturns, whilst closely agency market penetration.
Emerging markets Developing markets Mature markets Market 30-70% Over 70% 0-15% 15-30% penetration Well developed markets Highly Limited international Few well-established with many international Competition competitive operators present regional players operators Latin America, France, Australasia, Germany, Greater China UK, US Examples SE Asia Holland, Spain, Italy Market drivers of PageGroup performance As well as the influence of the general macro-economic and consultant productivity.
It is the nature of the professional environment on business activity, there are a number of specific recruitment market that strong market conditions will see drivers market-based drivers that can materially impact PageGroups in both elements align rapidly, and this has a dramatic impact on financial performance.
These are split into elements which PageGroups overall performance and conversion margins.
affect market liquidity and those which influence gross profit Impact Comment Financial Impact Often highly discipline geography-specific, especially at midpoints in the cycle as client confidence grows.
This is Candidate a key driver of most other elements, as the quality of a Mainly visible through availability recruiter is most clearly demonstrated through their ability to improvement in gross Market source difficult-to-find candidates.
profit, but a buoyant liquidity market helps to drive productivity.
A major influence on market liquidity where macroCandidate environment is sufficiently stable, candidates will look to confidence progress their careers, which helps to drive job liquidity.
Group average historically moves within a 10% range over Fees rates Notable influence the cycle 19.5%-22%.
on both gross profit and also conversion Reflects level of candidate shortage and liquidity within a Gross Wage rate.
Productivity, particular discipline or geography, plus macro-economic profit and inflation especially in permanent conditions.
productivity recruitment, is significantly enhanced As candidates become scarcer, companies reduce the as these market drivers number of interviews and shorten the decision making Time to hire positively align.
process in order not to lose preferred candidates.
Strategic Report | 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Review Page Vision Headcount Gross Profit Operating Profit 10,000 1bn 200m-250m At our Investor Afternoon in May 2018, we outlined our Vision for Group headcount of 10,000.
We believe that with our focus on the Group.
Our updated vision remains consistent to increase operational support, we are now better placed to improve our fee the scale and diversification of PageGroup by organically growing earner to operational support staff ratio.
The work we have done existing and new teams, offices, disciplines and markets.
In to standardise and simplify our support functions will enable us to numbers, our Vision is to deliver Group gross profit of a billion grow our fee earner headcount without a corresponding increase pounds, which, depending on how fast we get to that figure, in our support headcount.
We believe we can achieve a ratio of will generate operating profit of between 200m - 250m.
To 82:18. deliver these results, at current productivity, we will require a total Aiming to double Operating Profit Total Headcount Gross Profit Operating Profit Vision 1bn 10,000 200m - 250m 815m 2018 7,772 712m 142.5m 2017 712m 7,029 3,549 118m 2009 3,549 352m 20m In 2018, we have made significant progress against our Vision in currency compared to the prior year.
We have continued to invest terms of gross profit, operating profit and total headcount.
We have heavily in fee earners, up 20% year-on-year, as well as launching in also achieved a new record fee earner to operational support staff a new country in South East Asia, Vietnam, our fifth country in that ratio of 79:21. region.
We also have made considerable progress in growing our Large, We will continue to focus on driving profitable growth, while High Potential markets, which delivered a record year, both progressing our strategic investments to achieve our new Vision for collectively and all five individually.
Overall, they grew 25% in constant the Group.
Investing in Large, High Potential market fee earners 369 2,304 3,280 676 934 1,230 10% 17% 15% 15% 38% 40% 2018 Vision 2007 45% 73% 47% 2,792 3,690 2,878 Large, High Potential Large, Proven Medium, High Margin 11 | Strategic Report Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information t n e B r m a t s n e d v n I Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Clear on people Clear on investment Consistent performance culture reflecting 3 geographic market categories each our values with clear investment strategies Evolving the way we work to allow flexibility Capitalising on the structural opportunity towards how, where and when we work for Page Personnel and Page Executive Leading the way on Diversity and Inclusion Growing the proportion of our revenues from via initiatives such as Women@Page, Ability@ temp contract interim as this becomes Page, Parents@Page, Pride@Page more culturally accepted Consistent approach to CSR Continued focus on increasing Market leading and blended discipline diversity and approach to learning specialisation Consistent focus on improving One the quality of people we hire, retain and grow Clear Vision To increase the scale and diversification of PageGroup by organically growing existing and new teams, offices, Clear on brand Clear on disciplines and markets.
operational support One clear global Group brand Continue to standardise and simplify as far as possible our operational support functions Huge potential to have increasing representation Centralise into Shared Service Centres in every Page market to drive efficiencies and improved controls Roll-out the Global Finance System GFS Qualified professional recruitment in 36 programme and transition to a new Target countries with significant opportunities to Operating Model in IT expand in new markets, disciplines and cities Build Innovation into all areas of the organisation, whether that be through the use of new Clerical professional recruitment in 19 technologies, evolving the role of the consultant, countries with huge potential to launch and or changing our interaction with clients expand in new markets, disciplines and in and candidates particular to increase the proportion of Group Continue to build effective customer revenues generated from temporary, contract relationships through efficient digital and Interim placements platforms Enhance our approach to succession Pages newest brand offering customised planning and talent management solutions, delivered by one or all of our brands, for high-volume and specific project needs Strategic Report | 12 O p e r a t i o n e l a l p S o u e p P p o r t Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Review How we categorise our markets In 2013, PageGroup categorised each of its geographic markets around the globe based on criteria such as the potential for future growth.
This growth potential Large, was assessed on a combination of expectations for economic growth, size of the existing PageGroup High Potential operations relative to the market, and competitive landscape.
The outcome was three categories as set out in the table to the right, into which the 36 geographical Substantial, high potential markets markets in which we operate were placed.
Typically underwere identified as Large, High Potential markets.
These developed, but where PageGroup include the large economies of the US, Germany has a successful track record, and and Greater China, together with the regions of Latin confidence in its ability to successfully America and South East Asia.
from a recruitment perspective, each satisfied key criteria, including: Positive PageGroup track record: Ability to adapt PageGroup culture to local culture: Germany, Greater China, Latin Ability to hire and retain local consultants: America, South East Asia and Ability to roll-out disciplines and open offices: the US.
Attractive conversion rate potential: and Large-scale economies.
Six historically successful geographies were categorised Sustained investment through as Large, Proven, reflecting the fact that PageGroup had, within the last economic cycle, operated cycle adding headcount offices substantial businesses in each.
peak levels, they have a proven track record, and, as a group, the potential to return to historic high levels albeit with a different mix of headcount and disciplines.
Finally, the remaining businesses were categorised as Create a market leading network of Small and Medium, High Margin.
This reflects the fact offices, management and headcount.
that each individually will not have the scale or potential c. 40% of Group gross profit fee to be a significant contributor to gross profit.
they each offer the prospect of attractive margins and include countries with some of the highest fee rates and conversion margins in the Group.
Within this category are two markets Japan and India that all have the Gross profit growth of 25% for the medium-term potential to achieve Large, High Potential year and gross profit records in all status.
Strong growth in Germany 29% and Latin America 30%.
Investment approach Investment in the business has been focused on developing the long-term sustainability of the business Continue investment in new and is supported by significant balance sheet strength headcount and management team, and cash flow generation.
The market categorisation whilst improving conversion rates.
provides an investment framework for the business.
Investment comes in a range of forms including headcount, new offices and infrastructure, marketing spend and minimum levels of market presence through the economic cycle.
13 | Strategic Report STRATEGIC INVESTMENT 2019 PLAN 2018 RESULTS EXAMPLES CATEGORISATION VISION APPROACH Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information INVESTMENT STRATEGIC 2018 RESULTS 2019 PLAN CATEGORISATION EXAMPLES APPROACH VISION Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Small and Medium, Large, High Margin Proven Have been, or could be, significant Large markets in which PageGroup profit contributors for PageGroup, is already proven with a strong track but each not likely to be in excess of record and a significant presence.
UK, France, Australia, Japan, Middle East, Africa, the Netherlands, Italy India, Canada, Turkey and other and Spain.
Investment reflects gross profit Respond to market conditions, focus growth and market conditions.
Collectively return to 2007 peak levels Investment responsive to market of operating profit and conversion conditions.
Expected to represent rates: equivalent to c. 45% of Group c. 15% of Group gross profit fee gross profit fee earners.
Gross profit growth of 9%, tough Gross profit growth of 21% for the trading conditions in the UK.
Strong gross profit growth in Excluding this, growth was 15%.
Continue to drive future growth Continued focus on growth and through existing capacity, as well as improving our conversion rates.
