Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Business Model A Global Leader What we do Geographic reach PageGroup is a worldwide leader in specialised recruitment.
We have Our substantial and well-balanced business reaches across all regions, over 40 years recruitment experience and deliver recruitment services including Latin America and Asia.
Our global model allows us to source to clients across 36 countries through our network of 139 offices.
candidates from domestic and international markets and provide a comprehensive service to both local and multinational clients.
Discipline expertise Weve developed PageGroups reputation as a global recruitment leader Perm and temp mix through our focus on specialist areas of the market, replicated across our PageGroup is the international market leader for permanent recruitment in international network.
Within our four broad categories we operate across the majority of the countries in which we operate.
We also have a substantial 14 specialist discipline teams.
We then specialise further within these and growing temporary recruitment business in markets where temporary e. g. digital marketing within marketing to ensure we provide expert placements for professionally qualified candidates are culturally accepted.
recruitment services to our clients.
Page Executive Michael Page Our executive search division of PageGroup provides a range of search, The original PageGroup brand is normally established as the first business selection and talent management solutions for organisations on a permanent in each new country that we enter.
Michael Page is comprised of and interim basis.
Recognised for our powerful in-house research function, 25 specialisms, each providing a service to a specialist area of the market, speed and flexibility of response and assignment completion rates, recruiting permanent, temporary, contract and interim opportunities, organisations worldwide use Page Executive to secure their senior talent.
The typically at qualified professional and management level.
The businesses roles on which we focus typically sit at the sub-board and Board levels.
we work with range from SMEs to global blue-chip organisations.
Page Personnel Page Outsourcing Page Personnel offers specialist recruitment services to clients requiring Our newest brand, Page Outsourcing, harnesses the power of the other permanent employees, temporary or contract staff.
Mirroring the geographical and PageGroup brands.
Our flexible recruitment outsourcing solution allows our sector coverage of Michael Page, it provides specialist services to organisations clients to focus on their core business.
We manage a range of recruitment requiring talent at professional clerical and support levels.
activity from high volume needs to specialist support for HR departments across all levels of the recruitment market.
Strategic Report | 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Business Model A focus on organic growth PageGroups business model has proved itself both through economic cycles and as the business has expanded into a global enterprise.
At its core is a focus on organic growth.
PageGroup offers its consultants Recruitment is a fast-paced and dynamic business.
a well-defined and varied career in recruitment.
This Our agility gives us the confidence to respond quickly to includes a clear development structure with significant Agile and opportunities and challenges as they appear.
opportunities for the most talented.
Career responsive development structure We regularly move experienced directors A focus on team-based performance Team into markets where they can add the rather than the individual promotes profit-led most value and guide the business positive corporate behaviour and compensation Organic Global through the challenges of a market consistent quality of service for both Growth management cycle, while allowing us to retain and clients and candidates.
mobility motivate key senior talent.
Productivity-led Experienced expansion Our operational metrics focus on Experience through economic cycles management pool productivity, by team, discipline and and across geographies and disciplines geography.
This bottom-up approach aligns reduces our learning curve, maximises expansion criteria throughout the Group, focusing scalability and is crucial for placing resources and optimising investment on key priorities.
where they will add the most value.
Our objectives Talent Diversified Scalable Sustainable and skills organic and flexible development growth growth capacity Diversification helps The ability to respond Our business is to mitigate the cyclical quickly to changing reliant on having The combination of these nature of recruitment market conditions is the experience to objectives has enabled markets, which for us critical to managing manage the challenges PageGroup to deliver strong is combined with high the business efficiently and identify the cash flows and have the operational gearing throughout economic opportunities across financial strength to prosper given our permanent cycles.
We ensure that we Our scalability is It also gives us the resilience Our broad-based always have the ability to dependent on having to cope with market capabilities enable us flex our capacity up and the right people downturns without damaging to capitalise on market down, while maintaining available to grow the the businesss long-term opportunities across a core presence.
This business and nurture prospects.
the globe, avoiding allows us to service the next generation.
over-reliance on any one clients properly and geography or discipline.
retain management experience to enable a quick recovery.
5 | Strategic Report Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our competitive advantage Culture Brand Scale Our true competitive advantage is the combination of these three factors and the balance we have achieved in the business over the past 42 years.
We generate funds through fees earned for placing candidates in permanent and temporary roles.
Brand Scale Culture We are trusted by clients and candidates to Our scale enables PageGroup to commit to PageGroups culture is unique in the sector.
provide a committed, high quality service over the markets through economic cycles, which Our global culture delivers a consistent approach long-term via our Page Executive, Michael Page, combined with our strong financial standing both internally and externally, whilst remaining Page Personnel and Page Outsourcing brands.
has given clients confidence to build lasting accepting of each of our markets local Our superior level of expertise inspires high levels relationships with us.
Temporary staff also derive characteristics.
of confidence, trust and assurance of quality comfort from our financial strength that their The global nature of our culture is aided by a high service, enabling our brands to outperform other services will be paid for.
It is reinforced recruitment businesses.
The breadth of our client base, even in our new through our consultant training programmes, The digital revolution has transformed the markets, gives us the ability to offer diverse the processes by which we do business, and recruitment market and the impact of technology expertise across a wide range of complementary our team based approach which is central to on behaviours and expectations of both clients specialisms and geographies, enhancing our everything we do.
and candidates continues to grow at pace.
offering to the market and the candidate pools we We have ingrained values of how to do business The first class reputation of our brands and can access.
ethically and to make long term decisions.
the knowledge of our consultants behind our Our scale has facilitated us building an unrivalled Our purpose and our values that are the key to online presence, gives high quality candidates skillset with high levels of experience, which is our success are set out on page 22. confidence to place key decisions on their future available to clients of any size and across all in their hands.
sectors in which we operate.
Our strategy The Groups strategy aims to expand and diversify the business by industry sectors, professional disciplines, geography across our brands, with the objective of being the leading specialist recruitment consultancy in each of our chosen markets.
Our structure has provided a clear investment framework for the business by establishing three categories into which we operate.
The grouping is based on set criteria, including the size of the opportunity and the potential for future growth.
Within these categories we focus on opportunities where our industry and market experience sets us apart from the competition.
Large, Large, Small and Medium, High Potential Proven High Margin Typically under-developed Markets which are, or could be, These are large markets where markets, but where we have significant profit contributors with we are already proven with a successful track record and attractive conversion margins, a strong track record and a confidence in our ability to scale but each are unlikely or not yet significant presence, for example our operations substantially.
proven to be able to grow to Australia, France and the UK.
It consists of five markets: more than 300 fee earners, for Germany, Greater China, Latin example Belgium and Canada.
America, the US and South East Asia.
See page 7 for more on our Strategic Vision Strategic Report | 6
