Pantheon International Plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Board of Directors 1 2 3 A A A B B B C C C D D D KEY 4 5 A Member of the Audit Committee B Member of the Management Engagement A Committee B C Member of the Nomination Committee C D Independent of the Manager D 6 7 A A B B C C D D Strategic Report Managers Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information 61 1 4 6 Sir Laurie Magnus Rhoddy Swire John Burgess Chairman Appointed to the Board on 7 August 1987.
Appointed to the Board on 23 November 2016.
Mr Swire is Pantheons founder and has been a Mr Burgess has over 20 years experience within Appointed to the Board on 22 November 2011.
Director of Pantheon International Plc since private equity, following eight years with the Appointed as Chairman on 23 November 2016. its listing in 1987.
In 1981 Mr Swire joined Boston Consulting Group in Paris and London, Sir Laurie Magnus has over 35 years of GT Management Ltd to oversee and manage where he became a Partner.
Subsequently, he investment banking experience, primarily in unquoted investments and subsequently led held senior roles with F&C Ventures Ltd and corporate finance, initially at Samuel Montagu & the buyout from GT Management Ltd to form Candover Investments plc before co-founding BC Co Limited subsequently HSBC Investment Pantheon.
He was until 12 October 2011 a Partners formerly Baring Capital Investors Ltd Bank and then successively at Phoenix Director of Pantheon Ventures Limited, a parent in 1986 where he was a Managing Partner until Securities, Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette, undertaking of Pantheon Ventures UK LLP, 2005.
While at BC Partners, he held directorships Credit Suisse First Boston and Lexicon Partners and is a Director of a number of Pantheon funds.
of a variety of companies across the UK and latterly as Chairman.
He is currently a senior He is Chairman of Music Marketing Services Continental Europe.
Since 2005, he has remained adviser at Evercore Partners, Chairman of Limited, the Hereford Cathedral Perpetual Trust actively involved in private equity as well as JP Morgan Multi-Asset Trust plc and a and director of Lewmar Marine plc.
He is a increasing his investment interests in the public Non-Executive Director of both Fidelity Japanese former Director of Ceravision Limited, The China markets.
Mr Burgess is a Governor of The Royal Trust plc and Aggregated Micropower Holdings Navigation Company Limited and Lindsell Train Academy of Music and was a Director of the plc.
He is Chairman of both The Historic Buildings Investment Trust PLC.
and Monuments Commission for England A B C D Historic England, and Windsor Leadership 5 Trust, and a trustee of the English Heritage 7 Trust and All Churches Trust.
David Melvin A B C D John Singer Appointed to the Board on 23 February 2015.
2 Mr Melvin is an investment and financial services Appointed to the Board on 23 November 2016. professional with 30 years experience in Mr Singer is an investment and financial services Susannah Nicklin investment banking and private equity.
He is professional with over 30 years experience in Senior Independent Director currently a Senior Adviser at Cenkos Securities private equity.
Mr Singer spent over 20 years plc, a UK-listed institutional stockbroking firm with Advent International plc as co-founder, Appointed to the Board on 22 November 2011. and a Senior Adviser of CITIC CLSA Securities, member of the Global Executive Committee Ms Nicklin is an investment and financial services a CITIC Securities Company.
Up to 2014, and, until 2012, Chairman of European professional with 20 years of experience in Mr Melvin was a Partner at TDR Capital, a operations.
He was Managing Director and executive roles at Goldman Sachs and Alliance European private equity firm, where he was a founder of Granville Europe plc, one of the first Bernstein in the USA, Australia and the UK.
She Member of the Investment Committee and pan-European private equity funds.
In addition, has also worked in the social impact private Head of Investor Relations.
Prior to that, he spent he was Chairman of the European Venture Capital equity sector with Bridges Ventures, the Global 24 years at Merrill Lynch, where he held a number Association.
Mr Singer is involved with several Impact Investing Network and Impact Ventures of leadership positions, including Global Co-Head organisations within the arts and education UK.
Ms Nicklin is a Non-Executive Director of of Financial Sponsors and Chairman of EMEA sectors: he is a Trustee of The National Gallery, Amati AIM VCT plc, Baronsmead Venture Trust Financial Sponsors and Leverage Finance.
London, Chairman of City of London Sinfonia plc and the City of London Investment Group PLC, He is a qualified Chartered Accountant.
and Honorary Fellow, and is on the Development where she is Chairman of the Nomination A B C D Committee of Trinity College, Oxford.
A B C D A B C D 3 Ian Barby Audit Committee Chairman Appointed to the Board on 28 April 2005.
Mr Barby practised as a barrister before joining Warburg Investment Management Ltd as a Director and becoming a Vice Chairman of Mercury Asset Management plc.
He was latterly a Managing Director of Merrill Lynch Investment Managers with responsibility for its investment trust division.
Ian is currently Non-Executive Chairman of both Invesco Perpetual UK Smaller Companies PLC and Schroders Income Growth Fund plc.
He is also a Director of The Fitzwilliam Museum Development Trust.
