Strategic Report Managers Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information 1 What we offer our investors Private equity is a highly attractive asset class Private equity is all around us.
Whether its our morning coffee, the software that make us more productive at work or many of the healthcare services that our families depend on, companies backed by private equity play an important role in our daily lives.
Private equitys reach is broad and, through the hands-on approach of private equity managers, it has a real influence on boosting the value of the businesses it supports.
Because of this, it can be a highly attractive asset class for long-term investors, with returns of top performing funds consistently beating those of public market indices.
The issue for many investors, however, is that private equity is just that private and the barriers to entry are high.
PIPs purpose is to make the private, public.
We believe that exposure to private equity can add materially to a shareholders long-term investment interests.
Andrew Lebus Partner Pantheon International Plc 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 What we offer our investors We offer a simple and differentiated entry point to the impressive returns that private equity can provide In a nutshell, PIP is a listed FTSE 250 private equity investment trust, overseen by an independent Board of Directors and managed by Pantheon, one of the leading private equity investment managers globally.
PIP provides a differentiated entry to: A l ong-established global platform of A n investment company of scale broad and deep relationships with risk managed through selection and diversification T he excellent value creation potential generated by some of the leading private L iquid access to private equity equity managers in the world I ndependence through both our O ur managers track record and investment approach and governance expertise in identifying and managing by PIPs board leading companies through multiple A r esponsible and highly experienced economic cycles investment manager, Pantheon, whose M any of the most exciting culture and values reflect teamwork and growth-orientated businesses diversity across its entire workforce in the world We believe that all of this enables our investors to gain access to high quality private equity worldwide.
Strategic Report Managers Review Governance Financial Statements O Oth the er r In Inf fo or rm ma at ti io on n 3 PIPs performance over the past 30 years 3,500 NAV 3,000 2,500 PIP ordinary 2,000 share price 1,500 MSCI World Total Return 1,000 index sterling FTSE All Share 500 Total Return index 0 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 PIP FINANCIAL YEAR Includes the effects of dividends, capital repayments and warrants.
NAV figure based upon adjusted NAV per share where applicable.
PIPs track record PIP is the longest established private equity fund-of-funds on the London Stock Exchange.
PERFORMANCE SINCE INCEPTION IN 1987 average annual NAV growth in MSCI 11.8% 8.0% per share growth World TR index growth in FTSE 8.1% All-Share TR index SHARE CAPITAL The Companys issued share capital consists of 54,114,447 ordinary shares as at 31 May 2018.
PIP simplified its capital structure during the year.
A full consolidation of the Companys ordinary and redeemable share classes was implemented on 31 October 2017, wherein a proportion of redeemable shares were exchanged for an Asset Linked Note ALN having an initial principal amount of 200m, and the remaining redeemable shares were converted into ordinary shares.
There are no redeemable shares in issue following the consolidation.
PERFORMANCE REBASED TO 100 Pantheon International Plc 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 What we offer our investors Pantheons well-established platform and deep network of strong relationships are essential to PIPs success Pantheons more than 35 years experience as a private equity investor and the deep relationships built up by its global investment team, many of whom have been with the firm for over 20 years, provides PIP with an outstanding base of experience to ensure selectivity and secure investment with the best managers.
investment assets under staff professionals 1 management globally 78 $38bn 256 globally SEOUL 3 LONDON SAN NEW FRANCISCO YORK 173 TOKYO 35 29 HONG 3 KONG 11 BOGOT 2 As at 1 August 2018.
The figure includes assets subject to discretionary or non-discretionary management, advice or those limited to a reporting function.
Strategic Report Managers Review Governance Financial Statements O Oth the er r In Inf fo or rm ma at ti io on n 5 Pantheons three pillars of investment The way in which Pantheon invests using primary, secondary and co-investment strategies offers a flexible and powerful means of accessing private equity-backed companies.
Pantheon was one of the pioneers in these markets and its presence and reputation is well established.
Primary FUND We invest in a new fund when it is established 1 Each strategy offers valuable insights into the others Secondary Investing in primary funds provides FUND access to top tier managers, who often offer coinvestment opportunities.
We replace an investor in a fund or funds 2 typically late into, or after, the investment period These relationships in turn provide increased access and privileged insight into many of the best secondary opportunities that arise in Co-investments the market.
PORTFOLIO COMPANY We purchase a portfolio company directly alongside a 3 private equity fund during the investment period or acquire a direct investment through a secondary transaction For more information on the three ways we invest, see pages 14 to 15 A highly selective approach Pantheon is highly selective about which opportunities to pursue.
Many of the managers to whom Pantheon commits capital represent relationships spanning many years.
Pantheon is familiar with their investment strategy, their portfolios, their investment teams and their approach to creating value in the companies they back.
Pantheon remains disciplined in We wont invest if there has been its approach and will not recommit a substantial shift in strategy, to a managers new fund purely a competitive position has not been on the basis that previous funds maintained, there has been a major have performed well.
change in the investment team, or if appropriate succession planning is not in place.
Helen Steers Partner Pantheon International Plc 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 What we offer our investors Our portfolio is crafted to deliver for shareholders Since PIPs inception, we have been able to generate excellent returns while structuring our portfolio to minimise the risks typically associated with private equity investments.
Our established portfolio of assets has been carefully selected, based on the strengths of our appointed managers, actively monitored and diversified to reduce specific timing, regional and sector risks, and managed to maximise growth and liquidity over time.
1 1 Investment type Fund region Flexible approach to portfolio construction increases Weighted towards the more developed private equity potential for outperformance.
markets in the USA and Europe while Asia and EM provide access to faster-growing economies.
1 1 1 1 Secondary 43% USA 55% 4 2 2 Co-investments 32% Europe 26% 2 3 3 Primary 25% 3 Asia and EM 12% 3 4 Global 7% 3 2 2 1 1 Fund stage Fund maturity Well diversified across different investment stages with a Maturity profile is managed to enhance performance particular focus on mid-market buyout and growth funds.
The charts exclude the portion of the reference portfolio attributable to the Asset Linked Note.
3 Global category contains funds with no target allocation to any particular region equal to or exceeding 60%.
Strategic Report Managers Review Governance Financial Statements O Oth the er r In Inf fo or rm ma at ti io on n 7 In 2018, our role has become even more vital There are now fewer public companies that are larger and older, and many exciting, high-growth sectors are under-represented on public markets.
This increases the investment opportunities for private equity.
PIPs portfolio has been constructed to offer access to those private companies which have considerable growth potential and form part of some of the most dynamic sectors in the world.
Universe of Stocks: The Causes and Consequences of Fewer US Sources: Doidge, Craig, G. Andrew Karolyi, and Ren M. Stulz.
The Equities Report, Global Financial Strategies, Credit Suisse, US Listing Gap.
Journal of Financial Economics 123, no.
Data from The World Bank, accessed May 25, 2017.
2016.12.002. : Mauboussin, Michael London Stock Exchange, Market Factsheets pre-2005 and J. Dan Callahan, CFA, and Darius Majd.
The Incredible Shrinking 2005-2016, accessed September 25, 2017.
