Pantheon International Plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Directors Report The Directors are pleased to present their report, together with the audited financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 May 2018. b a b onus issue of new deferred shares Unless the Directors determine otherwise, Directors of 66p each in the capital of the a holder of ordinary shares will cease to The Directors of PIP were in office during Company: and be entitled to attend or vote at general the whole of the year ended 31 May 2018. meetings of the Company or on any poll if c t he subsequent consolidation, The names and full biographies of the he she fails to comply with a request by the sub-division and redesignation of the Directors can be found on pages 60 and 61.
Company to provide details of any interest remaining redeemable shares and As at 31 May 2018, the Board of Directors of held by any person in his her ordinary the deferred shares into new ordinary the Company comprised six male Directors shares within 14 days of the request being shares of 67p each in the capital of and one female Director.
Additionally, if the shares represent the Company, ranking pari passu at least 0.25%, any dividends payable in All Directors will retire and stand for in all respects with the existing respect of the shares will be withheld by re-election at the Companys Annual ordinary shares.
the Company and no transfers of any of General Meeting AGM in October 2018.
On 1 November 2017, 21,242,434 new the shares held in certified form will be Further details regarding the retirement, ordinary shares were admitted to the registered unless the shareholder is not selection and appointment of Directors, Official List of the UK Listing Authority and him herself in default as regards supplying including the Companys position on to trading on the Main Market for listed the information required and the Directors diversity, can be found on page 70. securities of the London Stock Exchange.
are satisfied that no person in default as The rules concerning the appointment and regards supplying such information is The Companys ordinary shares are freely replacement of Directors are set out in the interested in any of the shares the subject transferable.
However, the Directors may Companys Articles of Association and of the transfer or unless the transfer arises refuse to register a transfer of shares held are discussed on page 70.
There are no as a result of the acceptance of a takeover in certificated form which are not fully paid agreements between the Company and offer or a sale made through a recognised unless the instrument of transfer is i its Directors concerning any compensation investment exchange or any other stock lodged, duly stamped at the Companys for their loss of office.
exchange outside the United Kingdom on registered office, accompanied by the which the Companys shares are normally relevant share certificate s and such other traded or is a transfer which the Directors Share Capital evidence if any as the Directors may are satisfied is made in consequence of a reasonably require to show the right of the The rights attaching to the Companys sale of the entire beneficial interest in the transferor to make the transfer and ii not shares are set out in the Companys Articles shares to a person who is unconnected with in favour of more than four persons jointly.
Further details are included the shareholder and with any other person The Directors may decline to register a in Note 14 to the financial statements.
appearing interested in the shares.
transfer of an uncertificated share in the During the year the Company consolidated circumstances set out in the Uncertified The Companys Articles of Association its ordinary and redeemable share capital Securities Regulations 2001 and where, contain additional provisions enabling the into a single class of ordinary shares.
in the case of a transfer to joint holders, directors to take certain steps where The reorganisation of the share capital the number of joint holders to whom the ordinary shares are or may be owned, or was implemented on 31 October 2017 uncertificated share is to be transferred rights attaching to such shares may be and consisted of: exceeds four.
If the Directors decline to exercised, by persons in circumstances register a transfer, they are required to which the directors determine would give a t he redemption by the Company of send notice of the refusal to the transferee rise to a regulatory burden under certain 9,055,100 redeemable shares of 1p within two months, giving reasons for U. S. securities, investment and pension each in the capital of the Company their decision.
owned by the Investor for an aggregate consideration of 200 million and the subsequent application of these redemption proceeds to the subscription for the ALN by the Investor: Strategic Report Managers Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information 63 Save as described above there are no Amendment of the Companys Articles of admitted to the official list maintained by the restrictions concerning the transfer of Association and the giving of authority to FCA and admitted to trading on the London securities in the Company or on voting issue or buy back the Companys shares Stock Exchange.
No shares were held in rights: no special rights with regard to requires an appropriate resolution to be treasury at the year end.
control attached to securities: no passed by shareholders.
Proposals for the During the year, the Company purchased agreements between holders of securities renewal of the Boards current authorities 190,000 ordinary shares for cancellation regarding their transfer known to the to issue and buy back shares are detailed with a nominal value of 127,300 at a total Company: and no agreements which the on pages 114 and 115. cost of 3,546,000.
This represented 0.4% Company is party to that might affect its As at 31 May 2018 and as at the date of this of the issued share capital at 31 May 2018. control following a successful takeover bid.
Report, the Company had shares in issue as Since 31 May 2018, the Company has not shown in the table below, all of which were purchased any further shares.
SHARE CAPITAL AND VOTING RIGHTS AT 31 MAY 2018 Number of Voting rights Number of shares in attached to shares held in issue each share treasury Ordinary shares at 0.67 each 54,114,447 1 Total voting rights 54,114,447 the Management Agreement between The Manager is entitled to a monthly Dividends the Company and Pantheon Ventures.
management fee at an annual rate of No final dividend is being recommended.
Pantheon Ventures, which is part of the i 1.5% on the value of the Companys Pantheon Group, has been approved as investment assets up to 150 million and an AIFM by the FCA.
ii 1% on the value of such assets in excess Investment Trust Status of 150 million.
In addition, the Manager is The Pantheon Group is one of the worlds The Company has received written approval entitled to a monthly commitment fee of foremost private equity fund-of-funds from HM Revenue & Customs HMRC 0.5% per annum on the aggregate amount managers and has acted as Manager to as an authorised investment trust under committed but unpaid in respect of the Company since the Companys Sections 1158 1159 of the Corporation Tax investments, up to a maximum amount inception in 1987.
The Directors are of the opinion equal to the total value of the Companys Group, Inc. AMG, alongside senior that the Company has conducted its affairs investment assets.
The arrangements members of the Pantheon team, acquired in compliance with such approval and in respect of the management fee and the Pantheon Group in 2010.
The ownership intends to continue doing so.
notice period are materially unchanged.
structure, with Pantheon senior management owning a meaningful share The Manager is entitled to a performance of the equity in the business, provides a fee from the Company in respect of each Financial Risk Management framework for long-term succession and 12 month calendar period.
No performance The principal financial risks and the enables Pantheon management to continue fee is payable in respect of the year ended Companys policies for managing to direct the firms day-to-day operations.
31 May 2018 Period ended 31 May 2017: these risks are set out in Note 19 to AMG is a global asset management nil.
Further detail as to how the the financial statements.
company with equity investments in leading performance fee is calculated is set boutique investment management firms.
Management Under the terms of the Management The Company entered into a Supplemental Agreement, Pantheon Ventures has been Agreement with Pantheon Ventures on The Company entered into a management appointed as the sole and exclusive 18 April 2017 to align the Management agreement with the Companys investment discretionary manager of all the assets Agreement with the change to the manager, Pantheon Ventures UK LLP of the Company and to provide certain Companys accounting reference date from Pantheon Ventures on 22 July 2014, additional services in connection with the 30 June to 31 May.
The performance fee under which Pantheon Ventures was management and administration of the payable in respect of each such calculation appointed as the Companys Alternative Companys affairs, including monitoring period is 5% of the amount by which the net Investment Fund Manager AIFM on the the performance of, and giving instructions asset value at the end of such period terms of and subject to the conditions of a on behalf of the Company to, other service exceeds 110% of the applicable high-water new investment management agreement providers to the Company.
mark, i. e. the net asset value at the end of Pantheon International Plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Directors Report continued the previous calculation period in respect of indemnity from the Company in respect Under an agreement dated 20 November which a performance fee was payable, of liabilities arising out of the proper 1997, administrative, accounting and compounded annually at 10% for each performance by the Manager of its duties company secretarial services are provided subsequent completed calculation period and compliance with instructions given to it by Link Alternative Fund Administrators up to the start of the calculation period for by the Board and an exclusion of liability Limited.
The Administration Agreement may which the fee is being calculated.
For the save to the extent of any negligence, be terminated by 12 months written notice.
calculation year ended 31 May 2018, the fraud, wilful default or breach of duty.
The Board has also appointed BNP Paribas notional performance fee hurdle is a net Pantheon sources, evaluates and manages Securities Services to act as the Companys asset value per share of 3,139.8p.
investments on the Companys behalf, Depositary as required by the AIFM The performance fee is calculated so as to allocating investments to the Company, in Directive the Depositary subject to the ignore the effect on performance of any accordance with Pantheons investment terms and conditions of a Depositary performance fee payable in respect of the allocation policy, that are in line with the Agreement entered into between the period for which the fee is being calculated strategy agreed with the Board and the Company, the AIFM and the Depositary.
or of any increase or decrease in the net Companys investment objective and policy.
BNP Paribas Securities Services have also assets of the Company resulting from any been appointed as Custodian.
Under the terms of the Management issue, redemption or purchase of any Agreement, the Company is entitled to Related party transactions are disclosed in shares or other securities, the sale of any participate in allocations made by the Note 20 to the financial statements.
treasury shares or the issue or cancellation Pantheon Group under its secondary of any subscription or conversion rights for investment programme, in accordance with any shares or other securities and any other Going Concern the allocation basis agreed from time to time reduction in the Companys share capital or between the Company and the Manager.
The Companys business activities, any distribution to shareholders.
together with the factors likely to affect its An alternative basis for the allocation to The value of investments in, and future development, performance and the Company of secondary investment outstanding commitments to, investment position, including its financial position, opportunities may be applied by Pantheon in funds managed or advised by the Pantheon are set out in the Strategic Report and the context of a successor fund to Pantheon group Pantheon Funds are excluded in Managers Review.
In the event of calculating the monthly management fee Pantheon and the Company being unable to At each Board meeting, the Directors review and the commitment fee.
In addition, the agree any such alternative allocation basis, the Companys latest management Manager has agreed that the total fees Pantheon will cease to be entitled to any accounts and other financial information.
including performance fees payable by performance fee for calculation periods Its commitments to private equity Pantheon Funds to members of the following that in which the alternative investments are reviewed, together with its Pantheon Group and attributable to the allocation basis takes effect and the financial resources, including cash held Companys investments in Pantheon Funds Company will be entitled to terminate the and the Companys borrowing capability.
shall be less than the total fees excluding Management Agreement without penalty One-year cash flow scenarios are also the performance fee that the Company to the Company on six months notice.
presented to each meeting and discussed.
would have been charged under the Management Agreement had it invested The Board keeps the performance of the After due consideration of the Balance directly in all of the underlying investments Manager under continual review, and the Sheet and activities of the Company and the of the relevant Pantheon Funds instead of Management Engagement Committee Companys assets, liabilities, commitments through the relevant Pantheon Funds.
carries out an annual review of the and financial resources, the Directors have Managers performance and the terms of concluded that the Company has adequate The Management Agreement is capable of the Management Agreement.
The ongoing resources to continue in operation for at being terminated without penalty to the review of the Manager includes activities least 12 months from the approval of the Company by either party giving two years and performance over the course of the financial statements.
For this reason, they notice in writing.
It is capable of being year and review against the Companys consider it appropriate to continue to adopt terminated by the Company without peer group.
The Board is of the opinion the going concern basis in preparing the penalty to the Company immediately if, that it is in the interests of shareholders to financial statements.
among other things, the Manager materially continue the appointment.
breaches its obligations and cannot or does not remedy the breach or goes into The reasons for this view are that the liquidation and on six months notice if there investment performance is satisfactory is a change of control of the Manager or if and the Manager is well placed to continue certain key man provisions are triggered.
to manage the assets of the Company The Manager has the benefit of an according to the Companys strategy.
Strategic Report Managers Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information 65 Corporate Governance The Board consists solely of Non-Executive Directors and no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The Board has put in place levels of corporate governance which it believes are appropriate for an investment trust and to enable the Company to comply with the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code and the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide published in July 2016.
The Boards compliance with the AIC Code is set out in the Statement on Corporate Governance.
The Companys Statement on Corporate Governance is set out on pages 68 to 73.
Substantial Shareholdings As at 31 May 2018, the Company had received notification of the following disclosable interests in the voting rights of the Company: Number of % of total SHAREHOLDERS shares held voting rights Universities Superannuation Scheme Limited 4,410,228 8.15 Old Mutual plc 3,804,126 7.03 Esperides S. A. Sicav-SIF 3,110,144 5.75 East Riding of Yorkshire Council 2,540,000 4.69 APG Asset Management N. V 2,400,000 4.43 Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 2,365,111 4.37 Private Syndicate Pty Ltd 2,032,173 3.76 Brewin Dolphin Limited 1,864,446 3.45 No changes in substantial shareholdings have been notified to the Company between 31 May 2018 and the date of this report.
Thornton UK LLP: the authorisation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Annual General the Audit Committee to determine the Meeting AGM The Company has no greenhouse gas remuneration of the Auditor: the granting of emissions to report from its operations, The Companys next AGM will be held at authorities in relation to the allotment of nor does it have responsibility for any other 10.30am on 31 October 2018 at The British shares: the disapplication of pre-emption emissions producing sources under the Academy, 10-11 Carlton House Terrace, rights: the purchase by the Company of its Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report London, SW1Y 5AH.
The notice convening own shares: the approval of the holding of and Directors Report Regulations 2013, the meeting the Notice of AGM general meetings other than annual including those within PIPs underlying accompanies this Report and is set general meetings on not less than 14 clear investment portfolio.
out on pages 114 to 118. days notice: and the approval of electronic communications with Shareholders.
At the AGM, shareholders are being asked Requirements of the to vote on various items of business that are Resolutions 1 to 12 and Resolution 16 to be routinely considered at the Companys proposed at the AGM will be proposed as Listing Rules annual general meetings.
These are the ordinary resolutions and resolutions 13 to Listing Rule 9.8.
4 requires the Company receipt and adoption of the Strategic 15 as special resolutions.
to include certain information in a single Report, Directors Report and Auditors identifiable section of the Annual Report Report and the audited financial statements or a cross reference table indicating where for the year ended 31 May 2018: the receipt the information is set out.
The Directors and approval of the Directors Remuneration confirm that there are no disclosures to be Report: the re-election of Directors: the made in this regard.
re-appointment of the Auditor, Grant Pantheon International Plc 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Directors Report continued In accordance with the directors The authority conferred by Resolution 12, The maximum amount in respect of remuneration reporting regime, which came if passed, will permit the Company to allot which the statutory preemption rights into effect on 1 October 2013, shareholders up to 12,085,559.83 in ordinary share are disapplied under Resolution 13 have an annual advisory vote on the report capital, being one-third of the issued other than in relation to sub-paragraph on Directors remuneration and a binding ordinary share capital of the Company i above represents 5% of the issued vote, to be held every three years, on the as at the date of this Report.
share capital of the Company as at the remuneration policy of the Directors.
As at the date of this report, the Company A binding ordinary resolution approving is not holding any ordinary shares as The Directors intend to use the authorities the Directors Remuneration Policy was treasury shares.
to be conferred by Resolutions 12 and 13 approved by shareholders at the AGM held to facilitate future issues and sales from on 22 November 2017.
The shareholders Resolution 13 set out in the notice of AGM, treasury of ordinary shares at or above the will be requested to vote on the receipt and proposes a special resolution, which will, if prevailing net asset value per share at the approval of the Directors Remuneration passed, authorise the Directors for a period time of issue or sale, where the shares to Report as set out on pages 76 to 79. of 15 months from the date on which the be issued or sold are not offered to ordinary Resolution is passed or until the following An explanation of the resolutions relating shareholders in proportion to their existing AGM, if earlier to allot equity securities for to the re-election of Directors and the holdings, to raise funds for investment cash pursuant to the authority conferred recommendation of the Nomination by the Company in accordance with its by Resolution 12 as described above and to Committee as to voting in this regard are investment policy, as and when required sell for cash ordinary shares held by the set out in the Statement on Corporate from time to time.
Company as treasury shares, otherwise Governance on page 70. than by way of a pre-emptive offer to Purchase of Own Shares existing shareholders.
Equity securities for At last years AGM, the Directors were this purpose means ordinary shares in the Authority to Allot Shares and authorised to make market purchases of Company and rights to subscribe for or Disapplication of Statutory up to 14.99% of each of the Companys convert a security into such shares.
This Pre-emption Rights ordinary shares, amounting to 8,140,236 authority will replace the current authority ordinary shares.
During the year, the granted to Directors at last years AGM.
The authorities given to the Directors at Company bought back ordinary shares the AGM held on 22 November 2017 to allot Resolution 13, if passed, will have the effect under this authority as detailed on shares and to grant rights to subscribe for, of disapplying the statutory pre-emption page 63. or convert securities into, shares, and to rights referred to above in relation to i the allot equity securities and sell shares held Resolution 14 set out in the notice of allotment of new equity securities up to as treasury shares for cash, otherwise than AGM proposes a special resolution which the maximum amount of share capital in accordance with statutory pre-emption will, if passed, renew this authority by permitted by Resolution 12 and the sale rights which require that, when new shares authorising the Company for a period of from treasury of ordinary shares where are issued, or treasury shares are sold, 18 months or until the following AGM, such securities or shares are offered to for cash, the shares are first offered to if earlier to make market purchases of up ordinary shareholders in proportion to existing shareholders in proportion to to 14.99% of the ordinary shares in issue as their existing holdings of ordinary shares, their existing holdings of shares, will expire at the date upon which the resolution is except where exclusions are necessary at the forthcoming AGM.
No shares have passed, representing 8,111,755 ordinary or desirable to deal with fractional been issued during the year under the shares as at the date of this Report.
The entitlements, regulatory requirements and existing authorities.
maximum price exclusive of expenses or legal or practical issues: and ii the grant which may be paid by the Company in of subscription and conversion rights in Resolution 12 set out in the notice of AGM, relation to any such purchase is the higher relation to, and the allotment including the proposes an ordinary resolution, which of i 5% above the average of the market sale from treasury of, up to 1,812,833.97 will, if passed, authorise the Directors for a values of shares of the relevant class for in aggregate nominal amount of ordinary period of 15 months from the date on the five business days before the purchase share capital being 5% of the issued which the Resolution is passed or until the and ii the higher of the price of the last ordinary share capital of the Company as following AGM, if earlier to allot ordinary independent trade and the highest current at the date of this Report, at a price per shares in the Company and to grant rights to bid on the London Stock Exchange.
share not less than the most recently subscribe for or convert a security into such The minimum price which may be paid is calculated net asset value per share at shares and will replace the current authority 0.67 per share.
the time of issue or sale of such shares.
granted to Directors at last years AGM.
Strategic Report Managers Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information 67 As at the date of this Report, there are no Electronic Communications Audit Information outstanding warrants or options to The Company is seeking to take advantage The Directors who held office at the date subscribe for shares in the Company.
of the provisions of the Companies Act of approval of the Report of the Directors The Directors believe that the discount to 2006 to allow electronic communications confirm that, so far as they are aware, there net asset value at which ordinary shares with its Shareholders, including making is no relevant audit information of which trade in the market may, from time to important documents available through the Companys Auditor is unaware: and time, present an attractive investment its website, and an ordinary resolution each Director has taken all reasonable opportunity relative to new investment authorising this is included in the notice steps that he or she ought to have taken as a commitments.
In such circumstances, of Annual General Meeting.
Director to make himself or herself aware of the Directors may cause the Company to any relevant audit information and to Resolution 16, if passed, would allow undertake targeted buybacks of ordinary establish that the Companys Auditor is the Company to use electronic shares instead of, or in addition to, new aware of that information.
communications with Shareholders by investments as a means of utilising cash placing documents such as the annual generated from the Companys portfolio.
Auditor report on a website rather than sending Any buyback would only be undertaken in Grant Thornton UK LLP has expressed its them in hard copy.
The Company will notify circumstances where the Directors believe willingness to continue in office as Auditor those Shareholders, who have elected for that it would increase the net asset value of the Company and a resolution for its electronic communication, by post or email per share.
re-appointment will be proposed at the if they have provided an email address that forthcoming AGM.
the document is available on the Companys The Company will consider holding any website.
Shareholders can, however, ask for of its own shares which it purchases On behalf of the Board a hard copy of any document at any time.
pursuant to the authority to be conferred by Sir Laurie Magnus Resolution 14, if passed, as treasury shares If this resolution is passed, the new Chairman rather than cancelling them, if the Directors arrangements are expected to result in determine in connection with any such 7 August 2018 potential administrative, printing and purchase that it would be advantageous postage cost savings for the Company, for the Company to do so.
while preserving Shareholders rights to receive hard copy documents if they Notice Period for so wish.
In addition, the greater use of General Meetings electronic communications would result in significant environmental benefits.
Resolution 15 set out in the notice of AGM, proposes a special resolution, which will, Recommendation if passed, renew the approval of 14 clear days as the minimum period of notice for The Directors consider that all the all general meetings of the Company resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are other than annual general meetings.
in the best interests of the Company and The approval will be effective until the its members as a whole.
The Directors Companys next AGM, when it is intended unanimously recommend that shareholders that renewal will be sought.
The Directors vote in favour of all the resolutions to be will only call general meetings on 14 clear proposed, as they intend to do in respect of days notice where they consider it to be in their own beneficial holdings.
the best interests of shareholders to do so, The notice of AGM and full details of all and should such a meeting be called, resolutions can be found on pages 114 the Company will offer facilities for all to 118. shareholders to vote by electronic means.
