Pantheon International Plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The private equity investment approach The best managers consistently create long-term value by transforming companies Clear objectives The right businesses Private equity managers Businesses offering have clear objectives significant growth potential are key Managers are typically sector experts and are also able to take advantage of mispricing and dislocations when identifying attractive investment opportunities.
Highly skilled managers are able to manage assets through economic cycles.
The highest quality managers take environmental, social and governance risks into account when making an investment.
Acquire influential or controlling stakes in high quality companies at attractive valuations.
Operate according to a long-term investment horizon.
Invest alongside company management, to ensure alignment of interests, while using leverage to create an efficient capital structure.
Offer hands-on management support to implement strategic and or operational change to transform a companys value.
Strategic Report Managers Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information 27 What is private equity?
Private equity is the term used for privately negotiated investments typically made in non-public companies.
It covers a range of stages of a businesss life, from start-ups to well-established firms.
It is an attractive asset class to a broad range of investors as it can boost the performance of their investment portfolios.
The right manager A clear exit strategy Barriers to entry are high in private equity For the most part, capital in the Top quartile private Value is crystallised industry is managed in illiquid equity managers are able when the companies non-listed structures.
Investors wishing to invest directly in a private to produce public marketare sold at a profit equity fund are often expected to lock beating returns to a variety of buyers up their capital for at least ten years and many private equity firms only Private equity managers focus on accept high minimum commitments potential exit strategies during to their funds from selected investors.
Private equity managers are able to position their investments for sale and are able to time their realisations, Listed private equity exploring each major potential exit route.
offers access Private equity positions can be exited in As outlined, there can be significant three main ways: barriers to entry for investors Corporate strategic buyers: seeking to tap into the opportunities Secondary sale to another presented by private equity.
However, private equity manager: The spread of performance in private by buying shares in a listed private Initial public offerings.
equity is much wider than in other equity investment trust such as PIP, asset classes.
investors can gain access more easily to the opportunity to participate Managers have a significant influence in a managed, globally diversified on performance: the same company portfolio for the minimum price of could produce differing returns one share.
Investors can also benefit depending on the private equity from the administrative simplicity and manager that owns it.
liquidity obtained from being able to buy and sell shares trading on an exchange.
In addition, the capital gains that arise and are retained within an investment trust structure are not subject to corporation tax.
