Pantheon International Plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our Strategy Our independent and experienced Board ensures that our strategy puts shareholders first The role of the PIP Board Safeguarding shareholders interests The independent Board of Directors is Shareholders responsible for ensuring that PIP is managed in a way that achieves the best outcome for its shareholders.
As part of this, one of its roles is to monitor the Invest via LSE Supervises Managers investment strategy to ensure that it is relevant, adheres to the Companys investment policy, and is constructed around seeking the best performing assets worldwide that can generate PIP PIP board Pantheon above average returns over the long term.
Monitoring of ongoing Manages Primary & investment strategy Co-investment Secondary Strong investment relationships At the start of each year, PIPs investment strategy is considered by the Board together with the Manager.
Throughout the year, Manage there is an ongoing dialogue between the PE PE Board and Pantheon, and the Manager funds managers reports regularly to the Board on progress.
In addition, it highlights any obstacles or changes in market conditions which may Invest impact the Companys ability to achieve its strategic goals.
In cases where this may Key occur, the Manager will propose solutions Companies for which it will seek the support of the Investment Board.
Equally, the Board maintains the flexibility to propose amendments to the strategy as it deems necessary.
Relationships EXTERNAL INTERNAL Strategic Report Managers Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information 17 The Board and the Manager consider how underperforming company or fund Tighten control PIP can most profitably deploy capital in having an adverse effect on the Companys of portfolio construction the prevailing investment environment.
In addition, the Board also reviews individual The Company has traditionally emphasised In 2018, the Board has agreed with the investments that exceed exposure limits, secondaries as PIP makes new Manager that the Company will maintain its which are set at low levels and below the investments.
Secondary investments diversified approach but that, by increasing hard limits in the Companys investment offer very attractive characteristics as the focus on portfolio construction as policy to reflect a diversified approach.
highlighted in the Business Model on pages explained below, over time the number of At times, the Manager may make 14 and 15, however as part of the strategic third party managers and companies to recommendations to the Board and seek review, it was recognised that certain which the portfolio is principally exposed approval for certain investments that fall secondary opportunities may not always may reduce to around half the current outside of any limits expressed in the be the best fit for PIPs portfolio.
The Board also confirmed it would agreed strategic approach, but which the like to see the Manager exercise slightly There is a tendency for some recent Manager believes to be a good investment more flexibility in the types and size of secondary investments to be dominated opportunity for PIP.
The Board maintains investments that it makes: this is by older assets, defined as those in funds its independence at all times and robustly discussed in more detail below.
which are 10 years or older at the time of challenges such recommendations to purchase.
Although those assets often ensure that they are in the best interests generate good levels of cash, extensive of shareholders.
analysis has shown that the rate of value This year, following the simplification of increase tends to be lower than that PIPs share structure and the Companys offered by younger assets and therefore It was agreed that the Company expected exposure to a wider investor base can be a drag on overall performance.
would benefit from Pantheons greater following its entry into the FTSE 250, the The issuance of the ALN at the end of 2017 control over allocation making it Board took the opportunity to conduct a has allowed PIP to actively fide-emphasise able to put capital to work in primary more detailed strategic review and explore the older funds in PIPs portfolio and tilt how the Companys historically strong and co-investment opportunities it towards younger funds which the Board NAV performance could be built upon and believe will perform better as a whole as well as secondaries where they improved.
It is the Boards view that further relative to the portfolio prior to the ALN represented a more compelling improving performance is one of the ways issue.
Therefore, as PIP seeks to maximise investment proposition.
in which more demand could be created for capital growth and avoid older assets PIPs shares, which in turn could lead to a becoming over-weighted in the portfolio, We believe that this approach will give narrowing of the discount at which the it was agreed that the Company would investors the best of both worlds: shares trade.
Some of the conclusions benefit from Pantheons greater control manageable risk in the Companys from that review are discussed below.
over allocation, making it able to put capital portfolio by remaining diversified, while to work in primary and co-investment at the same time increasing the potential opportunities as well as secondaries Maintain a diversified for outperformance.
The improved where they represented a more compelling approach while transparency of PIPs underlying portfolio, investment proposition.
While secondaries and increased investment flexibility, should should continue to represent a significant increasing potential create a clearer link between the strongest portion of PIPs portfolio, it is recognised for outperformance performing companies in the portfolio that over time these three different As Manager of PIP, Pantheon focuses on and the potential to boost NAV growth in investment types may take on more selecting the best private equity managers the future.
and the companies they back worldwide and carefully constructing and maintaining a mature portfolio that has exposure to different parts of the investment life cycle.
PIPs portfolio is carefully diversified by manager, investment type, stage, geography, fund age vintage and sector.
One of the key advantages of this approach is that it reduces the risk of any individual Pantheon International Plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our Strategy continued The benefits of this approach are clear: While late stage growth opportunities It is our objective to seek managers globally Pantheon can remain highly selective and remain attractive, it is our view that the that are able to take a thematic approach disciplined when assessing deal flow while return profile of early stage venture can and focus on high growth sectors, many of at the same time reducing the risk of PIP often be too drawn-out to be suitable for which may not be fully represented by the being excluded from exciting opportunities PIPs portfolio.
Therefore any investment public markets.
In addition, Pantheon has a due to investment constraints.
activity by PIP in early stage venture funds deliberate strategy of targeting sectors is focused on investing with top tier venture experiencing dislocation as well as niches The Board recognises that on occasion, managers, mainly through primary fund where underlying growth is less correlated the discounts at which the Companys investments, who are able to spot innovative to GDP growth.
Recent examples of this shares trade may make them an attractive opportunities with the potential to generate have been energy and financial services.
investment proposition for PIP when significant outperformance.
While special For more information on the sectors in which PIP is considered alongside other new investment situations includes funds with unique invested, see pages 32 to 35 opportunities.
The Manager reports to characteristics offering potential for the Board on a regular basis on the The Board believes that its oversight of outperformance, it is the Boards intention investment market conditions and on the Managers activities while at the same that special situations investments will those occasions, the Board may authorise time allowing Pantheon the flexibility that it be only a minority of the overall portfolio.
the Company to buy back a specified needs to make the appropriate investment amount of its own shares.
decisions on PIPs behalf, ensures that PIP is able to deliver on its strategic objectives Identify inefficiencies and for shareholders over the long term.
growth potential in sectors Focus on mid-market and and geographies growth opportunities The Board is committed to offering PIPs portfolio is diversified by stage, which investors a global portfolio with ranges across venture, late stage growth, investments in the USA, Europe, Asia and small mid and large mega buyout Emerging Markets.
It takes an agnostic PIPs approach to ESG and opportunities, as well as those classified as approach towards the weightings of those special situations.
While the Companys employment issues geographies but supports the majority of strategy is to maintain a healthy mix of The Company has no employees and the the Companys capital being invested in all stages, Pantheon favours growth and Board consists entirely of Non-Executive the USA and Europe where the private buyout funds with a particular focus on the Directors.
At the end of the period under equity markets are well-established mid-market.
The mid-market offers strong review, the Board was comprised of six and have been resilient.
credentials, when compared with large male Directors and one female Director.
deals, such as: As an investment trust, PIP has no More attractively priced assets which direct impact on the community or the tend to have lower levels of leverage environment.
However, Pantheon is than the broader market average: Our managers are able to focus careful through its due diligence process Greater visibility of the value drivers to encourage a sustainably positive on high growth sectors, many of which and the levers to pull to improve impact of our investments, with a view to may not be fully represented by the operational efficiency to better drive generating consistently high returns over public markets.
growth, both organically and through the long term.
Pantheons commitment buy-and-build strategies: to leading the practice of responsible investment for many years meant it was The Board relies on Pantheons investment More routes to exit including strategic one of the first signatories to the UNs teams around the world that are on the acquisitions, sales to other private Principles for Responsible Investment.
ground locally, to take advantage of equity managers or initial public Pantheon continues to explore ways in proprietary information flows and access offerings IPOs.
which it can promote accountability for to opportunities through their extensive Environmental, Social and Governance networks of relationships.
The Board is ESG ethics through its investment confident that these relationships enable process and the managers that it backs.
Pantheon to source and respond quickly to the best deal flow in those regions to For more information on Pantheons approach to The mid-market offers strong responsible investment, see pages 50 to 51 optimise risk-adjusted performance.
credentials, when compared with large deals.
