Pantheon International Plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Managers Market Review The global private equity market is growing and, while still relatively small compared with many other asset classes, it is estimated to 1 be worth just under $3 trillion.
Over the past year, global fundraising has Partners GPs, who adopt a disciplined with investments and exits significantly been at record levels and investment approach to managing debt levels when outpacing fundraising.
In China, Pantheon activity has remained robust.
The prevailing investing in companies that offer focuses on companies in the consumer, high valuation environment has increased opportunities for growth.
Our strategy has healthcare, financial services and education the pressure on private equity managers remained consistent in the USA, focusing sectors, and the majority of these to find ways of creating value in order to on smaller companies which generally offer businesses continue to deliver strong generate attractive returns from the better opportunities for lower entry prices earnings growth.
While it is not possible to underlying businesses.
Pantheon has and higher growth potential.
predict the likely market volatility resulting maintained its disciplined and selective from the trade tensions with the USA, In 2017, the Eurozone experienced its approach when assessing deal relatively few companies in PIPs portfolio fastest GDP growth in a decade.
While this opportunities, and backs the best managers are dependent on exports to the USA.
is a positive development, political globally that are able to make investments The high valuation environment observed challenges remain in Europe and Pantheon where there is scope for them to use their across the globe has also impacted Asia, continues to favour countries in Northern operational and strategic expertise to but to a lesser extent: the combination of Europe for investment.
In the UK, the deliver strong performance.
more attractive entry valuations into consumer and retail sectors in particular companies with higher growth potential The global economy has performed well have been negatively impacted as means the Asian region should continue in the past year.
However, the threat posed uncertainty around the outcome of Brexit to offer strong deal opportunities to future growth by the escalating tariff negotiations remains.
It should be noted for Pantheon.
wars between the worlds economic super that the UK represents only a minority less powers, rising geopolitical tensions and the than 10% of PIPs portfolio.
Also, many of The private equity market in Latin America expected volatility in the financial markets, the European managers that we back is still relatively nascent and this, coupled cannot be ignored.
In addition, there is are regional or pan-European managers with the economic volatility in the region, the risk of further currency volatility as who are able to deploy capital in different offers both challenges and opportunities.
central banks follow divergent paths and countries as political and economic We are investing in managers in the region uncertainty remains over the pace of events unfold during an investment period.
who are finding ways to mitigate currency expected interest rate rises in the A mix of founderand family-owned fluctuations, actively manage liquidity worlds major economies.
buyouts, corporate carve-outs and and market risk, and are able to identify transformational secondary buyouts feed companies in sectors that are exceeding the pipeline of opportunities for managers GDP growth.
Regional outlook who have the expertise to identify assets While Asia and Emerging Markets represent where many levers can be pulled to The USA has continued to experience a smaller part of PIPs portfolio, when drive growth and value creation.
The positive economic growth over the past compared to the USA and Europe, PIP will performance of many of the companies year, which is expected to be boosted continue to acquire assets in these regions in which Pantheon is invested in Europe further in the near term by the more as part of its long-term strategy.
is not strictly correlated to GDP growth favourable tax and regulatory environment and they continue to generate consistent introduced by the current administration.
At this stage, it is still not clear how the tax An adaptable and reforms and restrictions on the tax flexible approach to Economic growth across Asia exceeded deductibility for interest expenses will the developed world in 2017 and this is primary investments impact private equity in the USA, however expected to continue over the next few our managers are examining each of the During 2017 and in the first half of 2018, years.
At the same time, the private equity companies in their portfolios so that they fundraising in the USA and Europe has market in Asia is maturing and its share can act quickly to minimise or avoid any continued apace and competition for deals of global M&A and buyout markets is negative effects.
In addition, we aim to only has increased as investors are allocating increasing.
During 2017, there were record back private equity managers, or General more capital to private equity in search of levels of investment volume in the region 1 Preqin May 2018.
Strategic Report Managers Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information 29 growth, diversification and higher returns.
Expansion of their own origination and Uncovering value in the Pantheon has benefited from its managers operational teams: By bolstering their secondary market taking advantage of the resulting strong exit own origination team and operational environment.
At the same time, however, expertise, GPs are able to access a larger The global secondary market is growing valuations have continued to be pushed up pool of deal flow and work alongside and evolving, reaching an estimated record 2 and many industry commentators have management teams to drive even greater level of $58bn worth of deals transacted in expressed concern about the high levels of operational improvements and boost 2017, and offers more choice to buyers than dry powder funds that have been raised growth in the underlying companies ever before.
Unlike some other investment but are yet to be invested in private equity.
types, secondary buyers can factor recent company performance and liquidity into It should be noted that a significant portion Sector specialisation: Sector knowledge their pricing, potentially mitigating cyclical of the new capital raised over the past year is just as important, if not more extremes.
Pantheon was one of the was committed to the large multibillion important, as the geographical location pioneers of the secondary market and our dollar and euro funds.
In the mid-market, of assets when selecting companies platform built up over 35 years enables us to where we are most active, the deployment for investment.
As a result, managers use our deep knowledge and relationships pace is commensurate with investment are becoming sector experts and to source and deploy capital into the most periods in the underlying funds of four to focusing on micro rather than macro compelling deals.
Our ability to respond five years.
By continuing to increase its factors as well as taking advantage of quickly often makes Pantheon a preferred share of the M&A market, of which private mispricing situations and dislocations investor in secondary transactions.
equity is still a relatively small part, as well in niche sectors, such as energy and as benefiting from the trend seen in global financial services.
Secondaries are attractive given the public markets where the number of listed opportunity to deploy capital into funds Corporate carve-outs: The divestment of companies and IPOs are in decline as many where a significant portion of the fees paid a non-core division or company from a companies turn to the alternative source of on undrawn commitments has already larger corporation can be complicated capital and hands-on approach offered by been paid down, otherwise known as as new systems and or teams must private equity managers, the outlook for mitigating the J-curve effect.
In addition, be put in place.
This offers significant private equity strategies appear positive.
market estimates indicate that, despite opportunities for private equity managers the increased competition, dry powder Without doubt, the high valuation that are able to deal with operational and in the secondary market is decreasing and environment means that GPs are having financial complexity.
proportionally lower than in the broader to work much harder and at a much earlier Public-to-private activity: This has private equity market.
stage of investment to create value in increased significantly in the last their portfolios.
However, resilience During the year, the market has seen couple of decades and continues to and adaptability are inherent characteristics a full range of deal flow and transaction be a good source of deal flow for of private equity and Pantheon-backed types: large diversified portfolios: private equity managers.
managers are using a range of tactics large, concentrated fund positions: to mitigate the situation and expand the Against this backdrop, manager selection and structured transactions involving opportunity set: remains key.
Pantheon is highly selective combinations of funds and individual and is focused on managers that we believe company assets.
GP-led transactions Buy-and-build strategies: By bolting can implement effective operational have grown in both absolute and relative smaller companies acquired at lesser change and deliver outsized returns.
terms, as managers become more attuned multiples onto a large enterprise which Our extensive investment team sits on to the opportunities presented by the has a premium valuation, managers are more than 350 advisory board seats, secondary market: these transactions are able to lower the average entry multiple which provides an insight into deal initiated and overseen by the private equity for the whole asset and increase its flow but also facilitates the continuous managers themselves and can include critical mass.
When assessing tender offers, fund preferred capital Focus on small mid buyout: Smaller a managers fund for investment, Pantheon investments and fund restructurings.
assets can typically be acquired at more does not just consider past performance Consequently, the secondary market attractive prices than larger buyouts.
and the validity of the fund strategy, but continues to grow.
This segment also offer higher average also makes sure that the composition of the growth rates and a wider range of team remains appropriate, and individuals exit opportunities.
are fully aligned and incentivised.
2 Greenhill Cogent Secondary Market Trends & Outlook, July 2018.
Pantheon International Plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Managers Market Review continued Pantheons secondary strategy is to target conviction in both the manager and the it prefers to focus on areas of growth driven the highest quality managers and assets, underlying portfolios prospects.
by innovation or demographics rather than focus on acquiring concentrated fund GDP.
Pantheon also seeks opportunities positions and to identify embedded value in where the fundamental business strength is Pantheons platform funds and purchase them at a favourable aligned with what can be viewed as a continues to yield attractive point of time in their development, rather good entry valuation.
In addition, in an than relying on any discount achieved at environment of rising interest rates, co-investment opportunities purchase to drive returns.
We are also Pantheon is backing managers that are The co-investment market continues to be interested in secondaries which involve more experienced and often more cautious attractive to professional fund investors companies that have demonstrated in their use of leverage.
such as Pantheon as well as to a variety of financial resilience through previous The valuation environment is expected to institutional participants such as sovereign economic downturns and where the remain challenging in Europe and the USA wealth funds, pension funds and family manager has multiple opportunities to and many investors are preparing for offices.
According to market estimates, accelerate growth.
Sectors in which PIP has increased market volatility in the future.
co-investments represented a growing transacted during the year include energy, Private equity managers acquire active, proportion of global private equity financial services and for-profit education control positions and are able to react to buyout called capital in 2017.
As described in PIPs strategy on market conditions and changing regulations been a significant year for Pantheons page 17, tail-end funds, or those older than with the aim of creating value over the long co-investment platform in terms of 10 years at the time of purchase, will be term.
They are under no pressure to sell their distributions and attractive exits.
fide-emphasised in PIPs new commitments.
assets and can therefore wait for a more The ability to deploy capital selectively Despite the increasingly specialised nature favourable exit environment if necessary.
and diligently is a meaningful component of the secondary market, Pantheon is still Private markets provide access to smaller, of the market and Pantheon continues to able to uncover value by taking advantage of higher growth companies and a be a partner of choice for the high quality the inefficiencies of the secondary market differentiated sector focus that may not private equity managers that we are also when compared to direct private equity be represented by the public markets.
Examples of this include: For example, the businesses backed by invests alongside these managers Inconsistent valuation methodologies private equity in healthcare and technology predominately in mid-market companies amongst private equity managers means tend to address a different set of needs with proven, differentiated growth potential.
that a managers conservative valuation and end user to the companies that are Our dedicated global co-investment team policy provides the potential for attractive available in the same sectors via the public has underweighted opportunities in cyclical uplifts to NAV on exit.
Research by Pantheon has shown industries and focused on businesses that the number of public companies with defensive characteristics in the event Inefficient sales processes resulting globally is in decline and it would appear of an economic downturn.
Recent examples from a limited buyer universe that that private equity is now mature enough have been co-investments in healthcare excludes strategic acquirers, reduced that company management often wishes and education.
competition due to seller confidentiality to stay under private equity ownership for and transfer restrictions imposed by The outlook for Pantheons co-investment longer, while the value creation potential is the private equity manager.
programme is positive given that there are still building, rather than seeking a public fewer club deals in other words, private Information insights as the private equity listing for their businesses.
In light of these equity managers are partnering with one manager may not share all information trends, it is our view that prudent investors another less frequently and investors equally amongst potential bidders.
need exposure to both private and public such as Pantheon are able to add value by markets in their portfolios.
Transaction processes becoming providing GPs with more solutions for ultra-fast which means that buyers We believe that private equity has strong capital provision.
Co-investments are still must respond quickly and have capital credentials and the potential for further largely free of fees and expenses therefore available for investment.
With our track record they offer cost-effective access to high and expertise built up over 35 years, quality assets.
The growing and maturing secondary Pantheon will continue to back the best market is supplying diverse deal flow and private equity managers globally which interesting opportunities that can offer an Summary and outlook we believe have the tools and resources to effective discount.
Against this backdrop, generate healthy returns over the long term Although Pantheon does not ignore and we continue to maintain our discipline and regardless of prevailing market conditions.
is not immune to the macroeconomic only close on a small number of the deals situation in the countries where it invests, that we have sourced where there is strong
