Strategic Report Managers Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information 19 Our Investment Policy Our investment policy is constructed around maximising capital growth The Companys policy is to make unquoted Company and through the use of The Company may invest in funds and investments.
It does so by subscribing for borrowings and capital raisings other vehicles established and managed investments in new private equity funds where necessary.
or advised by Pantheon or any Pantheon Primary Investment, buying secondary affiliate.
In determining the diversification The Companys policy is to adopt a global interests in existing private equity funds of its portfolio and applying the manager investment approach.
The Companys Secondary Investment, and acquiring diversification requirement referred to strategy is to mitigate investment risk direct holdings in unquoted companies above, the Company looks through vehicles through diversification of its underlying Co-investments, usually either where a established and managed or advised by portfolio by geography, sector and vendor is seeking to sell a combined Pantheon or any Pantheon affiliate.
Since the Companys portfolio of fund interests and direct assets are invested globally on the basis, The Company may enter into derivatives holdings or where there is a private equity primarily, of the merits of individual transactions for the purposes of efficient manager, well known to the Companys investment opportunities, the Company portfolio management and hedging for Manager, investing on substantially the does not adopt maximum or minimum example, hedging interest rate, currency same terms.
exposures to specific geographic regions, or market exposures.
The Company may from time to time hold industry sectors or the investment stage Surplus cash of the Company may be quoted investments as a consequence of of underlying investments.
invested in fixed interest securities, bank such investments being distributed to the In addition, the Company adopts the deposits or other similar securities.
Company from its fund investments as a following limitations for the purpose of consequence of an investment in an The Company may borrow to make diversifying investment risk: unquoted company becoming quoted.
investments and typically uses its In addition, the Company may invest in That no holding in a company will borrowing facilities to manage its cash private equity funds which are quoted.
The represent more than 15% by value of the flows flexibly, enabling the Company to Company will not otherwise normally invest Companys investments at the time of make investments as and when suitable in quoted securities, although it reserves the investment in accordance with the opportunities arise and to meet calls in right to do so should this be deemed to be in requirement for approval as an investment relation to existing investments without the interests of the Company.
trust which applied to the Company in having to retain significant cash balances relation to its accounting periods ended for such purposes.
Under the Companys The Company may invest in any type of on and before 30 June 2012 : articles of association, the Companys financial instrument, including equity borrowings may not at any time exceed and non-equity shares, debt securities, The aggregate of all the amounts 100% of the Companys net asset value.
subscription and conversion rights and invested by the Company in including Typically, the Company does not expect options in relation to such shares and commitments to or in respect of funds its gearing to exceed 30% of gross assets.
securities and interests in partnerships and managed by a single management group However, gearing may exceed this in the limited partnerships and other forms of may not, in consequence of any such event that, for example, the Companys collective investment scheme.
Investments investment being made, form more than future cash flows alter.
in funds and companies may be made 20% of the aggregate of the most recently either directly or indirectly, through one determined gross asset value of the The Company may invest in private or more holding, special purpose or Company and the Companys aggregate equity funds, unquoted companies or investment vehicles in which one or more outstanding commitments in respect of special purpose or investment holding co-investors may also have an interest.
investments at the time such investment vehicles which are geared by loan facilities is made: that rank ahead of the Companys The Company employs a policy of investment.
The Company does not over-commitment.
This means that the The Company will invest no more than adopt restrictions on the extent to which Company may commit more than its 15% of its total assets in other UK-listed it is exposed to gearing in funds or available uninvested assets to investments closed-ended investment funds companies in which it invests.
in private equity funds on the basis that including UK-listed investment trusts.
such commitments can be met from anticipated future cash flows to the
