Pantheon International Plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our Business Model We aim to deliver attractive and consistent returns over the long term OUR INVESTMENT PROCESS Deals are originated via Pantheons Within our diversified portfolio, Cash generated when those well-established platform we back the best managers globally companies are sold is returned to that are able to identify and create PIP and redeployed into new value in growing companies investment opportunities INVESTMENT STRATEGIES INVESTMENT PERIOD HARVEST PERIOD Primary We invest in a new fund when it is established Captures exposure to top-tier, niche managers as well as to smaller funds that are generally hard to access.
FUND NET CASH FLOW Secondary NET CASH FLOW We replace an investor in a fund or funds typically late into, or after, the investment period Targets favoured funds at a One of the advantages of FUND stage when the underlying investing in secondaries is assets performance is visible that earlier fees will have been and the funds are realising borne by the seller so total investments, returning cash expenses are lower.
NET CASH FLOW Co-investments We purchase a portfolio company directly, alongside a private equity fund, during the investment period Invests in the securities This boosts performance COMPANY of individual companies potential because there are with attractive characteristics typically very low or no fees, at the exclusive invitation making it a cost-effective of Pantheons private way of capitalising on the high equity managers.
value added by Pantheons selected managers.
For more information on the three ways we invest, see p5 Strategic Report Managers Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information 15 What we do Why we do it How we do it PIP invests in private equity funds and Through Pantheon, we have an opportunity PIPs manager, Pantheon, has a co-invests alongside selected private to invest with many of the best private well-established platform built on three equity managers directly into private equity managers globally based on the trust strategic pillars of investment: primary, companies worldwide.
and experience built up over the more than secondary and co-investments, with each 35 years during which Pantheon has been offering their own merits see diagram, left.
An investment in PIP offers making investments.
We believe that by combining the three shareholders exposure to a growing ways of accessing private equity With the right people in charge, we market worth c. $3tn where the investments, we are able to: believe that the strong credentials best private equity managers Build and maintain a well-balanced portfolio of private equity and its track record might otherwise be inaccessible in a combination that we monitor and manage of outperforming public markets, with the aim of maximising capital growth: to shareholders.
Manage the maturity profile of our assets so that speak for themselves.
We aim to deliver attractive and consistent our portfolio remains naturally cash-generative on a sustainable basis: It is our mission to generate sustainably returns to shareholders over the long term, Ensure that the vehicle remains as cost-effective high investment returns through a and at relatively low risk.
as possible for our shareholders by reducing any well-managed, institutional grade potential drag on returns.
portfolio built by investing with the Private equity managers take controlling or best managers globally.
influential positions in companies where they believe they can create value with a view to exiting their position at a multiple to their original investment.
As portfolio companies are sold by the managers, PIPs share of the cash that is generated from those sales is deployed into new investment opportunities.
For more information on the commitments that PIP has made during the year, see pages 42 to 46 Preqin May 2018.
What sets us apart Broad and deep relationships Independence Track record With investments in the USA, Europe, PIP is offered the opportunity to participate in For more than 30 years, PIP has been able Asia and Emerging Markets, PIP provides a the full range of private equity investments to adapt quickly and effectively to changing carefully constructed, broad-based that Pantheon sources, and it invests market conditions.
This flexible and portfolio for investors.
The presence of alongside other Pantheon managed funds proactive approach means that PIP is Pantheons dedicated investment team of into third party funds and underlying well placed to continue to deliver on its 1 78 people in six offices around the world companies rather than as a feeder into strategic objectives.
means that they are on the ground locally, Pantheons other investment vehicles.
Culture working with their extensive networks of The Board believes that this offers several relationships with private equity managers benefits to PIP and its shareholders, including: Pantheon has a strong culture of teamwork and taking advantage of proprietary and diversity, as well as a long history of Control of investment strategy, overseen by information flows and access to the Board: investing its clients capital responsibly.
These relationships enable Reduction of financing risk by being able to accept For more information on PIPs strategic objectives, or decline investments offered to it by Pantheon Pantheon to source and respond quickly see pages 16 to 18 according to its financial resources at the time: to the best deal flow in those regions.
The flexibility to vary the size of its commitments as appropriate and in line with any adjustments to its investment strategy: Lower cost due to the elimination of expenses that can arise in intermediate vehicles.
