Pantheon International Plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Managing our business responsibly The six principles of PRI underpin our ESG strategy In addition, there is a focus on the potential Principle 2: In 2007, Pantheon was one of the first for fraud, rogue activities and any other Be active owners and private equity signatories to the United unethical behaviour as part of the wider incorporate ESG issues into Nations-supported Principles of operational due diligence process.
Responsible Investment PRI Pantheons extensive network and our ownership policies and cross-referencing capabilities ensure that practices we are able to make every effort to only In early 2017, a third party service, RepRisk, invest in high quality managers on behalf was fully integrated into Pantheons of PIP.
During the period, only one manager preand post-investment monitoring out of PIPs 15 primary commitments did processes.
RepRisk is a business not receive a green rating for its overall intelligence provider, which monitors and Principle 1: approach to ESG.
This highlighted areas issues alerts on ESG-related matters, for improvement which we will actively Incorporate ESG issues into affecting the underlying companies in encourage them to achieve over the our investment analysis and Pantheons funds globally, and produces course of the investment.
decision-making processes detailed reports on those issues.
When conducting due diligence on a We have incorporated ESG factors As a result, Pantheons ESG due diligence potential secondary transaction, Pantheon into the entire investment process, from processes have been strengthened and has visibility of the underlying assets and the initial due diligence and assessment our post-investment monitoring has been can therefore form a view on the ESG risk of the suitability of a fund company for significantly enhanced.
Where there is a profile of the investment.
The management investment through to the ongoing significant issue in an existing investment, of potential ESG risks can be examined in monitoring of ESG issues once an Pantheon takes the opportunity to engage detail as well as whether the appropriate investment has been made.
with the private equity manager s and protection or adherence to industry explore how they are addressing the issue regulations are in place.
ESG risk management forms an important with the underlying portfolio company.
part of the operational risk assessment When assessing a co-investment Aside from any incidents which may be segment of our due diligence process.
opportunity, Pantheon evaluates the reported by RepRisk, we will also proactively Each manager is rated for: companys exposure to possible ESG risks, engage with our managers if we identify any the managers approach to mitigating those Its approach to ESG: other topical or current ESG factors which risks and how this was achieved with prior could affect their portfolio companies.
How ESG is recognised and managed investments with similar characteristics.
within the organisation: Across all investment opportunities, the Whether it is a signatory to PRI or any ESG due diligence findings are formally other ESG-related standards: documented in investment recommendations and any potential How it engages on ESG matters with concerns are flagged for consideration the companies it invests in: by the investment committees.
Strategic Report Managers Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information 51 Principle 3: Principle 5: LEADING ON EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY IN PRIVATE EQUITY Seek appropriate disclosure Work together to enhance our Across the private equity industry, there is an on ESG issues by the entities in effectiveness in implementing increasing awareness of the benefits of gender which we invest the Principles equality and the important role it can play in enhancing performance and decision-making As described, Pantheons assessment of Pantheon has an established ESG in investment and operational decisions.
how its managers report on ESG is an integral Committee, comprised of senior partners Pantheon is recognised as an industry leader for promoting gender equality within part of its investment due diligence process.
from its global investment teams, the Head its own workforce and Helen Steers, a partner We also highlight the importance of this when of Operational Risk and a Senior Client at Pantheon and Head of the European negotiating deal terms with our GPs.
The Committee Investment team, is a co-founder of Level 20 meets regularly and is responsible for www.
org whose aim is to inspire We continue to explore ways to encourage setting Pantheons ESG strategy and policy women to join and succeed in private equity.
our managers to make further Pantheons workforce is split almost equally as well as providing feedback to internal and improvements in their disclosure of ESG between males and females with a significant external stakeholders.
In addition, there is issues.
Our participation at GP workshops number of senior and partner roles held an ESG Working Group formed of by women.
and active engagement on regulatory representatives of other business areas, changes are just some of the ways in In addition to gender equality, Pantheon is including PIP.
As a result, all teams are which we have started to try and achieve committed to developing a diverse workforce represented and able to contribute to that reflects the markets in which it operates, that objective.
Pantheons ESG initiatives as well as and actively recruits and retains staff from a ensuring that potential ESG risks are fully wide range of racial backgrounds.
understood by both Pantheons investment Principle 4: CLIMATE CHANGE teams and our managers.
Promote acceptance and Pantheon considers climate change as part of Where possible, as part of our membership its ESG assessment and is actively monitoring implementation of the Principles the forthcoming regulatory change being of trade bodies including the BVCA, EMPEA, within the investment industry introduced by the European Commission HKVCA and Invest Europe, we are helping to whose goal is to enable the EU financial sector Pantheon is committed to active industry shape the agenda on ESG across the to lead the way to a greener and cleaner engagement on ESG and regularly regions where we invest.
These measures are aimed at participates in external events and thought financing growth in a manner that is environmentally sustainable, and fosters a leadership programmes.
For example, long-term outlook for financial and economic Principle 6: during the year we consulted with PRI and activity.
In addition, they aim to introduce Invest Europe and presented at prominent Report on our activities and greater clarity on investors duties towards the industry events.
In addition, Pantheon integration of ESG factors into their investment progress towards implementing participated in workshops held by several decision-making and their disclosure of how the Principles they have aligned their investment activities private equity managers where some of the with ESG objectives.
management of their portfolio companies Pantheon carries out an annual review of were in attendance.
This gave us the the activities that it has undertaken during UK MODERN SLAVERY ACT opportunity to communicate directly with each assessment year, measuring how it The UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 introduced a company management on the importance has performed in relation to the PRI requirement for covered commercial organisations operating in the UK to report of good ESG ethics and business practices.
We report on this to the PRI and, annually on the steps that they have taken for 2018, Pantheon has been awarded an A during the preceding financial year to ensure score for our overall approach to ESG and that slavery and human trafficking are not an A score in the Private Equity module of taking place in their own business or in their the PRIs annual assessment.
Pantheons ESG policy is already aligned with a zero tolerance approach to modern slavery and human trafficking.
Pantheons Modern Slavery Statement is available at www.
It is our belief that the implementation of sound ESG practices and effective risk management processes can have a material impact on value creation in private equity.
