A2 BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY A2.1 PARAGON OVERVIEW Paragon is a specialist UK banking group.
We create points of differentiation through a deep understanding of customer needs in our target markets whilst applying a cautious risk appetite.
We have a largely centralised operating model that combines local specialism with central support and expertise and that benefits from a strong mobility of capital.
This approach allows us to allocate our resources effectively in order to optimise the relationship between growth, risk and returns.
Following our internal reorganisation in September 2017, where the majority of our operations were brought under our bank subsidiary, we have undertaken two acquisitions within our Commercial Lending division and also disposed of a loan portfolio at a significant capital gain.
The widening of the Groups activities, growth in established markets and recycling of capital to support this development will contribute to further diversification of income streams in the years ahead.
Growing Originally known as one of the countrys leading, independent buy-to-let lenders, the Group is growing its business by expanding into broader mortgage, commercial and consumer finance markets, focussed on specialist offerings for small or medium-sized enterprises SME and individuals.
Paragon is a significant participant in the UKs loan portfolio purchase market through its Idem Capital division, where it acquires, co-manages and services loan portfolios across a variety of asset classes.
Specialist Through its long underwriting and account management experience, the Group has developed a deep expertise in broader data analytics, together with advanced risk and credit management capabilities.
These strengths are complemented by a highly developed loan servicing function and through the cycle experience in its senior management team.
It is this expertise that enables it to tailor lending products for specialist target markets and effectively manage complex loan portfolios.
Simple The Group has a simple business model, underpinned by a focus on people and a commitment to a single set of values.
Income Assets Funding Profitability The Group generates To grow its income, the The Group funds its assets Profitability is a key measure income from interest and Group focusses on building using a variety of sources, of success and the Group fees earned on its mortgage, its asset base by originating including retail deposits, manages all aspects of its consumer and SME loan new loans, developing new securitisation and bond business closely to deliver assets.
It also earns fees products and acquiring issuance.
It takes care to sustainable and growing from third parties for loan portfolios.
secure competitive funding returns to its shareholders.
administering similar loans over an appropriate term on their behalf.
to underpin its assets, cover working capital requirements and maintain a strong financial position.
PAGE 12 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Operations Paragons operations are organised into three divisions, each with responsibility for achieving asset and profit growth, with new lending funded principally through an online personal savings operation.
The three divisions are supported by the Group through the provision of capital to underpin growth and, where appropriate, with central services including loan servicing, marketing, information technology and legal support.
The Groups central funding is provided by a mix of equity and corporate and retail bonds.
Mortgages Commercial Lending Idem Capital First and second Asset based loan products for Acquired loan portfolios charge mortgages SME businesses and consumers and legacy assets Focus on buy-to-let, but also Asset and motor finance, Loan portfolios generated by targeting underserved sectors development finance, structured third party UK lenders in the mortgage market lending and other commercial lending products 144.8 million segment profit 19.9 million segment profit 78.2 million segment profit 10.47 billion loan assets 1.13 billion loan assets 0.52 billion loan assets Over 67,000 buy-to-let Iceberg and Titlestone Over 190,000 loan accounts businesses acquired in year customer accounts First structured lending facilities Significant motor finance granted in year portfolio purchased New lending principally financed from retail savings balances Over 135,000 savings customers Bank of England funding accessed Segment profits are before net costs for central items of 61.4 million.
Paragon Banking Group Fast Facts 156.5 million Established Headquarted in Over 1,350 FTSE-250 underlying in 1985 Solihull employees listed operating profit PAGE 13 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts SUCCESS FACTORS Key factors affecting the Groups ability to maintain and grow profits and enhance shareholder returns.
2. Credit quality Loan pricing Paragon is a conservative lender.
When underwriting any Paragon prices all new advances and portfolio purchases new loan or portfolio purchase, the Group makes a detailed to be competitive and achieve an appropriate margin over credit assessment of the customer and the strength of the funding costs, relative to risk.
underlying loan collateral to help minimise the risk of nonpayment and portfolio losses.
Underlying net interest margin Buy-to-let 3 months arrears 2.21% Paragon Buy-to-let industry average 0.11% 0.42% 3.
Funding Strong financial foundations The Group ensures that its loan assets are financed using Efficient utilisation of the Groups conservative capital appropriately dated and priced funding.
It seeks to build a and debt positions, which rank among the strongest in broad and diversified funding mix to underpin the business.
the UK, give us material balance sheet capacity for further development.
Retail deposit growth Rating upgrade to Underlying RoTE CET1 46.5% BBB 14.0% 13.8% TFS drawings Total regulatory capital ratio 944.4 million 16.2% Securitisation completed UK leverage ratio 435.3 million 6.4% PAGE 14 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 5.
Diversity and development A customer-focussed culture The Groups people are at the heart of everything we All the Groups employees share a common culture with a do, and we understand the significance and value of single set of core values.
These values: fairness, integrity, building strong and diverse teams, with leaders from all respect, professionalism, teamwork, commitment, humour backgrounds.
Diversity is an important element of the and creativity inform the way that we interact with our Groups people strategy and we are proud to have signed customers, our colleagues and our wider stakeholders.
the Women in Finance Charter as well as supporting the Importantly, Paragons employees agree that customers Hampton-Alexander initiative.
are at the heart of our business and recognise the value of treating customers fairly.
Employee attrition rate less than national average 88% 91% 16.1% of employees feel the of employees feel service we give to there are a clear and customers is improving consistent set of values Engagement score and behaviours that support the way we do business 85% 84% of employees feel the customer is at the heart Percentage of senior managers which are female of everything we do 29% Source : November 2017 employee survey.
Effective loan servicing Cost control Each loan is serviced to optimise retention and minimise The Group has a low cost:income ratio compared to its the risk of non-payment.
We also operate a specialist competitors and controls costs carefully to maintain this receiver of rent operation for buy-to-let cases.
It operates mainly from a centralised location, maximising the potential for operating leverage.
Loan products are distributed principally via third party brokers and savings deposits are collected online.
465 million pieces of customer data collected and Underlying cost:income ratio analysed each month Behavioural scoring models applied 40.6% Amounts above at 30 September 2018 underlying Appendix A PAGE 15 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts MORTGAGES Housing tenure WHAT WE DO The PRS makes up 20% of the English housing market The Group offers first and second charge mortgage products with buy-to-let mortgage finance for landlords operating Owner-occupiers Private renters Social renters in the UKs Private Rented Sector PRS being its largest market.
Paragon was one of the first lenders to develop buyto-let finance and, since 1996 the Group has originated or acquired just over 21.5 billion of buy-to-let accounts.
It now 17% provides 4.1% of all new buy-to-let mortgages in the UK.
The Group seeks to serve niche markets where its customer focussed approach to lending and its expertise in property valuation and risk assessment can differentiate it from its competitors.
Source: English Housing Survey 2016-17 MARKET DYNAMICS 20% 63% Renting in the PRS is the second most common housing tenure in the UK today, after owner-occupation.
Economic, social and demographic changes, together with the flexibility that renting provides, have all combined to make renting in the PRS an increasingly popular choice.
Against a UK backdrop of limited house building, low investment in social housing and mortgage affordability constraints, tenant demand is expected to remain strong.
The owner-occupied mortgage market has become increasingly commoditised, leaving significant customer Strong demand for PRS property groups badly underserved.
Tenant demand - landlord perceptions Tenant demand Tenant demand Tenant demand is increasing is stable is decreasing MARKET OUTLOOK Reforms in the buy-to-let market have led to polarisation between professional landlords and others.
The Groups established strength as a buy-to-let specialist has enabled it to establish a significant position in this part of the landlord market.
At the year end 87.8% of the buy-to-let pipeline was either with corporate or other complex landlord customers.
Source: BVA BDRC PAGE 16 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts percent COMMERCIAL LENDING UK asset finance originations WHAT WE DO Building on the asset finance business acquired in 2015, the Cars Commercial vehicles Equipment division offers asset and motor lease products to SME and smaller corporate customers and consumers, focussing on Plant & machinery Other specialist assets and underserved markets.
It also funds small-scale property developments and provides structured lending facilities, offering senior debt facilities to non-bank lenders.
MARKET DYNAMICS The Group aims to bring new competition and choice to UK SMEs and consumers.
While the asset finance market is broad, most participants are focussed on specific asset classes or Source: Finance and Leasing Association markets, providing the Group with opportunities to increase its presence through either organic growth or acquisition.
Small property developers have been identified as a significantly underserved market.
The Groups acquisition of Titlestone in the year increases focus on this market.
New homes completed Access to finance for smaller UK corporates has been seen England Government target as constrained in recent years and the Group will continue to develop new offerings to address underserved markets.
MARKET OUTLOOK The UK SME asset finance market is forecast to continue growing strongly while the motor finance market is expected to remain stable.
Housebuilding in England continues to lag behind the Governments target of 300,000 new homes per year.
Our development finance proposition is aimed at SME housebuilders in order to fill this gap.
Source: MHCLG House building: permanent dwellings completed PAGE 17 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts number of homes billion IDEM CAPITAL Idem Capitals loan portfolio by value WHAT WE DO Idem Capital is a leading UK loan purchaser, acquiring and Loans secured on property Motor finance Unsecured loans servicing portfolios, including finance leases, first and second mortgages as well as unsecured loan assets.
In addition, it offers servicing of loan portfolios for clients including banks, private equity houses and specialist lenders.
33.3% 52.7% MARKET DYNAMICS Idem Capital acquires loan portfolios from banks that are either restructuring or refocussing their activities.
It focusses on the acquisition and servicing of paying and semiperforming accounts.
Idem Capital does not actively compete to acquire non-paying portfolios.
14.0% TREATING CUSTOMERS FAIRLY Idem Capital has managed more than one million customer accounts and we are proud of the reputation we have established for customer service.
We assist our customers in managing their accounts and strive to create fair and affordable repayment solutions should they encounter Shift towards performing loans financial difficulties.
Performing loans Discounted purchases MARKET OUTLOOK Idem Capital targets those portfolios where it can derive the most benefit from its core credit profiling and administration skills and focusses on disciplined analysis and evaluation of portfolio cash flows on potential acquisitions.
It seeks to make purchases which will augment the Groups organic loan originations.
PAGE 18 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts million FUNDING WHAT WE DO The Groups principal source of funding for new lending is its range of savings products offered to UK households.
All balances are sourced from the internet and the Group seeks to offer simple understandable products at competitive rates.
Other funding for lending is derived from the efficient use of Bank of England funding schemes, while securitisation continues to fund much of the back book and is used tactically, including a major transaction in the year.
Central funding is provided through corporate and retail bonds.
% 90 MARKET DYNAMICS The UK household savings market is 1.2 trillion, so provides a deep and liquid source for the Groups funding.
Costs for this funding remain low.
of customers opening a savings account would probably or definitely consider taking out another account CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Paragon Bank funds its lending through a range of safe, simple and transparent Easy Access, ISA, Notice and Fixed Term savings accounts.
Our regular survey of new savings customers demonstrates a high level of satisfaction with our products and our online application process.
61 Net promoter score for CENTRAL BANK FUNDING account opening The Group uses facilities provided by the Bank of England under the TFS, ILTR and FLS schemes to support lending growth.
These schemes provide cost effective funding so long as appropriate targets are met.
435.3 WHOLESALE FUNDING million The Group has a core expertise in securitisation and other debt.
435.3 million raised in the year.
Wholesale funding raised in the year OUTLOOK Retail deposit balances will continue to form the mainstay of the Groups funding, with the capacity to support significant balance sheet growth.
Use of Bank of England facilities will be optimised.
Securitisation and other wholesale debt markets will be accessed on a tactical basis, when appropriate.
PAGE 19 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts A2.2 PRINCIPAL RISKS There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties to which the Group is exposed and which could impact significantly on its ability to conduct its business successfully.
Category Risk Description Business Economic The Group could be materially affected by a severe downturn in the UK economy, as its income is wholly derived from activities within the country.
The likelihood of this occurring has become more difficult to forecast given the continuing material uncertainties as to the terms on which the UK will leave the European Union EU in March 2019.
A material downturn in economic performance could reduce demand for the Groups loan products, increase the number of customers that default on their loans and cause security asset values to fall.
Concentration The Groups business plans could be particularly affected by any material change in the operation of the UK private rented sector and or further regulatory intervention to control buy-to-let lending.
Transition Failure to manage major internal reorganisations or integrate acquired businesses, such as Titlestone, safely and effectively could adversely affect the Groups business plans and damage its reputation.
Credit Customer Failure to target and underwrite credit decisions effectively could result in customers becoming less able to service debt, exposing the Group to unexpected material losses.
Counterparty Failure of an institution holding the Groups cash deposits or providing hedging facilities for risk mitigation could expose the Group to loss or liquidity issues.
Conduct Fair outcomes Failure to deliver fair outcomes for its customers could impact on the Groups reputation, its ability to meet its regulatory obligations and its financial performance.
Operational People Failure to attract or retain appropriately skilled key employees at all levels could impact upon the Groups ability to deliver its business plans and strategic objectives.
Systems The inability of the Groups systems to support its business operations effectively and or guard against cyber security risks could result in reputational damage and financial loss.
Regulation Given the highly regulated sectors in which the Group operates, compliance failures or failures to respond effectively to new and emerging regulatory and legal developments could result in reputational damage and financial loss.
Liquidity and Capital Funding If access to funding became restricted, either through market movements or regulatory intervention, this could result in the scaling back or cessation of some business lines.
Capital Proposals by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision BCBS to change capital requirements for lending secured on residential property could have adverse financial implications for the Group.
Market Interest rates Reduction in margins between market lending and borrowing rates or mismatches in the Group balance sheet could impact profits.
Pension Obligation Pensions The obligation to support the Groups defined benefit pension plan might deplete resources.
The Group has considered and responded to all of these risks, mitigating the exposure as far as is practicable to ensure that its risk profile remains within the Boards stated risk appetite.
These risks are discussed in more detail in Section B6.5.
PAGE 20 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts
