Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 18 Our strategy Our mission is to help people make progress in their lives through learning.
Our Vision is to have a direct relationship with millions of lifelong learners and to link education to the way people aspire to live and work every day.
To do that, we will collaborate with a wide group of partners to help shape the future of learning.
Our Capabilities include combining world-class educational content and assessment, powered by services and technology, to enable more effective teaching and personalised learning at scale.
Our capabilities are based on our deep expertise in how people learn, and we apply them to our three strategic priorities: Our strategic priorities Grow market share through Invest in structural Become a simpler, 1 2 3 the digital transformation growth opportunities more efficient and more of our courseware and sustainable business assessment businesses Shift from selling Global Learning Online Virtual Eliminate Increase ownership of our Platform: A cloudProgram Schools duplication standardisation to content to selling based, scalable Management and speed up reduce costs and print or digital product platform innovation improve scalability services English Language Professional Provide worldEnsure access Learning & Certifications class customer to quality Assessment & Licensure experiences that education improve efficacy for all and outcomes Our values are brave, imaginative, decent and accountable We are the worlds learning company Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our strategy in action 19 19 Delivering long-term value Strategic advantages for all stakeholders Insights and capabilities Customer experience Our customers, including learners, We partner with world-class authors educators, employers, governments to develop our content and we and more, benefit from a great take a data-driven approach to consumer experience with consistent product design, based on proven focus on learning outcomes.
Supporting sustainable growth This enables huge advancements Delivering returns for our in rich content, personalised shareholders through a long-term learning and effective analytics.
improvement in top line and bottom line growth.
Over time this helps increase the share price and maintain Investing back into our business a progressive, sustainable dividend.
Employee engagement Pearsons strong balance sheet Through our transformation we are underpins the continuing investment focused on supporting our people, in our digital transformation and driving equality and diversity, and structural growth markets.
We are helping them make progress at investing record levels to become Pearson and in their lives.
the winners in digital education.
Strengthen sustainability Through our sustainability and social innovation work we are helping increase access to quality education for more people around the world and Global reach and scale reducing our environmental footprint.
We have a truly global scale and focus.
We operate in 70 markets worldwide.
Our products and services benefit from being centrally developed, globally deployed with local expertise and capabilities ensuring success.
To read more about the value Capital allocation we create for our stakeholders Maintain a strong balance sheet Return capital via a sustainable and see p26 progressive dividend Maintain an investment grade credit rating Return any excess capital via Invest in our business we are investing special returns where appropriate over 700m in our digital future Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 20 Our business model and strategic priorities Read more about our Grow market share through three strategic priorities: 1 digital transformation Grow market share through 1 US Higher Education Courseware digital transformation Invest in structural 2 2018 revenue Percentage of total revenue growth markets 976m 1 24% -5% Become a simpler, 3 Digital revenue more efficient and more Digital revenue sustainable business.
Digital 2018 55% 45% Non-digital 2017 50% 50% 2 40% Market share Total revenue in this segment profit and public institutions 1 declined by 5% in 2018 due to served to 617. a continuation of underlying See p227 for more on IA market pressures on print 8% of 2018 revenue in this courseware revenue segment derives from IA, Digital revenue grew 2% in 2018 equating to roughly 1.4m course enrolments Accelerated shift to affordable and access initiatives, Transitioning our product including our partner print portfolio from primarily rental programme, eBooks print-led product experiences and Inclusive Access to digital first products In Inclusive Access we signed Launch of Global Learning 192 new institutions in 2018, Platform with Revel in 2019 taking the total of not-for Mastering makes learning personal see p55 Continuing to lead and shape Greater customer choice the market by moving to with simple, affordable, digital first model convenient access Ability to deliver a portfolio Better data and insights of dynamic evidence-based, for instructors to enable outcome-led, product better outcomes experiences Investing heavily in IP and systems enabling us to draw on the latest technology, including AI and machine learning 1 Underlying revenue growth.
BUSINESS MODEL PROGRESS AND PRIORITIES MARKET PERFORMANCE Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our strategy in action 21 21 US Student Assessment Core Student Assessment and Qualifications 2018 revenue Percentage of total revenue 2018 revenue Percentage of total revenue 332m 292m 1 1 8% 7% -4% -3% Digital tests v paper tests 2018 v prior year % Digital tests v paper tests 2018 v prior year % BTEC registrations 2018 2017 56 2018 55 2017 922,000 1,009,000 SD 2 c. $1.2bn c. 0.7bn #1 #2 #1 Size of market Size of market Market GCSE and A Vocational position level market qualifications position market position 1 Revenue declined moderately Beyond 2019, we expect the Total revenue fell 3% in this After disruption in 2018, 2019 in 2018 due to the faster than business to benefit from segment in 2018 will benefit from new product expected contraction in continued good momentum investment coming through In UK Assessment revenue fell revenue associated with in subcontractor contract as modest growth in BTEC Identifying new opportunities our PARCC and ACT-Aspire wins leveraging our digital Firsts and GCE A-Level was in our Growth markets, multi-state volume-based leadership and a strong more than offset by declines working on promising contracts and our disciplined pipeline of opportunities in AS levels, international initiatives in Thailand, competitive approach in key states GCSEs in the UK and UK Vietnam and China These factors will extend Digital tests now account for apprenticeships due to policy into 2019, where we expect a 56% of all tests administered changes in the schools modest decline in revenue qualifications and the Digital tests enable a future in this segment apprenticeships market of fewer, better tests more embedded in the workflow of teaching 33% of open questions marked by AI BTECs provide students with real-world experience see p52 We are the largest vendor Our strengths include: We serve students, Our strengths include: in the market and we have teachers, schools and Investment in innovation Ability to leverage strong led the shift towards digital government through our Intellectual Property Pioneer of digital assessment testing with our best-in-class qualifications business platform to encourage fewer, Track record of delivery platform TestNav where we are the awarding better tests at scale body and own the IP.
Track record of delivery Pioneering digital assessment at scale platforms Investment in innovation and new products 1 Underlying revenue growth.
BUSINESS MODEL PROGRESS AND PRIORITIES MARKET PERFORMANCE Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 22 Our business model and strategic priorities Invest in structural growth markets 2 Virtual Schools Global Online Program Management 2018 revenue Percentage of total revenue 2018 revenue Percentage of total revenue 288m 234m 1 1 7% 6% 8% 10% Enrolments Full Time Equivalent, continuing Global registrations 2018 2017 2018 2017 73,000 65,000 401,000 352,000 2 2 2 $1.5bn 5% 10% c. 9% Total market size Market growth potential Global OPM market US graduate OPM growth per annum market growth per annum Full Time Equivalent students Strong pipeline two Signed 57 programs in the Entered new global in continuing partner to five new schools in 2019 year globally market with ESSEC schools up 11% on last year partnership in France Scale up in existing states: Global course registration Three new full time online target states with high growth of 14% Pipeline of new partnerships partner schools opened growth potential Growth in 2019 from for 2018-2019 programs launched in previous years and 60 programs to launch in 2019 Connections allows students to learn at their own pace OPM gives students the flexibility they need see p6 see p15 A digital business where Our strengths include: The digital promise Strong brand and we offer complete services ofanywhere, anytime track record Strong brand for charter school partners, learning opens up one of Domain knowledge: Domain knowledge: support for district our biggest structural growth end-to-end solution, and can end-to-end solution, and can programmes and markets: Helping universities leverage further strengths in further leverage strengths in blended offerings.
content and assessment content and assessment Competitive Proven partner school model advantages include: Strong parental satisfaction, Unique position to offer good learning outcomes and services globally across efficacy results postgraduate, undergraduate and short courses 1 Underlying revenue growth.
BUSINESS MODEL PROGRESS AND PRIORITIES MARKET PERFORMANCE Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our strategy in action 23 23 Professional Certification English 2018 revenue Percentage of total revenue 2018 revenue Percentage of total revenue 482m 305m 1 1 12% 7% 4% 7% Global test volumes PTE Academic test volume growth 2018 2017 2018 15.2m 14.6m 30% 2 2 2 c. $1.2bn c. 1.7bn c. 1bn Size of market Global English Size of market speakers Delivering testing Secured extension on Secured two year extension Opportunity to obtain programmes to 450 DVSA contract to run of Australian immigration recognition for UK, credential owners the UK theory test office contract Canada and China immigration employment Near-term growth from US MCAT: long-term a proven winner in a growing market PTE Academic trusted by universities, colleges and governments see p42 From online practice tests Our competitive We are one of the leaders in Global test centre utilising to high-stakes, proctored strengths include: the global English language VUE network allowing more exams that require the learning market.
flexibility for time of test Digital delivery, leading industrys most secure digital platform Our competitive Faster, more accurate testing environments, strengths include: and consistent results Flexibility and scalability of Pearson VUE is a leader in 95% of scores returned in testing network: 20,000 Digital platform taking a computer-based testing.
five working days centres worldwide test on a computer, with consistent test-taking Aligned to Pearsons Proven track record of secure conditions and avoids Global Scale of English test administration, reliable human bias and accurate scoring 1 Underlying revenue growth.
BUSINESS MODEL PROGRESS AND PRIORITIES MARKET PERFORMANCE Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 24 Our business model and strategic priorities Become a simpler, more efficient and more sustainable business 3 2017-2020 focus areas Further simplification Leaner organisations Reduction in number through shared through reduction of legacy applications, service centres in headcount data centres and office locations Progress in 2018 900 42 130m New US enterprise Supply chain applications data centre and Incremental cost resource planning consolidation decommissioned office closures savings achieved in system go-live 2018 as our cost efficiency programme runs ahead of plan In 2018, Pearson sold its property at Sale of One One Southwark Bridge for 115m.
The sale represents further progress in Pearsons Southwark Bridge ongoing simplification strategy and the consolidation of its London property Simplification in practice footprint, as Pearson becomes a leaner and more efficient company.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our strategy in action 2 25 5 The education sector is undergoing tremendous change we need to help our customers through that, rather than add complexity.
Driving a culture of talent and innovation MARYKAY WELLS SVP & CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER, Doing all of this requires something NORTH CAROLINA, USA Im really passionate about: building high-performing and innovative teams As CIO, Im here to modernise and simplify that are customer focused and as diverse Pearsons technology estate to enable as our learners across the globe.
better experiences and outcomes for This is unlocking great potential in our Pearsons millions of customers and people, allowing us to test and use learners globally.
advanced technologies like robotics and The education sector is undergoing artificial intelligence to deliver massive tremendous change we need to help efficiencies in processes whether our customers through that, rather than internally or in the classroom to free add complexity.
Success rides on us up teachers to spend more time with striking a healthy balance, allowing the their students and to personalise digital global platforms we build to be used and learning experiences.
enjoyed worldwide without compromising Were also making further strides in either unique regional needs or the ability diversity and inclusion through the launch to personalise learning experiences.
of Pearsons new Women in Technology Aiding, not impeding, each learners program, active participation in UK progress is our goal.
apprentice and US internship schemes, This means Information Technology cant and increasing graduate hires.
sit in isolation from the business or at It doesnt end there.
Having built an arms length from customers.
We all have environment where we can constructively a stake in improving learning, so fostering challenge ourselves and each other the right partnerships and relationships is each day, we can continue to push embedded in to my teams DNA.
the boundaries on how we can bring innovation to the learning experience.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 26 Value created for our stakeholders Our strategy is driven by the belief that education is evolving to meet the changing demands of todays learners.
In an increasingly digital world, we are a driving force behind that change.
This enables us to create long-term sustainable growth for our investors and all stakeholders of the company.
130m Cost efficiency savings in 2018, enabling the modernisation and digital transformation of Pearson 1000 2018 members of Pearsons Alumni Network since launch in September 2018 % 89 Educators surveyed said Pearson products allow students to study anywhere, anytime 3400 Pearson employees across 40 countries participated in our Innovation Jam over 64 consecutive hours, to drive internal innovation % 90 BTEC students who are employed full time after graduation Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our strategy in action 27 27 How we serve and engage Key concerns Our response Employees In 2018, we invited all our Three main themes emerge from We are focused on creating a Our mission-driven employees to take part in a survey our OHS findings: Our people healthier company, encouraging employees are key to to get a better understanding want to feel aligned to Pearsons and enabling more people to the sustainable success of where we can continue to vision, strategy, culture and progress.
We are working to grow of Pearson.
We started several values: they want to be able to and develop talent, drive more bottom-up innovation deliver with current capabilities diversity, ensure greater 57% of employees took programmes: held town and processes: and they want to employee engagement, part in our 2018 organisational halls with senior leaders and understand more about Pearsons drive innovation, support health survey OHS global conversations with our ability to innovate, and adapt to accessibility and inclusion efforts, CEO.
Our Innovation Jam and improve sharing of best Alumni network to connect generated ideas around how we practice across the company.
former, present and future can facilitate learning and design Pearson people.
Shareholders We engage with our investors Our shareholder base has a We have a positive, ongoing We have a broad range of on an ongoing basis.
We diverse range of views covering dialogue with our shareholder investors who entrust their communicate with them financial, environmental and base.
We aim to deliver capital with us.
regularly, including at our social issues.
long-term sustainable value financial results, our AGM for our investors and all our 625 investor meetings with and at investor meetings and company stakeholders.
344 institutions in 2018 Learners We regularly talk to and survey Learners have increasing We are matching this Pearson helps millions learners to understand how expectations over the value of expectation.
For example, we are of learners across the learning is evolving, observe their education.
They expect using predictive analytics to give world progress throughout changing demographics, experiences both inside and us early alerts to identify where their lives.
outside the classroom that are students are struggling much We put learner needs at the more rewarding, more engaging earlier in the process and 80% of students surveyed centre of what we do and work to and less time consuming.
Digital therefore can help to get say our products help them build world-class digital products is a normal, integral part of their them back on track quickly.
get more out of the class and services to deliver amazing day-to-day life and they expect experiences and improve digital education products to learning outcomes.
Educational institutions & educators We collaborate with educators on In a cost conscious environment, We aim to provide more engaging We work with teachers, thought leadership and product educators are focused on ways to connect educators with instructors and educators development in order to give the delivering high quality their students, accelerated across all stages next generation of learners the educational experiences that through the move to digital.
tools they need to be successful.
set their students on a course to This enables more timely a better career and life for them feedback on student progress 89% of educators and their families.
to help set them up for success.
surveyed said our products We also continue to listen and allow students to study observe how things are changing anywhere, anytime in the classroom to adapt to the next generation of learners.
Read more on our approach to stakeholder engagement in the Governance report, on p93 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 28 Value created for our stakeholders How we serve and engage Key concerns Our response Employers Through assessment Industry is looking for education We have listened hard to Pearson works with and qualifications, systems to help drive innovation, employers and are designing employers, trade micro-certification, online tackle the global skills gap and products that meet the needs associations and industry learning, and professional contribute to long-term of industry head on, whilst bodies to meet the demands badging, among other solutions, economic growth by ensuring providing learners with the skills of the workforce and equip we are supporting the efforts learners enter the world of work to succeed in the workforce.
learners with the skills they of industry to prepare workers better prepared to succeed in For example, in the UK our for the jobs of today and of their careers.
new generation BTEC offers need to progress and thrive.
career-focused pathways and a high-quality route into higher 62% of large UK companies education or employment.
recruited graduates with a BTEC CBI Skills Survey 2018 Governments & Regulators These standards will address Governments are looking for We are committed to building We partner with students needs, close skills effective approaches to better strong relationships with political governments local, state, gaps and meet the demands connect educational institutions and educational leaders.
We do federal, national to ensure of the workforce.
to employer needs, improving not make policy.
Instead, we students have access to student outcomes.
share best practices, inform the Governments and regulators and can become proficient policy-making process, and forge also set policy to ensure that both with world-class innovative partnerships aimed businesses and consumers are at increasing student access, learning standards.
provided with the most effective affordability, and success.
legislative frameworks that help 50 US States and a wide drive sustainable growth and range of global markets in ensure that learners have access which Pearson works with to affordable education and government stakeholders training opportunities.
Business partners We are focused on building We share similar goals and We build relationships with From technology providers successful business partnerships priorities with our business world-class partners and to suppliers, channel across the education partners from driving business suppliers for the benefit of all our partners to our authors, ecosystem to ensure joint transformation to developing stakeholders.
We believe that we have a broad range of success and growth.
world-class products: enhancing working with partners who share partners across our customer experience to ensuring our commitments not just to global business.
adherence to data privacy and best-in-class business practices information security processes: but also best practice and managing political and international standards for 25 key global suppliers regulatory risk to developing human rights and environmental who help us deliver on our talent and more.
We align stewardship strengthens our commitment to offering with our business partners and value chain and reduces our world-class business processes, expect them to share our values.
systems and technologies Communities We partner with organisations Our communities around the We are investing in important Educational opportunities working to improve education world are interested and areas of social innovation where and outcomes are closely for vulnerable, marginalised engaged in how we are using we can reach learners who need linked to the prosperity of groups, and those focused on our products, services and it most, such as through local communities and the impact of business on community investments to Tomorrows Markets Incubator global development.
reach the learners who need it and our partnership with Save We partner to deliver most and the steps we are taking the Children.
Read more on this 5.7m social programmes that strengthen to have a positive impact on in our sustainability section, p35.
contributions in 2018 global education systems.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our strategy in action 29 29 The best part of my job is working directly with learners.
LEAH JEWELL Embracing alternative pathways MD, CAREER DEVELOPMENT & I decided to pursue an alternative EMPLOYABILITY.
HOBOKEN, NJ certification pathway myself, recently completing the Entrepreneurship & I started at Pearson 31 years ago as a Innovation certificate programme at sales representative in higher education.
The flexible, Now, Im the Managing Director for Career self-paced programme worked for me, Development & Employability.
My team and helped me obtain knowledge and helps high school, college, and adult skills for my current role as well as learners prepare for their first job and a possible new jobs.
I will also use my lifetime of learning around the skills experience as a learner in that needed for the future.
environment to help us build out services and solutions at Pearson.
Career-driven learning At Pearson, we are helping people The best part of my job is working directly explore, understand, navigate, and with learners to help them navigate successfully complete lifelong learning multiple learning pathways, both and up-skilling regardless of their traditional and non-traditional, and to pathway.
Its what Im passionate build skills for future jobs.
When I was in about and what our employability school, a degree prepared you for a team does at Pearson.
lifetime career, but people born today will need continuous learning and training for what could amount to one hundred years in the workforce based on estimated life expectancy!
