Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 04 About Pearson We are the worlds learning company operating in 70 countries around the world with more than 24,000 employees, providing a range of products and services that help people make progress in their lives through learning.
Sales by geography Where we operate North America 2,784m We operate in 70 markets worldwide, with a focus on those below.
We report by geography because this is how we deliver Core markets 806m learning: providing a range of educational products and services Growth markets 539m to institutions, governments, professional bodies and individual learners in our key markets around the world to help people everywhere aim higher and fulfil their true potential.
North America Growth markets Our largest market including Our growth markets are emerging all 50 US states and Canada.
and developing economies with investment priorities in Brazil, India, South Africa, HispanoCore markets America, Hong Kong & China Our international business in and the Middle East.
established and mature education markets including the UK, Europe, APAC and North Africa.
Sales by products and services What we offer Courseware 49% We provide content, assessment and digital services to schools, colleges and universities, as well as professional and vocational Assessment 33% education to learners to help increase their skills and Services 18% employability prospects.
Increasingly, we do this through partnership models where we bring investment, expertise and scale to help deliver better learning outcomes.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 1 Overview 05 05 See our strategic priorities, p20 Our major businesses are focused on two key strategic priorities: Grow market share through digital Invest in structural growth markets 1 2 transformation Digitisation enables us to drive improvements in learning Fast growing areas that will be the long-term growth drivers outcomes.
It allows us to build a more sustainable and profitable of Pearson such as Online Program Management OPM, business with a more visible and predictable revenue Virtual Schools, Professional Certification and English profile, based around access not ownership models.
Higher Education Courseware Online Program Management Our course content and digital resources help Pearson helps higher education institutions educators gain better insights on their students launch or expand online degrees, enabling and unlock learners potential.
We increasingly them to increase enrolments, support online sell directly to consumers and to educational learning, boost graduation rates and deliver institutions enabling our business to become on employability.
The shift to digital means See case study, p6 students can come to class better prepared from day one.
This helps drive better learning experiences and outcomes.
See case study, p55 Virtual Schools Pearson delivers K12 online education to schools and students across the US and world.
Solutions include the accredited Connections Academy, an online school programme which US Assessment is delivered via full time, online public schools.
We partner with US educators and states to This is an option for families seeking develop new, personalised ways of learning personalised learning and a high-quality through effective, scalable assessments that alternative to the traditional classroom.
measure 21st century skills and inform A global online private school, International instruction for all learners.
Connections Academy, is also available.
See case study, p15 Professional Certification We help organisations measure and make improvements to ensure the success of employees and learners, helping support lifelong learning.
Test owners and test takers UK Assessment & Qualifications across the world choose us to help develop, In the UK, Pearson is a market leading manage, deliver and grow their computerorganisation offering academic and vocational based testing programmes.
With some of the qualifications including GCSEs, A Levels and industrys most secure testing environments, BTECs.
We are driving the adoption of AI in we are a leader in computer-based testing.
assessment to support better learning.
See case study, p52 English Pearson English language teaching develops courses, qualifications and learning tools to make teaching English easier.
Our fast-growing test, Pearson Test of English Academic, is a leading computer-based test of English for study abroad and immigration.
See case study, p42 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 06 I can work full time as a 19 year old.
I can get my experience way before a lot of my generation so thats been a great opportunity for me.
JORDAN DAVIS Pearson helps institutions expand Global Online Program Management MARYVILLE UNIVERSITY their educational reach through effective online program 234m management solutions.
By delivering Jordan Davis is a sophomore at Revenue online degree programs or extending Maryville University studying the reach of existing online programs, cybersecurity.
Like most of his 10% students like Jordan have the college-age peers, he also has a job.
Underlying revenue growth opportunity to excel at school It can be hard to balance schoolwork and at work.
Aligned to strategic priority, p22 2 Pearson currently supports more Since OPM courses are delivered than 40 academic partners and runs online, learners have the freedom and nearly 350 global programs with flexibility to learn when and where 400,000 course registrations in 2018, they need to, and faculty members to give learners more control over are able to engage students in courses their education and help them get a designed with rich content and robust better job and a better life.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 1 Overview 0 07 7
