Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 30 Efficacy Listening to educators Efficacy helps build trust We gathered feedback from educators and with learners, educators, thought leaders around the world about the 2018 reports.
While our commitment instructors and all our to efficacy was received positively, we were company stakeholders.
encouraged to find ways of ensuring that our reports supported changing teaching and learning practices when using digital products.
We are responding by focusing Pearsons mission is to help people make on exploring examples of implementation in progress in their lives through learning.
the research design and including guidance Thats why efficacy is core to what we do: about how the findings can be applied in the we are identifying the outcomes that matter MyPedia India Efficacy reporting materials.
In addition, we are most to learners and educators, designing working through multiple channels to engage Report Spotlight products based on evidence of what works in more, and more fruitful, conversations to improve those outcomes, measuring the MyPedia is a blended teaching and learning with educators about efficacy.
impact the use of our products can have on solution intended to help teachers improve learning, and continuously improving.
What we are doing next their pedagogy, assessment and digital skills, and to give learners a positive, In 2013, Pearson made a commitment to Releasing an efficacy report is just one step engaging experience that improves their begin reporting, by 2018, on the impact in the process of supporting educators skills and abilities.
of use of our products on outcomes for and learners to use our products to help In a study conducted with schools across learners.
We reached this major milestone improve outcomes that matter to them.
India, research shows that teachers using in April 2018, when we were the first In the last five years, efficacy at Pearson MyPedia change their classroom practices education company to release publicly has evolved from focusing primarily on over timefor the better.
audited and peer reviewed Efficacy efficacy reporting and implementing Averaged across classrooms, MyPedia Reports.
The reports help build a better outcomes-focused evidence-based product teaching quality ratings increased understanding of not just what works, design, development and ongoing product each quarter from 2017 to 2018 moving but how it works and in what context.
As part of this broader from does not meet standards to approach, we are helping make foundational Our commitment to efficacy is a continuing meets standards.
improvements across our content, our and ongoing process.
We are releasing The percentage of teachers whose assessments, our technology capabilities a further series of efficacy reports this year, average MyPedia teaching quality rating and how our products are implemented.
and will do so annually, staying true to indicated they were meeting standards our efficacy commitment.
We are also broadening the range of increased from 50% in the first and second quarters of 2017 to 67% in outcomes we are seeking to support.
The 2019 efficacy reports include the three the second quarter of 2018.
The 2018 Efficacy Reports focused on rigorous efficacy research studies that were course and exam achievement outcomes Teacher self-rated confidence in teaching completed across the company over the because these are some of the outcomes with MyPedia also increased each quarter last year and also cover one of our most between 2017 and 2018. that matter most to our customers and frequently used assessment products.
Going forward, drawing on insights 18% of teachers were rated very The reports highlight how those products from our customers and learners and from confident in the first and second are being used to support learners in their the Employment in 2030: Future of Skills quarters of 2017, whereas 27% were very learning journey.
confident in the second quarter of 2018. research we conducted with researchers from the Oxford Martin School and Nesta, This includes three product efficacy reports: These higher observed MyPedia teaching we are committed to both designing quality ratings are then associated with 1.
Revel Psychology in North America, products for, and evaluating impact on, a better end-of-year student test scores.
wider range of outcomes including skills 2.
MyPedia in India, and A one point increase in the MyPedia to support learners career readiness and teaching quality rating is related to a 3.
In the process 0.44 standard deviation increase helping meet the needs of industry and i. e. 17 percentile points in students As well as an assessment product: Pearson government in tackling the skills gap end-of-year test scores.
A one point increase in MyPedia teacher impact rating is related to a 0.71 standard Pearson remains committed to learning deviation increase i. e. 26 percentile and continuously improving our efficacy points in students end-of-year test scores.
work to help Pearson grow and help more learners, learn more throughout their lives.
DIGITAL CAPABILITIES Explore more: www.
com Real-time data analytics corporate .
html Virtual and augmented reality Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our strategy in action 31 31 Leading with outcomes Connecting our learning research We are increasingly taking a backwards design approach.
That is, we start with to Pearsons product design process the outcome we are trying to improve, then apply evidence from the learning sciences to the design and development to enhance impact on outcomes.
of the product, and then evaluate and report on the impact of product use on the outcome we are looking to improve.
We are working to apply insights from Our goal is to help more learners, learn DR KRISTEN DICERBO the learning sciences about how to teach more and in doing so help shape the VP, LEARNING RESEARCH & DESIGN and assess those skills consistently across future of learning.
our portfolio, and are designing and Research supporting design Ive been at Pearson for seven years.
developing capabilities for our products As the VP of Learning Research & Design, Efficacy & Research, once a standalone based on this evidence that can support I make sure were connecting our learning team and programme, has now become a learners to develop these uniquely research to the way we design products key capability in our global product human skills.
in order to impact the outcomes we want organisation.
Specialist capabilities in If we take collaboration skills as an to achieve.
outcomes-focused, evidence-based example, we know that having students product design and development and the Uniquely human skills do more group work does not measurement of impact on learning are In 2017 we embarked on an ambitious automatically improve these skills.
now integral parts of our research and piece of research with the Oxford Martin They need opportunities to practice development, innovation and product School and Nesta, to map the future of different roles within a group, and receive development process.
Our research shows that feedback.
We can also structure the uniquely human skills, such as complex kinds of collaboration activities so they thinking, and interpersonal capabilities move from simple skills like collective like collaboration and leadership, will be brainstorming to more advanced skills, increasingly important in the jobs of the like reaching consensus.
What makes us human is what will make us employable in the future.
