Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 16 Market trends Technology is changing expectations and increasing possibilities in education.
The rise of choice Gen-Z needs tech teachers Technology and access means playing a bigger role in their Young people believe in the everything more seamless, young people today have more own learning, whether it is value of education and efficient, accessible and choices than ever and expect choosing what they need to expect their learning intuitive.
Teachers have a it everywhere, even in how pass a course or where they experiences to mimic other vital role to play and now they learn.
While institutions obtain their learning or experiences in their lives that technology is enabling continue to influence and credentials from.
have been enabled by teachers to teach and reach drive learning, students are technology making students more effectively.
The Non-traditional career-driven paths to success learner Everything will be affected While traditional learners may A traditional education is not As the future of learning by the changing nature of continue to gravitate towards always in reach for an evolves, educators are work in the decades to come.
formal educational settings, increasingly diverse student preparing students for a How learners react to that, there will be a new crop of population, despite the world of work whether or however, is going to vary multi-generational, driven, inherent belief that one needs not they go to university.
based on context, personality, Career-Learners who will an education to be successful.
seek out flexible learning for Many young students struggle continued success in life.
in school or have other barriers to attending higher education, and believe that traditional university is not for them.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our strategy in action 17 17 AI and education AI as the solution We can take advantage I joined Pearson in 2018 as the SVP of Currently, I am working on developing of AI techniques to Artificial Intelligence AI Products and human-centric solutions this means Solutions.
In this role, I make sure we are making learning experiences better create more engaging taking advantage of advancements in for students and teachers: enabling Machine Learning or AI broadly lifelong learning through more accessible teaching and learning to create more engaging teaching and affordable products: and, building experiences.
better products and solutions using new technologies.
Pearsons digital transformation is helping MILENA MARINOVA more people develop the skills they need Many companies dont have a deep SVP, ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AI PRODUCT to prosper, and we are well positioned enough understanding of how to use & SOLUTIONS, SAN FRANCISCO, CA to engage with millions of learners AI to solve the biggest problems they across the world because of our reach have.
It is important to be really clear and expertise.
on the problem in order to identify the right approach.
In addition, the problem Education has the potential to benefit must determine which AI algorithms are hugely from digital disruption and used, not the other way around.
The opportunity to utilise AI to improve the learning At Pearson the problem we are trying experience, and ultimately to better to solve is clear: how to make learning prepare people for their career in the experiences better through products future, is an incredibly exciting prospect.
and services that deliver increased engagement and improved outcomes for more learners around the globe.
