Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 96 Audit Committee report Audit Committee role Committee Chair The Committee has been established by the Board primarily for the Tim Score purpose of overseeing the accounting, financial reporting, internal Members control and risk management processes of the Company and the audit of the financial statements of the Company.
As a Committee, Elizabeth Corley, Vivienne Cox, Linda Lorimer, Michael Lynton, we are responsible for assisting the Boards oversight of the quality Tim Score and Lincoln Wallen and integrity of the Companys external financial reporting and statements and the Companys accounting policies and practices.
Pearsons SVP Internal Audit, Risk and Compliance has a dual reporting line to the Chief Financial Officer and to me, and external auditors have direct access to the Committee to raise any matters Committee responsibilities include: of concern and to report on the results of work directed by the Committee.
As Audit Committee Chair, I report to the full Board at Reporting every Board meeting immediately following a Committee meeting.
The quality and integrity of financial reporting and statements and I also work closely with the Chief Financial Officer and senior related disclosure.
financial management outside the formal meeting schedule to ensure robust oversight and challenge in relation to financial Policy control and risk management.
Group policies, including accounting policies and practices.
Audit Committee composition External audit Following his appointment to the Board in February 2018, External audit, including the appointment, qualification, Michael Lynton was appointed to the Audit Committee in October independence and performance of the external auditor.
Michaels experience in leading complex global businesses Risk & internal control will complement the Committees existing skill set, and I look forward to working closely with him.
Following Michaels Compliance with legal and regulatory requirements in relation to appointment, the Committee comprises six independent financial reporting and accounting matters.
As a Committee, we have a good balance Compliance & governance of skills and knowledge with competence and experience covering all aspects of the sectors in which Pearson operates education, Compliance with legal and regulatory requirements in relation to digital and services and our key geographic markets.
financial reporting and accounting matters.
Terms of reference Fair, balanced and understandable reporting The Committee has written terms of reference which clearly set out We are mindful of the Codes provision C. 1.1 relating to fair, balanced its authority and duties.
These are reviewed annually and can be found and understandable reporting and we build sufficient time into on the Company website www.
our annual report timetable to ensure that the full Board receives sufficient opportunity to review, consider and comment on the Committee attendance report as it progresses.
Learn more about fair, balanced and Attendance by Directors at Audit Committee meetings throughout 2018: understandable reporting on p130 Meetings attended Elizabeth Corley 4 4 Risk assessment, assurance and integrity Vivienne Cox 4 4 A key role of the Committee is to provide oversight and reassurance Linda Lorimer 4 4 1 to the Board with regard to the integrity of the Companys financial Michael Lynton 1 1 reporting, internal control policies and procedures for the Tim Score 4 4 identification, assessment and reporting of risk.
During 2018, Lincoln Wallen 4 4 we conducted a number of deep dives into selected principal risks, 1 Appointed to the Audit Committee on 1 October 2018. and the key risks on which the Committee focused throughout the year are set out below.
Learn more about principal risks and uncertainties on p62 Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Accountability 97 97 Business transformation The primary area of focus for the Committee in 2018 was oversight of the implementation of finance and operations systems Ongoing business transformation is one of Pearsons key risks throughout a substantial part of our North American business.
and opportunities, and The Enabling Programme TEP is an In particular, the Committee considered the preparatory steps, important operational simplification project covering Pearsons progress on system integration and testing, and status of key key enterprise resource planning technology and processes, readiness milestones in advance of the implementation in May 2018. including financial, operations and HR systems and processes.
At its next meeting, the Committee reviewed certain operational The Committee received an update at each meeting from the challenges which had arisen following implementation, with a senior management team in charge of the transformation particular focus on customer experience, impact upon workforce programme, as well as from PwC who updated the Committee including customer services teams, and steps being taken to resolve on the work that the external auditors had conducted in respect any remaining issues in advance of the back-to-school season.
Lessons learned from this phase of the implementation were then discussed by the full Board at its next scheduled meeting.
Audit Committee meeting focus during 2018 Reporting Accounting and technical updates Review of interim results and trading updates Impact of legal claims and regulatory issues on financial reporting Form 20-F and related disclosures, including annual Sarbanes-Oxley Act section 404 attestation of financial reporting internal controls Fair, balanced and understandable, going concern and viability statements Significant issues reporting 2017 annual report and accounts: preliminary announcement, financial statements and income statement Policy Accounting matters and Group accounting policies Treasury policy and strategy Analysis supporting viability statement Tax strategy, including an update on EU state aid Annual review and approval of external auditors policy External audit Provision of non-audit services by PwC Confirmation of auditor independence Receipt of external auditors report on Form 20-F and year-end audit 2018 external audit plan Report on half-year procedures Remuneration and engagement letter of external auditors Reappointment of external auditors Review opinion on interim results Review of the effectiveness of external auditors Risk & internal control Internal audit activity reports and review of key findings Oversight of The Enabling Programme Enterprise risk management Risk deep dives: information and cyber-security: data privacy: treasury: anti-bribery and corruption ABC : tax: business resilience 2019 internal audit plan Oversight of the programme to develop the Global Learning Platform Travel and expenses controls Controls Centre of Excellence updates Assessment of the effectiveness of internal audit function, internal control environment and risk management systems ABC third party due diligence programme Compliance & governance Fraud, whistleblowing reports and compliance investigations Audit Committee, Verification Committee and internal audit function terms of reference Schedule of authorities Audit Committee evaluation Compliance with accounting and audit-related aspects of the UK Corporate Governance Code Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 98 Audit Committee report Enhancements to the UK systems were also made during the Anti-bribery and corruption ABC year, following on from lessons learned during the prior UK In a deep dive led by the VP of Global Compliance, the Committee implementation, and the Committee heard that this retrofit had considered the global anti-corruption landscape, including proceeded smoothly.
In addition to the continued finance and legislation and sanctions, and the continued strengthening of operations system implementation, a new global payroll system Pearsons Group-wide compliance and ABC framework.
was introduced in the UK with the rest of the world planned for 2019, During 2018, there was a particular focus on continued deployment of a new royalties, rights and permissions system in implementation of Pearsons third party due diligence programme the UK and North America markets commenced during the year, to ensure robust processes are in place aimed at vetting third and will continue in 2019, and the roll-out of a common HR system parties acting on Pearsons behalf in high-risk categories to reduce across Pearson was completed.
The Committee will continue to reputational, sanctions and ABC risk.
Building on a pilot project in monitor TEP progress at each meeting during 2019, including 2017, the Committee reviewed possible options for the next phase preparations for the next phase of implementation during the year of the programme, which would bring all new in-scope third parties to the remainder of the North America businesses.
Learn more into the due diligence process, ensure that any existing high-risk about business transformation and change on p63 third parties go through this process, and facilitate the necessary Data privacy checks for legacy contracts at the time of renewal.
The Committee A key area for the Committees focus throughout the year was agreed that the proposed process would appropriately balance the data privacy, including readiness for, and next steps following, risk profile of certain geographies and contracts with the needs of the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation the business and resources available.
In December 2018, the Committee considered the substantial In early 2018, the Committee considered the Groups data privacy progress made on the due diligence programme, noting that roadmap, with the Deputy General Counsel updating on Pearsons all of Pearsons global markets outside of UK, US and Western GDPR readiness.
Pearsons data privacy framework was viewed Europe had been covered, with over 3,400 third parties reviewed.
as solid in respect of governance, consent and processing Various types of remediation efforts occurred as a result of those arrangements, as well as ensuring vendor compliance at the efforts where necessary, from increased contractual controls to onboarding stage, supported by new procurement systems termination of a small number of relationships.
US, UK and Western and processes.
The Committee encouraged a robust approach Europe, as well as the VUE business, while large and complex and clear lines of accountability, with a particular focus on large markets, are inherently lower risk from an ABC perspective and and or high-risk vendors with existing or legacy contracts.
will be covered by the next phase of the programme during 2019.
At the Committees mid-year review, the Chief Privacy Officer During the year, the Committee also monitored the investigations described the actions which had been taken to address the programme conducted through Pearsons ethics hotline, supported remaining pre-GDPR implementation items.
the annual roll-out of Pearsons Code of Conduct from biannual, completion rates on mandatory code of conduct declarations At a separate deep dive, the Committee considered the broader 100% completion in 2018, supported improved procedures and global landscape on data privacy, noting that many jurisdictions associated training on gifts and hospitality reporting in US sales including in California and markets such as India and Brazil teams, and oversaw the strengthening of the tone from the top had recently implemented new data privacy laws, or would soon on ethics and compliance, led by the Chief Executive.
The Committee also received an update on the learnings from a recent internal review of the privacy programme, and considered planned next steps on Pearsons privacy roadmap as well as processes for incident response and notifiable events.
Members All of the Audit Committee members are independent having recent and relevant financial experience, and is Non-Executive Directors and have financial and or related an Associate Chartered Accountant.
He also serves as business experience due to the senior positions they hold or Audit Committee Chair for The British Land Company plc.
have held in other listed or publicly traded companies and or The qualifications and relevant experience of the other similar large organisations.
Tim Score, Chair of the Committee Committee members are detailed on p8081 since April 2015, is the Companys designated financial expert, Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Accountability 99 99 Additional meeting attendees Audit Committee meetings and activities In addition to the Committee members, advisers and executives At every meeting, the Committee considered reports on the from across the business also attended meetings during the year, activities of the internal audit and compliance functions, including as outlined in the table below.
This gives the Committee direct the results of internal audits, risk reviews, project assurance contact with key leadership.
The Chair and Chief Executive each reviews and fraud and whistleblowing reports.
The Committee also attend at least one meeting per year, and the Chief Executive monitored the Companys financial reporting and risk management also attends for discussion of matters with an operational focus.
procedures, reviewed the services provided by PwC and considered The Committee also meets regularly in private with the external any significant legal claims and regulatory issues in the context of auditors, SVP Internal Audit, Risk and Compliance, and VP their impact on financial reporting, each on a regular basis.
During the year, the Committee also discussed the finance and IT Attendees Meetings attended controls environment at each meeting, including Sarbanes-Oxley Chief Financial Officer 4 4 testing and scope, updates on prior year items, and the ongoing Deputy CFO 4 4 transformation of the Group-wide controls framework which was Legal Counsel 4 4 extended to a number of Core and Growth markets during 2018.
In addition to the risk deep dives described above, the Committee SVP Internal Audit, Risk and Compliance 4 4 also conducted deep dives into business resilience, treasury, SVP Finance, Group Reporting 4 4 tax and information security.
In February 2019, the Committee VP Internal Audit 3 4 considered the 2018 annual report and accounts, including the Committee Secretary 4 4 preliminary results announcement, financial statements, strategic report and Directors report.
Audit Committee training Learn more about the key activities of the Audit Committee The Committee receives technical updates at each meeting, on p97 including on matters such as accounting standards and the audit Internal audit evaluation and governance landscape, as well as specific or personal training as appropriate.
At its July meeting, the Committee considered the findings of the review of the performance and effectiveness of Pearsons Committee members also meet with local management on a internal audit function, a process which is undertaken annually.
periodic basis, such as when travelling for overseas Board meetings, This review was conducted by distributing a questionnaire to the in order to gain a better understanding of how Pearsons policies key stakeholders of the internal function including Committee are embedded in operations.
members, the lead external audit partner, members of the Pearson Executive, and senior financial, legal and operational management.
Committee evaluation The findings indicated an effective internal audit function, with In 2018, the Committee evaluation was conducted by way of a particular acknowledgement of the functions efforts in resolving a questionnaire which was distributed to key stakeholders including number of outstanding actions from previous internal audits, Committee members, the Chair of the Board, Chief Executive, which is an ongoing area of focus for the Committee.
Chief Financial Officer, the lead external audit partner, and senior A specific recommendation arising from the internal audit executives with regular exposure to the Committee.
evaluation was to consider whether there is an appropriate level The responses illustrated an effective Committee, which uses its of liaison between internal audit and the external auditors, in order time well and has an appropriate focus on the key issues.
No areas to utilise combined audit efforts effectively.
In response to a request of concern were identified, and the Committee will consider how from the Committee for more detail in this regard, an analysis of best to implement a small number of suggestions arising from the financial assurance coverage was undertaken, with inputs from process.
These suggestions included: internal audit and PwC.
The results of this analysis were considered by the Committee at its December 2018 meeting, and the Invite a wider range of business leaders to Committee meetings, Committee was satisfied that the level of combined financial enabling the leaders to engage in Board-level discussions, as well assurance was appropriate.
as facilitating a greater understanding of the Committees role in the wider business In order to continue to ensure a robust and effective internal audit function, the Committee will consider plans for an external quality As progress continues to be made with the implementation of review during 2019 to be facilitated by an independent third party.
TEP and transformation of Pearson, consider a review to confirm that Pearson has maximised the opportunity to strengthen the control environment and better manage risk.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 100 Audit Committee report Progress on findings of 2017 evaluation In considering the appropriate audit tender timetable for Pearson in light of these requirements, the Committee has also taken The responses to the 2017 evaluation, which was externally account of the significant business change being experienced facilitated, found an effective and well-functioning Audit Committee, by the Group and is monitoring the extent to which the Group is which uses its time well and has an appropriate focus on the drawing upon the services of other accounting firms.
One area highlighted was that succession for the role explained to shareholders, and as noted elsewhere within this of Audit Committee Chair should be borne in mind with future report, a series of programmes is well underway throughout Non-Executive Director appointments, although this was not Pearson to implement major simplification and efficiency considered to be immediately pressing.
improvements across all our enabling functions particularly technology, finance, HR to continue to bring the general and External audit administrative costs of running Pearson more in line with global best practice.
These include a major transformation programme Oversight of external auditors The Enabling Programme TEP which includes the The Committee reviews and makes recommendations to the Board implementation of new financial systems and changes to our in respect of the appointment and compensation of the external transaction processing and control activities, which launched in auditors.
This recommendation is made by the Committee after the UK during 2016, and is expected to be rolled out throughout considering the external auditors performance during the year, our businesses by 2021.
Pearson is supported in these changes, reviewing external auditor fees, conducting an effectiveness review such as in project assurance matters and, more broadly, and confirming the independence, objectivity, qualifications and by external advisers, including accounting firms.
experience of the external auditors.
Due to the status of TEP and the involvement of accounting firms The Committee reviewed the effectiveness and independence of advising on TEP and other change projects, the Committee is of the the external auditors during 2018, as it does every year, and remains opinion that the level of disruption likely with a change of auditor, satisfied that the auditors provide effective independent challenge as well as the focus required by finance and management teams to management.
to conduct the tender process thoroughly and effectively, may The external auditors review was conducted by distributing a unduly impact the Group and would not be in the best interests questionnaire to key audit stakeholders, including members of the of shareholders.
The rotation of the lead audit partner at the start of Audit Committee, Chief Financial Officer, Deputy CFO, SVP Internal 2018 has given us further confidence in the ongoing effectiveness, Audit, Risk and Compliance, SVP Finance for each business area independence and challenge brought by the external auditor.
and other heads of corporate functions.
Overall, responses to the As noted previously, it is the current expectation of the Committee questionnaire were positive, indicating an effective external audit that an audit tender process would commence in 2022 in order for process in a year of transition to the new lead audit partner.
the auditor selected as a result of the tender to be appointed for the The Committee will continue to review the performance of the financial year ending 31 December 2023.
It would be our intention external auditors on an annual basis and will consider their to look to accelerate this timing if feasible and appropriate following independence and objectivity, taking account of all appropriate the completion of TEP, and we would communicate any change in guidelines.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the our plans to shareholders in advance of any decision.
For the Committees choice of external auditors.
The external auditors reasons outlined above, the Committee considers this timing to be are required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the in the best interests of Pearsons shareholders and will continue to Pearson audit every five years and, accordingly, a new lead audit monitor this annually in light of the effectiveness and independence partner, Giles Hannam, rotated onto the Pearson audit from the of the current auditors, as well as considering whether the timing beginning of 2018. remains appropriate in light of business developments.
Audit tendering and rotation Once the next audit tender occurs, Pearson will adopt a policy of putting the audit contract out to tender at least every ten years, Pearsons last audit tender was in respect of the 1996 year end, as required.
The Committee will continue to pay close attention to and resulted in the appointment of Price Waterhouse as auditors.
developments in the audit landscape in response to the findings of Developments at an EU level regarding mandatory audit rotation the CMAs ongoing statutory audit services market study, and will for listed companies have changed the UK landscape on audit factor any resulting changes into its plans for audit tender once the tendering and rotation.
The Committee has reviewed the timetable CMAs recommendations are finalised.
for tendering and has taken into account relevant regulation and guidance.
EU regulations and the ruling by the Competition and Compliance with the CMA Order Markets Authority CMA impose mandatory tendering and Pearson confirms that it was in compliance with the provisions rotation requirements, with EU rules requiring a new auditor of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market to be appointed no later than for the 2024 financial year end.
Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 during the financial year ended 31 December 2018.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Accountability 1 10 01 1 Review of the external audit Their work in relation to the impact of new accounting standards, including the adoption of IFRS 9 and 15 from 1 January 2018 and During the year, the Committee discussed the planning, conduct IFRS 16 from 1 January 2019 and conclusions of the external audit as it proceeded.
Their work in relation to other matters which are not classified At its July 2018 meeting, the Committee discussed and approved the as key audit matters, but may give rise to additional disclosure external audit plan and reviewed the key risks of misstatement of requirements e. g. pensions.
The external auditors provided an update at the December 2018 Committee meeting, having The auditors also reported to the Committee the misstatements concluded that their analysis of significant and elevated risks that they had found in the course of their work, which were remained the same.
insignificant, and the Committee confirmed that there were no material items remaining unadjusted in these financial statements.
The table on p102103 sets out the significant issues considered by the Committee together with details of how these items have Auditors independence been addressed.
The Committee discussed these issues with the auditors at the time of their review of the half-year interim financial In line with best practice, our relationship with PwC is governed statements in July 2018 and again at the conclusion of their audit by our policy on external auditors, which is reviewed and approved of the financial statements for the full year in February 2019. annually by the Audit Committee.
The policy establishes procedures to ensure the auditors independence is not compromised, as well All the significant issues were also areas of focus for the auditors.
as defining those non-audit services that PwC may or may not Learn more in the Independent auditors report on p134141 provide to Pearson.
These allowable services are in accordance In December 2018, the Committee discussed with the auditors with relevant UK and US legislation.
the status of their work, focusing in particular on internal controls The Audit Committee approves all audit and non-audit services and Sarbanes-Oxley testing.
Our policy on the use of the external auditors for As the auditors concluded their audit, they explained to non-audit services reflects the restriction on the use of pre-approval the Committee: in the 2016 FRC Guidance on Audit Committees and, accordingly, all non-audit services, irrespective of value, are required to be The work they had conducted over revenue, including over approved by the Audit Committee.
In particular, we expressly more complex revenue contracts and judgements in relation prohibit the provision of certain tax, HR and other services by the to provisions for returns external auditor.
We review non-audit services on a case-by-case basis, including reviewing the ongoing effectiveness and Their work in evaluating managements goodwill impairment appropriateness of our policy.
exercise, on a fair value less costs to dispose basis, including assessing assumptions around sales and operating cash flow The Audit Committee receives regular reports summarising the forecasts, long-term growth rates and discount rates amount of fees paid to the auditors.
During 2018, Pearson spent 0.4m less on non-audit fees with PwC compared with 2017, The work performed over the nature and presentation of due to a reduction in billing on controls assurance services.
For 2018, non-trading items, including new property provisions recorded in non-audit fees represented 17% of external audit fees 23% in 2017.
2018, focusing on subjective judgements and the transparency with which related adjusted measures are presented For all non-audit work in 2018, PwC was selected only after consideration that it was best able to provide the services we The work they had done to audit the provisioning levels required at a reasonable fee and within the terms of our policy on in respect of potential tax exposures and uncertain tax external auditors.
Where PwC is selected to provide audit-related positions including the release of brought forward provisions services, we take into account its existing knowledge and experience and related disclosures of Pearson.
Where appropriate, services were tendered prior to a Their evaluation of the recoverability of investments in digital decision being made as to whether to award work to the auditors.
platforms and pre-publication assets Significant non-audit work performed by PwC during 2018 included: Their work over the assessment of the US K12 Courseware Audit-related work in relation to disposal transactions business meeting the criteria to be held for sale at 31 December 2018 and completed disposals including WSE, UTEL and Audit of Pearsons efficacy programme One Southwark Bridge Half-year review of interim financial statements.
The results of their controls testing for Sarbanes-Oxley Act section 404 reporting purposes and in support of their financial A full statement of the fees for audit and non-audit services is statements audit provided in note 4 to the financial statements on p167.
The results of their work over the Companys going concern and viability statement reports Their work over finance transformation related to the TEP Tim Score implementation at US Higher Education and the UK retrofit Chair of Audit Committee Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 102 Audit Committee report Significant issues considered by the Audit Committee Issue Action taken by Audit Committee Outcome Impairment reviews Pearson carries significant goodwill The Committee considered the results of the Groups annual Annual impairment review finalised and other intangible asset balances.
goodwill impairment review and the key assumptions which with confirmation of sufficient There is judgement exercised in the are considered to be the cash flows derived from strategic headroom in each of the CGUs.
identification of cash-generating units and operating plans, long-term growth rates and the weighted CGUs and the process of allocating average cost of capital.
The Committee considered the goodwill to CGUs and aggregate CGUs sensitivities to changes in assumptions and the related and in the assumptions underlying the disclosures required by IAS 36 Impairment of Assets in relation impairment review.
In 2015 and 2016, to the Groups CGUs noting that they remain sensitive to Pearson made significant impairments assumption changes after a number of impairments to goodwill across a variety of in recent years.
There were no impairments recorded in 2017 or 2018.
Leases and IFRS 16 Pearson will adopt IFRS 16 in respect of The Committee monitored progress on the IFRS 16 lease The Committee reviewed and its lease portfolio in 2019.
The Group conversion process, reviewed the transition options taken and approved the transition options has a significant number of property the quantification of the impact including sensitivities relating taken, discount rates applied and leases and a number of other low to the selection of appropriate discount rates.
The impact of disclosures made.
value vehicle and equipment leases.
the change was also considered in the light of banking The implementation of the standard arrangements and strategic plans.
will result in the recognition, on the balance sheet, of right of use assets in respect of these leases and corresponding lease liabilities.
Revenue recognition and IFRS 15 Pearson has a number of revenue The Committee regularly reviews revenue recognition practices Assumptions underlying revenue streams where revenue recognition and the underlying assumptions and estimates.
In addition, recognition were reviewed and practices are complex and the Committee has visibility of internal audit findings relating challenged and considered to be management assumptions and to revenue recognition controls and processes and routinely appropriate.
Quantification and estimates are necessary.
The Group monitors the views of external auditors on revenue recognition disclosures relating to IFRS 15 also adopted IFRS 15 Revenue issues.
During the year, the Committee continued to monitor the were reviewed and also agreed from Contracts with Customers implementation of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with as appropriate.
The Committee noted the changes to revenue streams and the quantification of the impact on the opening balance sheet and reviewed disclosures made in the Groups interim and year-end reporting.
Financial instruments Pearson adopted IFRS 9 Financial The Committee reviewed the impact of the transition to IFRS 9 and Adjustments relating to IFRS 9 were Instruments in 2018. noted the Groups new approach to hedge accounting, investment reviewed and disclosure of impact in valuation and impairment.
The Committee reviewed the impact on 2018 was considered appropriate.
the opening balance sheet and in particular the impact on bad debt provisions and noted that these had been relatively small.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Accountability 1 10 03 3 Issue Action taken by Audit Committee Outcome Disposal transactions The Group sold its English language The Committee reviewed the accounting for the disposals of The Committee determined that teaching business in China, Wall WSE and UTEL and the rationale for held for sale treatment in disposal accounting had been correctly Street English WSE and its equity respect of the US K12 Courseware business.
recorded and that the criteria for held interest in UTEL, the online University for sale treatment in respect of the US partnership in Mexico, and continued K12 Courseware business had been to consider offers for its US K12 met as at 31 December 2018 following Courseware business.
continued interest from a number of bidders.
Pension valuations Pearsons UK Pension Plan includes The Committee considered the recent High Court decision about The Committee agreed the a large defined benefit section.
GMP equalisation noting that the new ruling impacted most quantification and appropriate The valuation of this plan under companies and might result in adverse cost and liability accounting treatment in respect IAS 19 Employee Benefits requires implications.
The Committee reviewed the impact in the light of the additional liabilities significant judgement.
In particular, of other companies responses to the new development and arising from clarification of in 2018, the UK Pension Plan with detailed technical accounting and actuarial guidance.
considered the impact of the clarification of pension law in respect of Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP equalisation.
Restructuring Pearson announced a new The Committee reviewed progress on the restructuring The Committee confirmed that the restructuring programme in May 2017 programme and considered the judgements required in accounting and disclosure for the to run from 2017 until 2019.
There are accounting for the costs of redundancy, asset impairment and restructuring programme were a number of accounting judgements property rationalisation mainly in respect of the Groups North appropriate and that assumptions to be made regarding categorisation America operations and enabling functions.
In particular, in 2018, underlying onerous lease provisions and timing of recognition of cost.
the Committee reviewed property disposal transactions and were in accordance with the Groups the assumptions underlying onerous lease provisions crystallised property strategy.
by the rationalisation of the Companys property portfolio.
Tax The impact of tax legislation changes The Committee was updated on the details of US tax reform The Committee was satisfied with including US tax reform, EU state during the year, including internal refinancing of the groups Pearsons approach to managing the aid and the trend for increased tax US operations.
In September, the outcome of this combined impact of tax legislation changes and transparency, and provision levels.
with provision releases resulted in a significant reduction in the agreed with the views of management 2018 adjusted tax rate, which was reported to the Board.
The Committee reviewed the classification of these credits.
The chair of the Committee approved the second report on tax strategy issued in October 2018 prior to publication.
Returns The determination of appropriate The Committee considered returns provisioning for the Assumptions underlying the returns provisions for product returns US Higher Education courseware business and reviewed the reserve methodology were reviewed and agreed as still being appropriate requires a significant amount of methodology for establishing provisions.
in the light of actual returns noted judgement and in the light of recent in 2018. volatility in returns in the US Higher Education courseware business, the Committee continued to review returns data and our policy on providing for returns.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 104 Risk governance and control The internal audit team provides independent assurance on Control environment the adequacy of the risk management arrangements in place.
The Board has overall responsibility for Pearsons systems of The internal audit plan is aligned to identified enterprise-wide internal control and risk management, which are designed to risks and it presents issues and risks arising from internal audits manage, and where possible mitigate, the risks facing Pearson, at each Audit Committee meeting.
safeguard assets and provide reasonable, but not absolute, The involvement of the Board and Audit Committee in the design, assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
implementation, identification, monitoring and review of risks The Board confirms that it has conducted a review of the including setting risk appetite and reviewing how risk is being effectiveness of Pearsons systems of risk management and internal embedded in our culture is outlined in more detail in the risk control in accordance with provision C. 2.3 of the Code and the FRC management section on p6076.
Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting FRC Guidance.
The Board confirms these systems operated satisfactorily throughout the Financial management and reporting year and to the date of this report, and no significant failings or There is a comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting and weaknesses were identified in the review process.
forecasting system with an annual operating plan approved by The Board has delegated responsibility for monitoring the the Board.
Monthly financial information, including trading results, effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal balance sheets, cash flow statements, capital expenditures and control systems to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee indebtedness, is reported against the corresponding figures for oversees a risk-based internal audit programme, including periodic the plan and prior years, with corrective action outlined by the audits of the risk processes across the organisation.
It provides appropriate Senior Executive.
Pearsons senior management meets assurance on the management of risk including risk deep dives, regularly with business area management to review their business as described on p96, and receives reports on the efficiency and and financial performance against plan and forecast.
Major risks effectiveness of internal controls.
Each business area maintains relevant to each business area as well as performance against internal controls and procedures appropriate to its structure, the stated financial and strategic objectives are reviewed in business environment and risk assessment, while complying these meetings.
with Company-wide policies, standards and guidelines.
There is an ongoing process to monitor the risks and effectiveness of controls in relation to the financial reporting and consolidation Internal control and risk management process, including the related information systems.
This includes up-to-date Pearson financial policies, formal requirements for Our internal controls and risk oversight are monitored and finance to certify that they have been in compliance with policies continually improved to ensure their compliance with FRC and that the control environment has been maintained throughout Guidance.
Our risk framework, outlining improvements made the year, consolidation reviews and analysis of material variances, in 2018, is described more thoroughly in the risk management finance technical reviews, and review and sign-off by senior finance section on p6076.
The Group finance function also monitors and assesses The Board is ultimately accountable for effective risk management these processes and controls through finance and technology in Pearson and determines our strategic approach to risk.
compliance functions and a Controls Steering Committee It confirms our enterprise risk management ERM framework comprising cross-functional experts.
as well as our enterprise risk appetite targets.
Twice yearly it These controls include those over external financial reporting which receives and reviews reports on the status of top enterprise-wide are documented and tested in accordance with the applicable risks.
It is supported in the following ways: regulatory requirements, including section 404 of the SarbanesThe Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing internal controls Oxley Act, which is relevant to our US listing.
One key control in this within Pearson which includes determining the risk appetite area is the Verification Committee, which submits reports to the recommended by Pearson Executive management, reviewing Audit Committee.
This Committee is chaired by the SVP Internal and commenting upon key risks and ensuring that risk Audit, Risk and Compliance, and members include the Chief management is effective Financial Officer and or their deputy, the Deputy General Counsel, SVP Investor Relations and the Company Secretary as well as senior Pearsons Executive and leadership teams are responsible for members of financial management.
The primary responsibility of identifying and mitigating principal risks this Committee is to review Pearsons public reporting and Leaders and managers at all levels in Pearson are responsible disclosures to ensure that information provided to shareholders is for managing risk in their area of responsibility, including the complete, accurate and compliant with all applicable legislation identification, assessment and treatment of risk and listing regulations.
In addition, our separate Market Disclosure Committee is responsible for considering potential inside The Internal Audit, Compliance and Risk team owns the overall information and its treatment in accordance with the EU Market risk management framework for the Company and facilitates Abuse Regulation.
The effectiveness of key financial controls is consolidated reporting on risk subject to management review and self-certification and independent evaluation by the external auditors.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Accountability 1 10 05 5 Internal audit Treasury management The internal audit function is responsible for providing independent The treasury department operates within policies approved by assurance to management and the Audit Committee on the design the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board, and treasury and effectiveness of internal controls to mitigate strategic, financial, transactions and procedures are subject to regular internal audit.
The SVP Internal Audit, Risk and Major transactions are authorised outside the department at the Compliance reports formally to the Chair of the Audit Committee requisite level, and there is an appropriate segregation of duties.
and the Chief Financial Officer, with a reporting line to the General Frequent reports are made to the Chief Financial Officer and regular Counsel on compliance matters.
The VP Internal Audit, responsible reports are prepared for the Audit Committee and the Board.
for the day-to-day operations of internal audit and execution of the The treasury policy is described in more detail in note 19 to the annual audit plan, also reports formally to the Chair of the Audit financial statements.
Committee and the SVP Internal Audit, Risk and Compliance.
Insurance The internal audit mandate and plan are approved annually by the Audit Committee.
Completion and changes to the plan are also Pearson reviews its risk financing options regularly to determine reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee throughout the how the Companys insurable risk exposures are managed and year.
The internal audit plan is aligned to our greatest areas of risk as protected.
Pearson purchases comprehensive insurance cover identified by the ERM process, and the Audit Committee considers and annually reviews coverage, insurers and premium spend, issues and risks arising from internal audits.
Management action ensuring the programme is fit for purpose and cost-effective.
plans to improve internal controls and to mitigate risks, or both, are Pearsons insurance subsidiary, Spear Insurance Company Limited, agreed with the business area after each audit.
Formal management is used to leverage Pearsons risk retention capability and to achieve self-assessments allow internal audit to monitor business areas a balance between retaining insurance risk and transferring it to progress in implementing management action plans agreed as part external insurers.
of internal audits to resolve any control deficiencies.
Progress of management action plans is reported to the Audit Committee at each meeting.
Internal audit has a formal collaboration process in place with the external auditors to ensure efficient coverage of internal controls.
Regular reports on the findings and emerging themes identified through internal audits are provided to Executive management and, via the Audit Committee, to the Board.
The SVP Internal Audit, Risk and Compliance oversees compliance with our Code of Conduct and works with senior legal and HR personnel to investigate any reported incidents, including ethical, corruption and fraud allegations.
The Audit Committee is provided with an update of all significant matters received through our whistleblowing reporting system, together with an annual review of the effectiveness of this system.
The Pearson anti-bribery and corruption programme provides the framework to support our compliance with various anti-bribery and corruption regulations such as the UK Bribery Act 2010 and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
