Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 08 Chairs introduction 2018 has been a pivotal year for Pearson as we returned to underlying profit growth and laid a firm foundation for further progress in 2019.
Sidney Taurel Chair A key tenet of our strategy has been the Dear Shareholders, Focusing on Pearsons steady investment in the business to longer-term future 2018 has been a pivotal year for Pearson.
This is The pace of our strategic delivery over the As the Board has become more confident an area the Board has fully supported and, past year has been strong, improving both in progress on implementation against in 2018, the business made good progress our operational and financial performance Pearsons three immediate strategic as it lays plans to develop a digital first as we returned to underlying adjusted goals, it has focused even more on the approach built around artificial intelligence operating profit growth for the first time companys longer-term future, evaluating and data analytics a digitally-enabled since 2014.
This marks an important and planning our long-term strategy, to ensure offering that will deliver value to customers milestone for us, with the business meeting we continue to evolve and meet our faster, while at the same time ensuring strategic expectations and hitting its strategic vision of delivering lifelong better outcomes.
This will be crucial to financial targets.
learning to customers, leading to increased our future competitiveness as well as our employability and work-related skills, ability to retain and attract the best and While we are still in the midst of a as part of a wider ecosystem of delivery brightest talent to support our transition transformation and the environment partners and stakeholders.
in a key business, US Higher Education Courseware, remains challenging, As we now look ahead, we expect to build on We are continuing to invest in structural a strong performance in our structural our performance in 2018 and deliver further growth markets that promote lifelong growth opportunities in 2018 largely profit growth in 2019 and for revenue to learning, delivering good growth across offset the declines we saw in this market.
We remain confident about Pearsons each of these four businesses Professional Furthermore, we continued to make good longer-term prospects and on building Certification, Virtual Schools, Online progress with our digital transformation shareholder value through the delivery of Program Management OPM and English increasing digital and digitally-enabled profitable growth and strong cash generation, language learning and assessment.
while continuing to invest for the future.
Our simplification programme, which we I do not underestimate the scale of the embarked upon in 2017, is performing transformation we are undertaking but Focused on shareholder returns ahead of plan as we strive to make Pearson believe we delivered real and sustainable an efficient and more focused business.
As Chair it is my job to protect and grow momentum in 2018.
Management continues During 2018, we increased and accelerated shareholder value through the prudent to faithfully execute on our strategy, further our cost savings and now expect to deliver allocation of capital.
simplifying the company, growing our digital total annualised cost savings in excess of capabilities and investing in structurally Pearsons capital allocation policy remains 330m by the end of 2019.
This is ahead of growing businesses.
Our near-term unchanged: to maintain a strong balance our original plan of 300m of savings.
prospects look increasingly bright and the sheet and a solid investment grade rating, We also continued the process of simplifying long-term opportunities remain significant.
to continue to invest in the business, the portfolio in 2018, to enable us to focus to have a sustainable and progressive on the biggest opportunities in education.
dividend policy, and to return surplus Making progress implementing our We completed the disposal of Wall Street cash to our shareholders where appropriate.
short-to-medium-term strategy English and our stake in Mexican joint In recent years, we have navigated through venture, UTEL, in the first half of the year.
As a Board, in 2018 we spent considerable a period of significant change both within The proceeds of these sales helped time monitoring our progress on Pearson and across the industry as a whole.
strengthen our balance sheet further and implementation against Pearsons three Tight financial and cash management and improve our cash position.
We have recently immediate strategic goals growing market oversight of the business means that, while announced the disposal of our US K12 share through our digital transformation, there is still much to be done, we are now in Courseware business, which is a further investing in structural growth markets, a significantly stronger financial position milestone in our simplification journey.
and becoming a simpler, more efficient than we have been for several years.
This and more sustainable business.
You can read more about these financial strength underpins our business accomplishments in the Chief Executives transformation and continuing investment overview that follows.
1 Excluding WSE and US K12 Courseware.
Underlying growth rates exclude currency movement portfolio changes and accounting changes.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 1 Overview 09 09 One year and three year TSR % change Progress over the last three years One year Three year 2016 2017 2018 30.37 Pearson 47.15 1 Adjusted earnings per share 58.8p 54.1p 70.3p -8.73 FTSE 100 21.66 Dividend per share 52p 17p 18.5p -9.47 FTSE All-Share 19.54 3.39 Net debt 1,092m 432m 143m FTSE All-Share Media 11.78 -1.29 STOXX 600 Media -5.38 In terms of the dividend, when we made learners, community and thought leaders, We saw two changes to the Board over the hard decision to cut the dividend in and other stakeholders in a variety of ways the course of 2018.
In February 2018 2017, we said that we would reset it to be throughout the year.
Michael Lynton joined us as a Non-Executive sustainable and progressive going forward.
Meanwhile we said goodbye During the year my fellow Board members We have proposed a final 2018 dividend of to Harish Manwani, a Non-Executive and I visited some of our offices across the 13p, an increase of 8%, equating to a full Director of Pearson since 2013, who retired Pearson network including in Milan, Italy year dividend of 18.5p per share.
This from the Board at the AGM in May.
I thank and Cape Town, South Africa, to meet and reflects the Boards continued confidence Harish for his commitment and contribution engage with employees and other in the future growth of the business.
stakeholders, and hold meetings to share We also completed a 300m share buyback learnings around some of the exciting Looking ahead in February 2018, following our disposal opportunities coming out of our Core of a 22% stake in Penguin Random House and Growth markets for example fast We will continue to transform the business in October 2017. growing products such as the Pearson through moving our US Higher Education Test of English Academic.
Courseware business into a more digital and I am pleased to report that our UK pension direct to consumer business, and continue Plan is in surplus, with a well-run Plan for This continues to be a focus for us in the to invest in and develop our long-term the benefit of all its members.
Through the Plan purchased a further insurance our simplification programme we will buy-in policy with Legal & General, Talent emerge a simpler, more efficient and amounting to c. 500m, putting the Plan agile company with a cost base that is I would like to thank all colleagues in the in an even stronger position and further considered optimal for the size and scale business for their efforts in achieving a reducing our future pension funding risk, of the business.
Our people are key to the at no additional cost to Pearson.
future of Pearson and as a Board we are Pearson has proved resilient, we have laid The continued stabilisation of the business, increasingly focused on ensuring we have solid foundations for growth and the Board combined with disciplined capital a corporate culture that is inclusive, is confident that the management team management, helped Pearson to become innovative and meritocratic.
continues to execute faithfully on the one of the top five FTSE 100 companies in strategy as we look to deliver another My fellow Board members and I are 2018 for shareholder returns.
good performance in the year ahead.
delighted to be able to help support our talent pipeline through the introduction Ongoing focus on We remain confident about Pearsons of a new mentoring programme.
You can longer-term prospects and on building corporate governance read more about our employee engagement shareholder value through the delivery and talent initiatives in the Governance Corporate governance remains an of profitable growth and strong cash section which begins on p77.
important area of focus for the Board and generation, while continuing to invest for I enjoyed spending time throughout the year the future.
with many of our shareholders to ensure Board composition I look forward to seeing you in the we maintained an open, transparent Our Board benefits from having a wide coming year and thank you for your dialogue on our strategy and progress.
range of experience, skills and backgrounds ongoing support.
More broadly, our Board members have spanning business strategy, innovation, been engaging with employees, educators, education, digital & technology, sustainability, international, regulatory affairs and more.
Governance at Pearson Sidney Taurel For more information on corporate Chair governance visit www.
