Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 106 Reputation & Responsibility Committee report Reputation & Responsibility Committee role Committee Chair The Committee forms an important part of the Boards governance Linda Lorimer structure.
It works to advance and assess Pearsons reputation Members across the range of its stakeholders and to maximise the Companys positive impact on society and the communities where we work Vivienne Cox, Linda Lorimer, Michael Lynton and Lincoln Wallen and serve.
The Committees agenda includes issues and initiatives relating to the Companys reputation and its civic responsibilities.
These include those matters that are material to Pearsons stakeholders and the Companys long-term sustainability, as well as review of incidents that could adversely affect the Companys reputation.
Committee responsibilities include: We promote Pearsons 2020 sustainability plan and assess the progress in advancing its tenets.
The Committee works in alignment Reputation with the Companys Responsible Business Leadership Council Pearsons reputation among major stakeholders, including which comprises senior leaders from across the business.
governments, investors, employees, customers, learners and Read more about our 2020 sustainability plan on p3240 the education community.
Risk Changes to the Committee Oversight of Pearsons approach to reputational risk, including Harish Manwani stepped down from the Committee in May 2018, ensuring that clear roles have been assigned for management.
upon his retirement from the Pearson Board, and I would like to thank him warmly for his service.
Michael Lynton, who joined the Sustainability Board in February 2018, was appointed to the Reputation & Oversight of 2020 sustainability plan and performance against Responsibility Committee on 1 October 2018.
Michael brings sustainability goals and commitments.
valuable experience in leading businesses through times of digital disruption, and I look forward to working closely with him Brand & culture on the Committee.
Management of the Pearson brand to ensure that its value and reputation are maintained and enhanced.
Pearsons approach to monitoring and supporting the values and desired behaviours that Areas of focus during 2018 form our corporate culture.
The Committee conducts in-depth reviews of issues identified as important to the sustainability of our business.
These key Ethics sustainability issues, which are monitored by the Committee and Ethical business standards, including Pearsons approach to issues discussed either by the Board or one of its Committees, include: relevant to its reputation as a responsible corporate citizen.
Competitiveness of digital products Strategy 2.
Data privacy and information security Strategies, policies and communication plans related to reputation and responsibility issues and the people and processes that are in 3.
Security, health and safety place to manage, anticipate and adapt to them.
Corporate governance Terms of reference 5.
Economic empowerment The Committee has written terms of reference which clearly set out its 6.
Access to education authority and duties.
These are reviewed annually and can be found on the Company website www.
Affordability of products services Committee attendance 8.
21st-century skills Attendance by Directors at Reputation & Responsibility Committee 9.
Greenhouse gas emissions and climate change.
meetings throughout 2018: Meetings attended The Committee has an integral role in the oversight of these issues, Vivienne Cox 3 3 in particular considering the public goals the Company is setting to address these issues, and examining their associated Linda Lorimer 3 3 reputational impacts.
1 Michael Lynton 1 1 2 Harish Manwani 1 1 Lincoln Wallen 3 3 1 Appointed to the Committee on 1 October 2018.
2 Stepped down from the Committee on 4 May 2018.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Engagement 1 10 07 7 During 2018, the Committee reviewed proposed public Committee aims for 2019 statements on human rights and modern slavery, as well as Over the next year, we will take the lead on behalf of the Board in considering Pearsons broader human rights strategy, both of addressing the stakeholder engagement requirements under the which are important to Pearsons values and delivery of its new UK Corporate Governance Code.
We will continue to explore 2020 sustainability plan.
Pearsons material sustainability issues, monitor progress on During the year, we also examined progress on supplier partnership supply chain responsibility, engage in the development of our and engagement, in particular studying supply chain risks and next sustainability plan and, with the help of our new Chief reviewing the work to build strong relationships with our top Corporate Affairs Officer, Deirdre Latour, we will review progress suppliers.
The Committee also took the opportunity to review how on brand strategy.
Pearsons 2018 efficacy reports were received, and we discussed future plans for both reporting and continued integration of efficacy findings into our product development cycle.
Read more about efficacy on p30 Linda Lorimer Chair of Reputation & Responsibility Committee In our report to shareholders last year, we noted that, as a Committee, we would continue to monitor the Pearson culture.
However, due to the importance of these topics, particularly during times of Company-wide change, it has been agreed that culture and organisational health will now form part of the remit of the Reputation & Responsibility Committee full Board.
This is also in line with the increased emphasis on meeting focus during 2018 such matters in the new UK Corporate Governance Code which asks boards as a whole to monitor and set the tone on culture and engagement.
Reputation Supplier partnership and engagement Committee evaluation Issues and incidents reports In 2018, the Committee evaluation was conducted by way of a Project Literacy questionnaire which was distributed to key stakeholders including Committee members, the Chief Executive, and senior executives Risk with regular exposure to the Committee.
The key findings were: Safeguarding The Committee has continued its journey towards maturity, with Health and safety increasing focus on strategically material issues A recommendation to introduce private sessions as part of each Sustainability meeting, in common with Audit and Remuneration Committees, Sustainability report highlights and 2030 plan to enable Committee members to discuss and agree on key issues Education for sustainable development to take forward with management Climate and environmental strategy Recognition that the addition of a fourth meeting to the annual Greenhouse gas emissions calendar will allow greater coverage of issues.
Brand & culture Progress on findings of 2017 evaluation The responses to the 2017 evaluation, which was externally Brand and insights update facilitated, highlighted that the Committee was very engaged and Efficacy update and future plans worked collaboratively and that its agendas were increasingly aligned with the strategic objectives of the Company.
The evaluation Ethics suggested that there might have been some overlap with the work Human rights review implementation strategy of the Audit Committee.
As a result, efficacy, health and safety and Modern Slavery Act statement safeguarding now sit within the remit of this Committee rather than being shared with the Audit Committee, and we considered each of Strategy these topics during 2018.
Social innovation The Committees agendas have been adjusted to allow deeper dives into issues of consequence, and we have introduced a regular Governance verbal update at the start of each meeting on recent incidents that may have reputational impact.
Committee terms of reference Committee effectiveness evaluation Stakeholder engagement UK Corporate Governance Code requirements Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 108 Engagement The Non-Executive Directors meet informally with shareholders Engaging with shareholders both before and after the AGM and respond to shareholder queries Access to capital is key to the long-term performance of our and requests as necessary.
The Chair ensures that the Board is business.
We work to ensure that our investors, analysts and kept informed of investors and advisers views on strategy and other investment professionals have a good understanding of corporate governance.
At each Board meeting, the Directors our strategy, performance and purpose.
consider commentary from advisers on major shareholders positions and Pearsons share price.
In addition, the Nomination & Pearson has an extensive programme of communication with Governance and Remuneration Committees consider shareholder all of its shareholders large and small, institutional and private.
views on corporate governance and remuneration matters, Shareholder outreach In 2018, we continued with our respectively, as required.
shareholder outreach programme, conducting over 600 meetings Private investors Institutional investors holdings in Pearson account in the UK, US, Canada and Continental Europe with over for around 90% of total shares outstanding, but private investors 340 investment institutions.
represent over 91% of the shareholders on our register and we make Trading updates There are five trading updates each year including a concerted effort to engage with them regularly.
Shareholders the preliminary and interim results which are presented by the who cannot attend the AGM are invited to e-mail questions to the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
They also attend Chair in advance at chairman-agm@pearson.
com regular meetings throughout the year with investors in the UK We encourage our private shareholders to become more informed and around the world, tailored to investor requirements, to discuss investors and have provided a wealth of information on our website the performance of the Company, the Companys strategy, our about managing Pearson shareholdings.
We also encourage all change programme, structural and cyclical changes in our shareholders, who have not already done so, to register their markets, and risks and opportunities for the future.
e-mail addresses through our website and with our registrar.
The investor relations team Led by Joanne Russell, SVP Investor & This enables them to receive e-mail alerts when trading updates Media Relations, the Investor Relations team met with investors and other important announcements are added to our website.
throughout the year, including attending several investor See Shareholder information on p229 or visit our website: www.
conferences, and addressed regular investor and analyst enquiries.
Chair and Non-Executive Directors The Chair meets regularly Annual General Meeting Our AGM, on 26 April 2019, is an with shareholders to understand any issues and concerns they opportunity for all shareholders to meet the Board and to hear may have.
This is in accordance with the Code and consistent presentations about Pearsons businesses and results.
with the duties of investors under the UK Stewardship Code.
Rapid prototyping What is rapid prototyping?
Rapid prototyping is a technique used to develop a quality product, process or outcome through quick experimentation and iteration.
The ultimate goal of rapid prototyping is to speed up the rate of learning in an organisation.
When used well, rapid prototyping will improve the quality of designs and reduce the risk of building something that will go unused.
Innovation and engagement Pearson first introduced this technique to the senior leaders at the Pearson Leadership Summit in Berkeley, California in early 2018 to encourage agility and a culture of innovation.
The Board thought it was an excellent experience to illustrate Building on the success of this experience, the Board and the power of this new way of working and model it for the rest Pearson Executive joined a group of school-age learners during of the organisation and found the interaction with students the Boards visit to Cape Town to engage in a rapid prototyping enjoyable and insightful.
Read more about the Boards meeting session with the goal of designing a hypothetical example of a in Cape Town on p85.
digital solution for use in the schools market.
By the final day of the Cape Town meeting, the Board and Pearson Executive were able to review the results of the session including a live demonstration of the application which had been developed in-house from the groups prototyping conversations.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Engagement 1 10 09 9 Engagement in action Industry & marketplace The Chair, Sidney Taurel, and Non-Executive Director, Lincoln Wallen, attended the Pearson Leadership Summit in Berkeley, California.
This event brought together senior leaders from across Pearson, who engaged with industry thought leaders and external speakers, and focused on maximising the opportunities of digital disruption, becoming a lifelong partner to learners and creating a culture of innovation.
During its meeting in South Africa, the Board attended a discussion event on Putting employability at the heart of our strategy.
The event was hosted by Pearson and attended by external business, policy and thought leaders from the Cape Town area.
Employees The Board met with local staff and senior management during 2018 visits to Milan and Cape Town.
Dinners with senior local management and breakfasts with key talent allowed the Non-Executive Directors to share their experience and expertise with employees as well as allowing the Directors to better understand employees abilities and motivations, helping them to assess the Companys prospects and plans for succession.
A number of the Non-Executive Directors participated in the Pearson Innovation Jam an online, global collaborative event for all employees.
The event allowed the Directors to have direct engagement with employees on a platform where all participants had an opportunity to share their thoughts, best practices, and ideas.
Customers In Milan, the Board heard from customers about the challenges and opportunities they face with digital teaching and learning in schools and higher education.
The panels discussed the demand for high-quality digital content, assessment and tools, closing the gap between school and workplace, and the need for access to a high-quality career-focused education.
This session enabled the Board to understand the customer context to our schools and higher education strategy and explore the issues posed and how Pearson might be part of the solution.
