Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Additional disclosures 127 Additional disclosures Pages 78131 of this document comprise the Directors report Share buyback for the year ended 31 December 2018.
In line with our capital allocation priorities, the Board decided to Set out below is other statutory and regulatory information use part of the proceeds from the transaction regarding our stake in that Pearson is required to disclose in its Directors report.
Penguin Random House in 2017 to return 300m of surplus capital to shareholders, in addition to continuing to invest in our business and maintain a strong balance sheet.
Going concern We launched a 300m share buyback, beginning on 18 October The Directors have made an assessment of the Groups ability 2017 and completed the programme on 16 February 2018, to continue as a going concern and consider it appropriate to repurchasing a total of 42,835,577 shares at an average price adopt the going concern basis of accounting.
Viability statement Major shareholders As set out on p76, the Board has also reviewed the prospects Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Financial of Pearson over the three-year period to December 2021 taking Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR is account of the Companys strategic plans, a severe but plausible published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the downside case and further stress testing based on the principal Companys website.
As at 31 December 2018, the Company had been notified under Based on the results of these procedures, and considering the DTR 5 of the following holders of significant voting rights in Companys strong balance sheet, the Directors have a reasonable its shares.
expectation that Pearson will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period ending Number Percentage December 2021.
Further details of the Groups liquidity are shown of voting as at date of rights notification in Financial review see p4450.
Schroders plc 97,090,310 12.43% Share capital Silchester International Investors LLP 77,889,093 9.98% The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc 49,024,780 6.33% Details of share issues and cancellations are given in note 27 to the financial statements on p201.
The Company has a single Lindsell Train Limited 41,393,237 5.03% class of shares which is divided into ordinary shares of 25p each.
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group 41,236,375 5.02% The ordinary shares are in registered form.
As at 31 December 1 Libyan Investment Authority 24,431,000 3.01% 2018, 781,078,167 ordinary shares were in issue.
At the AGM held 1 Based on notification to the Company dated 7 June 2010.
We have been on 4 May 2018, the Company was authorised, subject to certain notified of no change to this holding since that date.
Assets belonging to, conditions, to acquire up to 78,065,281 ordinary shares by market or owned, held or controlled on 16 September 2011 by the Libyan Investment purchase.
Shareholders will be asked to renew this authority at Authority and located outside Libya on that date, are frozen in accordance with Article 5 4 of Regulation 2016 44 of the Council of the European Union.
Between 31 December 2018 and 11 March 2019, being the latest practicable date before the publication of this report, the Company received further notifications under DTR 5, with the most recent positions being as follows: Schroders plc disclosed a holding of 11.73% The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc disclosed a holding of 7.75%.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 128 Additional disclosures Shareholders can declare a final dividend by passing an ordinary Annual General Meeting resolution but the amount of the dividend cannot exceed the The notice convening the AGM, to be held at 12 noon on amount recommended by the Board.
The Board can pay interim Friday, 26 April 2019 at IET London, 2 Savoy Place, London dividends on any class of shares of the amounts and on the dates WC2R 0BL, is contained in a circular to shareholders to be and for the periods they decide.
In all cases the distributable profits dated 25 March 2019. of the Company must be sufficient to justify the payment of the relevant dividend.
Registered auditors The Board may, if authorised by an ordinary resolution of the In accordance with section 489 of the Act, a resolution proposing shareholders, offer any shareholder the right to elect to receive the reappointment of  LLP as auditors new ordinary shares, which will be credited as fully paid, instead to the Company will be proposed at the AGM, at a level of their cash dividend.
of remuneration to be agreed by the Audit Committee.
Any dividend which has not been claimed for 12 years after it became due for payment will be forfeited and will then belong Amendment to Articles of Association to the Company, unless the Directors decide otherwise.
Any amendments to the Articles of Association of the Company If the Company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the sanction the Articles may be made in accordance with the provisions of a special resolution passed by the shareholders, divide among of the Act by way of a special resolution.
the shareholders all or any part of the assets of the Company and he she can value assets and determine how the division shall be Rights attaching to shares carried out as between the shareholders or different classes of shareholders.
The liquidator can also, with the same sanction, The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are defined in the transfer the whole or any part of the assets to trustees upon Articles.
A shareholder whose name appears on the Companys such trusts for the benefit of the shareholders.
register of members can choose whether his her shares are evidenced by share certificates i. e. in certificated form or held Voting at general meetings electronically i. e. uncertificated form in CREST the electronic settlement system in the UK.
Any form of proxy sent by the shareholders to the Company in relation to any general meeting must be delivered to the Company Subject to any restrictions below, shareholders may attend via its registrars, whether in written or electronic form, not less any general meeting of the Company and, on a show of hands, than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting every shareholder or his her representative who is present at or adjourned meeting at which the person named in the a general meeting has one vote on each resolution and, on a poll, appointment proposes to vote.
every shareholder whether an individual or a corporation present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every 25p of nominal The Board may decide that a shareholder is not entitled to attend or share capital held.
A resolution put to the vote at a general meeting vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or to exercise is decided on a show of hands unless before, or on the declaration any other right conferred by being a shareholder if he she or any of the result of, a vote on a show of hands, a poll is demanded.
person with an interest in shares has been sent a notice under A poll can be demanded by the Chair of the meeting, or by at least section 793 of the Act which confers upon public companies the three shareholders or their representatives present in person power to require information with respect to interests in their voting and having the right to vote, or by any shareholders or their shares and he she or any interested person failed to supply the representatives present in person having at least 10% of the total Company with the information requested within 14 days after voting rights of all shareholders, or by any shareholders or their delivery of that notice.
The Board may also decide, where the representatives present in person holding ordinary shares on relevant shareholding comprises at least 0.25% of the nominal which an aggregate sum has been paid up of at least 10% of the total value of the issued shares of that class, that no dividend is payable sum paid up on all ordinary shares.
At this years AGM, voting will in respect of those default shares and that no transfer of any again be conducted on a poll, consistent with best practice.
default shares shall be registered.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Additional disclosures 129 Pearson operates an employee benefit trust to hold shares, Appointment and replacement of Directors pending employees becoming entitled to them under the The Articles contain the following provisions in relation to Directors: Companys employee share plans.
There were 3,224,665 shares held as at 31 December 2018.
The trust has an independent trustee Directors shall be no less than two in number.
Directors may be which has full discretion in relation to the voting of such shares.
appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A dividend waiver operates on the shares held in the trust.
A Director appointed by the Board shall hold office only until the next AGM and shall then be eligible for reappointment, but shall Pearson also operates two nominee shareholding arrangements not be taken into account in determining the Directors or the which hold shares on behalf of employees.
There were 2,387,192 number of Directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
shares held in the Sharestore account and 443,616 shares held in The Board may from time to time appoint one or more Directors to the Global Nominee account as at 31 December 2018.
The beneficial hold Executive office with the Company for such period subject to owners of shares held in Sharestore are invited to submit voting the provisions of the Act and upon such terms as the Board may instructions online at www.
co. uk and Global Nominee decide and may revoke or terminate any appointment so made.
participants are invited to submit voting instructions by e-mail to nominee@equiniti.
If no instructions are given by the beneficial The Articles provide that, at every AGM of the Company, at least owner by the date specified, the trustees holding these shares will one-third of the Directors shall retire by rotation or, if their number not exercise the voting rights.
is not a multiple of three, the number nearest to one-third.
The first Directors to retire by rotation shall be those who wish to retire and not offer themselves for re-election.
Any further Directors so to Transfer of shares retire shall be those of the other Directors subject to retirement The Board may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share by rotation who have been longest in office since they were last which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent re-elected but, as between persons who became or were last dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on an open re-elected on the same day, those to retire shall unless they and proper basis.
The Board may also refuse to register a transfer otherwise agree among themselves be determined by lot.
of a certificated share unless: i the instrument of transfer is lodged, In addition, any Director who would not otherwise be required duly stamped if stampable, at the registered office of the Company to retire shall retire by rotation at the third AGM after they or any other place decided by the Board, and is accompanied by the were last re-elected.
certificate for the share to which it relates and such other evidence Notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles, the Board has as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the resolved that all Directors should offer themselves for re-election transferor to make the transfer: ii it is in respect of only one class annually, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code of shares: and iii it is in favour of not more than four transferees.
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using The Company may by ordinary resolution remove any Director CREST and the Board can refuse to register a transfer of an before the expiration of his her term of office.
In addition, the uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations Board may terminate an agreement or arrangement with any governing the operation of CREST.
Director for the provision of his her services to the Company.
Variation of rights If at any time the capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, the special rights attaching to any class may be varied or revoked either: i With the written consent of the holders of at least 75% in nominal value of the issued shares of the relevant class: or ii With the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of the relevant class.
Without prejudice to any special rights previously conferred on the holders of any existing shares or class of shares, any share may be issued with such preferred, deferred or other special rights, or such restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise as the Company may from time to time by ordinary resolution determine.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 130 Additional disclosures Powers of the Directors Other statutory information Subject to the Articles, the Act and any directions given by special Other information that is required by the Companies Act 2006 resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by the the Act to be included in the Directors report, and which is Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company, including incorporated by reference, can be located as follows: powers relating to the issue and or buying back of shares by the Summary disclosures index See more Company subject to any statutory restrictions or restrictions Dividend recommendation p45 imposed by shareholders in general meeting.
Financial instruments and financial risk management p186189 Important events since year end p50 Significant agreements Future development of the business p1043 The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling Research and development activities p30 the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the Employment of disabled persons p34 event of a change of control of the Company: Employee involvement p3240 At 31 December 2018, the Group had a $1,750m revolving credit Greenhouse gas emissions p39 facility agreement dated August 2014 which matures in August 2021 between, among others, the Company, Barclays Bank plc With the exception of the dividend waiver described on p128129 Agent and the banks and financial institutions named therein there is no information to be disclosed in accordance with as lenders the Facility, under which any such bank may, upon a Listing Rule 9.8.
4. change of control of the Company, require its outstanding advances, No political donations or contributions were made or expenditure together with accrued interest and any other amounts payable incurred by the Company or its subsidiaries during the year.
in respect of such Facility, and its commitments, to be cancelled, each within 60 days of notification to the banks by the Agent.
Fair, balanced and understandable reporting and On 19 February 2019, this revolving credit facility was amended disclosure of information to total $1,190m and the maturing date was extended to February 2024 with the same provisions.
For these purposes, a change of As required by the Code, we have established arrangements to control occurs if the Company becomes a subsidiary of any other ensure that all information we report to investors and regulators company, or one or more persons acting either individually or is fair, balanced and understandable.
A process and timetable in concert obtains control as defined in section 1124 of the for the production and approval of this years report was agreed Corporation Tax Act 2010 of the Company.
by the Board at its meeting in December 2018.
The full Board then had the opportunity to review and comment on the report Shares acquired through the Companys employee share plans as it progressed.
rank pari passu with shares in issue and have no special rights.
For legal and practical reasons, the rules of these plans set out Representatives from financial reporting, corporate affairs, the consequences of a change of control of the Company.
company secretarial, legal and internal audit, compliance and risk are involved in the preparation and review of the annual report to ensure a cohesive and balanced approach and, as with all of our financial reporting, our Verification Committee conducts a thorough verification of narrative and financial statements.
We also have procedures in place to ensure the timely release of inside information, through our Market Disclosure Committee.
The Audit Committee is also available to advise the Board on certain aspects of the report, to enable the Directors to fulfil their responsibility in this regard.
The Directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Additional disclosures 131 The Directors also confirm that, for each Director in office at the date of this report: So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Group and Companys auditors are unaware They have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Group and the companys auditors are aware of that information.
Directors in office The following Directors were in office during the year and up until the signing of the financial statements: E P L Corley H Manwani stepped down 4 May 2018 V Cox T Score J J Fallon S Taurel S J Lewis L Wallen L K Lorimer C Williams M M Lynton appointed 1 February 2018 The Directors report has been approved by the Board on 11 March 2019 and signed on its behalf by: Stephen Jones Company Secretary
