R o b u s t a n d t r a n s p a r e n t g o v e r s n l o a r n P t c s n e e e o y u r l c a f g v l o e a e d r n r u n t PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 The Board and its governance framework The Board acts as the main governing body for the purpose of oversight for the Group with additional supervision of the regulated business of South West Water being provided by South West Waters own board.
Our approach to governance is an integral part of our culture, guiding how we do business and create value for our stakeholders.
READ MORE ON PAGES 14 & 15 Stakeholder value Stakeholder value Robust and transparent governance Vision and values We deliver sustainable value for our We are committed to operating to the highest Our Vision of Bringing resources to life and stakeholders by providing high-quality standards of corporate governance.
supporting values of trusted, responsible, environmental infrastructure and collaborative and progressive will help drive Effective risk management customerservices.
ourstrategic priorities over the long term.
We have a mature integrated risk management Strategy framework which is embedded into existing Culture Our strategy is to lead in the UKs water governance structures and ways of working.
We are developing a culture that can be andwaste sectors, invest for sustainable livedthroughout the Group with integrity Strong internal controls growthanddrive value through efficiency.
andtransparency, ensuring Pennon is We keep the effectiveness of our internal trustedandvalued by all its stakeholders.
Performance control environment under regular review Our financial and operational performance is andseek continually to improve our approach.
driven by our strategic sustainability objectives.
68 t a r l u a m e e C t s r o a n t p i n r S g u c P n o e r t E S e c t i v e r i s k m a n a g e m e n t PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Pennon Board composition, independence and experience Diversity as at 31 March Composition as at 31 March 100 100 80 80 60 60 40 40 20 20 0 0 2017 2018 2017 2018 Executive Non-Executive Male Female At the end of the year the Board of Directors comprised the Chairman, The Board continued to exceed its target of 25% female representation two Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors.
throughout the year and at the year end it was 33.3% Tenure as at 31 March Experience as at 31 March 100 100 80 80 60 60 40 40 20 20 0 0 2017 2018 2017 2018 0-3 years 4-6 years 7-10 years Industry Finance Governance All of the Non-Executive Directors were considered by the Board to All the Non-Executive Directors are considered to have the appropriate beindependent throughout the year.
None of the relationships or skills, experience in their respective disciplines and personality to bring circumstances set out in provision B.
1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance independent and objective judgement to the Boards deliberations.
Code the UK Code applied to the Non-Executive Directors listed on Theirbiographies on pages 66 and 67 and theexperience chart above the following page.
Given the longer service of Martin Angle and Gill demonstrates collectively a broad range ofbusiness, financial and other Rider on the Board, a particularly rigorous review was undertaken in relevant experience.
respect of their respective re-elections.
Martin Angle will be stepping Directors roles down from the Board in December 2018 in order to allow for continuity Neil Cooper is chairman of the Audit Committee and in accordance with a replacement.
Gill Rider will soon reach the six-year anniversary of withthe UK Code and FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1.
1 he her appointment and the Board has agreed that her term be extended has recent and relevant financial experience as set out in his biography for a further three years, subject to annual re-election at each AGM.
Board is satisfied that, based on their participation at meetings and their contribution outside of the boardroom, both Martin Angle and Gill Rider There is a clear separation of responsibilities between the Chairman continue to demonstrate independence of character and judgement andthe CEO, divided between managing the Board and the business, inthe performance of their role.
while they of course maintain a close working relationship.
Sir John Parker met the independence criteria set out in provision B.
1.1of the UK Code on his appointment as Chairman and there have been no significant changes to his overall external commitments since his appointment.
All Directors are subject to re-election each year in accordance with provision B.
69 50% 33% 17% 67% 33% 33% 33% 33% 67% 33% 33% 67% 50% 33% 17% 33% 67% 50% 33% 17% FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 The Board and its governance framework continued All the Directors are equally accountable for the proper stewardship of the Groups affairs but they do have specific roles, which include those set outbelow: Position Director Role Chairman Sir John Parker Leading the Board and setting its agenda Promoting the highest standards of integrity and probity and ensuring good and effective governance Managing Board composition, performance and succession planning Providing advice, support and guidance to the CEO Representing the Group and being available to shareholders Discussing separately with the Non-Executive Directors performance and strategic issues Chief Executive Chris Loughlin Managing the Group and providing executive leadership Officer Developing and proposing Group strategy Leading the operation of the Group in accordance with the decisions of the Board Co-ordinating with the Chairman on important and strategic issues of the Group and providing input tothe Boards agenda Contributing to succession planning and implementing the organisational structure Leading on acquisitions, disposals, business development and exploiting Group synergies Managing shareholder relations Senior Gill Rider Assisting the Chairman with shareholder communications and being available as an additional point Independent ofcontact for shareholders Director Being available to other Non-Executive Directors if they have any concerns that are not satisfactorily resolved by the Chairman Leading the annual evaluation of performance of the Chairman with the other Non-Executive Directors Chief Financial Susan Davy Supporting the CEO in providing executive leadership and developing Group strategy Officer Reporting to the Board on performance and developments across the business Implementing decisions of the Board Managing specific business responsibilities Managing investor relations including financing and treasury activities Non-Executive Martin Angle Critically reviewing the strategies proposed for the Group Directors Neil Cooper Critically examining the operational and financial performance of the Group Gill Rider Evaluating proposals from management and constructively challenging managements recommendations Contributing to corporate accountability through being active members of the Committees of the Board.
aseparate independent board in accordance with its own schedule Board meetings and attendance ofmatters reserved to ensure compliance with Ofwats principles The Directors and their attendance at the nine scheduled meetings onboard leadership, transparency and governance.
ofthe Board during 2017 18 are shown below: Members Appointment date Attendance Detailed consideration of certain matters is delegated to Board Committees, to the Executive Directors and to the Group General Chairman Counsel and Company Secretary, as appropriate.
In addition to the Sir John Parker April 2015 9 9 mattersthe Directors are required to decide by statute or regulation, Non-Executive Directors thematters reserved to the Board include: Martin Angle December 2008 8 9 Neil Cooper September 2014 9 9 all acquisitions and disposals Gill Rider September 2012 9 9 major items of capital expenditure Executive Directors authority levels for other expenditure Susan Davy February 2015 9 9 risk management process and monitoring of risks Christopher Loughlin August 2006 9 9 approval of the strategic plan and annual operating budgets In addition to the nine Board meetings we hold a strategy day in Group policies, procedures and delegations September of each year.
appointments to the Board and its Committees.
Managing the Group and its subsidiaries The Board also ratifies certain decisions taken by the South West Water The Boards responsibilities include overall leadership of the Group, board, including major capital projects and investments, long-term setting the Groups values, policies and standards, approving Pennons objectives and commercial strategy, the five-year regulatory plan, annual strategy and objectives and providing oversight of the Groups budgets and certain decisions relating to financing.
This approach is operations and its performance.
The Board makes decisions in relation compatible with Ofwats principles for holding companies in respect to the Groups business in accordance with its schedule of matters ofBoard leadership, transparency and governance.
The South West Water board continues to operate as 70 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Operation of the Board Pennon Executive management The Board operates by receiving written reports circulated in advance The role of the Pennon Executive is to define and drive the business ofthe meetings from the Executive Directors and the Group General priorities that will achieve delivery of the strategy.
It is responsible for Counsel & Company Secretary on matters within their respective ensuring, to the extent of the authority delegated by the Board, the business areas of the Group.
The Board also receives presentations on proper and prudent management of Group resources to create and key areas of the business and undertakes site visits to meet employees maximise shareholder value whilst protecting the interests of the wider and gain a better understanding of the operation of business initiatives.
Chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, the Pennon Executive meets formally on a monthly basis to review and refine recommendations tobepresented to the Board.
Members of the Pennon Executive Chris Loughlin Chief Executive Officer Susan Davy Chief Financial Officer Stephen Bird Managing Director, South West Water Phil Piddington Managing Director, Viridor Helen BarrettGroup General Counsel and Company Secretary Hague Adele Barker Group director of Human Resources Steve Holmes Director of Safety, Health, Quality & Sustainability SHQS Ed Mitchell Director of Environment and Operations director Wastewater Services, South West Water Board visit to Plymouth sites Sarah Heald Director of Corporate Affairs & Investor Relations In February 2018 the Board visited two sites in Plymouth: South Paul Ringham Commercial director, Viridor West Waters innovative Mayflower water treatment works, Bob Taylor Operations director Drinking Water Services, which is due to become operational this autumn, and Viridors South West Water materials recycling facility, the location of the first pilot for our new health and safety programme, HomeSafe.
Further details on Board support and training each of these projects are provided on pages 39 and 26.
Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group CompanySecretary, and the Board has an established procedure whereby Directors, in order to fulfil their duties, may seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Under the guidance of the Chairman, all matters before the Board are Newly appointed Directors receive a formal induction, which includes discussed openly.
Presentations and advice are received frequently from anexplanation of the Group structure, regulatory and legal issues, the other senior executives within the Group and from external advisers to Group governance framework and policies, the Groups approach to facilitate the decision-making of the Board.
riskmanagement and its principal risks financial and non-financial, In arriving at decisions the Board takes into account the impact on including environmental, social and governance ESG risks, duties stakeholder groups when considering what is in the best interests andobligations including protocols around conflicts of interest and ofshareholders as a whole.
dealing in shares, and the current activities of the Board and its Committees.
Directors also visit operating facilities across the Group andmeet with staff to receive briefings on key processes and systems.
Pennon Board composition The training needs of Directors are reviewed as part of the Boards performance evaluation process each year.
Training consists of attendance at external courses organised by professional advisers andalso internal presentations from senior management.
Performance evaluation The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous review of its performance and that of its Committees and Directors each year.
Having carried out an externally facilitated evaluation last year, this year the evaluation Chairman Group CEO CFO ofthe Boards and the Committees performance was carried out in March 2018 by means of a questionnaire created internally by the GroupGeneral Counsel and Company Secretary in consultation with theChairman and Chairs of thevarious committees.
As well as the Directors, the questionnaire wascompleted by various members ofthesenior executive team, the external audit partner and the adviserto the Remuneration Committee.
The questions were designed to assess the effectiveness of the Three independent In attendance Boardduring the year in setting the Groups strategy, promoting Non-Executive Three independent non-executive Pennons culture and values, ensuring that the Groups obligations DirectorsofPennon directors of South West Water toitsshareholders and other stakeholders were understood and met, overseeing the use of the Groups resources, managing the risksinherent in the strategy, plans and the operating environment, andensuring that the executive team had managed all the activities oftheCompany well.
71 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 The Board and its governance framework continued The Senior Independent Director separately conducted a review of the ofthe Group, monitoring of such risks and ongoing and annual individual directors performance and the Chairmans performance was evaluation of the overall process.
ESG risks identified and assessed evaluated separately by the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior bythe Board cover areas such as health and safety, climate change, Independent Director.
changes to government policy on waste and recycling, and tax compliance.
Details of the key risks affecting the Group are set out in The review concluded that the Board, its Committees and its individual thestrategic report on pages 55 to 60.
KPIs are in place to enable the Directors had demonstrated a high degree of effectiveness and that the Board to measure the Companys ESG performance pages 24, 25 and Board had a good understanding of opportunities for growth and the 28 to 40 and a number of these are linked to remuneration incentives threats facing the business, as well as its role in setting Pennons values pages 91, 93 and 94. and standards to ensure that its obligations to its stakeholders are met.
The Boards commitment to promoting a strong health and safety As part of the review of the effectiveness of the system of risk culture across the Group was noted.
The Board and each Committee management and internal control under the Group risk management considered the conclusions and recommendations arising from the policy, all Executive Directors and senior managers are required to evaluation process, which included areas specifically relating to diversity certify on an annual basis that they have effective controls in place and succession planning, as well as continuing to address the Directors tomanage risks and to operate in compliance with legislation and training and development needs.
Board Committees terms of reference The Groups processes and policies serve to ensure that a culture of In accordance with Group policies, a range of key matters are delegated effective control and risk management is embedded throughout the to the Boards Committees as set out on pages 73 to 83 of this Group and that the Group is in a position to react appropriately to new governance report.
Details of key risks affecting the Group are set out inthe strategic report on pages 55 to 60.
The terms of reference of each of the Boards Committees are set out onthe Companys website www.
co. uk and are also Code of Conduct and policies available from the Group Company Secretary upon request.
The Groups Code of Conduct and related policies set out Pennons commitment to promoting and maintaining the highest level of R EAD MORE ONLINE ethicalstandards.
Areas covered include our impact on the environment www.
co. uk about-us board-committees and our communities, our workplace and our business conduct.
The Groups policy on anti-bribery and anti-corruption clearly prohibits Dealing with Directors conflicts of interest any worker from offering or accepting bribes, facilitation payments and In accordance with the directors interest provision of the Companies kickbacks and requires that due diligence checks be carried out before Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association, the Board has in engaging a third party including a corruption risk assessment including place a procedure for the consideration and authorisation of Directors potential business partners of the third party and the nature of the conflicts or possible conflicts with the Companys interests.
This has proposed work and transaction.
The policy also sets out the employment operated effectively during the year.
consequences for breach of the policy and potential legal sanctions Risk management and the Groups system of internal control under bribery laws.
The policy places an obligation on workers to report The Board is responsible for maintaining the Groups system of internal any breach of the policy or any suspicions of fraud or other irregularities.
control to safeguard shareholders investment and the Groups assets The Groups whistleblowing policy Speak Up encourages workers and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed to manage toraise concerns and explains how this should be done.
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives Allegations of misconduct and irregularity are thoroughly investigated and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against and follow-up action in respect of the Groups control environment is material misstatement or loss.
There is an ongoing process for taken when appropriate.
In the normal course of business, investigations identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced into irregularities may be ongoing as of the date of the approval of the bytheGroup that has been in place throughout 2017 18 and up financial statements.
tothedate of the approval of this annual report and accounts.
Our Code of Conduct and our policies are available on our website.
The Groups system of internal control is consistent with the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial R EAD MORE ONLINE and Business Reporting FRC Internal Control Guidance.
co. uk sustainability The Board confirms that it applies procedures in accordance with the UK Code and the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting, which brings together elements of best practice for risk management and internal control by companies.
The Boards risk framework described on pages 52 to 54 in the strategic report provides for the identification of key risks, including ESGrisks, in relation to the achievement of the business objectives 72 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Board Committees reports Audit Committee report Dear Shareholder I am pleased to introduce the Audit Committees report on its activities during the year.
As in previous years, the principal responsibilities of the Committee continue to be focused in a number of key areas.
Firstly, on ensuring theappropriateness of the Groups financial reporting: an activity that includes the testing of accounting judgements made in preparing financial reporting and the assessment of whether the presentation ofthe Groups activities is fair, balanced and understandable.
Secondly, on reviewing and challenging the ongoing effectiveness of the internal control environment and thirdly, on the scope and adequacy of risk management processes across the Group.
This includes monitoring theGroups risk appetite as well as acting as a forum for carrying out more detailed reviews of higher risk areas of the operation.
Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the external auditor and the internal audit function is a further important ongoing element of the Committees assurance activities.
These responsibilities are discharged throughout the year in accordance with the calendar of business of theCommittee, which is designed to allow sufficient time for their The role of the Audit Committee is to consideration whilst also permitting time to be spent on related key financial matters.
ensure that robust systems are in place The Groups executive risk management forum continues to assess risk for financial reporting, internal control appetite and monitor key risks and their mitigation, with the Committee subsequently receiving detailed deep dive presentations from senior and risk management.
management on individual principal risks.
During the year, these included Group recruitment and retention risk, water resources and Neil Cooper resilience risk, cyber security, and lastly financial resilience.
More detail Audit Committee Chairman on our risk management processes, principal risks and their associated mitigation can be found on pages 52 to 60.
Together with this, we continue to assess the Companys viability over aperiod of five years, which we judge to be aligned with thelonger-term nature of our business.
It is also a reasonable period in terms of our ability to look forward with some certainty in the business and regulatory environment in which the Company operates.
Our viability statement is reported on page 61.
The Committee acts as a forum carrying out more detailed reviews of higher-risk areas of the operation.
As part of the half-year and year-end reporting review process, we reviewed and challenged the key financial reporting judgements of management as set out on page 75.
Significant matters considered bythe Committee both during the year and in relation to the year-end financial statements are laid out in this report.
Finally, our long-serving Group Internal Audit Manager, Paul Ramsbottom, stepped down during the year, and I would like to thankhim on behalf of the Committee for his service to the Group.
Neil Cooper Audit Committee Chairman 73 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Audit Committee report continued Audit Committee composition and meetings Date of appointment to Pennon Audit Committee Attendance Committee chairman Neil Cooper September 2014 4 4 Committee members Martin Angle December 2008 4 4 Gill Rider September 2012 4 4 Other regular attendees to Committee meetings during the year orauditing.
Details of each Directors significant current and prior included: Chief Executive Officer: Chief Financial Officer: Managing appointments are set out on pages 66 and 67.
Directors of South West Water and Viridor: Group General Counsel & All of the Committee members are also members of the Remuneration Company Secretary: Finance Directors of South West Water and Viridor: Committee, which allows them to provide input into both Committees Director of Treasury, Tax and Group Finance: Group Audit Manager: and onany Group performance matters and on the management of any risk the external auditor.
factors relevant to remuneration matters.
In addition, the Board Chairman has an open invitation to attend the Significant matters considered by the Committee Committee meetings.
In the last year he attended those meetings at The calendar of business of the Committee sets in place a framework which the Committee reviewed the half-year and full-year financial for ensuring that it manages its affairs efficiently and effectively results of the Group.
throughout the year and is able to concentrate on the key matters In accordance with the UK Code, the Board is satisfied that Neil Cooper thataffect the Group.
and Martin Angle have recent and relevant financial experience and The most significant matters that the Committee considered and made also, in accordance with FCA Rule 7.1.
1R of the FCAs Disclosure decisions on during the year and, where appropriate, since the year end, Guidance and Transparency Rules, have competence in accounting are set out below and opposite.
Financial reporting Monitored the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and the half-year and full-year results announcements relating to the Groups financial performance, including reviewing and discussing significant financial reporting judgements contained in the statements After a detailed review in accordance with its established process, advised the Board that the presentation of the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable in accordance with reporting requirements and recommended their approval for publication Internal control and compliance Review of internal audit reports on core systems and processes across the Group, for example, contract management, health and safety and an outsourced audit of Group Treasury Reviewed our Tax Strategy prior to publication in line with the requirements set out in the Finance Act 2016 Monitored the effectiveness of key strategic projects, including Viridors Enterprise transformation and readiness for the new EU General Data Protection Regulations External auditor Considered auditors report on its review of the annual results focusing on key findings Assessed external auditor effectiveness in respect of the previous years external audit process Recommended to the Board reappointment of the external auditor for approval at the Annual General Meeting with the Committee being authorised to agree the external auditors remuneration Considered and approved the audit plan and audit fee proposal for the external auditor Reviewed the Group external audit policy and monitored the provision of non-audit services Considered the auditors report on control themes and observations for the year ended 2017, which did not identify any significant deficiencies Risk management Reviewed the Groups risk management framework and compliance with that framework during the year and after the year end up until the publication of the Companys annual report Reviewed the assessment of the risks by the Executive Directors and considered risk appetite Reviewed the Group risk register and considered appropriate areas of focus and prioritisation for the audit work programme for the year which through 2017 18 has been aligned to the Groups financial year Management of information security across the Group in mitigating key IT risks Received as part of the risk management review the annual report on any whistleblowing Carried out regular deep dives at Committee meetings on principal risk areas Governance Discussed the results of the performance evaluation of the Committee Reviewed new annual report disclosure requirements, including the audit report Considered and approved Group accounting policies, including the impact of new accounting standards, used in the preparation of the financial statements Confirmed compliance with the UK Code Regularly held separate meetings with the external auditor and the Group Internal Audit Manager without members ofmanagement being present 74 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 In respect of the monitoring of the integrity of the financial statements, with the areas of particular audit focus, as reported on in the independent which is a key responsibility of the Committee identified in the UK Code, auditors report on pages 108 to 113.
In addition to the significant the significant areas of judgement considered in relation to the financial matters set out in the table below, the Committee considered a range statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 are set out in the following ofother matters.
These included presentational matters, in particular table, together with details of how each matter was addressed by the relating to the issuance and buy-back of perpetual capital securities, Committee.
At the Committees meetings throughout the year the contingent liabilities and assets, the non-underlying disclosures and Committee and the external auditor have discussed the significant finally ensuring a fair presentation ofstatutory and non-statutory matters arising in respect of financial reporting during the year, together performance and financial measures.
During the year, the Committees areas of focus have been: Area of focus How the matter was addressed by the Committee Revenue Given the nature of the Groups business, there were a number of judgement areas in respect of revenue recognition recognition relating to income from measured water services, estimates of timing of receipt of unmeasured revenue, accounting for revenue from long-term service concession arrangements under IFRIC 12, in particular for Glasgow Recycling and Renewable Energy Centre, where forecast construction spend has increased, and calculation of accrued income on waste management contracts and powergen.
TheCommittee relied on South West Waters track record of assessing an appropriate level of accrual at previous year ends as compared to actual outturns and Viridors internal processes for analysing complex long-term contracts.
TheCommittee also closely considered the work in respect of these areas at year end by the external auditor as well asreviewing disclosures around revenue recognition accounting policies.
Non-current asset Recognising that the value of certain non-current assets and long-term environmental provisions within Viridor can be impairment review sensitive to changes in assumptions over future discount rates and cash flow projections which require judgement, the and Environmental Committee pays careful attention to asset impairment and provisions.
The Committee noted the substantial headroom provisions inthe mandatory review of goodwill for impairment and managements review of evidence of indicators for potential impairment of non-current assets concluded that these areas were less sensitive to assumptions.
Following a detailed review of the analysis undertaken, and consideration of management assumptions in relation to the value of environmental provisions the Committee was satisfied that a robust and consistent approach had been followed and with managements assertion that the carrying value of these liabilities remained reasonable, and therefore the Committee was able to approve thedisclosures in the financial statements.
This key area was also closely reviewed as part of the year-end audit by the external auditor.
South West Water Regular updates on progress against debt collection targets and other contractual payments due are received by the Board.
bad and Performance is monitored regularly against both South West Waters historical collection record and the track record of other doubtfuldebts companies in the sector.
At the year end the external auditor reported on the work it had performed, which together with the detailed analysis reported, enabled the Committee to conclude that managements assessment of the year-end position was reasonable.
Greater Manchester Following the renegotiation of the Greater Manchester contract and sale of the joint venture Viridor Laing Greater contract reset Manchester Holdings Limited to the Greater Manchester Waste Disposal Authority, judgement has been required to ensure all the various economic aspects of the reset have been fully considered in concluding the appropriate accounting treatment.
In particular consideration was given to the fair value attributed to all aspects of the transaction in arriving at theamount of profit to be recognised at our TPSCo joint venture.
The Committee has received detailed analysis from management in satisfying itself that this treatment is appropriate.
In addition this has been a significant area of focus for the external auditor.
Glasgow Recycling In November 2016 the lead construction contract for the GRREC was terminated due to delays and underperformance.
and Renewable Additional costs required to complete the project have been incurred and are now subject to claims including against the Energy Centre lead contractor, Interserve Construction Limited.
The Committee has reviewed information on the background, quantum GRREC and likelihood of the claims recognised in accounting terms as an amount owing to the Group, considering both legal and outstanding financial analysis from management and expert third party opinions.
The Committee is satisfied that the asset recognition contractual claims criteria for this amount has been met and that appropriate disclosures have been made.
against Interserve Going concern A report from the Chief Financial Officer on the financial performance of the Group including forward-looking estimates basis for the ofcovenant compliance and funding levels under differing scenarios, is provided to the Board on a periodic basis.
Rolling preparation of five-year strategy projections and the resultant headroom relative to borrowings is also regularly reviewed by the Board, thefinancial including scenarios to enable the Committee to better understand the potential range of outcomes.
At the end of each statements and sixmonth period the Chief Financial Officer prepares for consideration by the Committee a report focusing on the Groups viability statement liquidity over the 12-month period from the date of signing of either the annual report or half-year results.
The Committee also considered a report from the Chief Financial Officer on the Groups financial viability over an appropriate period, which the Board considers to be five years, in connection with the UK Corporate Governance Code requirement for a viability statement to be given by the Board.
Consideration of these reports and constructive challenge on the findings of the reports, including the scenario testing carried out by management, has enabled the Committee to form its assessment andsatisfy itself that it remains appropriate for the Group to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting inthe preparation of the financial statements and in addition advise the Board on providing the viability statement set outon page 61.
75 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Audit Committee report continued The Chief Financial Officer regularly reports to the Committee on the Effectiveness of the external audit process extent of services provided to the Company by the external auditor Receiving high-quality and effective audit services is of paramount andthe level of fees paid.
The fees paid to the external auditors firm importance to the Committee.
We continue to monitor carefully the fornon-audit services and for audit services are set out in note 7 effectiveness of our external auditor as well as its independence, bearing tothefinancial statements on page 131. in mind that it is recognised there is a need to use our external auditors firm for certain non-audit services.
We have full regard to the FRCs Internal audit Ethical Standard and ensure that our procedures and safeguards The internal audit activities of the Group are a key part of the internal meetthese standards.
control and risk management framework of the Group.
At Group level there is a long-standing and effective centralised internal audit service The current external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, was appointed which makes a significant contribution to the ability of the Committee following a comprehensive audit tender process and approval by todeliver its responsibilities.
shareholders at the Companys 2014 AGM.
Their reappointment was approved at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Debbie OHanlon is A new Group internal audit plan was approved in January 2018, which theaudit partner and has been in that role since Ernst & Youngs aligns the annual internal audit programme with the Groups financial appointment.
The external auditor produced a detailed audit planning year.
It takes account of the principal risks, the activities to be undertaken report in preparation for the year-end financial statements, which has by the external auditor, and the Groups annual and ongoing risk assisted the auditor in delivering the timely audit of the Groups annual management reviews.
This approach seeks to ensure that there is a report and financial statements and which was shared with, and programme of internal and external audit reviews focused on identified discussed by, the Committee in advance.
key risk areas throughout the Group.
The effectiveness review of the external auditor is undertaken as part As in previous years, the Group Internal Audit Manager reported ofthe Committees annual performance evaluation.
Further details of regularly to the Committee on audit reviews undertaken and their theperformance evaluation are provided on pages 71 and 72.
No issues findings, and there were regular discussions, correspondence and were raised during that review and the Committee concluded that the private meetings between the Group Internal Audit Manager and the auditor was effective during the year.
During the year, the long-serving Group Internal Audit Manager stepped down.
This presented a logical opportunity for The Committee considered that it is appropriate that the external the Group to review its organisation structure in this area.
As a result, auditor be re-appointed and has made this recommendation to the since the year end, a new senior management position of director of Board.
The Committee chairman has also met privately with the external Risk and Assurance has been created, with specific responsibilities for auditor.
keeping the Committee informed of internal audit activities.
Auditor independence An external assessment of the internal function that was performed by The Committee carefully reviews on an ongoing basis the relationship KPMG LLP in 2016 concluded that the Companys internal audit function with the external auditor to ensure that the auditors independence and conforms to IIA standards issued by the Institute of Internal Auditors but objectivity is fully safeguarded.
identified some areas for improvement including the alignment of the The external auditor reported on their independence during the year internal audit annual programme with the financial year and refreshed and again since the year end, confirming to the Committee that they reporting content.
have complied with the FRCs Ethical Standard and, based on their assessment, that they were independent of theGroup.
Fair, balanced and understandable assessment To enable the Committee to advise the Board in making its statement Provision of non-audit services that it considered that the Companys Annual Report and Accounts is In line with the requirements of the EU Audit Directive and Regulation fair, balanced and understandable FBU on page 105, the Committee which came into force on 17 June 2016, the Committee continues to has applied a detailed FBU review framework that takes account of have a robust policy for the engagement of the external auditors firm theGroups well-documented verification process undertaken in fornon-audit work.
The Committee receives a regular report covering conjunction with the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts.
the auditors fees including details of non-audit fees incurred.
This is in addition to the formal process carried out by the external auditor to enable the preparation of the independent auditors report, Recurrent fees typically relate to agreed procedures in relation to annual which is set out on pages 108 to 113. regulatory reporting obligations to Ofwat: work which is most efficiently and effectively performed by the statutory auditor.
The policy is for In preparing and finalising the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts, the non-audit fees not to exceed 70% of the audit fee for statutory work and Committee considered a report on the actions taken by management in for the Committee chairman to approve all non-audit work performed by accordance with the FBU process and an FBU assessment undertaken the statutory auditor.
The Committee carefully reviews non-audit work by the Pennon Executive.
This assisted the Committee in carrying proposed for the statutory auditor, taking into consideration whether it outits own assessment and being able to advise the Board that it was necessary forthe auditors firm to carry out such work and would considered that the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole only grant approval for the firms appointment if it was satisfied that isfair, balanced and understandable and provides the information theauditors independence and objectivity would be fully safeguarded.
necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, Ifthere were another accounting firm that could provide the required business model and strategy.
cost-effective level of experience and expertise in respect of the Statement of compliance with CMA order non-audit services, then such firm would be chosen in preference Having undertaken a competitive audit tender process in 2014, the totheexternal auditor.
Company is in compliance with the Statutory Audit Services for Large The level of non-audit fees payable to the external auditor for the past Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender year is 31.63% of the audit fee, which is well within the Groups 70% Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014. non-audit fee limit.
76 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Sustainability Committee report Dear Shareholder I am pleased to introduce the Sustainability Committees report on itsactivities during the year.
Sustainability remains an important and integral part of Pennons strategy, and the Group continues to take thisresponsibility seriously in all its business and operational practices.
Our investment and our commitment to high levels of service and performance will contribute to meeting our communities long-term needs for water, energy and waste management.
The role of the Sustainability Committee is to set and oversee thedelivery of Pennons sustainability objectives, which our Chief Executive Officer sets out on page 22.
We do this by bringing together and reviewing initiatives that drive sustainability, approving targets andmonitoring the progress made in achieving them.
Our sustainability objectives are truly strategic in that they are an essential part of our overall long-term strategy and create value for all our stakeholders.
Onpages 14 to 17 we explain the relationship between our strategy, sustainability objectives, the measurement of performance and how wereward our Executive Directors.
All of this is underpinned by our corporate values, as Pennon strives to be trusted, responsible, collaborative and progressive.
Our sustainability objectives are an Through delivery of our sustainability objectives, we are able to uphold essential part of our long-term strategy the highest standards of corporate responsibility for the benefit of all our stakeholders our customers, our communities, our people and our and create value for all our stakeholders.
The Committee has always played a central role in promoting and safeguarding stakeholder interests and is pleased Gill Rider to see that stakeholder engagement is now recognised as an essential Sustainability Committee Chairman aspect of corporate governance.
Pennon and its subsidiaries have always taken a proactive and comprehensive approach to stakeholder engagement and we continue to monitor and refine the mechanisms wehave in place to support continuing dialogue.
More information on our approach to stakeholder engagement is provided on page 64.
Throughout this annual report we show how a thorough approach to sustainability helps us to draw together the needs of society with the delivery of commercial success.
We are pleased to note the results achieved throughout the Group, which confirm sustainability is indeedintegrated in all we do.
Gill Rider Sustainability Committee Chairman 77 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Sustainability Committee report continued Sustainability Committee composition and meetings Date of appointment to Pennon Sustainability Committee Attendance Committee chairman Gill Rider September 2012 4 4 Committee members Martin Angle December 2008 4 4 Susan Davy March 2018 1 1 Chris Loughlin November 2006 4 4 Susan Davy joined the Committee in March 2018.
Her involvement Since last years report, the Committee has considered a wide range of reflects the growing and welcome interest of our investors in matters in the course of fulfilling its duties in accordance with its terms environmental, social and governance ESG matters and the relevance of reference: of ESG to Pennons funding strategy and financial decision-making.
the Groups health and safety performance and the effectiveness The Sustainability Committee sets a range of targets for the Groups ofhealth and safety policies and procedures subsidiaries as part of their business planning processes.
Progress environmental strategy and performance against these targets is reported to the Committee throughout the year.
performance in respect of customer service and engagement In addition, the South West Water sustainability committee continues the Groups approach to community relations and investment toprovide oversight of South West Waters performance against its performance against the Groups workplace policy, including review sustainability targets that are core to the successful delivery of ofthe results of the first Group-wide employee engagement survey SouthWest Waters K6 Business Plan 2015-2020.
This is consistent the new Group HR strategy, Talented people doing great things for withOfwats requirement for independent governance of our our customers and each other regulatedbusiness.
sustainable procurement and practices within the supply chain We aim to set stretching targets and as at 31 March 2018 South West sustainability reporting for 2017 and the associated verifiers reports Water had achieved six of its 12 targets for the year, and Viridor hadalso and recommendations completed six out of 12 of its targets.
Full details of the sustainability progress against the sustainability targets for 2017 18 and targets for South West Water and Viridor for 2017 18, and their sustainability targets for 2018 19. performance against them, are given in their respective reports.
In addition, the Committee considered: During the year the Committee continued to apply the best practice framework published by Business in the Community BitC, a leading the results of the Groups gender pay gap analysis and proposed business-led charity that promotes responsible business.
The structure action plan provided through BitCs key areas of sustainability marketplace, the implementation of a Group-wide compliance and ethics workplace, community and environment is reflected in Pennons trainingprogramme sustainability objectives.
recommendations arising from the first Group submission to BitCs Corporate Responsibility Index The Sustainability Committee balances the requirement to conduct business in a responsible manner in relation to ESG matters while a strategic review of Pennons approach to ESG reporting and atthe same time delivering strong financial performance and lasting disclosure, to support potential green funding initiatives.
valuefor shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Sustainability Reporting and verification Committee reviews and approves as appropriate the strategies, policies, In reporting on sustainability, the Company has sought to comply with management, initiatives, targets and performance of the Pennon Group the Investment Association Guidelines on Responsible Investment companies in the areas of occupational health and safety and security, Disclosure.
environment, workplace policies, responsible and ethical business practice, customer service and engagement, and the role of the Pennons sustainability performance and reporting has been audited Groupinsociety.
byStrategic Management Consultants Limited SMC, an independent management consultancy specialising in technical assurance in the utility sector.
Pennon considers that SMCs method of verification which includes testing the assumptions, methods and procedures thatare followed in the development of data and auditing that data toensure accuracy and consistency complements the best practice insight gained through the Groups membership of Business in the Community.
Certain disclosures within this annual report that relate to the sustainability performance of South West Water and Bournemouth Water have been verified by SMC against the output ofanindependent audit of regulatory data conducted by Jacobs.
78 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Benchmarking Pennon is a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index, an equity index series that is designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met stringent environmental, social and governance criteria, and are positioned to capitalise on the benefits ofresponsible business practice.
Pennon sustainability report Pennons sustainability reporting is integrated throughout the strategic report and specifically in the following sections: Chairmans statement page 8 Business model page 14 Strategic priorities page 16 Review of the Chief Executive Officer page 20 Key performance indicators page 24 Our people page 26 Our operations pages 28 to 41.
South West Water and Viridor sustainability reports The sustainability report for Viridor will be published in August 2018, and South West Water will incorporate its sustainability reporting in its company annual performance report and regulatory accounts, which will be published in July 2018.
Both documents will be available to view at www.
co. uk and also on the subsidiaries websites.
79 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Nomination Committee report The Nomination Committee met three times during the year to fulfil theduties set out in its terms of reference.
Matters considered by the Committee during the year included: A revised policy on Diversity, Respect and Inclusion The Groups performance against its diversity and equality policies The recruitment and appointment of Jon Butterworth as a nonexecutive director of South West Water, to fill the vacancy arising fromthe resignation of Steve Johnson in April 2016 The extension of Neil Coopers term of office as a Non-Executive Director of Pennon Group plc for a second term of three years commencing on 1 September 2017 and expiring on 31 August 2020 The confirmation of Adele Barkers appointment as Group director ofHuman Resources, a role which she had held on an interim basis during the recruitment process The appointment of Ed Mitchell as a director of Wastewater Services, South West Water A review of succession plans, the leadership needs of the Group and the Groups approach to succession planning Action is being taken to encourage A review of our gender pay disclosure and ongoing action plan The structure, size and composition of the Board, including the skills, the growth of a diverse workforce where knowledge, independence, diversity and experience of the Directors individuals from different backgrounds A review of the time spent by Non-Executive Directors in fulfilling their duties and the other directorships they hold.
It is the practice of the Committee, led by the Chairman, to appoint anexternal search consultancy to assist in Board appointments to Sir John Parker ensure that an extensive and robust search can be made for suitable Nomination Committee Chairman candidates.
Buchannan Harvey & Co, who have no other connection with the Company, was engaged to assist with the recruitment of aNon-Executive director for the South West Water board.
80 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Nomination Committee composition and meetings Date of appointment to Pennon Nomination Committee Attendance Committee chairman Sir John Parker April 2015 3 3 Committee members Martin Angle December 2008 3 3 Neil Cooper September 2014 2 3 Gill Rider September 2012 3 3 The CEO also attends meetings when invited.
I am pleased to report that we received a favourable assessment in the Board diversity policy Hampton-Alexander Review, published in November 2017, which looked The Committee is required by the Board to review and monitor at improving gender balance in FTSE Leadership.
Pennon was placed compliance with the Boards diversity policy and report on the targets, 40th in the FTSE 250 and cited as one of the best improvers.
achievement against those targets and overall compliance in the annual report each year.
The Committee and the Board will continue to monitor and promote diversity across the Group with the aim of ensuring a diverse pipeline for The Boards diversity policy confirms that the Board is committed to: succession to board and senior management positions.
The Committee the search for Board candidates being conducted, and appointments has approved an updated Diversity, Respect and Inclusion Policy for made, on merit, against objective criteria and with due regard for the theGroup, which encourages the growth of a diverse workforce where benefits of gender and ethnic diversity on the Board individuals from different backgrounds can fulfil their potential.
satisfying itself that plans are in place for orderly succession of Our 2017 employee survey told us that 88% of our employees believe appointments to the Board and to senior management to maintain that people within Pennon Group are treated fairly regardless of race anappropriate balance of skills and experience within the Group orethnic origin.
While we recognise this as good progress, we plan to andon the Board and to ensure progressive refreshing of the Board.
increase our focus on ethnic diversity in the coming year.
We continue to In addition, within the spirit of Principle B.
2 of the UK Code, the Board strive to ensure people with disabilities are given all the encouragement endeavours to achieve and maintain: and support necessary and that Pennon is seen as a welcoming and a minimum of 25% female representation on the Board inclusive place to work in all respects.
a minimum of 25% female representation on the Groups senior management team.
Information regarding the gender breakdown of the workforce is provided on page 27.
The Committee is pleased to report that as at 31 March 2018 and, asdisclosed on page 59, one third of the Boards Directors are women andas such the Group has exceeded 25% female representation at Board level.
As at the year end, 36% of Pennon Executive members are women.
Action is being taken to improve diversity across the workforce, which will assist in increasing female representation at senior management Sir John Parker level as described on page 27.
In support of this aim, both our Chairman Nomination Committee Chairman and our CEO have joined the 30% club, a UK campaign that supports the goal of women holding 30% of board seats and promotes initiatives to expand the female talent pipeline at all levels.
81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Remuneration Committee report The Committee met four times during the year to fulfil the duties setout in its terms of reference.
In particular, the Committee is responsible for: Ensuring remuneration is aligned with and supports the Groups strategy, reflects our values as a Group and optimises performance Maintaining and, in every third year, reviewing the remuneration policyand considering any changes necessary to ensure it remains appropriate and fulfils its purpose of attracting and retaining high-calibre people who are able to contribute to the success oftheGroup Advising the Board on the framework of executive remuneration forthe Group Determining the remuneration and terms of engagement of the Chairman, the Executive Directors and senior executives of the Group.
The Committees activities during the financial year The Committee engaged in the following activities during the year: Determining the remuneration policy and future arrangements for theannual bonus and LTIP, with a particular focus on performance metrics and incentive levels to ensure these are aligned with the new The Committee is responsible for management structure and strategic objectives and placing the same before the shareholders at the AGM 2017 ensuring remuneration is aligned with and Annual executive salary review supports the Groups strategy, reflects our Annual review of the Chairmans fee Determining performance targets in respect of the Annual Incentive values and optimises performance.
Bonus Plan for 2017 18 Reviewing drafts of the Directors remuneration report for 2016 17 and Martin Angle recommending it to the Board for approval for inclusion in the 2017 Remuneration Committee Chairman annual report Determining bonuses and deferred bonus awards pursuant to the Companys Annual Incentive Bonus Plan in respect of the year 2016 17 Approving the long-term incentive plan LTIP awards for the year Approving the release of the 2014 deferred bonus share awards andthe vesting of executive share options pursuant to the AnnualIncentive Bonus Plan Determining the outcome of the 2014 Performance and Co-investment Plan awards Reviewing and agreeing to recommend the removal of the coinvestment obligation under the Performance and Co-investment Plan, and an increase in our shareholding guidelines Reviewing the results of the Committees performance evaluation andinstigating appropriate changes.
The Committees focus for 2018 19 Ensure that targets are stretching but also fair and achievable, sothatthey act to retain, motivate and incentivise the executive todeliver the Groups strategic goals and to create long-term value for shareholders Monitor on an ongoing basis the alignment of executive pay and benefits with the strategic direction of the Group to ensure these support the long-term success of the Company and promote itsvalues Improve the process around, and disclosure of, personal bonustargets Undertake a review of the Committees independent  Consider and respond to the remuneration-related changes included in the new version of the UK Corporate Governance Code, due to be published in June 2018.
82 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Remuneration Committee composition and meetings Date of appointment to Pennon Remuneration Committee Attendance Committee chairman Martin Angle December 2008 4 4 Committee members Neil Cooper September 2014 3 4 Gill Rider September 2012 4 4 In accordance with the Code, all of the Committee members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman of the Board attends from time to time but is not a member of the Committee.
TheCEO also attends meetings when invited except for such part ofameeting when matters concerning his own remuneration are tobediscussed.
The Committee is advised by Deloitte, an independent remuneration consultant, to ensure remuneration is determined impartially.
TheCommittee is also supported by the Group director of Human Resources and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Martin D Angle Remuneration Committee Chairman 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
