PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Through our business model, we fulfil our objective Business to deliver sustainable shareholder value by providing highquality environmental infrastructure and model customer services.
Our strategy is to lead in the UKs water and waste sectors, invest for sustainable growth and drive valuethrough efficiency.
Bringing resources to life Trusted Collaborative We do the right thing for our We forge strong relationships, working customers and stakeholders together to make a positive impact What we do...... the strengths we rely on Our core businesses Our strengths Waste management The best people Environmental stewardship The talent, commitment and hard work of We invest in the maintenance and improvement We transform waste into ourpeople is the foundation of our success.
of our services, operations and assets and energy,  Asa responsible employer, weare focused on constantly seek more sustainable ways of andraw materials.
employee retention, training and development, working to protect, enhance and reduce productivity and, above all, an unwavering ourimpact on the natural environment.
commitment to health, safety and wellbeing.
READ MORE ON PAGE 28 Strong relationships with Effective governance oursuppliers A strong governance framework provides We work closely with our suppliers and take the oversight and support to Group businesses steps necessary to ensure their performance Water and wastewater including robust decisionmaking and meets our expectations.
We expect them to performance management processes.
We provide water and wastewater uphold our standards, align with our policies, protect human rights and promote good services in the most efficient and High-quality assets working conditions.
We invest in the construction of worldclass Well-managed risk facilities and plants that use stateoftheart READ MORE ON PAGE 34 technology.
We engage the best people to Comprehensive and fully embedded risk maintain and operate our fleet of assets, management processes assist us in identifying toensure we always maximise returns.
and managing risks and opportunities to deliver the Groups strategy and objectives.
Water retail services Efficient financing The strength of our proposition, and investor We provide water retail services confidence in our performance and reputation, covering all business customers means we are well funded with efficient water management needs.
READ MORE ON PAGE 41 14 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Responsible Progressive We are always looking for new ways We keep our promises to our customers, toimprove and make life better communities and each other... delivering our strategy... to create value Our long-term priorities Value created for our stakeholders We aim to lead in the water and Customers Community wastesectors by capitalising onGroup strengths, capabilities, bestpractice and synergies 85 98% Leadership in andachieving the right balance Best ever customer 140 bathing waters out UK water and waste between risk and reward.
service score for of 143 classified as 1 3 South West Water sufficient or better READ MORE ON PAGE 20 Investors Environment We are focused on driving down 8.3% 1.4m overheads and operating in the Earnings per share Tonnes of waste 2 mostefficient way to minimise costs.
increased to 50.9p materials recycled Leadership in People cost base efficiency READ MORE ON PAGE 21 14,379 Formal training days recorded for employees We actively seek opportunities to invest for growth, whether through investment to increase our asset portfolio, initiatives to expand our Driving sustainable customer base or partnerships withother organisations.
growth 1 As measured by the service incentive mechanism SIM.
READ MORE ON PAGE 21 2 Before nonunderlying items and deferred tax.
15 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
