PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Directors report other statutory disclosures Pennon respects the right to freedom of association and employees Introduction areconsulted regularly about changes which may affect them either This Directors report is prepared in accordance with the provisions of through their trade union-appointed representatives, through the Companies Act 2006 and regulations made thereunder.
It comprises consultation groups or by means of the elected staff council which pages 64 to 83 and 102 to 105 as well as the following matters which operates in South West Water for staff employees.
These forums, theBoard considers are of strategic importance and, as permitted by together with regular meetings with particular groups of employees, are legislation, has chosen to include in the strategic report rather than used to ensure that employees are kept up to date with the business theDirectors report: performance of their employer and the financial and economic factors risk management systems pages 52 to 54 of the strategic report affecting the performance of the Group.
The Group also cascades likely future developments of the Company page 23 of the information monthly to all employees to provide them with important strategicreport and up-to-date information about key events and to obtain feedback certain employee matters page 26 and 27 of the strategic report, from them.
Further information about workforce engagement and aswell as the disclosures below.
employment matters relating to the Group is set out on pages 26 and 27 of the strategic report.
In addition, there are a number of disclosures which are included in the Directors report by reference, including: The Group encourages share ownership among its employees by operating an HM Revenue & Customs approved Sharesave scheme financial risk management note 3 of the notes to the financial andShare Incentive Plan.
Following shareholder approval at the 2014 statements AGM, these were amended to provide for the increased savings limits financial instruments pages 42 to 51 of the strategic report and approved by government.
At 31 March 2018 around 38% of the Groups notes2 o and 18 of the notes to the financial statements.
employees were participating in these plans.
Board of Directors Greenhouse gas emissions The Directors in office as at the date of this report all of whom served Change in emissions during the year are named on pages 66 and 67.
Gross greenhouse gas emissions for the Group increased by 11% primarily as a result of Viridors recently commissioned energy recovery Financial results and dividend facilities reaching their full operating capacity.
92% of our gross The Directors recommend a final dividend of 26.62 pence per ordinary emissions are due to Viridor operations, 93% of which relate to landfill share to be paid on 4 September 2018 to shareholders on the register and ERFs.
Our ERFs are fuelled by waste, composing of more than 50% on 6 July 2018, making a total dividend for the year of 38.59 pence, the biogenic or renewable carbon, which would otherwise have gone to cost of which will be 162 million, resulting in a transfer to reserves of landfill.
This has a clear resulting carbon benefit, as a greater proportion 38 million.
The strategic report on pages 42 to 51 analyses the Groups of the energy embedded in the residual waste is extracted and methane financial results in more detail and sets out other financial information.
generation from landfills is avoided.
Directors insurance and indemnities Following a reduction last year, emissions from landfill increased by 12% The Directors have the benefit of the indemnity provisions contained because of higher waste inputs to these sites during 2017 18.
This is inthe Companys Articles of Association Articles, and the Company dueto an ongoing gap in alternative residual waste treatment capacity has maintained throughout the year Directors and officers liability in the UK.
insurance for the benefit of the Company, the Directors and its officers.
Our water businesses energy usage has stayed effectively flat at 305 The Company has entered into qualifying third-party indemnity GWh compared to 307 GWh the previous year.
This represents a arrangements for the benefit of all its Directors in a form and scope that balance between our continued significant efforts to improve energy comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and which efficiency in the face of some energy-intensive additional process were in force throughout the year and remain in force.
equipment being installed to maintain compliance with regulation.
Employment policies and employee involvement All Group companies benefitted from a continued reduction in the The Group has a culture of continuous improvement through UKsaverage electricity grid emissions conversion factor, which fell investment in people at all levels within the Group.
The Group is from0.44932 kgCO2e kWh to 0.38443 kgCO2e kWh between 2016 17 committed to pursuing equality and diversity in all its employment and 2017 18.
This resulted in an overall reduction in the Groups Scope 2 activities including recruitment, training, career development and emissions over the year and has helped both South West Water and promotion and ensuring there is no bias or discrimination in the Bournemouth Water to reduce their overall carbon footprint by treatment of people.
In particular, applications for employment are around8%.
welcomed from persons with disabilities, and special arrangements andadjustments as necessary are made to ensure that applicants The intensity metric has increased from 127 to 138 tCO2e 100,000 aretreated fairly when attending for interview or for pre-employment turnover reflecting an overall rise in Scope 1 and 2 emissions, as aptitude tests.
Wherever possible the opportunity is taken to retrain described above, which have grown at a faster rate than our increase people who become disabled during their employment in order to in turnover.
maintain their employment within the Group.
The Group has policies in place covering health and safety, equal opportunities, diversity and inclusion, ethics and employee relations.
Inaddition, the Board has a diversity policy details of which are set outinthereport of the Nomination Committee on page 81.
Information regarding the diversity of the workforce is provided on page 27.
102 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Methodology and approach Pennon Group plc greenhouse gas emissions We have adopted the equity share approach for Viridor companies.
2017 18 2016 17 Thismeans that emissions from joint venture operations can be Scope 1 1,797,147 1,576,428 accurately attributed to the company in proportion to the percentage Scope 2 123,665 144,707 ofViridors holding.
The remaining companies in the Group continue to Scope 3 65,186 60,760 use the financial control approach.
This is the conventional method for Total gross emissions 1,985,997 1,781,895 parent companies and subsidiaries within a group that have the ability Green tariff electricity offset 1,738 1,774 todirect financial and operating policies and retain the majority of the Exported renewable energy reduction organisations risk and rewards.
up to total amount of electricity The methodology will be reviewed next year in light of the disposal by purchased and consumed Viridor of its interest in Viridor Laing Greater Manchester Holdings by organisation 121,927 142,933 Limited following the reset of the Greater Manchester contract.
Total annual net emissions 1,862,333 1,637,188 Biogenic emissions outside of scopes 1,520,021 1,692,423 Quantification and reporting Intensity measure: tCO e 2 We have followed the Governments guidelines for mandatory gross Scope 1 2 100,000 revenue 137.9 127.1 greenhouse gas emissions reporting published by DEFRA in June 2013 and updated in October 2013.
In calculating our emissions we have Scope 1 direct emissions Activities owned or controlled by our organisation that release emissions straight into the atmosphere, for example the combustion of fuels in companyused the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and owned and controlled stationary equipment and transportation, emissions from site-based Reporting Standard revised edition and the web-based conversion processes and site-based fugitive emissions.
Scope 2 indirect emissions Emissions released into the atmosphere associated with our consumption of purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling.
These are indirect emissions Market and Location based methodology that are a consequence of our activities but which occur at sources we do not own or control.
In 2015 the Greenhouse Gas Protocol introduced the market-based Scope 3 other indirect emissions Emissions that are a consequence of our actions, andlocation-based methodologies for reporting Scope 2 emissions whichoccur at sources which we do not own or control and which are not classed as from imported energy.
This change of reporting guidance allows Scope 2 emissions.
organisations that contractually purchase electricity from generators Human rights and anti-slavery where the supply is backed by appropriate certificates or other The Group is fully supportive of the principles set out in the UN instruments to use an emission factor that is specific to the electricity Declaration of Human Rights, and the Groups Code of Conduct outlines being purchased.
No such qualifying supply was procured by Pennon the high standards of employment practice with which everyone in Group companies for 2017 18 and therefore we have decided to continue Pennon Group is expected to comply.
The Group also supports the to report using only the location-based methodology this year.
We intend International Labour Organizations core conventions for the protection to review this approach again next year.
and safety of workforces wherever they may be throughout the Group.
Organisational boundary The Groups commitment to ensuring the human rights of its employees The emissions listed here cover the Pennon Group of companies, each are not infringed extends to those of its suppliers.
Supplier codes of of which uses the financial control approach, except where Viridor uses conduct are in place to ensure that people are treated fairly and with an equity share approach where a joint venture exists.
Operational Scopes In addition, we have in place policies and procedures to assess, monitor We have measured our Scope 1, 2 and certain Scope 3 emissions where and reduce the risk of forced labour and human trafficking occurring information is available.
inour businesses and supply chains.
Risk assessments of any high risk Intensity measurement supply partners have been completed by Viridor, South West Water and We have chosen an intensity measure of Scope 1 and 2 gross emissions Bournemouth Water to ensure compliance with the Modern Slavery Act in tCO e per 100,000 revenue across the Group and our anti-slavery and human trafficking web-based 2 statement for the year is available at www.
External assurance statement Our greenhouse gas emissions data has been independently verified Research and development byStrategic Management Consultants.
Certain aspects that relate Research and development within the Group involving water and tothe disclosures of South West Water and Bournemouth Waters wastetreatment processes amounted to 0.1 million during the year emissions have been subject to an independent audit of regulatory data 2016 17 0.2 million.
The assumptions methods and procedures that Overseas branches are followed in the development of the reported data have been tested The Company has no overseas branches.
and the data audited for accuracy and consistency.
Pennon Group donations Carbon offsets During 2017 18 the Group provided a total of 151,000 We rely on self-generated renewable energy to reduce our overall Scope in charitable donations.
2 emissions and supplement this with power purchase contracts with third parties for renewable energy through private wire where it is No political donations were made or political expenditure incurred and available near our sites.
no contributions were made to a non-EU political party 2016 17 nil.
Renewable energy export Pennon Group self-generates more electricity than it uses and much ofits renewable electricity generation is exported to the grid.
We account for this exported renewable electricity in our net emissions measure where we subtract emissions credits up to the limit of our gross volume of Scope 2 emissions.
103 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Directors report other statutory disclosures continued d The Companys rules about the appointment and replacement Purchase of own ordinary shares ofDirectors are contained in the Articles and accord with usual The Company has authority from shareholders to purchase up to 10% English company law provisions.
The powers of Directors are ofits own ordinary shares as renewed at the Annual General Meeting determined by UK legislation and the Articles in force from in2017, which was valid as at 31 March 2018 and remains currently valid.
Changes to the Articles must be approved by No purchases were made during the year.
As at 1 April 2017, 8,443 shares theCompanys shareholders by passing a special resolution: were held in treasury, with a nominal value of 3,436 and representing 0.002% of issued share capital.
No treasury shares were reissued e The Directors have the power to make purchases of the Companys duringthe year.
own shares in issue as set out above.
The Directors also have the authority to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal value of: Disclosures required by publicly traded companies i 56,498,376 such amount to be reduced by any shares allotted The following disclosures are made pursuant to Part 6 of Schedule 7 or rights granted under ii below in excess of 56,498,376 : and ofthe Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and ii 112,996,752 by way of a rights issue such amount to be Reports Regulations 2008 and Rule 7.2.
R of the UK Listing Authoritys reduced by any shares allotted or rights granted from i above, Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR.
which was approved by shareholders at the 2017 Annual General As at 31 March 2018: Meeting AGM.
In addition, shareholders approved a resolution giving the Directors a limited authority to allot shares for cash other a D etails of the Companys issued share capital, which consists than pro rata to existing shareholders.
These resolutions remain ofordinary shares of nominal value 40.7 pence each, are set out valid until the conclusion of this years AGM.
Similar resolutions will innote 33 to the financial statements on page 156.
All of the be proposed at this years AGM.
The Directors have no present Companys issued shares are fully paid up, rank equally in all intention to issue ordinary shares other than pursuant to the respects and are listed on the Official List and traded on the Companys employee share schemes: London Stock Exchange.
The rights and obligations attaching tothe Companys shares, in addition to those conferred on their f There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles, copies of terminate upon a change of control of the Company following which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by atakeover bid, such as bank loan agreements, Eurobond writing to the Group Company Secretary at the Companys documentation, hybrid capital securities documentation, private registered office: placement debt and employees share plans.
This may result in certain funding agreements being altered or repaid early.
The b There are no restrictions on the transfer of issued shares of the impact on employees share plans is not considered significant: and Company or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them, except where the Company has exercised its right to suspend their g There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors voting rights or to prohibit their transfer following the omission or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or oftheir holder or any person interested in them to provide the employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Company with information requested by it in accordance with Part There is no information to be disclosed under Listing Rule LR 9.8.
22 of the Companies Act 2006 or where their holder is precluded The Company has no long-term incentive arrangements in place from exercising voting rights by the Financial Conduct Authoritys underLR 9.4.
2R 2 where the only participant is a Director and the Listing Rules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
There arrangement is established specifically to facilitate, in unusual are no persons with special rights regarding control of the Company.
circumstances, the recruitment or retention of the individual.
No shares issued under the employee share schemes have rights with regard to control of the Company that are not exercisable Going concern directly by the employees: Having considered the Groups funding position and financial projections, c Details of significant direct or indirect holdings of securities of the the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate Company are set out in the shareholder analysis on page 170.
The resource to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or preparing the financial statements.
onvoting rights: 104 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Statement of Directors responsibilities Statement as to disclosure of information to the auditor The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the i So far as each of the Directors in office at the date of the signing Directors remuneration report and the financial statements in ofthereport is aware, there is no relevant audit information of accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
ii each of the Directors has taken all the steps each Director ought Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group and Company tohave taken individually as a Director in order to make himself financial statements in accordance with International Financial orherself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial The Directors report consisting of pages 64 to 83 and 102 to 105 was statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view approved by the Board on 24 May 2018. ofthe state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit orloss of the Group for the year.
By Order of the Board In preparing these financial statements the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently make judgements and accounting estimates which are reasonable and prudent state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union Helen Barrett-Hague have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed Group General Counsel and Company Secretary andexplained in the financial statements.
The Directors confirm that 24 May 2018 they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions, anddisclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company: and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply withthe Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages66 and 67, confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge: i The financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and ofthe Company.
ii The strategic report pages 1 to 61 and the Directors report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business during the year and the position ofthe Company and the Group at the year end, together with adescription of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
iii Following receipt of advice from the Audit Committee, that the annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model andstrategy.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website www.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Our approach to financeis responsible and sustainable 106 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 108 Independent auditors report FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND 114 Financial statements SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 169 Five-year financial summary 170 Shareholder information 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
