PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Our operations Water retail services Operational successes Pennon Water Services provides Pennon Water Services now looks after 5.3% of the UKs business customer accounts having been responsible for water retail and consultancy 33% of all water-only accounts that switched to combine servicesacross Great Britainto water and wastewater services under a single retailer.
Itisone of only four retailers who were previously part of morethan 160,000 business awater company tohave achieved net growth in the new, customer accounts.
437,000 bills have been issued withover 71,000 customer calls answered.
On 1 April 2017 the business retail market for water and Wecontinue to support key sectors in health, education, wastewater services opened for competition, allowing manufacturing and agriculture with products designed to morethan 1.2 million businesses, charities and public help businesses better understand, enhance and protect sectororganisations in England to choose who they their water supply.
This allows businesses to save money buytheir water and wastewater retail services from, for and be more competitive while supporting our continued thefirst time.
The wholesale suppliers of water and wastewater Over the last 12 months, we have won a number of servicesare the same, and domestic retail services high-profile, national contracts including Moto, Unite remainunaffected.
Students and BMI Healthcare, and has been recognised asone of the top four champion performers in the new Pennons water retail operation market by independent consultant Brodick, based on size In order to benefit from the introduction of competition, and growth.
We have also been rated highly by customers, Pennon Water Services was established and formed a retail scoring 96% customer satisfaction with staff service and venture with South Staffordshire plc incorporating South 95% customer satisfaction with staff knowledge.
Staffs Water and Cambridge Water to build scale and efficiency in the new market.
Pennon Water Services is Pennon Water Services has been able to maximise its licensed by Ofwat and has achieved excellent adherence valueby offering a broad range of services to business toregulatory standards.
Pennon Water Services is customers under itsAquaCare brand, including legionella managed independently of South West Water and testing and prevention, leakage reduction and contingency cansecure services from any wholesaler in the UK.
planning while at the same time creating an opportunity to introduce services from other Pennon Group companies.
Source for Business Source for Business was originally established in 2011 as the specialist business customer division of South West Water, fusing decades of operational excellence with exemplary customer service.
With the deregulation of the water and wastewater retail market in April 2017, Source for Business now operates as the national 5.3% 160,000 trading brand of Pennon Water Services.
of the UKs business customer business customer accounts accounts serviced nationwide R EAD MORE ONLINE www.
co. uk 41 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
