PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Our operations Upstream catchment Managing quality and quantity of Water and wastewater water running off the land and into the rivers and reservoirs.
We are focused on providing services inthe most efficient and sustainable waypossible.
Innovation, new technologies and thepioneering of an holistic Raw water reservoirs approachunderpins our commitment to delivering water resources Stores an available and service improvement and long-term value.
sufficient supply of untreated water collected from rivers R EAD MORE ONLINE and a small number of www.
We continued to deliver strong performance in 2017 18, providing high-quality drinking water, beating our leakage targets, driving improvements in our environmental standards and delivering improvements in customer service.
We are confident in our preparations for the 2019 Price Review PR19.
Stephen Bird Managing Director, South West Water South West Water Wistlandpound 1.7 0.8 Wimbleball million total million customers populationserved Upper Tamar Meldon Roadford 21 15,401 Kennick, Crowdy Tottiford & raw water reservoirs km of drinking water Trenchford Stannon Fernworthy mains network Colliford Siblyback Venford Park Burrator 651 29 Avon wastewater treatment drinking water treatment works with 63 ultraviolet works with 3 UV Stithians College UV treatment facilities treatment facilities Drift Argal 1 17,439 144 30km km wastewater bathing waters and mainsnetwork 24shellfish waters Reservoir Key water mains 1 Assessments were carried out at 143 of these during the year 34 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Surface water catchment Managing surface water drainage andreducing the impact of flooding.
Longham Lakes 10km Reservoir Key water mains Bournemouth Water Drinking water mains network 0.5 2,832 Extensive network to deliver an uninterrupted supply of treated water million total km of drinking water to households and businesses.
populationserved mains network 0.2 5 Water treatment works million customers treatment works with Treating water to high standards to 4 UVtreatment facilities ensure it is clean, safe and reliable.
2 raw water reservoirs Wastewater mains network A resilient and reliable network ofsewers to take wastewater from properties toour treatment works.
Wastewater treatment works Sewage sludge bio-resources Ensuring treated wastewater Treated sludge is used often isreturned to the environment inagriculture, minimising any inassafeas state as possible.
Customer support Our field teams work proactively to ensure high-quality services are maintained and respond quickly to any issues reported by customers themselves.
Improve bathing and shellfish water quality To support local communities and businesses.
35 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Our operations Water and wastewater continued Operational performance for the full-year resulted in a net Sector-leading outperformance ODI reward of 2.6 million 8.1 million cumulatively over We continued to deliver sector-leading performance in three years of K6, reflecting annual equivalent RoRE 2017 18 with a cumulative return on regulated equity outperformance of 0.3% to date.
This industry-leading performance comprises 6.0% as the base return, 2.6% total expenditure We maintained good asset reliability and stable totex savings and efficiencies, and 0.3% as a net reward serviceability across all water and wastewater areas and on outcome delivery incentives ODIs.
The remaining received rewards for bathing water quality and water 2.9%reflects the difference between actual and assumed restrictions.
Following improvements in external and financing costs using a cumulative forecast retail internal sewer flooding from last year, we received a priceindex over K6 of 2.8%, consistent with the way rewardfor performance this year.
wecalculate our innovative WaterShare mechanism.
The cumulative net reward of 8.1 million comprises Total expenditure savings 10.4million of net rewards recognised at the end of the During 2017 18, we continued to deliver further efficiencies regulatory period and 2.3 million of net penalty which and cost savings with 177 million of cumulative totex maybe reflected during the regulatory period.
savings in the first three years of K6 2015-2020.
Weexpect to remain at the forefront of cost efficiency Pollution events in wastewater, while improving, continue inthe water sector.
tobe higher than the levels to which we have committed and we are targeting further improvements over the remaining regulatory period.
We continued to deliver sector-leading Delivering excellent customer service We aim to deliver the highest levels of customer service.
South West Waters overall customer satisfaction score remains strong at 91%.
Value-for-money satisfaction has also increased from last year.
We use new technology, innovative processes, skills training and equipment to deliver both drinking and South West Water achieved its highest ever service wastewater improvements.
Savings are driven by incentive mechanism SIM score of 84.5 giving a continuing advantages from our strategic alliances reportable score of 85 while Bournemouth Waters including a new water distribution framework and the SIMscore of 87.6 a reportable score of 88 remains one H5Ocapital alliance.
We are ensuring efficient capital ofthe best in the UK.
The SIM score is calculated using a investment through the use of data analytics, optimising qualitative element based on a customer survey and a capital and operating solutions while promoting efficient quantitative element including the number of complaints off-site build techniques.
The integration of Bournemouth received in writing or by phone.
Complaints have halved Water continues to drive efficiencies, including delivery since 2011 with written complaints down again in 2017 18 ofkey capital schemes in the region.
following the c. 30% reduction in 2016 17.
ODI rewards During 2017 18 we introduced a number of proactive Overall, our operational performance is ahead of our customer service improvements.
These included the committed performance levels, resulting in continued in-house development of our voice of the customer VoC netreward in ODI despite the challenges from the cold technologies, designed for use as a transactional retail weather in March 2018. survey and customer engagement tool, innovatively Cumulative K6 RoRE SIM 100 2.9% Financing 80 outperformance 60 40 6.0% 0.3% 11.8% Base ODI outTotal 20 performance 0 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 2017 18 Bournemouth Water South West Water 2.6% Totex outperformance 36 71 74 75 86 79 86 82 88 85 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 adapted to fit with the unique needs of the wholesale areaof our business.
The technology has helped us increase thespeed and quality of our responses though amore proactive, tailored approach.
In conjunction with awide-ranging number of process, people, technology andproactive customer service improvement initiatives implemented during the year, this has seen South West Water achieve a larger in-year increase in its Customer Experience Survey score which is an industry comparison of customer service than any other water company.
In April 2018, South West Water received accreditation from the Institute of Customer Service ICS.
ServiceMark is a national standard recognising an organisations achievement in customer service and its commitment toupholding those standards.
This is a key development because the next generation of Ofwats SIM mechanism its customer experience measure known as CMeX Co-creation workshops improve customer measure of excellence is likely to be based onthe ICS metrics and principles.
customer service on leaks A cornerstone of our customer service strategy is to Customers are understandably concerned about leaks on theirsupply pipes because they do not want to be charged ensure affordable bills and help customers in vulnerable forwater they have not used.
We introduced a new social tariff into workshops have allowed us to re-engineer the way we respond theBournemouth region during the year and now assist to customers when they have leaking pipes.
Our customers get approximately 51,000 customers through a variety of a better experience and this has increased our customer service support schemes.
Effective use of a range of communication channels including SMS, apps and social media has allowed us to respond WaterShare faster and ensure customers are kept fully informed throughout Our unique WaterShare scheme identified 6.1 million the response process.
Independent Ofwat surveys have of customer benefits during the year, in addition to the confirmed we are offering a much more responsive process 4.0million identified for 2016 17.
The independent andfulfilling our service commitments.
WaterShare customer panel scrutinises our performance against the current business plan and reviews and challenges our recommendations on how any benefits should be shared with customers.
It recommended the 4.0million should be deferred to facilitate investments planned later in the regulatory period.
The WaterShare panel will consider how to apply the 2017 18 benefit following customer research later in the year.
Drinking water ODI net penalties valued at 2.1 million, which apply in We continued to maintain the high standards of drinking thecurrent regulatory period, have been passed back water quality achieved last year.
South West Waters tocustomers through a reduction to their bills in 2018 19. leakage performance at 83 megalitres per day was ahead of our target and resulted in a reward for the year.
This reflects our continued investment in real-time pressure management and additional network monitoring and Leakage megalitres per day effective repairs.
100 South West Water achieved its 21st consecutive year of unrestricted water supplies, while the Bournemouth Water 80 region has had no water restrictions since privatisation.
This is a result of prudent water resource management, keeping leakage under control and high levels of water 60 meter adoption, which helps customers to manage their consumption.
Our long-term draft water resource 40 management plan, published in 2017, includes a stress-tested forecast surplus of supply over demand.
20 The average duration of supply interruptions per property for South West Water was higher than last year as a resultof the extreme cold weather in early March 2018.
0 This resulted in a penalty of 0.9 million.
2013 14 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 2017 18 Bournemouth Water South West Water 37 84 84 20 84 19 82 19 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Our operations Water and wastewater continued Investment in drinking water infrastructure Investment into key drinking water projects continued during the year to assist in maintaining water quality andreducing supply interruptions.
This work includes improving mains in the Plymouth area as well as our 60million investment in the innovative Mayflower watertreatment works at North Plymouth, which is duetobecome operational in autumn 2018.
We also completed improvements at three water treatment plantsin Devon: Tottiford 6.0 million: 6.3 million at Northcombe: and inJune 2017, work started on the 5.7million upgrade ofTamar Lakes treatment works.
Allthree use granular activated carbon filtration andUV disinfection.
Wecontinued to invest in real-time pressure managementand network modelling technology toreducesupply interruptions.
Wastewater Protecting water quality We aim to ensure the safe and efficient removal and in PlymouthSound disposal of wastewater, while minimising the likelihood of sewer flooding or pollution affecting homes, businesses Our wastewater investment during the year included 20 million orthe environment.
Wastewater treatment improvements in Plymouth to help further protect bathing water quality.
Wehave made significant upgrades to our wastewater were a focus again this year along with increased infrastructure to improve water quality in Plymouth Sound monitoring to improve our ability to prevent potential andmaintain bathing water quality at Plymouth Hoe East failures.
A good example is our 5 million investment in andWest beaches, which have been rated excellent every wastewater treatment in Fluxton, East Devon, which was yearsincetougher new standards were introduced in 2015. completed in January.
Investment included improving key stormwater overflows, removing surface water and increasing stormwater storage capacity.
UV disinfection technology has also been installed onthe stormwater overflow at Plymouth Central wastewater We continue to reduce the risk treatment works the largest UV scheme of its type in the UK.
Although our numeric compliance was slightly down on the previous years 98.4%, the underlying performance shown by lead indicators and our internal monitoring results continue to improve.
38 99.98 99.96 99.98 99.96 100.00 99.97 99.98 99.96 381 321 234 265 258 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Protecting the environment Investment to continue improving environmental performance saw a reduction in overall pollution incidents during the year.
While performance still needs to improve, and we incurred a penalty this year, we made good progress and anticipate further improvement in 2018 19.
During the year, a thorough analysis of our historical performance regarding pollution incidents and their rootcauses was undertaken.
New predictive computer models anticipate where blockages might arise and locate them before they become an issue.
South West Water is investing in improvements at wastewater treatment works and pumping stations.
New capabilities for assessing and clearing sewage network blockages are being introduced inaddition to training to increase understanding among employees of the causes and impacts of pollution incidents.
We also continue to promote responsible sewer usage with Our Mayflower treatment works our customers through initiatives such as Think Sink!
and isaglimpse of the future Love your Loo.
This drinking water investment is attracting widespread interest In April 2018, South West Water was longlisted for the from other UK water companies as well as overseas.
Mayflower Environmental Sustainability Award as part of Business will use innovative water treatment processes to deliver even inthe Communitys Responsible Business Awards 2018. cleaner water more efficiently, while helping to keep customer bills down.
A first of its kind in the UK and Europe, Mayflowers Investment in wastewater infrastructure new technology combines suspended ion exchange, inline Wastewater activity during the year included a 20 million coagulation and ceramic membrane technology.
These investment in Plymouth to improve the already high level cutting-edge treatment processes were developed by the ofbathing water quality.
We created extra storm storage Dutchwater technology company PWNT.
Mayflower combines inthe sewerage network helping to reduce the risk of three of our core values: progressive the innovative use ofrobust new technology and a fresh approach to water spillsinto Plymouth Sound, while protecting the already treatment : collaborative working in partnership : and excellent water quality against extreme rainfall events in responsible Mayflower will produce renewable energy the future.
The project includes construction of our largest onsite, use fewer chemicals and produce less waste than ever ultra-violet disinfection facility for storm water and aconventional treatment works.
represents the largest single wastewater investment in the current K6 programme.
co. uk mayflower We improved water quality at eight shellfish harvesting areas on major estuaries in Devon and Cornwall and investment in providing higher capacity and better resilience at our wastewater treatment works, including Hayle in Cornwall, is ongoing, while monitoring of our network during weather events has been enhanced.
Our positive results for the 2017 bathing water season, assessed under EU standards, reflect a sustained programme of major investments to protect bathing waters.
2 Bathing water compliance % Of the 143 bathing waters assessed in the South West Water region, 140 98% were classified as sufficient or 100 better, with 75% qualifying as excellent.
None of the three bathing waters rated as poor was attributed to any failure 80 of South West Waters assets.
We continue to reduce the risk of flooding to customers 60 through numerous improvements to our sewage system ina range of locations, including Totnes and Paignton.
40 20 0 2015 16 2016 17 2017 18 Excellent Su icient 2 New standards introduced in 2015 under the EUs revised Bathing Water Directive.
Theclassifications are poor quality, sufficient quality the new minimum standard, goodquality and excellent quality the new guideline standard.
39 70.3 97.2 81.1 98.6 75.5 97.9 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Our operations Water and wastewater continued Customer engagement for PR19 In September 2018 South West Water will submit its business plan for the 2020-2025 period to Ofwat as partofPR19.
In support of PR19 business planning, the company has carried out its largest programme of customer research and engagement to date, including inviting all customers tohave their say on business proposals published for consultation in March 2018 through traditional and digital channels, including social media.
Feedback hasbeen received from more than 22,000 customers.
Wholesale services As a wholesaler within the non-household market, which opened on 1 April 2017, we currently work with more than 16different retailers, including Pennon Water Services, and our wholesale service desk has been operating effectively.
As a wholesaler in this new market, we welcome the New wastewater van fleet brings opportunity to facilitate competition.
immediate drop in pollution incidents Our community The 2017 18 reduction in pollution incidents results from a range As one of the largest companies in the region, South West of investments, including a new fleet of specialised wastewater Water provides services that are essential for the areas vans.
Each van accommodates advanced equipment including economic sustainability supporting the employment of CCTV and sonar to detect blockages in wastewater pipes.
Thevans were commissioned in September and South West some 5,000 people either directly or indirectly through our Water recorded an immediate reduction in pollution incidents.
We engage with local communities through arange of activities including our own events, support for We are also running information campaigns such as Think Sink!
events run by our partners in Devon and Cornwall and and Love Your Loo to educate the public about the blockages fundraising for charities.
Our community outreach also that can arise when flushing waste fat or baby wipes away.
includes public information campaigns including Think The Environment Agency is looking for serious pollution Sink!
and Love Your Loo, and customer consultations such incidents across the UK to trend towards zero by 2020 and as our Get Into Water programme as part of our PR19 work.
wecontinue to look for innovative ways to reduce the number ofsuch incidents.
Sponsorships and charitable partnerships In 2017 18, South West Water provided 97,000 of community sponsorship and supported a number of charities.
Sponsorships included BeachCare with Keep Britain Tidy, Cornwall Wildlife Trust, Devon Wildlife Trust, South West Coast Path Association, Surf Life Saving GB and Beach Schools South West.
Our charity activity was onbehalf of Age UK Cornwall, Age UK Devon, Cornwall AirAmbulance Trust, Devon Air Ambulance Trust, Devonand Cornwall Food Action and the RNLI.
Access and recreation Our partnership with South West Lakes Trust ensures thatour reservoirs and landholdings are managed for environmental improvements and for the benefit of our customers and communities.
During the year we welcomed over two million visitors to our recreational estate.
There was a big focus on health and wellbeing with 70,000 people benefiting from health giving outdoor activities atthe lakes while 5,000 people learnt new skills as the Trust delivered training workshops in watersports, environmental and heritage education.
