PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 With clear market opportunities for both the water Market and waste businesses, the Group is wellprepared to capitalise on the changing regulatory water markets overview and is in a strong position to deliver growth through its increasing market share of the UKs energy recovery operations.
UK water Water Non-household sector regulators retail market The water industry serves 50 million DEFRA sets the overall water and sewerage On 1 April 2017, the non-household retail household and business customers in England policy framework in England.
marketwas opened, allowing up to 1.2 million and Wales, who are supplied with drinking businesses and other non-household Ofwat is the economic regulator for the water water and have their wastewater taken away customers across the country to choose sector in England and Wales.
Every five years and treated.
These services are provided by 32 whichretailer they buy water and wastewater companies submit business plans as part of privately-owned regional companies, of which services from.
South West Waters 10 are providers of both water and wastewater 2015-2020 plan was awarded enhanced status The non-household market operates through services source: Ofwat.
aspart of the 2014 Price Review.
The company acontrolled portal operated by Market The UK water industry supplies clean water is currently preparing its submission as part of Operator Services Limited.
It has required toproperties through a mains network that the 2019 2020-2025 Price Review.
theseparation of the wholesale andretail is420,000km long.
Itmanages more than armsof water businesses.
The Environment Agency is the principal 16billion litres ofwastewater a day through environmental regulator.
Pennon Water Services was established to 624,200km ofsewers and 9,000 wastewater manage the non-household retail business treatmentplants source: Water UK.
The Drinking Water Inspectorate DWI forPennon and has formed a retail venture is the drinking water quality regulator.
The Consumer Council for Water represents consumers and takes up unresolvedcomplaints.
UK water industry 2017 UK water regulators Market choice 10 Water and waste companies 32 operators in the UK 1.2m businesses and other non-household customers can choose who they buy 22 Water only water and wastewater retail companies services from How weve responded South West Water is focused on demonstrating South West Water engages with its regulators Pennon Water Services has focused on leadership within the water sector, pioneering at all levels and is committed to ensuring trust offering high-quality retailcustomer service new technologies and methods to improve and transparency within these relationships.
and a broad range ofservices that enhance customer service, efficiency and resilience value.
As a result, Pennon Water Services is while working closely with industry peers and one of only four retailers who were previously the supply chain to identify and implement part of a water company to have achieved net best working practice across all areas of growth and has achieved96% customer the business.
satisfaction with the service provided.
12 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Waste inputs Recycled waste Waste to ERFs materials to landfill We estimate that in the UK, 26 million tonnes The recycling market has had a challenging Households in England generated 22.3 million of waste were suitable for combustion in ERFs year with input quality suffering from local tonnes of waste in 2017, amounting to 406kg in 2017, comprising an estimated 15million authority cost savings and increasing quality ofwaste per person.
Of this, the UK mainland tonnes ofmunicipal household waste and demands on outputs.
In 2017, China announced disposed of 11 million tonnes of active waste 11million tonnes of commercial and industrial it was prohibiting certain types of waste imports, household black bag waste and similar waste.
All the ERFs in the UK processed a including plastics and unsorted paper.
We are unrecyclable waste from industrial and combined 11 million tonnes of this waste in working with new customers to access recycling commercial sources into landfills in 2017 2017.
Our facilities processed 2 million tonnes markets in Asia, which partially mitigate the compared with 12.5 million tonnes in 2016. in 2017, giving us a market share of around impact of Chinas restrictions.
In 2017 our landfill sites received 1.5 million 20%, based on input tonnages, making the We are optimistic that positive changes will be tonnes of active waste 14% UK market share.
company the joint leader in the sector.
announced in the Governments Resources & In addition, we received 0.6 million tonnes of In 2017, the total power generated by ERFs in Waste Strategy later this year.
inert inactive waste for daily cover and the UK was 6.2TWh approximately 1.7% of restoration purposes.
Viridor is a market leader in processing total UK generation in 2017 and an increase comingled waste streams where recyclables are We expect the volume of waste being sent of19% on2016.
In 2017, we processed tolandfill to reduce as the availability of ERFs c. 0.7 million tonnes of comingled mixed increases, with an ongoing baseline recyclable waste out of an estimated 4million requirement for landfill for materials that are tonnes based on the most recent numbers not suitable for recycling or recovery.
available, indicating an 18% market share.
The volume of waste for recycling is expected toincrease reflecting population growth and agrowing public pressure particularly around plastics.
As a result manufacturers are taking aninterest in securing longer-term supplies ofhigh-quality recyclate.
UK combustible waste 2017 Comingled recyclable waste Tonnes of waste to landfill materials processed in the UK 11m tn 2017 Commercial and industrial waste 12.5m tonnes of waste to landfill in 2016 26m 4m tonnes tonnes 11.0m 15m tn tonnes of waste Municipal household waste to landfill in 2017 Viridors programme of investment in ERFs Viridor had implemented self-help measures Viridor continues to maximise gas yields continues as planned with 12 facilities due before the new Chinese restrictions were fromits landfills and maximise its external tobe operational by 2020 21. introduced.
It continues to reopen regimes ensure recyclate is being sent to mothballed sites as demand justifies and theappropriate markets.
65% of contracted willmaintain well-located sites in areas of recycling volumes has been renegotiated landfill scarcity.
toprovide sustainable pain gain sharing mechanisms in the current climate.
13 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
