PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Board of Directors Sir John Parker Christopher Loughlin Susan Davy Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer GBE, FREng, DSc Eng, ScD Hon, BSc Hons, MICE, CEng, MBA BSc Hons, ACA DSc Hon, DUniv Hon, FRINA Chris was appointed to the Board on 1 August 2006 Susan joined the Board on 1 February 2015.
She is Sir John was appointed to the Board as Deputy Chairman uponjoining Pennon as Chief Executive of South West amember of the Sustainability Committee and the on 1 April 2015 and became Chairman on 1 August 2015.
He became the Group Chief Executive Officer Pennon Executive.
He is also chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Chris is chairman of the Pennon Skills and experience Executive and a member of the Sustainability Committee.
Skills and experience Susan is a graduate qualified chartered accountant Sir John is a highly experienced and independent Skills and experience with20 years experience in the utility sector.
Prior to chairman and brings a wealth of leadership experience Chris has extensive experience of the regulated business hercurrent appointment, Susan was Finance Director across a range of industries.
He is widely recognised environment and the management of major engineering atSouth West Water between 2007 and 2015, during forhis policy work on the value of diversity in the and infrastructure services.
He started his career as a which time she was responsible for the companys boardroom, having chaired the Governments review chartered engineer working in both the consulting and Business Plan to 2020.
She has also held a number onEthnic Diversity on UK Boards in 2017.
Prior to that, contracting sectors and, after holding a number of senior ofother senior finance roles in the water sector, hewas a member of the Davies Committee Women positions with British Nuclear Fuels plc, joined its board includingas Head of Regulation and Head of onBoards.
Prior to joining Pennon, he was Finance Wastewater at Yorkshire Water.
chief operating officer with Lloyds Register and before He has chaired five FTSE 100 companies and was Susans knowledge of the industry coupled with her that, executive chairman of Magnox Electric plc.
He was previously the chairman of Anglo American plc until financial and regulatory expertise has supported the also a senior diplomat in the British Embassy, Tokyo.
October 2017 and National Grid plc, senior non-executive development of Pennons strategy and her input director and chairof the Court of the Bank of England, Chris has a comprehensive understanding of the water hasbeen invaluable to the Board in its deliberations.
deputy chairman of DP World, joint chair of Mondi and industry.
He was previously a board member and, for a Susanishighly respected in the City and has been chair ofBVT and P&O plc.
He was also president of the period, president of the Institute of Water, and between instrumental in building Pennons reputation.
RoyalAcademy of Engineering from 2011 to 2014 and April 2008 and March 2012 was chairman of Water UK.
External appointments isaVisiting Fellow of the University of Oxford.
Since his appointment as Group Chief Executive Officer, Susan is chair of the CBI South West council and a Since his appointment as Chairman, Sir John has Chris has set Pennon on a path of closer collaboration in member of the A4S Accounting for Sustainability broughtthe Group together under a revised governance pursuit of delivery of its strategy, with the constituent parts CFOleadership network.
framework that features a new role of Group Chief of the Group now working together to identify synergies, Executive Officer and other senior positions.
The reduce costs and exploit opportunities for growth.
newteam is working together collaboratively to External appointments driveforward the Groups strategy.
Chris is currently chairman of British Water, a External appointments directorofWater UK and a trustee of the charity Sir John is the chairman of construction and engineering WaterAid.
Anenthusiastic advocate of local business, company Laing ORourke and ofAdvanced Plasma Chris is alsovice chairman of the Cornwall Local Power Limited.
He is also a non-executive director of Enterprise Partnership.
He is a senior adviser to Spencer Stuart and is the senior nonexecutive director on theCabinet Office board.
Board Committee members Pennon Executive Audit Committee Sustainability Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Chair of Committee 66 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Gill Rider Martin Angle Neil Cooper Senior Independent Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive BSc Hons, FCA, MCSI BSc Hons, FCMA Martin was appointed to the Board on 1 December Neil joined the Board on 1 September 2014.
He is chairman CB, PhD, CCIPD 2008.
He is chairman of the Remuneration of the Audit Committee and a member of the Gill was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2012.
Committeeand a member of the Audit, Nomination Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
She is chairman of the Sustainability Committee andSustainability Committees.
andamember of the Audit, Remuneration and Skills and experience Nomination Committees.
Neil brings to the Board extensive experience in a wide Skills and experience variety of corporate and financial matters.
He is currently Martin is an experienced non-executive director, bringing Skills and experience the chief financial officer of Currencies Direct, a foreign a wide range of knowledge and experience from a career Gill has a wealth of experience in leadership, exchange broker and international payment provider.
in investment banking, private equity and industry.
governanceand remuneration across a broad range Previously, he was group finance director of Barratt Over a 20-year executive career in investment banking, ofsectors, including professional services, education Developments plc and, before that, group finance director Martin held senior roles with SG Warburg & Co. Ltd, andgovernment.
of William Hill plc and Bovis Homes plc.
He also held Morgan Stanley and Dresdner Kleinwort Benson, before Formerly, she was head of the Civil Service Capability senior finance positions at Whitbread plc, worked for becoming the group finance director of TI Group plc, Group in the Cabinet Office, reporting to the Cabinet  as a management consultant then a FTSE 100 company.
He subsequently joined Secretary and prior to that held a number of senior and held a number of roles with Reckitt & Colman plc.
TerraFirma Capital Partners, where he held various positions with Accenture LLP, culminating in the post As chairman of the Audit Committee, Neil has been senior roles in its portfolio companies, including the ofchief leadership officer for the global firm.
She was influential in directing Pennons approach on a number executive chairmanship of the Waste Recycling Group previously president of the Chartered Institute of ofsignificant matters, including internal control, Limited, then a major participant in the UK waste sector, Personnel and Development and a non-executive governance and financial reporting.
and LeMeridien Hotel Group, where he was executive director of fide La Rue plc.
External appointments As chairman of the Sustainability Committee, Gill has Martin has also served as a non-executive director on a Executive Director, Currencies Direct.
encouraged and supported executive management number of boards including Savills plc, where he was the inthe development of a sustainability programme senior independent director: National Exhibition Group, thatunderpins the delivery of Pennons strategy.
where he was chairman: Severstal: and Dubai AtAccenture she chaired the global corporate International Capital.
responsibility and Foundation giving programme and As chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Martin has wasinstrumental in building sustainability objectives steered Pennons approach on executive remuneration, intoAccentures worldwide human capital strategies.
ensuring that it is aligned with and supports the External appointments Groupsstrategy.
Gill currently holds non-executive directorships with External appointments Charles Taylor plc, where she is senior independent During the year, Martin was vice chairman and director, and Intertek Group plc.
She is chairman of non-executive director of the FIA Foundation, the adviser boththeir remuneration committees.
She is also chair to the Board of the Commercial Bank of Dubai and the ofthe council board of the University of Southampton.
adviser to NGP, a private group based in the USA, which is building out a major platform in renewable energy in emerging markets.
Helen Barrett-Hague Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Solicitor, LLB Hons Helen joined Pennon as Group General Counsel & Company Secretary to the Board in March 2016.
Skills and experience Helen has extensive corporate experience, including capital raisings, initial public offerings, corporate restructuring, mergers and acquisitions, both in the UK and overseas.
She began her career in private practice before moving in-house in 1999 and holding positions of increasing responsibility with PA Consulting, Generics Group AG, Aveva Group plc and Alent plc.
Helen is responsible for the provision of legal and company secretarial services to the Group, for statutory and regulatory compliance in terms of business conduct, and for supporting the Chairman and the Board in ensuring that Pennons high standards of governance continue to be met.
She is also chairman of the board of trustees of the Pennon Group Defined Contribution Pension Scheme.
67 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
