PIGIT pp17 34. qxp 31 05 2018 10:50 Page 17 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS Richard Laing, Chairman of the Board and the Victoria Cochrane Chairman of the Audit Management Engagement Committee Committee Richard Laing was appointed to the Board on Victoria Cochrane was appointed to the Board on 28 October 2015.
She is also a non-executive director 20 November 2012.
He was previously Chief of Euroclear Bank SA NV and of HM Courts & Executive of CDC Group plc, formerly the Tribunals Service.
She is a former member of the Commonwealth Development Corporation, from Global Executive Board of Ernst & Young, where she 2004 to 2011, having joined the organisation in was responsible for risk worldwide.
She stood down 2000 as Finance Director.
Prior to CDC, he spent from her executive career in 2013, having been 15 years at fide La Rue, latterly as the Group Finance a Partner in the firm for 20 years.
Prior to the global Director.
He previously worked in international role, she spent two years as a Member of the agribusiness, at  and UK Executive, responsible for risk, and was Managing Marks & Spencer.
He has had a number of Partner for Risk and General Counsel before that.
non-executive positions across a range of sectors.
Victoria is a qualified solicitor and spent more than His current appointments include: Chairman of 10 years as a litigator.
3i Infrastructure plc and Miro Forestry Ltd, which operates in West Africa: non-executive director of Bob Yerbury JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc: Bob Yerbury was appointed to the Board on and a trustee of Plan UK, the international childrens 4 December 2008.
His investment career spans charity.
He obtained an MA from Cambridge over 40 years, having led the North American team University in Engineering and is a Fellow of the at Invesco Perpetual for 14 years, becoming Chief Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Investment Officer in 1997 and Chief Executive Wales FCA.
He handed over his CEO and CIO responsibilities in September 2008 and June Vivian Bazalgette Senior Independent 2010 respectively, continuing as a Senior Managing Director Director of Invesco Ltd until his retirement on Vivian Bazalgette was appointed to the Board 27 March 2013.
He holds an MA in Mathematics on 21 May 2007.
He is non-executive Chairman of from Cambridge University and qualified as an Fidelity European Values plc and a non-executive Actuary at Equity & Law Life Assurance Society.
Director of Brunner Investment Trust plc.
He is also He is a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries FIA.
an adviser to BAE Systems Pension Fund and a Trustee of St. Christophers Hospice.
He was Mike Balfour previously Chief Investment Officer at M&G PLC Mike Balfour was appointed to the Board on and, following the takeover of M&G by Prudential, 2 January 2018.
He has over 30 years experience in Chief Investment Officer of Prudential M&G, and financial services.
He was chief executive of Thomas a non-executive Director of St Jamess Place PLC as Miller Investment Ltd until 2016 and prior senior well as the Chairman of the Investment Committee appointments have included chief executive at of St Jamess Place.
He holds an MA in English from Glasgow Investment Managers and chief investment Cambridge University.
officer at Edinburgh Fund Managers Limited.
He is a non-executive director of Standard Life Investment Alan Giles Property Income Trust plc and Martin Currie Global Alan Giles was appointed to the Board on Portfolio Trust plc.
He also chairs the investment 6 November 2015.
He was Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the remuneration committee of TPT Retirement Solutions previously committee of Rentokil Initial until 10 May 2017, The Pensions Trust and recently retired as a when he retired from that position.
He is Senior non-executive director of Murray Income Trust plc.
Independent Director and Chairman of the He is a member of the Institute of Chartered remuneration committee of the Competition Accountants of Scotland.
and Markets Authority, Chairman of the Advisory Board at the Oxford Institute of Retail Management All Directors are non-executive.
and an Associate Fellow at Said Business School, University of Oxford as well as Honorary visiting All Directors are considered independent except for professor at Cass Business School.
He was formerly Bob Yerbury, as he was employed by Invesco Chairman of Fat Face Group Limited, Chief Executive Perpetual until 27 March 2013. of HMV Group Plc, Managing Director of Member of the Audit Committee.
Waterstones, and an executive director of WH Smith Member of the Management Engagement Plc.
He previously held non-executive directorships at The Office of Fair Trading, Somerfield Plc and Wilson Committee.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 17
