PIGIT pp01 16. qxp 31 05 2018 10:49 Page 07 STRATEGY STRATEGIC REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2018 PORTFOLIO MANAGERS REPORT Market Review A flat performance by the UK stock market over the Companys financial year masked some price volatility, as the FTSE All-Share Index reached an all-time high at the end of 2017.
This strength proved to be temporary as the market weakened in the early months of the new year.
The period was dominated by the opposing forces of better global economic growth, with associated increases in anticipated interest rates, and ongoing political concerns, especially domestically focused around the Brexit negotiations.
The combination of these two factors, alongside significant foreign exchange movements, led to increased polarisation of sector performance in the UK stock market.
The markets rise in 2017 was led by a rally in the oil and mining sectors, on the back of an improving outlook for global growth, while sterling fell in response to the surprise outcome of the UK general election.
However, in the final quarter of the period, rising geopolitical uncertainty, including the possible impact of trade wars, and strength in sterling on the back of better news on Brexit negotiations, resulted in a more difficult backdrop for the market.
The reality of rising interest rates and bond yields in the US had a further negative impact.
Sentiment towards UK domestic sectors remained negative throughout the period.
This may be attributed to the combination of a pessimistic attitude towards the Brexit negotiations and the weak government elected last June alongside an improvement in the global backdrop.
The result has been a collapse in valuations for domestically focused companies, leaving them at multi-year lows, relative to the valuation of the UK equity market as a whole.
Portfolio Review The Companys net asset value, including reinvested dividends, delivered a total return of 5.6% over the year under review, compared with one of 1.2% total return by the FTSE All-Share Index.
The portfolios performance over the period was negatively impacted by a few significant positions, which outweighed and overshadowed strong performances from elsewhere in the portfolio.
Notable amongst the former was the holding in Provident Financial, which delivered negative returns over the period as a whole, despite rallying sharply in the final quarter.
The company issued a profit warning last August, downgrading forecasts for its Consumer Credit Division from a profit of 115 million to a loss of between 80 and 120 million for the year.
Additionally, the business announced that its Vanquis Bank subsidiary was subject to, and co-operating with, an FCA investigation into its Repayment Option Plan ancillary product, along with the resignation of its chief executive and the cancellation of its dividend.
In February of this year, earlier than anticipated by the market, Provident Financial announced that it had reached resolution in respect of the FCA investigation and was raising a total of 300 million of new capital to strengthen the balance sheet maintaining its investment grade status and that it will return to paying dividends this year before resuming a progressive dividend policy in 2019.
Capita also endured a challenging year.
Following the news of the bankruptcy of Carillion which is not held in the portfolio, Capitas board revised its view of an appropriate balance sheet structure for the business.
As a result, the company announced the cancellation of its dividend and the outline of a fund raising, without providing details.
The market responded very negatively to the initial lack of clarity from management, prompting a sharp fall in the companys share price.
The company also announced a major re-structuring, which should create a leaner, more focused, financially stronger and more efficient business.
Subsequent to the period end, Capita has announced a 3 for 2 rights issue to raise 701 million, which has been well received by the stock market.
The portfolios holdings in the tobacco sector British American Tobacco BAT, Imperial Brands and Reynolds American now merged with BAT have delivered exceptional returns for shareholders over the long term.
However, over the past year the sector was impacted by headwinds which resulted in a negative performance.
In 2017, the stock market focused on plans announced by the US Food and Drug Administration to launch a consultation on lowering nicotine levels in cigarettes regulation of which may be expected to take some time to come to fruition.
Subsequent underperformance resulted from the weakness of the US dollar and the profit impact on translation into sterling, as well as the shift in market sentiment towards more economically sensitive sectors in a period of rising bond yields.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 07 PIGIT pp01 16. qxp 31 05 2018 10:49 Page 08 STRATEGY STRATEGIC REPORT PORTFOLIO MANAGERS REPORT continued This negative performance came despite the successful conclusion last year by BAT of the acquisition of Reynolds American, creating an entity which is well positioned to exploit both traditional cigarettes and next generation products, particularly in the key US market.
Subsequent results from BAT confirmed headwinds for headline earnings from adverse foreign exchange moves, overshadowing news of underlying growth across the business and a 15% increase in the dividend.
The tobacco companies focus on pricing power, cash conversion and product innovation should continue to provide a reliable source of income, underpinning longer term returns to shareholders, while the next generation products have the potential to deliver a significant new revenue stream.
Furthermore, the steep decline in the valuations given to this sector over recent months leaves the shares looking increasingly attractive long term investments.
A new investment in Altria, a major US tobacco company incorporating the Marlboro brand, was made in the period.
By contrast, there were some noteworthy positive contributions from some of the portfolios Brexit hit stocks.
The easyJet share price rose by more than 50% over the period, as the company reported rising sales and revenues on the back of market share gains.
The bankruptcies of Monarch, Air Berlin and Alitalia provided further opportunities for the company in a highly competitive market.
Thomas Cook continued its share price recovery from its post Brexit low, as the company confirmed strong growth in its UK and German markets, with demand shifting back to the terrorist impacted markets of the Eastern Mediterranean and North Africa.
Sentiment towards the real estate sector notably companies exposed to the London office market was also negatively impacted in the aftermath of the 2016 referendum.
Derwent Londons share price recovered some lost ground later in the period, as the company confirmed strong growth in earnings on the back of a record lettings year in 2017.
Tenant demand for Derwents differentiated buildings in near prime locations remains robust, with Brexit having no impact so far.
Derwent further pleased investors with a special dividend of 75p a share announced in February.
The challenges facing the UK retail sector extend well beyond Brexit concerns.
However, Next confirmed that its multi channel offering allows it to see the growth of on-line shopping as an opportunity not a threat, while it can flex its leasehold property base to take best advantage of future trends in apparel retailing.
Meanwhile, its focus on shareholder returns through special dividends and further share buy backs underpinned earnings growth despite both the testing retail back drop and increased investment in logistics to improve the efficiency of its online business.
The pharmaceutical sector encompasses a range of businesses, from the largest global, multinational pharmaceutical companies to much more niche specialty pharma or biotechnology businesses and the portfolio is invested in a diverse number of these.
While the holdings in Roche and Vectura weighed on performance, there were some notably strong performances from other small and mid cap portfolio holdings including BTG, Horizon Discovery, Motif Bio, PureTech Health and Silence Therapeutics.
The backdrop for the sector is positive, given the ageing population and the demand for western-style medicines in the emerging world.
Innovation in drug discovery is strong and R&D productivity is improving, whereas that is not currently reflected in share prices.
In terms of portfolio activity during the year, as mentioned above the holding in Reynolds was disposed of on its takeover by BAT, with a new investment made in Altria.
New investments were also made in A J Bell, British Land, Eddie Stobart Logistics, McBride, Royal Dutch Shell A and Secure Income REIT.
The holdings in N. Brown, Centrica, Compass, London Stock Exchange, Shaftesbury, SSE and Touchstone Innovations were sold.
Outlook The performance of the UK stock market will remain heavily influenced in the near term by the combination of two key variables: the movements in sterling relative to the US dollar, being a reflection of the Brexit negotiations in Brussels: and the continued vacillations in sentiment to both the domestic economy and the fragile political scene.
The UK stock market is not expensively valued on an historical basis as demonstrated by a price earnings multiple of circa 14 times for the current year.
This represents a discount to other major stock markets and is clearly indicative of the Brexit discount applied indiscriminately to UK quoted companies.
The most significant area of opportunity is within the sectors that offer direct exposure to the UK economy, notably financials, consumer cyclicals and real estate.
08 PIGIT pp01 16. qxp 31 05 2018 10:49 Page 09 STRATEGY The bias of the investment activity for the portfolio has remained focused on additional opportunities within these sectors.
As a continuation of the trend in recent quarters, there has been plenty of negative commentary about the UK economy, in particular regarding the spike in headline inflation post the EU referendum and the impact on real wage growth.
This trend has started to reverse and, given the tightness in the labour market, should result in an acceleration of real wages over the coming quarters.
However, the market still expects to hear disappointing news about the domestic economy.
This mood of pessimism has already had the effect of reducing domestic share prices.
We expect that an acceleration in real wages will therefore come as a significant positive surprise to the market, and that domestic share prices will improve as a result.
It is noteworthy on that front that there has been a pick-up in corporate activity and take over proposals to UK companies.
For example, the widening discounts of the real estate sector have prompted approaches, including a recently unsuccessful bid proposal to Hammerson by French competitor Klepierre.
Activist investors have taken advantage of depressed share prices to take stakes in large cap companies to encourage changes in corporate strategy.
Recent market swings have favoured momentum style investing, with an ever-increasing disparity between valuation and fundamentals becoming clear.
It is frustrating that in periods of extreme momentum as we have experienced over the past year portfolio performance will predictably struggle to keep pace.
The current environment is supporting premium valuations for growth or disruptively innovative companies.
Within this context, attractive opportunities continue to appear in areas which would traditionally be seen as uncorrelated to the wider market and economy.
When assessing these opportunities, it is important to understand the risk associated with the relative attractiveness of the returns.
These opportunities encompass a wide range of sectors including Lloyds insurers and alternative lending businesses.
Whilst these opportunities may lag the broader stock market when momentum seems to outweigh valuation, as the first quarter of 2018 has demonstrated, these investments can continue to deliver returns irrespective of the performance of the market.
The outlook and positioning has changed very little over the past few months.
In a changing global environment the interests of investors are best served by employing a well-tested investment process, which is based on fundamental company analysis and a prudent approach to valuation.
I continue to evaluate and re-evaluate the holdings in the portfolio and to seek the best opportunities to generate the real growth in dividend income required to achieve the Companys investment objective.
In times of extreme momentum and somewhat irrational market pricing it is vital to remain rooted in this fundamental investment thesis, which has served the Company well historically and should continue to do so.
Mark Barnett Portfolio Manager 30 May 2018 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 09
