26 STRATEGIC UPDATE OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES AT WORK The Group places its customers at the centre of our business.
We believe thatthe Groups strength is generated from our approach to achieving each ofour six strategic objectives.
Building quality homes for our customers Persimmon differentiates itself by developing highly skilled land, planning anddesign teams that support the acquisition of sites in great locations whereour customers wish to live and work.
The Group generates further value for itscustomers and other stakeholders by master-planning desirable neighbourhoods using our attractively designed core house types that prioritise higher levels of customer satisfaction whilst seeking to reduce complexity as an aid to achieving greater site productivity and efficiency.
This creates the opportunity for the Group Our brands performance to secure the benefits of more efficient Our brands providing the range, siteoperations, resulting in performance choice and affordability of homes improvements being captured across The Groups strategic objective to provide thebusiness from continuity of build arange of desirable homes at affordable programmes, site resourcing and customer prices for our customers is supported care performance through to health and bythe Groups three distinctive brands, safety compliance.
By attracting a wider Persimmon, Charles Church and Westbury range of the home buying public through Partnerships.
The Group seeks to deliver the multiple branding of sites the Group new homes across multiple tenures with isable to optimise sales rates and achieve the needs of our customers particularly Homes sold in 2018 aswifter asset turn.
the first time buyer and first time mover Persimmon 11,947 Charles Church 1,394 segments of the market at the forefront Westbury Partnerships 3,108 of our development plans.
In addition 39% todeveloping single branded sites, Total private sales for less theGroupalso benefits from providing than 200,000 multiplebrands on some of our larger sitessuch asEdmund Park in Frome ascheme forc.
450 new homes and Buttercup LeysinBoulton Moor, south ofDerby adevelopment of c. 500 new homes.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 27 Our brands performance Persimmon Homes average selling price 224,749 2017: 215,336 The Persimmon brand delivers traditional family housing to the private owner occupier market.
In the year under review Persimmon delivered As such, the developments have been very 11,947 new homes, 458 or 4% more STRATEGY IN ACTION attractive to customers in that area and than 2017, representing another strong In our Western region, sites at Weston theuse of the Groups core house types, year of growth.
Super Mare, Oakwood View, and at ourSpace4 modern method of construction Bridgwater, Kings Copse contributed This year on year growth in the number techniques and our detailed management excellent volumes during the year.
ofhomes sold has driven a 211.1m of construction programmes meant that efficient build rates were achieved to increase in total revenues to 2,685.1m.
Both sites benefit from being in convenient meet the demand from our customers The brands long term growth reflects the locations offering easier access for inthese areas.
commuting and excellent local amenities.
business ability to meet market demand by fulfilling the needs of our customers at affordable prices.
Persimmons highest volumes were Our Persimmon southern regional Our focus on expanding our geographical generated in our Shires and Midlands marketssecured 44% of the brands footprint has resulted in the creation regional markets which legally completed legalcompletions 5,230 homes, growing ofseven new businesses over the last 1,834 and 1,830 new homes respectively.
Recognising that our new sales in these southern markets generated SouthYorkshire business was only opened The Persimmon brands average selling 51% ofthe brands revenues with on2 January 2019, the remaining six new price of 224,749 2017: 215,336, which anaverage selling price for the year businesses generated 17% of Persimmons is slightly lower than the average UK house of260,074 2017: 250,228. legal completions and housing revenue in price in December 2018 of 230,776, 2018.
Our new operating business based reflects the Groups ongoing commitment Persimmons highest average selling price near Ipswich in Suffolk opened at the start to delivering good quality housing at of305,197 2017: 287,713 was in our of 2018 and made astrong start delivering affordable prices.
Southern region with higher value sites 348 new homes in2018, including 224 atUrban Central in Grays, Essex and Persimmon homes, 23Charles Church Hatchwood Mill in Winnersh in Berkshire.
homes and 101 Westbury Partnership homes.
The lowest average selling price for the brand of 176,802 2017: 173,786 was in the Wales regional market where sites at Oakwood View and Dol Yr Ysgol, both near Bridgend in mid Glamorgan, generated high volumes of new homes to our customers at lower price points.
Source: Office for National Statistics.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 28 STRATEGIC UPDATE OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES AT WORK continued The Group delivered 58% of Westbury Partnerships new homes in our southern regional market 2017: 62%.
We are keen to continue delivering affordable housing in increasing numbers Charles Church Westbury Partnerships to all our housing association partners average selling price average selling price across the whole of the UK.
The Group willseek to further develop these strong 355,133 117,653 relationships in order to support as many 2017: 351,218 2017: 116,068 lower income families as possible to accessthe housing market in line with theaims ofthe National Planning Policy The Charles Church brand both Westbury Partnerships is our brand Framework.
The Group currently has complements and differentiates delivering affordable social housing.
c. 4,800 affordable housing units forward itself from Persimmon by offering Westbury Partnerships plays a key sold inourorder book 2017: 4,420. the customer a choice of executive partin the delivery of new homes for housing in premium locations across the benefit of lower income occupiers, The Group is focused on providing the UK, with larger house types with offering solutions to some of the affordable housing to all of our customers.
To further support this objective, Westbury Partnerships works closely with Homes With this market positioning Charles The brand delivered 3,108 new homes to England and the Housing Agencies in Church has retained its focus on delivering our housing association partners during Scotland and Wales to manage our higher value new homes with 61 active 2018, an increase of 12% when compared relationships in association with the Help sales outletsat the end of 2018 2017: to the previous year 2017: 2,769.
In total, toBuy: Equity Loan scheme in England and 74 outlets.
Charles Church generated Westbury Partnership volumes represented the similar schemes in Scotland and Wales.
revenues of 495.1m in 2018 2017: 19% of the Groups legal completions These schemes provide customers with 626.9m from 1,394 legal completions during 2018 2017: 17%.
The average greater access to the housing market as 2017: 1,785. selling price for these homes increased itenables them to buy a home with a lower by1% to 117,653 2017: 116,068.
The Charles Church average selling deposit and at lower interest rates than priceincreased 1% to 355,133 many other mortgage options.
During 2018, 2017: 351,218, with 59% 2017: 57% the Group delivered 7,970 2017: 7,682 ofits sales being completed in southern new homes to customers who elected markets.
For example, strong demand and touse the Government sponsored Help pricing were experienced at Wyvern Farm, toBuy: Equity Loan scheme.
Stanway in Essex and The Croft, Burgess Hill, West Sussex.
Both sites benefit from arange of homes in excellent locations with good local amenities and excellent schools.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 29 FIBRENEST Having listened to our customers, we understand that they have been increasingly frustrated with delays totheir broadband connection by existing suppliers.
In addition, the speeds available from theseservices can be disappointing at times.
We recognise that a reliable broadband connection is considered to be the fourth utility for a large number of our customers.
For this reason, we have established FibreNest, our own ultrafast, full fibre to the home, broadband service which aims to be available to our customers from moving in day.
Working with experienced partners, FibreNest provides ultrafast speeds coupled with excellent levels of service, both during installation and for the duration of the service, through a UK-based call centre and Building good quality homes Customer service utilisation of highly experienced engineers.
The Groups core house types, modern We understand the importance of The first customers were connected in methods of construction and high quality delivering high levels of service to our August 2018 and the service has been introduced across more than 35 sites supplies are important elements in customers.
We participate in a National withfurther roll outs planned.
The FibreNest supporting our aim of delivering consistent New Homes Survey, run by the HBF, service is highly rated by our customers build quality across all our developments.
whichawards homebuilders stars for andFibreNest is currently ranked in the Our build programmes include detailed customer satisfaction.
The survey year top30% of internet service providers quality checks at each stage of the build covers the period from 1 October to inthe UK.
process from foundations and slab 30 September and the rating system inspections to pre-plaster and pre-paint isbased on the number of customers who inspections.
All of our homes are sold with would recommend their builder to a friend.
a 10-year warranty backed by either the Our 2018 rating from the HBF is 79%, National House Building Council NHBC, justbelow a four star rating the threshold Local Authority Building Control LABC for which is 80%.
This rating, whilst in line orPremier Guarantee and, in addition with last year remains a key focus for us, toour inspections, each warranty provider with an improvement in our customers conducts their own independent checks experience being a key objective for the atcritical build stages.
In addition, senior Group in 2019 and beyond.
employees at each operating business conduct quality inspections on a proportion of our finished homes.
This careful, detailed build process is designed to deliver consistently good quality homes for our customers across the UK.
We support thefurther improvements being developed bythe All Party Parliamentary Group with respect to the new homes market and wewill continue to contribute to the work ofthe Home Builders Federation HBF insupporting these measures.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 30 STRATEGIC UPDATE OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES AT WORK continued Building quality homes for our customers continued Our customers tell us that good communication throughout the home buying process is very important, particularly regarding the crucial move in date.
In 2018, we continued to focus on improving the systems and processes in place for communicating with our customers.
These improvements ensure our customers are kept informed at all key stages, including finalising their moving in date.
We appreciate that despite our best efforts, there will be some occasions when customers experience an issue with their In response to feedback from customers We believe that this continued investment new home.
We listen to our customers and we have increased the flexibility of the in our customer care resources will improve act as promptly as possible to deal with any working hours of our office based customer service between the notification of an issue concerns.
We have substantially increased care staff.
Our customers are now able and its resolution, provide an enhanced the level of resources and skills in our tocontact a customer care team member customer experience and ensure we achieve customer care departments in order outside of normal working hours, at times progress in our customer satisfaction levels.
toimprove the speed and efficiency more convenient to them.
In addition, from Customer care performance will continue withwhich we deal with our customers the beginning of 2019 our site based to be included in bonus and incentive issues.
Our customer care operatives have customer care operatives are available criteria for our senior operational received additional site based training that outof hours, including Saturday mornings, management, aligning their interests aims to reduce the time taken to rectify to attend appointment times which are withthis priority for the Group.
Whilst we have seen more convenient for our customers.
some success in this area we continue to A key objective for 2019 is to continue to Private sales to first-time buyers aim forfurther improvement.
Since 2014, deliver tangible improvements in the level whilethe number of homes the Group has of customer satisfaction.
We will focus delivered to its customers has increased 51% onproviding site staff induction training by22%, the level of our on site resource 2017: 48% tocover all customer care processes, has increased by 66% and the resource makesignificant investment in technology inour customer care departments has that will improve communication between increased by 93%.
our regional offices, our customer care departments and our customers, and we will continue to offer a more flexible and convenient service to our customers.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 31 All of our developments are designed By consultation throughout the planning topromote social inclusion, incorporating and development process housing for families with a broad span By employing local tradespeople ofincomes.
In 2018, we provided 3,108 homes, or 366m of housing, to housing By engaging with local suppliers associations and a further 225 homes, or Through charitable donations to support 28m of housing, to qualifying customers Supporting sustainable local good causes using affordable Discounted Open Market communities Value Housing.
This is housing that is Through engagement with local schools soldat a discount of around 20-30% By delivering new amenities We create attractive neighbourhoods for tothelocal market value with the discount our customers, with good infrastructure remaining with the property in perpetuity.
By delivering improvements to and access to local amenities.
We engage These homes can only be purchased by local infrastructure with local communities and work closely customers who meet eligibility criteria The Group strives to deliver excellence in with planning authorities to deliver much setby local councils.
Overall, we provided planning and our sensitivity in understanding needed affordable and private market 394m of affordable housing for lower the impact our developments have on wider housing to ensure we develop successful income families in 2018 2017: 348m.
society ensures that our developments are and sustainable neighbourhoods that Engaging with Our Communities fully integrated into existing infrastructure as effectively integrate within existing well as delivering improvements that benefit We have 31 regional teams with detailed communities.
Under the planning knowledge of the local communities in Our land acquisition process aims to process, we invest in local communities which they operate.
In addition to fulfilling acquire sites in attractive locations where inmany forms, such as parks and open the housing needs of our customers by demand for homes is high.
The Group has space: education provision: community delivering newly built homes to their local invested in highly skilled land, planning buildings and roads and other infrastructure, market, our teams seek to support their anddesign teams who have the knowledge either through direct construction or through local communities in a variety of ways: and experience to deliver sites which financial contributions to local authorities.
provide the range, choice and affordability During 2018we contributed over 80m of homes that our customers require.
tolocal communities 2017: 64m through In addition, our teams assess how we planning contributions to local authorities.
canmitigate our impact on existing Of the money contributed, 31.2m related communities and enhance local facilities toeducation provision.
providing investment in local infrastructure such as transport, education, retail and recreation facilities.
STRATEGY IN ACTION Pupils from Millbank Primary school in tocreate designs for a house of the future.
Grove, Oxfordshire were welcomed to our Their work has been saved inside a time capsule Wellington Gate development which will and the pupils watched as their designs were provide approximately 190 homes ofwhich safely buried on the site for future generations c. 30% will be to housing associations.
The pupils were also given a presentation on the connection between To mark the opening of this new development, science and construction and safety around on the outskirts of Grove in Oxfordshire, building sites.
20pupils visited the site and were asked Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 32 STRATEGIC UPDATE OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES AT WORK continued In January 2018, the trustees of the Foundation, together with an independent leading fund raiser, picked 30 finalists from all of the applications received to be put forward to a public vote, with the winner receiving a 200,000 donation and tworunners up receiving 50,000 each.
Supporting sustainable The other finalists received a donation communities continued of5,000 each.
In determining the finalists, the panel were looking to reward those who came up with the most innovative and The Persimmon Charitable compelling ideas as to how they would use Foundation the prize money to benefit young people The Persimmon Charitable Foundation in sport.
made c. 900 donations, amounting to The Heart of England Boxing Club 1.3m, to local charities, community groups The Healthy Communities winners were received a 200,000 donation in and good causes and to local sporting announced at a gala dinner held in March March2018, which helped them secure organisations, in 2018.
The Foundation 2018, to which representatives of each a new venue.
rantwo campaigns during the year, ofthe finalists were invited.
The dinner was This donation will allow the club to purchase oursuccessful Community Champions generously supported by a number of the land and build its own gym after being forced campaign, aimed at local charity and Groups major suppliers and the evening to relocate, thus removing any future risk community groups, and our Healthy itself raised 13,000 for the Charitable offorced relocation and, in the words of the Communities campaign, aimed at Foundations funds.
clubs Head Coach, make them masters supporting local clubs offering sporting oftheir own fate.
It will allow the club to The Heart of England Boxing Club was the facilities for children and young people.
concentrate on what it does best: delivering eventual winner.
This Leicestershire club Organisations can apply for funding online expert coaching and nurturing young talent helps young people overcome issues such at www.
within Leicestershire and the wider Midlands as ADHD, autism, anti-social behaviour region.
The club also has plans to use its new The Community Champions campaign andbullying, and received a cheque from premises to benefit the wider community.
waslaunched in 2015 and provides funding the Persimmon Charitable Foundation for to local community groups and charities 200,000.
SportsAble in Maidenhead and operating in the areas in which we build Park Wrekin Gymnastics Club in Shropshire across the UK.
Each of our 31 operating each received a donation of 50,000 as businesses and our head office make runners up.
donations of up to 1,000 every month Following the success of Healthy toeach of two local good causes, to match Communities, in January 2019 we the organisations own fund raising efforts.
launched a new initiative, Building Futures, During 2018, Community Champions which aims to donate over 1 million to donated c. 770,000 to c. 800 local groups.
support children across the UK.
We are The Foundations Healthy Communities joining forces with Team GB the Great initiative concluded in 2018 and over the Britain and Northern Ireland Olympic Team course of a year has donated more than run by the British Olympic Association 600,000 to support amateur sports clubs, tohelp organisations that support children teams and individuals aged 21 and under in across England, Wales and Scotland.
This initiative Building Futures is solely for children under encouraged local sports teams to apply the age of 18.
We will be aiming to make fora donation from the Foundation.
donations in three areas: amateur sport, Almost 200 sporting organisations or health physical and mental and Arts and individuals received a donation of 750 Education schools and clubs outside forsporting equipment and kit.
As an official partner of Team GB, we areextremely proud to be supporting the organisation in the run up to, and beyond, the next Olympic Games in Tokyo.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 33 Building safely and responsibly Building safely and responsibly remains akey focus for the Group.
Maintaining excellent health and safety standards andensuring the wellbeing, health and safety ofour employees, workforce andcustomers is of paramount importance tous.
The Group is committed to being proactive in striving to reduce the health and safety risks associated with all the work activities the Group undertakes.
The Board ensures that the investment inGroup Health and Safety resources devoted to ensuring our development sites, manufacturing plants and offices remain safe and healthy environments, isappropriate to support Operational Management at Group, Regional and Operating Business level.
The Health andSafety team under the direction of our senior management team has considerable experience in providing both a pro-active Pre-start and ongoing planning of During 2018 we reported 45 construction advisory, and reactive incident led, construction activities as our sites progress work related incidents in our housebuilding approach to identify and mitigate health is undertaken by our management as they operations to the Health and Safety andsafety risk.
strive to maintain high levels of health and Executive under the Reporting of Incidents, safety performance.
The Group provides Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences extensive training to safeguard the Regulations RIDDOR.
This was four less wellbeing of all people who come onto than the previous year 2017: 49 and with oursites, manufacturing plants or into our a further increase in production the level offices including construction and sales ofbuild per RIDDOR improved to 365 legal staff, customers and the local communities completions per RIDDOR 2017: 330. surrounding our sites.
The RIDDORs per thousand workers alsoimproved compared to last year In addition to the training and planning at3.22 accidents per thousand workers thatis undertaken, both our Group Health 2017: 3.62.
In our manufacturing and Safety Department and our operational operations we reported three RIDDORs management teams carry out regular in2018 2017: three.
monitoring and review of all our work activities to maintain the required standards detailed in the Group Health and Safety Policy.
In 2018, the Group Health and Safety department undertook 5,971 pro-active site inspections 2017: 5,776.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 34 STRATEGIC UPDATE OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES AT WORK continued We have again participated in the CDP The environmental impact climate survey, alongside many of the of our operations worlds largest companies.
To do this, we We monitor our own operational efficiency supply information on climate risks and our and direct environmental impact in a low carbon opportunities.
Our participation number of ways including measuring our demonstrates the importance we attach greenhouse gas emissions CO e and the 2 tothe challenges posed by climate change amount of waste that we generate and Supporting sustainable and how we are addressing these issues, recycle for each home we build.
communities continued both at a strategic and operational level.
As noted on page 23, the Group took We maintained our rating for 2018 at C advantage of the good summer weather to Awareness.
For 2019, we aim to externally Minimising our advance our build programmes, resulting in verify our greenhouse gas emissions data environmental impact larger volumes of plot foundations and whichmay help us to identify further areas The Group is committed to managing infrastructure works being carried out on a where we can reduce our greenhouse gas thedirect and indirect impacts on the number of sites to provide a strong basis emissions and improve our rating in the environment of both the new homes we forbuild to progress in the first half of CDP survey.
build and our ongoing business operations.
This earlier investment isthe main Brickworks reason forthe Groups increase in The Group identifies all major The Groups Brickworks facility, greenhouse gas emissions in 2018 environmental risks it faces in both the manufacturing concrete bricks, is now fully compared to the prior year.
short and long term and our development operational.
The Groups use of concrete processes include appropriate management The Group remains focused on reducing bricks on its developments has increased actions that will mitigate these risks.
our greenhouse gas emissions, on a over recent years.
Concrete bricks are Addressing these issues at thestart likeforlike basis.
We have implemented easier to make and their manufacture ofourdevelopment plans ensures our arange of initiatives, embracing both anduse generate significant savings environmental performance remains ouroperations and procurement practices, ingreenhouse gas emissions when robustand helps the Group secure to improve the Groups environmental comparedto the production of clay bricks moresustainable business processes.
This has included securing faster using natural gas fired kilns.
Each tonne The environmental impact connection of new homes to the National ofconcrete bricks produces 100 kg of of our homes Grid, thereby reducing the need for diesel CO eless than the same quantity of clay 2 to power on site generators, and the We believe that the most important indirect bricks during the manufacturing process.
replacement of older plant and equipment environmental impact of our development Additionally, concrete is an absorber with newer, more fuel-efficient alternatives.
activities is the ongoing impact of our new ofcarbon dioxide and these bricks are homes.
The Groups focus is therefore on fully recyclable.
building new homes to high sustainability standards harnessing the benefits of good design and improvements in materials and building techniques to deliver new homes with high sustainable qualities.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions tonnes CO e 2018 2017 restated 2 Scope 1 emissions from gas, transport and construction site fuel use 35,450 30,050 Scope 2 emissions from electricity use 2,950 3,470 Total greenhouse gas emissions 38,400 33,520 Greenhouse gas emissions per home sold 2.33 2.09 T o calculate our greenhouse gas emissions we collate data from across the Group and from our suppliers to identify the amount of energy used in our operations.
Greenhouse gas GHG emissions are reported in line with the UK Governments Environmental Reporting Guidelines, including mandatory GHG reporting guidance June 2013, and have been calculated using the GHG factors outlined in the BEIS 2018 Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting July 2018.
D uring 2017, the Group brought in-house some direct groundworks operations, in order to provide improved control over our build processes and programmes with associated efficiency gains.
The 2017 greenhouse gas emissions data has therefore been updated to include these business operations for the full year in order to provide a more appropriate comparator.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 35 Waste generated Climate Change FABRIC FIRST During 2018 the percentage of waste The potential impacts of climate werecycled increased to 96% 2017: 92% changeand how best to address them andthe amount of waste per home built aresystematically considered during decreased to 6.73 tonnes 2017: 7.25 theplanning, development and building tonnes.
One of the reasons we have process of each of our sites.
We take the recycled more of our waste is due to the effects of climate change very seriously increased re-use of brick and block waste when developing our sites.
This brick and block waste is conducts full environmental assessments All of our homes are designed to crushed for re-use on site, for example in for each parcel of land we acquire for havegood levels of energy efficiency.
We harness the benefits of good design piling platforms and scaffold bases, which development to ensure our activities fulfil and improvements in materials and not only reduces the amount of waste all obligations, respecting the natural building techniques, to build homes wesend to landfill, but also reduces our environment and the communities for tohigh sustainability standards.
requirement for third party aggregates.
whichwe are delivering newly built homes.
We have identified a number of operational Our development master plans seek to The average Standard Assessment areas where we can seek to drive maintain green spaces as a key element Procedure SAP rating of our new homes is83, which is around 40% more energy improvements in the amounts of waste supporting the health and wellbeing oflocal efficient than the existing housing stock, produced and reduce the cost of disposal.
In 2018 we incorporated over which has an average SAP rating of around For example, we require our operating 300 hectares of public open space and 60.
The use of Space4s timber frame build businesses to improve the segregation gardens in our developments.
The Group system is one way we help to ensure high ofwaste on our sites in order that we works closely with planning authorities levels of insulation and air tightness resulting haveabetter understanding of the type andother statutory bodies to identify and in the homes built requiring less heating ofwaste we are producing so that it is implement the most effective counterwhile also improving heat retention.
Our operating measures that mitigate the effects climate businesses are also using smaller skips change may have on our operations.
andare now producing league tables for For example, around three quarters skip usage onsites in their region.
ofourcurrent developments incorporate Sustainable Urban Drainage Systems toaddress the risks of flooding caused by changes in weather patterns.
During 2018, the Board reviewed its principal risks and included climate change as a principal risk.
Further information can be found on our policies, including our Environment Policy, Waste and Resource Management Policy andClimate Change Position Statement which are available on our corporate website at www.
Estimated using average garden size and site density.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 36 STRATEGIC UPDATE OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES AT WORK continued Maintaining a diverse, skilled workforce A large part of the success of our business isdue to the energy and commitment of ourworkforce at all levels.
The Group has a close knit, entrepreneurial and meritocratic culture where we strive for excellence.
Our people areencouraged to contribute new ideas in anopen environment to enhance the Groups processes.
The Group recognises the importance of having adiverse, skilled and engaged workforce toensure we have access to the talent weneed.
The Groups average number YOUNG ACHIEVERS OF THE YEAR AWARDS ofemployees increased by 6% in 2018 to over 4,800.
We are proud that Persimmon The Group recognises and rewards the talent Billy was also named winner of the Duncan has a long history of promoting from and hard work of its young workforce through Davidson award, which seeks to recognise withinthe business.
Our growth provides itsYoung Achievers of the Year Awards.
young people who have demonstrated opportunities for our employees to develop Established in 2014, these awards recognise  flair and spirit that rewarding careers with us.
theachievements of Persimmons trainees and Duncandemonstrated nearly 46 years ago, apprentices who have excelled in their roles.
Training There are four awards available and nominations In addition to Billy, the other young people Due to the growth in the housebuilding for these awards are made by the Groups recognised this year were: industry over recent years, the labour operating businesses with the finalists in each market for housebuilding skills remains category attending a special awards ceremony.
Trade Apprentice of the Year Faisal Yousef constrained.
To address this and to provide from Persimmon Homes Anglia left The 2018 Young Achiever was Billy Kettlewell opportunities to develop good careers in Business Trainee of the Year Ben Cherrill, from our Severn Valley operating business.
the Group we continue to invest in training Persimmon Homes Essex right He joined Persimmon in 2011 as a Management to build the skills base of our workforce.
Trainee and is now a site manager at a highly Sales Trainee of the Year Courtney Lynch, This involves a large programme popular and successful development in Persimmon Homes North West second ofgraduate, trainee and apprentice Weston-Super-Mare.
from left recruitment and training.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 37 In 2018, the Group provided c. 11,000 Persimmon is also a member of the Diversity in the workforce training days excluding apprenticeships to Apprenticeship Diversity Champions At 31 December 2018, the number our employees and construction workforce Network ADCN, part of the National ofpeople we employed increased to 2017: c. 10,600.
In addition, we currently Apprenticeships Service.
ADCN members 4,943 2017: 4,713 of whom 3,705 75% have 381 traditional apprentices training are apprentice employers who champion weremale and 1,238 25% female within the Group, which is among the diversity and drive an open and inclusive 2017: 3,559 75% male: 1,154 25% largest commitment to apprentice training culture in recruitment and employment female.
At 31 December 2018 we had in the housebuilding industry, together practices.
The Group shares case studies twofemale and six male directors on the witharound 80 sales trainees and a further and best practice with the aim of promoting Companys Board and 35 female and 170colleagues training in disciplines diversity in the recruitment of apprentices.
154 male colleagues in our 189 strong suchas quantity surveying, planning and We are also part of the HBF Diversity senior management team.
In total, almost 15% of our Group and are actively participating in their We have published our Gender Pay Gap workforce is participating in a formal initiative to raise awareness of mental report for 2018.
The median pay gap training programme.
health in the construction industry.
forthe Persimmon Group was 8.0% In 2019, the Group has invested in its Employee Engagement 2017: 7.9%, compared to the Office Human Resources function, increasing the The Group encourages feedback and new forNational Statisticsfigures for 2017 team by c. 40%, particularly in the training ideas from its staff to enhance our culture, of18.4%.
Further information can be function to enhance the level of support systems and processes.
In February foundin our Gender Pay Gap report on and guidance provided to our employees.
2019, to enhance the Groups existing ourwebsite, www.
com This investment will allow us to extend both engagement channels, an Employee corporate.
the scope and scale of the personal and Engagement Panel was established The Group is committed to reducing professional development opportunities consisting of twelve voluntary members thegender pay gap and increasing the tocolleagues across the business.
from a wide cross section of employees numberof women in its workforce, and across the business, plus the HR Director, The Group continues to be heavily involved inthe senior management team.
Indeed, who will chair the Panel.
The membership in the Home Building Skills Partnership, ofthe total yearon year increase of 230 of the Panel will enable the views of a ajoint initiative of the Construction Industry employees, 37% were female.
In 2018, broad cross section of employees, both Training Board and the Home Builders theBoard established a Gender Diversity siteand office based, to be represented.
Federation HBF that aims to address the Panel to consider and suggest policy The Panel will meet twice a year and will shortage of skilled workers in the industry.
amendments and initiatives to improve the strengthen feedback to the Board from two gender diversity of the Group, particularly Voluntary Living Wage way dialogue with the Groups employees.
We are pleased to report that with effect Some meetings will be attended by a The Panel ismade up of four female from January 2019, the Group has adopted member of the Board in order that the members of the senior management team.
the payment criteria of the Living Wage Panel can hear directly from them.
They have set aninitial goal of engagement Foundation for its employees.
The relevant Members of the Board regularly visit the with local schools and colleges during Real Living Wage is currently 9 an hour Groups local businesses to see operations 2019 to promote the benefits of working for our employees and is calculated based first-hand.
Informal dinners are held with within the housebuilding industry to young on living costs.
Although the vast majority Board members and local senior staff, women.
The Panel also recommended that of our employees were already paid above which are an opportunity for the Directors the Group adopt a more formal flexible this level, this has led to some small to receive feedback and to further explain working policy to support both men and changes to pay structure for 64 employees matters of particular focus and importance women.
This policy is being introduced and increases for 2% of our employees.
inthe first quarter of 2019 for office based staff.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 38 STRATEGIC UPDATE OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES AT WORK continued We have identified the most significant PROMOTING FROM WITHIN potential human rights impact areas to be: the labour and employment rights of our employees, subcontractors and those working within our supply chain: the health and safety of our workforce: and the rights of communities where we undertake our Maintaining a diverse, developments.
As a responsible employer, skilled workforce continued we are committed to compliance with all UK labour, health and safety, planning and environmental legislation.
In addition, we publish an employee newsletter HQ regularly throughout the We continue to take our role in Persimmon is proud to be able to offer the year.
A formal facility is incorporated where combattingmodern slavery and human opportunity for people to develop long term employees can provide their feedback with trafficking seriously, and have implemented careers within the Company.
any received being provided to the Groups anumber of initiatives within the year Corporate Responsibility Committee Our culture is one where achievements and tostrengthen support in this area.
success are recognised and our preference for consideration.
This included adetailed survey and analysis isalways to promote from within rather than Human Rights of our supplychain to increase supplier recruit from outside the organisation.
Last year, andsub-contractor awareness of modern We demand the appropriate levels 243 of our colleagues were promoted across slavery and to identify and further mitigate the Group, which leads to positive succession ofconduct from all of our stakeholders, potential risks.
Further detail on this survey at all levels of the business and in particular including our employees in all of our enables our trainees to map their career paths.
and our other initiatives on modern slavery operations.
We value our reputation are set out in detail within our 2018 Modern forethical behaviour, integrity and We have recently promoted three of our MDs, Slavery Statement on our website.
We have Human Rights and who between them have 50 years service with Anti-Bribery policies, a code of Ethics the Company.
John Eynon centre has been Staff are given details of the Groups promoted toRegional MD with responsibility andaModern Slavery Statement, Anti-Bribery policy and management for our threeoperating businesses in the whichareall available on our website at reinforce the adherence to our policies NorthEast, while Simon Usher left and www.
In addition we have Martyn Clark right have been promoted to whistleblowing facilities to ensure As we are a UK housebuilder and the Regional Divisional Directors with responsibility employees and others can raise concerns vastmajority of our subcontractors and for our Yorkshire and South East confidentially.
During the year we ran Regions respectively.
suppliers are also UK based, we do not acampaign to remind employees of the consider that human rights abuses, modern whistleblowing facility.
Any whistleblowing 55 YEARS OF SERVICE slavery and bribery represent a significant reports are investigated by our Group risk to our business.
appropriate procedures in place to provideassurance that our employees andsuppliers are working to the high standards we demand.
We are proud that we have a number of long serving employees throughout our Group, 220 having over 20 years service.
One of our longest serving employees, Brian Robinson a joiner who worked at our Durham office, retired from the Group on 31 December 2018 after an amazing 55 years service with the Group.
He began working for Beazer Homes in 1963 and has worked atsites throughout the North East during histime with the Group.
Dave Jenkinson wasdelighted to personally congratulate Brianon his long service and wish him wellinhis retirement.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 39 Delays in achieving planning consents The Group has maintained a robust high remain a constraint on the speed quality land platform for the longer term withwhich we are able to deliver the bymaintaining a disciplined approach newhomevolumes required to satisfy toland investment, remaining increasingly localcommunities housing needs.
selective given the risks and uncertainties The Governments Revised National generated by the headwinds confronting Planning Policy Framework, published the UK economy, in particular those Providing a sustainable inJuly 2018, aims to make it easier for relating to the process of the UK leaving supply of high quality land planners, developers and local councils the EU.
Given the strength of the existing todeliver good quality homes in places land bank the Group can, and will, remain where people want to live, at a faster pace.
selective in its land replacement activities The Groups land buying and management The Governments ambition is to achieve moving forward.
strategy, which ensures our continued the delivery of 300,000 new homes a year growth over the longer term, is to continue Our land bank across all tenures by the mid 2020s.
to make substantial investment in good The Group has an excellent track record We welcome the initiatives to support the locations where people wish to live and ofsuccessfully managing the promotion development of a more efficient planning work across the UK.
Our planning and ofland through the planning system system which will enable the industry acquisition processes work in partnership anditssubsequent acquisition.
We have tocontinue to expand output and deliver with local planning authorities and delivered 97,175 homes since 2012, the new homes the country needs.
involvethe local community and other invested 3.81bn in new land and acquired stakeholders as appropriate.
Once sites All of the Groups land acquisitions c. 133,000 plots.
This has been achieved have been identified, further value is areassessed on a consistent basis by while maintaining greater velocity of asset engineered through innovative design, the dedicated and experienced management turn supporting superior levels of returns use of our core house types, introducing teams taking into account likely levels of for our shareholders.
simplicity and economies of scale, and profitability and the sites projected return thecreation of attractive neighbourhoods on capital employed.
Acquisitions are only for our customers.
made when specific thresholds are met.
Our land bank at 31 December 2018 2017 Plots with detailed planning consent 47,305 Plots with detailed planning consent 52,585 Plots proceeding to planning consent 28,488 Plots proceeding to planning consent 24,482 Total owned plots 75,793 Total owned plots 77,067 Plots under conditional contracts 23,295 Plots under conditional contracts 21,378 Our total land bank 99,088 Our total land bank 98,445 Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 40 STRATEGIC UPDATE OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES AT WORK continued We are confident that our strategic land Our brands investment in land portfolio of c. 16,500 acres will, in due During 2018, our Persimmon brand course, yield in excess of 100,000 forward acquired 12,811 new plots of land resulting plots for future development by the Group in a forward consented land bank at the and will continue to support planning end of 2018 of 69,275 plots 2017: 68,411. authorities and local communities to bring Of these total plots, 33,992 have an Providing a sustainable these sites through the planning system implementable detailed residential planning supply of high quality land asquickly as possible.
consent 2017: 37,867 with all sites under continued construction.
At 2018 output levels the The successful promotion and conversion current land bank represents c. 2.8 years of plots from our strategic land portfolio At the year end the Group owned 75,793 offorward supply.
remains a focus for the Group and adds plots of land.
Within this land bank, the tothe strength of our land bank.
Charles Church owned and controlled Group owned 47,305 plots on sites with 11,448 plots in its forward consented land During the year, the Groups Persimmon detailed planning consent, which are all bank at the end of 2018 2017: 11,191. business enjoyed success in securing under development.
This will provide c. 2.9 Of these total plots 5,274 have an planning consents for residential years of forward supply at 2018 output implementable planning consent development from its strategic land levels.
These plots will provide support to 2017: 5,774 providing c. 3.8 years portfolio with 2,862 plots, across 22 sites, each of our regional operations as they offorward supply at 2018 sales volumes.
being delivered into its owned and under seek to achieve a sustainable market share.
This forward supply reflects the success control land bank, representing 24% of the The Group has also entered into conditional achieved in gaining detailed planning plots consumed by legal completions in contracts for an additional 23,295 plots on consents on some larger Charles Church theyear.
Notable strategic land conversions land which we are actively promoting developments, for example at Penny were achieved at Sacriston, Monkswood, in through the planning system.
PotLane in Harrogate, North Yorkshire, Durham, a c. 200 unit development and at The Groups land bank strength allows adevelopment for 367 homes.
During Portchester, Cranleigh Road in Hampshire, usto serve our markets best by continuing theyear 1,651 new plots were acquired a site that will deliver c. 120 homes.
toinvest in the right land at the right time.
The growth in the Groups new home Our strategic land delivery of over 75% since the launch A fundamental element of the Groups ofthe Groups new strategy in 2012 has business model is the continued investment been enabled by the substantial investment in strategic land and successfully in new land over the last six years.
promoting this land through the planning system to deliver plots with detailed residential consent.
During the year we acquired interests in a further c. 950 acres of strategic land and we converted 3,772 plots of land from our strategic land portfolio, representing c. 23% of the Groups land consumption.
Conversions from our strategic land bank continue toensure the Group remains in a strong position to offer new housing to local communities across the UK.
Our brands land bank Owned and controlled land bank Persimmon 69,275 Charles Church 11,448 Westbury Partnerships 18,365 Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 41 Securing quality and availability of materials Engaging with our supply chain The Group enjoys long established and strong relationships with each of our main suppliers which we greatly value having invested in these over the long term.
We have a centralised procurement department that seeks to secure Group deals covering all major elements of our construction requirements.
This helps theGroup establish certainty of quality, supply and cost of materials and provides our suppliers with certainty of volume andrevenues.
In addition, our operating Off-site manufacturing The construction process using this system businesses work closely with regional delivers high levels of thermal efficiency A key area of differentiation for the Group suppliers to secure locally sourced forthe new homes built and positions is through our commitment to innovation.
Local suppliers benefit from theGroup at the forefront of the industry Our off-site manufacturing capabilities theGroup providing them with consistent with the ability to accommodate changes assist the Group in securing the supply order volumes which help sustain their tobuilding regulations that are targeted ofsome key materials which increases businesses and strengthen our supply toreduce carbon emissions and global theGroups resilience at times when the chain.
The Group works with over 5,500 warming in the future.
The use of the availability of these key materials become suppliers and is proud to support over Space4 modern method of construction constrained, together with providing the 30,000 jobs in its supply chain.
eases the requirement for some traditional opportunity for some cost mitigation.
skills on site which can benefit productivity Our regional offices engage with a large Space4 and build programmes.
Space4 employs number of local subcontractors in the Homes England are supporting the approximately 140 people at its factory and construction of our homes.
This ensures industryto meet the demand for has recently increased its capacity to be that the Group secures good availability newhousing through the increased able to supply up to c. 9,500 units per year, ofthe skilled trades that we require locally useofmodern methods of construction, consisting of c. 7,750 timber frames and and provides our subcontractors with includingmodular build and timber c. 1,750 room in the roof systems.
continuity and consistency of work.
During 2018 Space4 delivered c. 6,000 The Group supports over 20,000 jobson The Groups Space4 business, based timber frame house kits and insulated its sites.
inCastle Bromwich near Birmingham, roofsystems to the Groups housebuilding produces a fabric first solution to the businesses.
Since its launch in 2001, construction of new homes using off-site Space4 has supported the delivery of manufacturing techniques to produce over52,000 new homes to the market and timber frames, highly insulated wall panels has made an important contribution to the and roof cassettes.
Groups volume growth over recent years.
Estimated using an economic toolkit Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 42 STRATEGIC UPDATE OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES AT WORK continued Tileworks The Groups activities are focused on the regional housing markets across mainland The Group commenced construction UK, covering England, Wales and Scotland.
ofitsown concrete roof tile manufacturing The Group has undertaken a review of its plant in August 2018, again with the aim construction elements and its supply chain.
ofsecuring the supply of this key material The majority of our material supplies are element.
The factory is located adjacent Securing quality and sourced from within the UK.
The Group tothe Groups Brickworks sharing common availability of materials hasworked with its suppliers in respect infrastructure.
The Tileworks factory aims continued ofany material supplies which may be to supply approximately two thirds of the exposed tosome disruption to availability.
Groups requirements for roof tiles across In these cases, our suppliers are typically Brickworks the UK, and plans to commence deliveries building up increased stock holdings and The Group started construction of its own to site in the second half of 2019. or are changing their ports of importation Brickworks factory in 2016 to manufacture Both Brickworks and Tileworks are further to mitigate the risk of delays.
We are also concrete bricks with the aim of securing developments of the Groups off-site providing support by way of earlier and the supply of this key material element.
manufacturing capabilities, delivering increased commitment to our suppliers The facility is now fully operational with the consistently high quality products and where required.
In addition, our off-site capacity to produce c. 80m bricks annually, securing the Groups supply of these key manufacturing capabilities, Space4, which approximates to two thirds of the material components.
Brickworks and, going forward, Tileworks, Groups brick requirements.
During the will help us mitigate any potential supply year, as we geared up production from The impact of the UKs exit from disruption and material cost impacts.
thecompletion of commissioning in the EU on our supply chain thesecond quarter of 2018, the facility The details regarding the basis on which Whilst we recognise the heightened risk provided c. 30m bricks to the Groups the UK will leave the EU, together with profile associated with the Brexit process, operations.
The factory, sited at Harworth theproposed future trading relationship, the Group is in a strong position in its near Doncaster, has good access to the remain uncertain.
As a result, we believe markets offering affordably priced homes, motorway network supporting efficient thekey risks facing the business with a good range and choice of affordable logistics for delivery to Group operations.
associated with these circumstances house types available across our national The plant and manufacturing process is are:the impact ofincreased uncertainty outlet network.
The Group has a very highly automated and is very durable with surrounding theUKeconomy and strong balance sheet with a high quality low maintenance requirements.
availability and potentialimpact on the land bank, robust liquidity, substantial cash costof certain materials which form part holdings and strong forward order book.
Our manufacturing process has strong ofour construction requirements.
The Group is in a strong position to react environmental credentials due to the tomarket conditions as events unfold.
significant reduction in energy usage compared to more traditional clay brick manufacturing methods.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 43 The Group has invested in strong land, By exercising this capital discipline, together planning and design teams that have with maximising the cash efficiency of aproven track record in supporting the operational activities, the Group will deliver Groups investment in appropriate land strong cash generation whilst minimising opportunities in attractive locations, at the financial risk through the cycle.
right point in the housing cycle.
The Groups The return of capital to shareholders that investment decisions consider actual and Optimising working isconsidered surplus to the reinvestment prospective conditions in both the land and capital and returns needs of the business is a key feature sales markets.
Our teams have a clear oftheGroups strategy launched in 2012. planning and investment strategy that places The evaluation as to whether the business our customers needs firmly at the centre of Delivering superior levels of shareholder isoperating at optimal scale within its our land replacement activities.
This ensures value over the long term and returning regional markets, executing disciplined land that planning consents are successfully surplus capital to shareholders are key investment at the appropriate time through achieved for sites where demand for the priorities for the Group.
We achieve this by: the cycle, whilst minimising financial risk Groups well designed core house types isaprimary consideration when assessing Optimising our sales and the capital is high.
thelevel of surplus capital that is available intensity of the Group A cost effective and efficient build for return to shareholders.
Maintaining a disciplined approach programme is imperative in optimising Capital Return Plan totheinvestment of capital in land at the working capital.
The Groups detailed appropriate points in the housing cycle.
The Board has committed to maintain buildprogramme management processes The Groups land replacement and itsexisting Capital Return Plan as aimtosupport improved productivity and acquisition processes are key features explained earlier in the Operational Review.
our sitemanagement teams, suppliers, ofour approach Instalments of 732.3m or 235 pence subcontractors and site workers have pershare 2017: 416.6m or 135 pence allworked extremely hard to deliver Maintaining strong control over the per share were paid during the year.
The use Groups levels of work in progress across In total surplus capital of 7.20 per share, ofour core house types assist consistency all of our developments or 2.22 billion, has now been returned of construction and enable us to better Managing our supply chain and entering to shareholders.
Our build into robust tendering processes to help and direct costs are 50 basis points lower manage our costs than last year at 52.1% of housing revenue 2017: 52.6% of housing revenue.
Vertical integration and the manufacture of some key material elements During 2018 we increased our investment indevelopment work in progress to support Improving our build programme higher levels of output to meet demand in management through increasing use the market.
The cash efficiency of our land ofthe Groups core house type portfolio replacement activities, our strong asset turn across our developments and the expansion of our cash margins, has allowed us to continue to invest selectively innew land holdings at a rate of c. 104% of2018 consumption.
Recognising the current increased uncertainties regarding the future performance of the UK economy we are maintaining our selective approach tonew land commitment.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018
