Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 49 VIABILITY STATEMENT PERSIMMONS PROSPECTS AND VIABILITY The long term prospects and viability of the This planning process provides a significant Approach to land investment and Group are a consistent focus of the Board contribution to the Boards assessment of the development activity provides the when determining and monitoring the Groups Groups prospects.
The Groups current opportunity to generate high quality strategy and business model.
market position, its strategy and business growthdelivered by the management The identification and mitigation of the model, and the risks that may challenge its talent in the business Groups principal risks also form part of the business model are all included in the Boards Differentiation through vertical integration Boards assessment of long term prospects assessment of the prospects of the Group.
achieving security of supply of key and viability.
materials and complementary modern Key factors in assessing the long term methods of construction to support growth Assessing Persimmons prospects prospects of the Group: in output Persimmon has built a strong position in the 1.
The Groups current market Simple capital structure maintained with no UKs house building market over many years positioning structural gearing recognising the potential for long term growth Strong sales network from active across regional housing markets.
Whilst the developments across the UK providing 3.
Principal risks associated with the long term demographic fundamentals of geographic diversification of Groups strategy and business model continued positive population growth and revenue generation include new household formation, together with the Three distinct brands providing diversified Risk of the impact of disruption to the UK requirement to replace and improve the products and pricing deliver further economy resulting from the process of the quality of the countrys housing stock, provide diversification of sales UK leaving the EU a long term supportive backdrop for the Imaginative and comprehensive master Market risk related to reduced consumer industry, the Board recognise the inherent planning of development schemes with confidence due to regional economic cyclicality of the UK housing market.
good amenity value to support sustainable uncertainties This cyclicality reflects the effect that some neighbourhoods and sales activity of the principal risks that challenge the The risk of a reduction in mortgage funding Disciplined land replacement reflecting Groups strategy and business model can availability and or affordability due to theextent and location of housing needs have over time.
reduced lender risk appetite and or across the UK provides a high quality land regulatory change Persimmon possesses the key ingredients bank supporting future operations Team, skills and talent related risks that are required to realise greater future Long term supplier and subcontractor regarding retention and change success talented commercially driven relationships keeping construction costs management teams, strong local community and customer well controlled relationships, market knowledge, expertise See above for the full list of principal risks A flexible cost structure is maintained to and industry know-how, and high quality land together with detailed descriptions.
allow the effective response to changes located in places where our customers want Disciplined strategic planning inmarket conditions to live and work.
By building on these solid processes foundations the Group aims to support local Continued investment to support higher The prospects for the Group are principally communities through continued investment in levels of customer service assessed through the annual strategic its people, its land, and its development sites Strong financial position with considerable planning review process conducted in and in its supply chain.
cash reserves and with additional October each year.
The management team substantial working capital credit facilities The Group adopts a disciplined annual from each of the Groups house building maturing March 2023 business planning regime which involves the businesses produce a five year business management teams of the Groups 31 house 2.
Strategy and business model plan with specific objectives and actions in building businesses and senior management, line with the Groups strategy and business Clear strategy for disciplined growth with input and oversight of the Board.
These detailed plans reflect the andsurplus capital generation launched The Group combines detailed five year development skill base of the local teams, in 2012 business plans generated by each house the regions housing market, strategic and Strategy recognises the importance of building business from the bottom up with on market land holdings and investments mitigating the impacts of the cyclicality ten year projections constructed from the required to support their objectives.
ofthe UK housing market top down to properly inform the Groups Special attention is paid to capital business planning over these longer term Substantial investment in staff training management through the period to ensure horizons.
Zero-based annual budgets are andsupport to sustain operations over the appropriate level of investment is made established for each business twice a year.
thelong term at the appropriate time to support delivery of the plan.
Emerging risks and opportunities in their markets are also assessed at this local level.
The Directors have assessed the longer term prospects of the Group in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 50 VIABILITY STATEMENT continued Senior Group management review these A key feature of the Groups strategy These scenarios included the stress testing plans and balance the competing launched in early 2012 and documented in of the Groups business model assuming requirements of each of the Groups the Strategic Report is the Groups that a combination of events resulted in a businesses and allocates capital with the commitment to maintain capital discipline severe recession, with a deterioration in aim of achieving the long term strategic over the long term through the housing employment levels and consumer objectives of the Group.
The five year plans cycle.
On launch, this commitment was confidence, coupled with a collapse in bank provide the context for setting the annual reinforced with the announcement of the risk appetite, leading to a material reduction budgets for each business for the start of Groups Capital Return Plan CRP.
In undertaking the the new financial year in January, which The CRP initially committed to return stress testing, the Directors assumed a areconsolidated to provide the Groups 1.9bn of surplus capital over the following rapid change in circumstances over a detailed budgets.
These budgets are ten financial years to 2021, or 6.20 per relatively short period of time so as to test updated after six months, for the following share.
After seven years the Group is the strength of the mitigating actions twelve months, which are then replaced by ahead of plan and has paid 7.20 per available to address the stress exerted on the new strategic planning, and budget share, or 2.22bn back to shareholders.
In total it was setting, cycle.
The Board review and agree On 25 February 2019 the Directors assumed average selling prices fell by both the long term plans and the shorter announced the scheduled Capital Return c. 20% over an initial three year period, term budgets for the Group.
Plan payments in respect of the financial during which time it was also assumed that year ended 31 December 2018.
Further sales volumes fell by over 40%, before the The outputs from the business planning details can be found in the Operational market was assumed to stabilise and then process are used to support impairment Review on page 21. gradually move into a recovery phase.
reviews, for funding projections, for reviews Due to the combined effect of these of the Groups liquidity and capital On an annual basis the Directors review factors the Groups housing revenues were structure, and identification of surplus financial forecasts used for this Viability assumed to fall by c. 54% during this capital available for return to Statement as explained in the disciplined period.
The stress tests and mitigation shareholdersvia the Groups Capital strategic planning processes outlined were guided by the experience gained from ReturnPlan, resulting in the payment earlier.
These forecasts incorporate the management of the business through ofdividends to shareholders.
assumptions about the timing of legal the Global Financial Crisis from 2007 to completions of new homes sold, average Assessing Persimmons viability 2010.
Cash flows were assumed to be selling prices achieved, profitability, working managed consistently ensuring all The Directors have assessed the viability of capital requirements and cash flows, and appropriate investment was made in the the Group over a five year period, taking are designed to test the Groups ability to business at the appropriate time as a into account the Groups current position fulfil its strategic objectives.
The Directors assumed they would and the potential impact of the principal include the CRP.
The Directors have made make the most appropriate decisions risks facing the Group.
the assumption that the Groups revolving regarding returning surplus capital to credit facility is renewed during the period The use of a five year time horizon for the shareholders through this period to ensure having again extended the maturity of the purpose of assessing the viability of the the strategic objective of minimising facility during the year to 31 March 2023.
Group reflects the business model of the financial risk through the cycle was Group, new land investments generally The Directors have also carried out a achieved.
The payment of the regular taking at least five years to build and sell robust assessment of the principal risks element of the CRP in early July each year through, and for the development facing the Group as set out above, and was maintained.
This stress testing of infrastructure to be adopted by how the Group manages those risks, principal risks materialising also considered local authorities.
including those risks that would threaten its the potential for costs of exceptional strategy, business model, future operational charges and asset impairment to arise.
and financial performance, solvency and Based on this assessment, the Directors liquidity.
The Group has considered the confirm that they have reasonable impact of these risks particularly those in expectation that the Group will be able to relation to the cyclicality of the UK housing continue in operation and meet its liabilities market and the economic environment on as they fall due over the period to the end the viability of the business by performing a of 31 December 2023. range of sensitivity analyses including severe but plausible scenarios materialising This strategic report has been approved together with the likely effectiveness of by the Board: mitigating actions that would be executed Dave Jenkinson Mike Killoran by the Directors.
Interim Group Group Finance Director Chief Executive 25 February 2019 Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018
