10 OUR BUSINESS MODEL HOW WE CREATE AND PRESERVE VALUE THE RESOURCES WE NEED WHAT WE DO Obtain planning permission Select and buy land SUSTAINABLE LAND BANK See pages 39 and 40 A DIVERSE, SKILLED WORKFORCE See pages 36 to 38 How we create and preserve value We prioritise strategic land investment We maintain a high quality land bank and its conversion into high quality togive the Group continuity of supply, to developments with detailed planning support the efficiency of our operations, consents over the long term to support to maintain astrong sales network and MATERIALS our operating performance.
We have toenable us tobe selective in our land See pages 41 and 42 experienced land, planning and design acquisitions.
By investing in the right teams across the Group that identify landat the right point in the housing suitable land in areas where people cycle we place the business in the wishto live and work across the UK.
strongest position to deliver higher They work in partnership with landowners, returns over the near term whilst also local communities and localauthorities mitigating the effects of changing to obtain appropriate planning consents conditions over future periods.
COMMUNITY to deliver the rightmixof housing to We maintain a disciplined approach RELATIONS meet local communities needs see toland investment appraisal, which all pages 31 and 39. ourland investments must fulfil.
See pages 31 to 35 LOCAL GOVERNMENT RELATIONSHIPS See pages 31 and 39 Links to our strategic objectives Building quality homes Building quality homes for our customers for our customers Supporting sustainable Providing a sustainable communities supply of high quality land Providing a sustainable Optimising working capital supply of high quality land and returns Details of how we engage with all of ourstakeholders can be found on pages 54 and 55.
The Principal Risks associated with our business model are set out on pages 45 to 48.
12 month rolling average and stated before goodwill impairment.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 11 THE VALUE WE CREATE Our business model delivers long term sustainable value for our stakeholders including our customers, our workforce, Design & construction Sales & customer care communities in which we build, the economy, the environment and our shareholders.
New homes delivered 16,449 3,108 delivered to housing associations Affordable prices 39% Of our private sales were below 200,000 First time buyers Our range of core house types support We maintain a national development 51% anefficient approach toconstruction sitenetwork managed from 31 regional Of our private sales whilstproviding choice and affordability offices across the UK, see page 7. were to first time buyers forour customers.
Our off-site This network enables us to understand manufacturing capabilities, including the needs of local communities and Financial strength ourSpace4 timber frame system, deliver homes in places where people Brickworks and going forwards, want tolive and work as well as 3.19bn Tileworks support our production rates tomaximise sales potential whilst Balance sheet net assets andensure quality and continuity of mitigating market risk.
Our range at 31 December 2018 keysupplies.
Wemaintain a strong ofhouse types offers customers an focusonbuild quality see page 29. affordable choice of family homes.
Capital returned Wealso maintain control over our We have dedicated and skilled sales to shareholders construction costs and work in andcustomer care teams across progress, tosupport sustainable theUKand we continue to invest 732.3m growthand to enable us toreact inoursystems and processes with In the year to 31 December 2018 quicklytochanges inthe housing theaimof providing excellent levels cycleand provide goodavailability ofservice and customer care.
Employment ofnewhomes for our customers.
Further detailscan be found on pages 29 and 30.
4,809 People directly employed on average in 2018 Jobs supported Over 50,000 Construction and supply chain jobs Building quality homes Building quality homes for our customers for our customers Supporting sustainable Supporting sustainable communities communities Estimated using an economic toolkit.
Securing quality and Further information regarding the ways availabilityof materials in which our business model supports communities in which we build, the Optimising working capital economy and the environment can be and returns found in ourSocial Contribution Our strategic objectives Statement on pages 8 and 9 See pages 12 and 13 12 month rolling average and stated before goodwill impairment.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018
