KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2133 AGM 3436 20278 PAT Annual Report:Layout 1 07 06 2018 10:33 Page 21 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Annual ReCo-leads Invesco Perpetuals fixed interest team, managport together with the Accounts of the Company and the ing a number of government, corporate and non-investGroup for the year to 30 April 2018. ment grade portfolios across the maturity spectrum.
He began his investment career with UBS Securities Ltd in BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1986, and then moved to Merrill Lynch International in At the year end the Board comprised six non-executive 1988 in various rles prior to his appointment as a direcDirectors and an Executive Director.
Stuart Paul, a nontor of fixed interest trading before joining Invesco in 1995. executive Director, retired from the Board on 20 July 2017 He holds a BA in Economics and History from the Uniwhile Iain Ferguson and Paul Read were appointed nonversity of Toronto and also has an MBA from INSEAD.
Frank Rushbrook Hamish Buchan Joined the Board as a non-executive Director in 2009.
Joined the Board as a non-executive Director in 2001 and became Chairman in 2009.
Shares held: 15,289 Fees during year: 21,000 Shares held: 1,132 Fees during year: 42,000 A partner in Rushbrook & Co LLP, he has worked in the fund management industry since 1998.
Following eleven He has worked in the investment trust sector since 1969 years at F&C Investment Management Ltd, latterly as Asand headed the award-winning Wood Mackenzie later, sociate Director Continental European Smaller Equities, NatWest Securities trust research team for many years.
He he co-founded Nettle Capital Management LLP and has is a past Chairman of the Association of Investment Comconsiderable experience of European mid and small cap panies.
He is also a non-executive Director of Templeton markets.
Jean Sharp Robin Angus Joined the Board as a non-executive Director in 2016.
Joined the Board as a non-executive Director in 1984 and became Executive Director in 2002.
Shares held: 1,026 Fees during year: 21,000 Shares held: 4,689 Fees during year: nil Chief Taxation Officer of Aviva and its predecessor comAnnual Salary: 200,000 panies since 1998.
He has worked in the investment trust sector since 1977.
ACTIVITIES He trained as an investment trust manager at Baillie, GifA review of the Companys activities during the year can be ford & Co and worked with Hamish Buchan for 17 years found in the Strategic Report on pages 4-6 and in the as an investment trust analyst.
Chairmans Statement and Investment Advisers Report.
Iain Ferguson CBE RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT Joined the Board as a non-executive Director in 2017.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual ReShares held: 2,287 Fees during year: 8,696 port and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and those InternaChairman of Stobart Group Limited and Senior Independtional Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted ent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Commitby the European Union.
tee at Balfour Beatty plc.
Until 2009 he was Chief Executive of Tate & Lyle.
Prior to joining Tate & Lyle in 2003, he spent Under company law the Directors must not approve the 26 years at Unilever in a succession of rles culminating in Group financial statements unless they are satisfied that his appointment as senior vice president, corporate develthey give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the opment.
He holds a BSc Hons in Chemistry & PsycholGroup and of the profit of the Group for that period.
In ogy from St Andrews University and has the Harvard preparing the Group financial statements the Directors are Business School Advanced Management Programme.
required to: Gordon Neilly present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Group: Joined the Board as a non-executive Director in 1997. select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Shares held: 1,919 Fees during year: 21,000 consistently: Head of Strategy and Corporate Activity at Aberdeen Stanmake judgments and estimates that are reasonable and dard Investments.
He was previously Co-Chief Executive prudent: Officer of Cantor Fitzgerald Europe, Chief Executive of Intelli Corporate Finance and Finance and Business Develstate that the Group has complied with IFRSs, subject opment Director of Ivory & Sime.
Company Secretary of to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Company for ten years, he joined the Board as a non-exthe financial statements: and ecutive Director in 1997 and has considerable experience prepare the financial statements on the going concern and knowledge of investment trusts.
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Paul Read Group will continue in business.
Joined the Board as a non-executive Director in 2017.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Shares held: 1,000 Fees during year: 8,696 Page 21 20278 PAT Annual Report:Layout 1 07 06 2018 10:33 Page 22 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Groups transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy this viability statement, has decided that a period of five at any time the financial position of the Group and enable years is an appropriate period over which to report.
The them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply Board considers that this period reflects a balance between with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Reglooking out over a long term horizon and the inherent unulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets certainties of looking out further than five years.
of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the When deciding on this period the Directors considered the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
nature of the Companys portfolio of liquid investments The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accomprising listed global equities, US TIPS, US Treasuries, counts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and underUK Index-Linked Gilts, UK T-Bills, Gold Bullion and cash standable and provide the information necessary for and cash equivalents.
The Directors also considered the shareholders to assess the Companys position and perCompanys ability to fulfil the stated dividend policy and formance, business model and strategy.
In reaching this the operation of its discount and premium control policy.
conclusion the Directors have assumed that the reader of The Directors have also carried out an exhaustive assessthe Annual Report and Accounts has a reasonable level of ment of the principal risks as noted in the Strategic Report knowledge of the investment industry.
on page 6 and discussed in note 13 to the financial statements that are facing the Company over the period of the Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are review, including those that would threaten its business also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Direcmodel, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
tors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors have a and those regulations.
reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and indue over the five year period of their assessment.
tegrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Groups website.
Legislation in the UK governing CAPITAL STRUCTURE the preparation and dissemination of financial statements At 30 April 2018 there were 2,212,433 Ordinary shares of may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENTS UNDER THE DISCLOSURE During the year the Company issued 252,306 Ordinary GUIDANCE AND TRANSPARENCY RULES shares for proceeds of 102,637,000 before costs of 155,000.
Each of the Directors listed on page 21 confirms that to The revenue profits of the Company including accumuthe best of her or his knowledge: lated revenue reserves and realised capital profits are availthe financial statements, prepared in accordance with able for distribution by way of dividends to the holders of IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true the Ordinary shares excluding any Ordinary shares held in and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position Treasury, which have no entitlement to dividends.
and profit or loss of the Group and the undertakings Voting rights and deadlines for exercising voting rights can included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and be found in the Notes for the Annual General Meeting the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the develAGM which can be found on pages 35 and 36. opment and performance of the business and the posiRESULTS AND DIVIDEND tion of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole together with a descripThe results for the year are set out in the Group Income tion of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The Company paid four quarterly dividends of 1.40 per share to shareholders in the year GOING CONCERN ended 30 April 2018.
The Directors believe, in the light of the controls and reSUBSTANTIAL INTERESTS view processes reported in the Report of the Audit Committee on page 28 and bearing in mind the nature of the At 30 April 2018 there were no holdings representing diGroups business and assets, which are considered to be rectly or indirectly 3 per cent.
or more of the voting rights readily realisable if required, that the Group has adequate attaching to the issued share capital of the Company that resources to continue operating for at least twelve months had been disclosed to the Company.
from the date of approval of the financial statements.
For No such holdings have been notified since the end of the this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis year.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS VIABILITY STATEMENT Information on the Companys financial instruments can The Board considered its obligation to assess the viability be found in the Notes to the Accounts on pages 15-20. of the Company over a period longer than the twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statePRINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT ments required by the going concern basis of accounting.
Information on the principal risks to shareholders and manThe Board considers the Company, with no fixed life, to agement of these risks can be found in the Strategic Report be a long term investment vehicle but, for the purposes of on pages 4-6 and in note 13 to the Accounts on pages 18-20.
Page 22 KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2133 AGM 3436 20278 PAT Annual Report:Layout 1 07 06 2018 10:33 Page 23 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS INDEMNITY expires at the end of the Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 13 is to renew the authority for a further period The Companys Articles of Association entitle any Direcuntil the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2019.
The tor or Officer of the Company to be indemnified out of the price paid for shares on exercise of the authority will not be assets of the Company against any loss or liability incurred less than the nominal value of 12.50 per share or more by her or him in the execution of her or his duties in relathan the higher of a 5 per cent.
above the average of the tion to the Companys affairs to the extent permitted by middle market quotations of those shares for the five busilaw.
ness days before the shares are purchased and b the higher CARBON EMISSIONS of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange.
The authorThe Companys carbon emissions result predominantly ity, which may be used to buy back shares either for from its consumption of gas and electricity at its offices.
cancellation or to be held in Treasury, will be used to purUsing Defra DECCs GHG conversion factors for comchase shares only if, in the opinion of the Directors, a purpany reporting produced in 2014, emissions for the year to chase would be in the best interests of the shareholders as 30 April 2018 were 19.6 tonnes of CO2e 2017: 18.1 tonnes a whole and would result in an increase in the net asset of CO2e.
This equates to 0.13 tonnes of CO2e 2017: 0.11 value per share for the remaining shareholders.
There are tonnes of CO2e per square metre.
no outstanding options or warrants to subscribe for equity shares in the capital of the Company.
AUDITORS Ernst & Young LLP EY has been Auditor to the ComTreasury Shares pany since 1983.
An audit tender has been carried out, and Under UK company law investment trusts are able to acthe Board, on the recommendation of the Audit Commitquire their own shares to hold in Treasury for reissue.
The tee, is recommending that PwC LLP PwC be apDirectors consider that this facility gives the Company pointed as Auditor.
Further information about the tender more flexibility in managing its share capital.
At 30 April process can be found in the Report of the Audit Commit- 2018 there were no Ordinary shares held in Treasury.
As a result, EY will not be seeking re-appointment as Auditor at the Annual General Meeting and Resolutions 12 and 13 would provide the Directors with the a copy of their statement of the circumstances of their ceasauthority they need to manage Treasury shares.
Treasury ing to hold office is enclosed with this Annual Report.
A shares will be reissued only at a premium to the net asset resolution to appoint PwC as Auditor to the Company will value of the shares at the time of sale.
be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will be effective immediately following that Meeting.
Notice Period for General Meetings The Companys Articles of Association enable the Company STATEMENT OF DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS to call General Meetings other than an Annual General As far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit Meeting on 14 clear days notice.
In order for this to be efinformation of which the Auditors are unaware, and each fective, the shareholders must also approve annually the callDirector has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have ing of meetings other than Annual General Meetings on 14 taken as a Director in order to make herself or himself aware days notice.
Resolution 14 will be proposed at the Annual of any relevant audit information and to establish that the General Meeting to seek such approval.
The approval will be Auditors are aware of that information.
effective until the Companys next Annual General MeetRESOLUTIONS TO BE PROPOSED AT THE AGM ing, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company meets the requirements for electronic Resolutions 1 to 10 are self explanatory.
voting under the Companies Act 2006, offering facilities for all shareholders to vote by electronic means.
The Directors Authority to Allot Shares believe it is in the best interests of the shareholders for the During the year the Company continued its policy of issushorter notice period to be available to the Company, aling shares at a small premium to net asset value in response though it is intended that this flexibility will be used only for to demand.
Resolution 11 is to authorise the Directors to early renewals of the Boards authority to issue new shares issue new shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of or reissue shares from Treasury and only where merited in 2,780,137.50, being 10 per cent.
of the total issued shares the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Resolution 12 is to enable the Directors to issue such new shares and to reissue shares from Treasury RECOMMENDATION see Treasury Shares below up to an aggregate nominal The Board considers that the resolutions to be proposed amount of 2,780,137.50, being 10 per cent.
of the total isat the AGM are in the best interests of the shareholders as sued shares at 1 June 2018, for cash without first offering a whole and recommends that they vote in favour of such such shares to existing shareholders pro rata to their existresolutions, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their ing shareholdings.
The Directors issue new shares or reisown beneficial holdings.
sue shares from Treasury only when they believe it is advantageous to the Companys shareholders to do so and By Order of the Board for the purpose of operating the Companys premium control policy.
In no circumstances would such issue of new Steven K Davidson shares or reissue of shares from Treasury result in a diluSecretary tion of net asset value per share.
10 St Colme Street Authority to Buy Back Shares Edinburgh EH3 6AA The Companys current authority to make market purchases of up to 14.99 per cent.
of the issued Ordinary shares 1 June 2018 Page 23
