24 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL REVIEW continued Impact of the UK leaving the EU Shareholders equity, treasury Current trading outlook Although currently there is increased policy and related risks Despite the current increased uncertainties economic and political uncertainty The Board remains focused on returning regarding the future performance of the associated with the process of the UKs surplus capital to shareholders to maintain UK economy, customer activity levels have departure from the EU, market an efficient capital structure whilst minimising proved resilient with good levels of fundamentals remain supportive.
financial risk through the economic cycle.
customers visiting our sites over the first Employment levels remain positive, interest The Groups Capital Return Plan schedule eight weeks of the year.
The housing rates continue at lower levels and mortgage explained earlier in this report is continually market continues to benefit from higher lenders are keen to support customers with assessed by the Directors.
levels of employment and resilient competitive mortgage products.
The Group consumer confidence supported by lower The Group maintains a 300m Revolving is in a strong position in its markets with a levels of interest rates and a competitive Credit Facility with its five relationship good range and choice of homes at lower mortgage market.
During the year the Group extended price points across our national sales disciplined lending practices with active the maturity of the revolving credit facility network.
The Group has a very strong oversight and guidance by the Financial to31 March 2023. balance sheet with a high quality land bank, Policy Committee will help maintain greater robust liquidity, substantial cash holdings We retain a focus on maintaining strong sustainability of the market.
and a strong forward order book.
The Groups revolving credit We believe market fundamentals remain reviewed all the constituent elements of our facilities will only be used to support short strong based upon a long term unfulfilled construction costs together with the term seasonal working capital needs of the level of demand.
Our commitment Groups supply chain.
We have worked with business.
Delivery of the Groups strategic tohelping solve these difficulties is our suppliers to identify any material objectives will be supported by demonstrated by our continued focus on supplies which may be exposed to some acombination of careful management of delivering growth in our output.
The Group disruption to availability as a result of Brexit the working capital needs of the business, has increased its legal completions by over and we are working with them to adopt the generation of annual after tax earnings 75% since 2012, and has invested over appropriate mitigating measures see and the management of the Groups equity, 3.81bn in land over the same period to further detail on page 42. debt and cash management facilities.
help bring as many new developments This approach will mitigate the financial The risks associated with the impact of the forward as possible.
We support the risks the Group faces which include credit UKs departure from the EU are included Governments initiatives to assist the risk, liquidity risk, interest rate volatility and inthe Boards assessment of principal risks increase in output from the industry debt capital market pricing risk.
and viability set out on pages 44 to 50. towards its goal of reaching 300,000 new homes built each year, across multiple tenures, by the mid-2020s.
We remain keen to contribute to this increase in new home delivery and the Group is well positioned in its local markets with its attractively designed core house types, offering homes at more affordable prices on developments that concentrate on providing a good range and choice to all customers with an emphasis on first time buyers and first time movers.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 25 As a result of the Groups strong levels We recognise that transaction volumes local housing plans, which are required ofsales reservations through the autumn inthe second hand housing market have tomeet their communities housing needs oflast year, together with solid sales in the been subdued for some time and we over the next five years in line with the early weeks of 2019, the Group has a continue to offer our part exchange and National Planning Policy Framework.
strong forward sales position including home change facilities to support existing The Board recognises that the excellent legal completions taken to date in 2019 of home owners desire to purchase a newly performance of the business in 2018 2.02bn.
Whilst our average private owner built home from the Group.
Our part results from the dedication and hard work occupier market sales rate per site in the exchange facilities were utilised by 10% of the whole Persimmon team.
The team first eight weeks of the year was 4% lower ofour private sale customers in 2018. will continue to strive for further than the previous year, our later release We anticipate that more new home buyers improvements in its operational ofplots for sale on certain active sites may seek to take advantage of these performance in pursuit of fulfilling the together with the later release of a dozen opportunities as we progress through the Groups strategic objectives.
We remain sites for sale over the next few weeks current year, using our resale support to confident that the Persimmon team have provide the Group with the opportunity enable them to purchase new homes from the skills, imagination and drive to continue tobuild on this strong forward sold position, the Group in locations in which they wish to successfully develop the business and together with an improved ability to ensure to live.
we thank all our employees and supply we deliver the new homes reserved by our During the current year we will continue to chain partners for their continued customers to more accurate move in dates.
invest in the future growth of the business contribution to the success of the Group.
The Group has c. 4,800 new homes to meet market demand, retaining flexibility forward sold to its housing association to react to changing conditions as market partners, 9% stronger than at the same events unfold.
The Groups strong financial point last year.
Our Westbury Partnerships position provides a great platform to business expects to continue to offer the support this sustainable growth.
However, opportunity to acquire good volumes we will remain vigilant to changing ofnew homes to its housing association conditions in the sales and land markets partners, given the Groups strong toensure we continue to judge our land investment in new land and external replacement activity appropriately, infrastructure works, which is enabling recognising that the negotiations substantial new developments to be associated with the UKs exit from the EU brought forward.
Sites at Eve Parc present key uncertainties that may have inCornwall for 300 new homes and asignificant influence on market outcomes.
atMascalls Grange in Kent for 291 homes The Group will continue to work tirelessly are good examples of developments which inpartnership with local planning have substantial affordable housing authorities to try and bring forward the allocations 100 and 105 affordable homes Groups strategic land for inclusion in their respectively which will support the diversity and sustainability of these communities in the future as their housing needs are addressed.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018
