KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2133 AGM 3436 20278 PAT Annual Report:Layout 1 07 06 2018 10:33 Page 3 INVESTMENT ADVISERS REPORT Following the steady if unspectacular progress of recent years the Companys NAV suffered a modest fall of 2.6%.
Such a result was not unexpected.
We had previously highlighted that until we were more fully invested our returns were likely to continue to differ markedly from those of the stock market, and the strengthening of sterling also had a negative effect on performance.
At the beginning of 2018 the market seemed to believe that investing in stocks had become a one-way bet.
Market volatility as represented by the VIX Index had been at a thirty year low for much of 2017 and positive share price momentum seemed unstoppable.
Complacency was high, valuations were all but ignored and interest rates had remained so low for so long that markets seemed to have forgotten that risk-taking had a downside.
Since the 2007 8 financial crisis the lack of growth in the economy had prevented monetary policy normalisation as easy conditions drove asset prices to record highs.
In time this was always likely to be problematic for equities, and the calm was broken in early February by better than expected US unemployment data which indicated a stronger economy.
It is the irony of financial markets that such good news is viewed negatively.
The US stock market fell almost 10% in six trading days and, while markets have rallied somewhat since, we believe this sudden jolt marks a turning point.
From here on we anticipate greater volatility for equities.
During the year we therefore cut our equity exposure from 46% to 38% the lowest since 2008.
We reduced longstanding holdings in British American Tobacco, Philip Morris and Microsoft on valuation grounds following periods of strong performance and before their recent price falls.
We sold two longstanding US holdings in their entirety.
Becton Dickinson we first acquired in 2010, attracted by its clean balance sheet, lowly valuation, sensible attitude towards capital allocation and business model of selling repetitively consumable medical devices.
More recently, however, Bectons management has turned to acquiring growth and scale through acquisitions, putting the balance sheet at risk.
We prefer companies we hold to create goodwill rather than expensively acquire it, so we took our sizeable profit.
We also sold Dr Pepper Snapple following the announcement of a merger with Keurig Green Mountain.
This led to a material rise in the share price, making the retention of the shares in the combined entity, with a highly leveraged balance sheet, no longer attractive.
The portfolio has been biased to the US but recently we have been finding better value in Europe, adding two new holdings in Socit BIC and Henkel.
Both companies have dominant shares of their respective markets, strong balance sheets and the comfort of alignment with family owners who will not mortgage their businesses for the sake of flattering todays earnings.
In a cycle in which earnings growth has been driven by debt supporting share buybacks this provides us with comfort.
Notwithstanding the recent market falls, investor confidence remains high, sentiment strong and the economic outlook stable.
The problem is that valuations by historical standards are even higher while geopolitical risks and the threat of greater protectionism have increased.
Trends that fostered globalisation appear to be in reverse.
Record debt levels may paradoxically prove deflationary, unless we see fiscal irresponsibility the tax reform introduced in the US this year may be a precursor lead to the higher inflation required to inflate it away.
After years of stimulus, investors today are unfamiliar with the challenge of rising interest rates and our concern is that there is a lack of realisation of the risks being taken so late into this prolonged economic cycle.
Nine years into a bull market, our concern is that diversification through equities, bonds, property and other alternatives, such as private equity, may not protect investors as well as in previous cycles.
Valuations now cause us to question the efficacy of the traditional barbell balanced fund of bonds and equities which provided attractive risk-adjusted returns for more than a generation.
In contrast to conventional bonds we prefer index-linked and gold as a counterweight to equities and our allocation to risk assets remains low.
We are optimistic this will in due course give us the investment opportunities we have been waiting for.
Recent share price falls offer the prospect for better value ahead.
As the old market adage goes, you make money when you buy, not when you sell.
