Corporate Social Responsibility and Pets Before Profit Committees Report Tessa Green Chair of the Corporate Social Responsibility and Pets Before Profit Committees Introduction Who is on the Corporate Social Responsibility Recognising the Group encompasses a broad range of and Pets Before Profit Committees?
activities which are all focused around pets, the Board maintains a regular and detailed review of pet welfare in Member No.
of meetings addition to Corporate Social Responsibility CSR more Tessa Green Chair 5 5 widely.
It achieves this by having both a CSR Committee Dennis Millard 5 5 and a Pets Before Profit Committee which, together, help Paul Coby resigned 11 July 2017 1 5 manage the Groups most important ethical, social and environmental impacts.
Stanislas Laurent appointed 25 May 2017 4 5 The Committees regularly review the Groups policies and Tony DeNunzio 5 5 procedures in relation to pet welfare in its retail business and supply chain, and the development of its clinical What we did in 2018 Corporate Social governance framework in the veterinary services business.
Responsibility The Committees also review all other elements of the Reviewed progress of energy saving initiatives ahead of Groups CSR strategy, including energy and climate change, completing store rollout of LED lighting BEMS technology.
waste, natural resources and its policies in relation to people.
A group of senior managers from across the business have Reviewed the Groups technical capabilities and quality assurance process in relation to pet food.
specific responsibility to ensure the delivery of our CSR commitments and to further improve standards of pet welfare.
Reviewed and challenged the Groups plans to provide veterinary Committee membership outreach to people living with pets in insecure accommodation.
The CSR Committee, which meets twice a year, is chaired Continued to keep the reporting of CSR activity and progress under by Tessa Green and its other members are Tony DeNunzio, review in both the Annual Report and online.
Dennis Millard and Stanislas Laurent.
The Pets Before Profit Committee, which meets three times a year, is also chaired by Tessa Green with Tony DeNunzio, Dennis Millard and What we did in 2018 Pets Before Profit Stanislas Laurent as its members, however, acknowledging Reviewed in-store daily pet care routines, including provision the importance of pets to the Group, all Board members are of fresh fruit and vegetables and bottled spring water.
required to attend Pets Before Profit Committee meetings, along with Board observers.
Reviewed the spread of RHD2 virus and the Companys response to the care of its rabbits and its breeders.
Focus and approach As our veterinary services business has continued to grow rapidly, it is no longer appropriate to think about our wider Reviewed the outcome of pet audits in stores.
responsibilities in retail-centric terms such as sourcing and supply chains.
So we have reviewed and updated how Reviewed the Vet Groups plans in relation to clinical governance we address corporate social responsibility based around the in both First Opinion and specialist veterinary practices.
concept of doing the right thing.
Doing the right thing for Reviewed impact assessments in relation to DEFRAs proposed pets, for people and for the planet will form the basis of how legislation and guidance for animal activities licensing.
we approach our responsibilities holistically and how we report our impacts and progress.
This change has resonated well with colleagues across the business as it also reflects What we will do in 2019 many of our values.
Continue to ensure delivery of the best possible pet welfare standards across the Group.
Continue to review the Groups sustainability strategies, with a particular focus on energy and climate change, waste reduction and consumption of natural resources.
Monitor the Groups progress in relation to mental health.
Review the Groups sourcing policies.
Pets at Home Group Plc 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance report Highlights I am particularly pleased with the progress that has been Some of the charities receiving grants from made in a number of key areas over the past year: Support Adoption For Pets this year We continue to improve the welfare of our pets.
This year RSPCA Northamptonshire 15,000 we have made significant improvements to our aquatics This donation funded the purchase of a new animal sections and to the supply of fish.
We have also improved ambulance.
It is one of 17 vehicles Support Adoption the fruit and vegetables and the fresh water we provide to For Pets has funded during the year, from small animal our small mammals see page 40. ambulances like this one, to a 3.5 tonne horse transporter.
Over Easter we again suspended the sale and adoption of Horse Sense Wirral 10,000 rabbits to reduce the pressure for impulse purchasing and To help with vet bills and to fund the purchase of a paddock offered rabbit workshops instead.
These are fun and engaging sweeper and an industrial washing machine.
Twelve and play an important educational role, emphasising the rescues have received grants to purchase equipment from responsibilities that come with pet ownership see page 42. washing machines right through to tractors.
Our people teams have developed wellbeing programmes that are relevant to both our retail colleagues and our Animal Care Lancaster 45,000 veterinary professionals.
In the current year there will be a Having received a grant, this charity was able to upgrade particular emphasis on mental health and wellbeing across their dog isolation block and outside pens.
Over the year the Group see page 44. eight rescues have been able to improve their dog We welcomed the Parliamentary Under Secretary of State accommodation.
for Rural Affairs and Biosecurity to one of our stores to share Maesteg Animal Welfare Society, Bridgend 6,450 the progress we have made to educate customers about This grant helped with the building of a cat pen and their responsibilities in relation to invasive non-native species contributed towards the cost of a neutering programme see page 46. for unowned cats.
Colleagues in our Vet Group have made excellent progress in the development of programmes that help our veterinary Cats Protection 60,000 colleagues develop their clinical skills and practice to a Having received this grant Cats Protection was able to consistent standard across all our practices see page 45. extend their work on a national cat census to an additional Our store colleagues helped to raise 4.3m to support the four regions.
This funding is specifically for neutering and rehoming of pets.
In the month of December alone, they vet-related costs and making a positive contribution to cat raised a staggering 1.4m in conjunction with the charity welfare.
Stray cats that are friendly will be neutered and Support Adoption For Pets, to help with this vital work.
This vet checked in readiness for rehoming.
Those which are facilitated a transformational grant of 100,000 from Support unlikely to make good pets will be neutered, vaccinated, Adoption For Pets, its largest ever single award, to Hope treated for fleas and worms, and returned.
Over the year Rescue in South Wales see page 43.
47 rescues were supported with vet bills, trap neuter release schemes and public neutering programmes.
Tessa Green Chair Corporate Social Responsibility and Pets Before Profit Committees 21 May 2018 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81
