DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report for the year ended Subject to obtaining shareholder approval for the renewal of 31 December 2018. this authority at the forthcoming AGM on 2 May 2019, the Company is authorised to make purchases of its own shares Phoenix Group Holdings plc is incorporated in the United and make payment for the redemption or purchase of its own Kingdom registered no.
11606773 and has a Premium Listing shares in any manner permitted by the Companies Act 2006 on the London Stock Exchange.
including without limitation, out of capital, profits, share premium or theproceeds of a new issue of shares.
SHAREHOLDERS The Company held no treasury shares during the year or up to the date of this report.
Dividends Dividends for the year are as follows: The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association Ordinary shares the Companys Articles which are available on the Paid interim dividend 22.6p per share 1 Companys website at www.
Recommended final dividend 23.4p per share 1 2017: 22.6p pershare Where the Phoenix Group Employee Benefit Trust EBT Total ordinary dividend 46p per share holds shares for unvested awards, the voting rights for 1 2017: 45.2p pershare theseshares are exercisable by the trustees of the EBT at 1 2 017 dividends per share figures have been rebased to take into account the bonus their discretion, taking into account the recommendations element of the rights issue completed in July 2018. ofthe Group.
As a result of regulatory changes applicable to the Group under Restrictions on transfer of shares Solvency II, dividends declared in respect of the Companys Under the Companys Articles, the Directors may in ordinary shares must be capable of being cancelled and withheld certaincircumstances refuse to register transfers of shares.
or deferred at any time prior to payment.
This is in order that the Certain restrictions on the transfer of shares may be imposed Companys ordinary shares be counted towards Group capital.
from time to time by applicable laws and regulations for Accordingly, the final dividend will be declared on a conditional example, insider trading laws, and pursuant to the Listing basis and the Directors reserve the right to cancel or defer the Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA and the recommended dividend.
The Directors do not expect to exercise Groups own share dealing rules whereby Directors and this right other than where they believe that it may be necessary certain employees ofthe Group require individual to do so as a result of legal or regulatory requirements.
authorisationto deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
SHARE CAPITAL Substantial shareholdings The issued share capital of the Company was increased Information provided to the Company pursuant to the by327,966,570 during 2018 which related to: FCAsDisclosure and Transparency Rules is published on aRegulatory Information Service and on the Companys shares issued in relation to the acquisition of Standard website.
As at 4 March 2019, the Company had been notified LifeAssurance Limited SLAL : of the following significant holdings of voting rights shares issued to Standard Life Aberdeen plc SLA plc inits shares.
inrelation to the acquisition of SLAL: Number of Percentage 144,114,450 shares were issued to SLA plc on 31 August voting rights in of shares shares in issue 2018: and Standard Life Aberdeen plc 194,275,410 26.93% shares issued under the Companys Sharesave Scheme.
BlackRock Inc. 37,167,390 5.15% At 31 December 2018, the issued ordinary share capital totalled 721,199,214.
Subsequently, 3,531 ordinary shares Annual General Meeting AGM havebeen issued in 2019 in connection with the Groups The AGM of the Company will be held at Standard Life House, Sharesave Scheme to bring the total in issue to 721,202,745 30 Lothian Road, Edinburgh, EH1 2DH on Thursday 2 May atthe dateof this report.
Full details of the issued and fully paid share capital as at A separate notice convening this meeting will be distributed 31 December 2018 and movements in share capital during toshareholders in due course and will include an explanation theperiod are presented in note D1 to the IFRSconsolidated of the items of business to be considered at the meeting.
Communication with investors At the General Meeting of Phoenix Group Holdings plc held in October 2018, shareholders granted the Company authority to The Company places considerable importance on purchase up to 10% of its issued ordinary shares.
Any ordinary communication with investors and regularlyengages with shares purchased under this authority would, subject to the them on a wide range of topics.
Companies Act 2006 eitherbe cancelled by operation of law or held in treasury.
The Companys Investor Relations department is dedicated tofacilitating communication with investors and analysts and A ny references to the Company refer to both Phoenix Group Holdings the Groups maintainsan active investor relations programme.
Please see former Cayman Islands registered holding company and Phoenix Group Holdings plc the Groups new UK registered holding company PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 106 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION page 58 for further details regarding the Companys The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors engagement with investors.
are contained in the Companys Articles.
These state that a Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the In addition, continued engagement is undertaken with shareholders or by a resolution of the Directors.
If appointed shareholders and proxy advisers on evolving governance issues.
by a resolution of the Directors, the Director concerned holds office only until the conclusion of the next AGM following The Directors consider it important to understand the views the appointment.
Board members regularly receive copies of thelatest analyst reports on the Company and the insurance In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, sector, as well as market feedback to further develop their Directors must stand for election re-election annually.
knowledge and understanding of external views about the The Board of Directors will be unanimously recommending Company.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors that all of the Directors should be put forward for election at provide feedback to the Board on topics raised with them by the forthcoming AGM to be held on 2 May 2019. major shareholders.
The Company also undertakes perception studies, designed to determine the investment communitys The Articles give details of the circumstances in which view of the core business.
Directors will be treated as having automatically vacated theiroffice and also state that the Companys shareholders The Companys AGM provides another opportunity to may remove a Director from office by passing an communicate with its shareholders.
At the 2018 meeting, the ordinary resolution.
Code provisions were complied with.
Shareholders were invited to ask questions during the meeting.
It is intended that The powers of the Directors are determined by the Companies the same processes will be followed at the 2019 AGM.
Act 2006, the provisions of the Companys Articles and by any valid directions given by shareholders byway of The Companys Annual Report and Accounts, together special resolution.
withtheCompanys Interim Report and other public announcements and presentations, are designed to present The Directors have been authorised to allot and issue afair, balanced andunderstandable view of the Groups securities and grant options over or otherwise dispose activities and prospects.
These are available on the Companys ofshares under the Companys Articles.
com, along with a wide range of relevant information for private and institutional Directors remuneration and interests investors, including the Companys financial calendar.
A report on Directors remuneration is presented within theDirectors Remuneration Report including details of BOARD theirinterests in shares and share options or any rights Board of Directors tosubscribe for shares in the Company.
The membership of the Board of Directors during 2018 is Directors indemnities given within the Corporate Governance Report on pages 65 and 67, which is incorporated by reference into this report.
The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with each Details of Directors and persons closely associated with of its Directors whereby the Company has agreed to them interests in the shares of the Company are shown indemnify each Director against all losses incurred by them intheDirectors Remuneration Report.
inthe exercise, execution or discharge of their powers or duties as a Director of the Company, provided that the During 2018 and up to the date of this report, the following indemnity shall not apply when prohibited by any changes to the Board took place: applicable law.
Ian Cormack resigned from the Board on 2 May 2018 The deeds of indemnity remains in-force as at the date ofsignature of this Directors Report.
Campbell Fleming and Barry ODwyer were appointed totheBoard on 31 August 2018 Directors conflicts of interest Henry Staunton resigned from the Board on The Board has established procedures for handling conflicts 31 October 2018 ofinterest in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and Nicholas Lyons was appointed to the Board on the Companys Articles.
31 October 2018 On an ongoing basis, Directors are responsible for informing Details of related party transactions which took place during the Company Secretary of any new, actual or potential the year with Directors of the Company and consolidated conflicts that may arise.
entities where Directors are deemed to have significant influence, are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report Directors and Officers liability insurance and in note I5 to the IFRS consolidated financial statements.
The Company maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance cover which is renewed annually.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 107 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED EMPLOYEES GOVERNANCE Diversity and inclusion Going concern The Group is committed to creating a work environment free The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely of discrimination where everyone is treated with dignity to affect its future development, performance and position and respect.
areset out in the Strategic Report.
The Strategic Report also provides details of any key events affecting the Company and We value the individuality, diversity, and creativity that every its consolidated subsidiaries since the end of the financial colleague brings to the workplace.
Everyone has the right to be year.
The Strategic Report includes details of the Groups cash treated with dignity and respect and not to be disadvantaged in flow and solvency position, including sensitivities for both.
any way as a result of their age, race, gender, disability, religion Principal risks and their mitigation are detailed on pages 43 or belief, sexual orientation, gender re-assignment, marriage to45.
In addition, the IFRS consolidated financial statements and civil partnership or pregnancy and maternity.
The Company include, amongst other things, notes on the Groups is committed to achieving equality of opportunity and the equal borrowings note E5, management of its financial risk treatment of all colleagues and those applying to join us.
including market, credit and liquidity risk note E6, its Equality of opportunity, which includes equality of pay, is seen commitments and contingent liabilities notes I6 and I7 and as an integral part of our employment practices, policies and itscapital and management note I3.
To this end all our people share an obligation to onpages 2 to 47 sets out the business model and how the their colleagues, customers and business partners to provide Group creates value for shareholders and policyholders.
asafe, fair and equitable working environment in which every individual can seek, obtain and continue employment without The Board has followed the requirements of the UK Financial experiencing any unfair or unreasonable discrimination.
Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting, The Company will not tolerate bullying and harassment of September 2014 when performing its going concern anykind.
All allegations of bullying and harassment will be assessment.
As part of its comprehensive assessment of investigated and, if appropriate, disciplinary action will be whether the Group and the Company are a going concern, taken.
The Company will also not tolerate victimisation of a theBoard has undertaken a review of the liquidity and person for making allegations of bullying or harassment in solvency of the Group under both normal and stressed good faith or supporting someone to make such a complaint.
conditions as atthe date of preparation of the statement of consolidated financial position.
Employee engagement Having thoroughly considered the going concern assessment, Phoenix Group continues to communicate with staff across a including a detailed review of the regulatory capital and cash wide variety of channels, including regular news bulletins via flow positions of each principal subsidiary company and the the intranet, Executive Committee presentations and other availability across the Group of a range of management face-to-face briefings.
The staff briefings and Executive actions, the Board has concluded that there are no material Committee presentations typically include updates on the uncertainties that may cast significant doubt about the Group Companys strategy and plans, progress against key financial and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
and operational targets, regulatory and risk management updates and review of economic or other factors which could The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group affect the Companys strategy and performance.
andthe Company have adequate resources to continue in Regular feedback mechanisms are also in place, ensuring operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus, they communication at Phoenix is a continuous two-way dialogue.
continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
The views and opinions of staff are sought through Phoenixs Engagement Survey and more regular interim surveys and The Directors have acknowledged their responsibilities in the employee communication and engagement forums..
While no Statement of Directors Responsibilities in relation to the IFRS survey was undertaken in 2018 as a result of the Standard Life financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018. acquisition, all employees of the Enlarged Group took part in a Culture survey in December 2018.
Phoenix undertakes Viability statement meaningful consultation with staff representatives on all major The Viability Statement, as required by section C. 2.2 of the organisational changes and othermatters affecting employee engagement.
An Engagement survey of the Enlarged Group is Code, has been undertaken for a period of five years to align planned for Q3 2019. tothe Groups business planning and is contained in the RiskManagement section on page 46.
Employee shareholding Corporate governance statement The Group also provides the opportunity for employees to participate in the Companys all-employee share schemes, The disclosures required by section 7.2 of the FCAs which includes Sharesave and the Share Incentive Plan, to Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules can be encourage broadershare ownership in the Company.
foundinthe Corporate Governance Report on pages 60 to 75 whichis incorporated by reference into this Directors Reportand comprises the Companys Corporate GovernanceStatement.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 108 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION The disclosures required in respect ofthe Companys diversity CONTRACTUAL OTHER policy are addressed in the Strategy and KPIs section of the Significant agreements impacted by a change Strategic Report on page 51.
The UK Corporate Governance ofcontrolof the Company Code the Code appliesto the Company and full details on There are change of control clauses contained in certain of the Companys compliance with the Code are included in the theGroups financing agreements.
The 900million revolving Corporate Governance Report.
The Code is available on the credit facility and 600million acquisition facility have website ofthe Financial Reporting Council www.
provisions which would enable the lending banks to require repayment of all amounts borrowed following a change Greenhouse gas emissions of control.
All disclosures concerning the Groups greenhouse emissionsare contained in the Environmental Report All of the Companys employee share and incentive formingpart of the Strategic Report on pages 56 and 57. planscontain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and Financial risk management become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the The Group operates a Risk Management Framework satisfaction of any performance conditions and pro rata RMF consisting of several components, as detailed in the reduction as may be applicable under the rules of the Risk Management section of the Strategic Report.
The RMF employee share incentive plans.
provides a consistent approach to highlighting and controlling key risks throughout the organisation.
This is achieved primarily Apart from the aforementioned, there are a number of through review and compliance, at a functional level, with the agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a risk universe and related policies and the risk appetites therein.
changeof control of the Company, such as commercial At its highest level the RMF considers the following risks: contracts.
None is considered to be significant in terms strategic, market, credit, insurance, financial soundness, oftheir potential impact on the business of the Group.
As a result, in preparingthe consolidated financial statements, assessmentis given to a Disclosures under listing rule 9.8.
4R broad range of risk categories.
The Risk Management section For the purposes of Listing Rule 9.8.
4C, the information also describes how the Enterprise Risk Management ERM required to be disclosed under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R can framework operated by the acquired Standard Life Assurance befound within the following sections of the Report businesses aligns with the Phoenix RMF.
and Accounts: Articles of Association Section Requirement Location Changes to the Companys Articles require prior 1 Statement of interest Note E5 to the capitalised Consolidated shareholder approval.
FinancialStatements The Articles are available on the Companys website at 2 Publication of unaudited Not applicable www.
com about-us corporate-governance financial information .
3 Deleted Not applicable 4 Details of long-term Not applicable Re-Appointment of the Auditors incentive schemes Ernst & Young LLP EY has indicated its willingness 5 Waiver of emoluments Directors Remuneration tocontinue in office and shareholders approval will byaDirector Report besoughtat the AGM on 2 May 2019.
6 Waiver of any future Directors Remuneration emoluments by a Director Report There is no cap on auditor liability in place in relation to auditwork carried out on the IFRS consolidated financial 7 Non pre-emptive issue Not applicable ofequity for cash statementsand the Groups UK subsidiaries individual financial statements.
8 As per 7, but for major Not applicable subsidiary undertakings Details of fees paid to EY during 2018 for audit and 9 Parent participation in any Not applicable non-auditwork are disclosed in note C4 to the IFRS placing of a subsidiary  statements.
10 Contracts of significance Not applicable 11 Controlling shareholder Not applicable Disclosure of information to Auditors provision of services The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 12 Shareholder dividend Not applicable Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is waiver no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and that each Director has taken all the steps that they 13 Shareholder dividend Not applicable ought to have taken as a Directorto make themselves aware waiver future periods ofany relevant audit information andto establish that the 14 Controlling shareholder Not applicable Companys auditor isaware of that information.
agreements Group Company Secretary The Group Company Secretary throughout the 2018 financialperiod was Gerald Watson.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 109
