THE MARKETPLACE THE UK LIFE AND PENSIONS MARKET REMAINS COMPETITIVE AND A STRONG BRANDISTHEKEY TO SUCCESS IN WINNING MARKET SHARE.
THE PHOENIX BRAND  OF THE LIFE AND PENSIONS INDUSTRY AND ISTAKINGA FOOTHOLDINTHEBULK PURCHASE ANNUITY MARKET.
PHOENIXS  UNDERTHE BRANDS OF STANDARD LIFE AND SUNLIFE.
Closed life funds market Bulk purchase annuities market Phoenix estimates the size of Many Defined Benefit pension theclosedlife funds market to schemesare now closed to new beapproximately 380 billion in members but have liabilities that theUK, increasing to 540 billion willcontinue for many decades into includingGermany andIreland.
The BPA market offers Phoenix has been a brand in the employers the ability to mitigate the insurance industry since 1782.
Changes in customer behaviour, riskof their Defined Benefit pension From its beginnings, more than marketdynamics and the regulatory liabilities whilst allowing the pension 200years ago, Phoenix has grown environment resulted in insurers scheme trustees the ability to secure tobecome the largest life and closingtheir old style capital-heavy and protect their members benefits.
insurance product lines to new business, replacing them with capitalThe size of the BPA market is light investment style products.
significant, with in excess of 20 billion of transactions completed in 2018 and Opportunities and outlook asimilar volume of transactions expected in 2019.
The Group expects to see continued consolidation in the closed life funds Opportunities and outlook market in the future.
This will be driven by the significant capital held within Having successfully completed three closed funds that owners may wish bulk purchase annuity transactions toredeploy, more intrusive regulation in2018, Phoenix has the acquisition leading to pressure on owners and experience and proven skills set fixedcost pressures as closed funds tocompete in this market and is decline in size over time.
targetingwinning BPA liabilities of0.5 1.0 billion per annum.
Phoenix continues to seek opportunities to acquire and manage closed life funds.
The Groups scale allows the generation of capital efficiencies through the diversification of risks and the wide range of product types that Phoenix currently manages provides a scalable platform for integrating further closed funds.
In addition, Phoenix benefits from a variable cost model given the Groups outsourcing model and an approved Solvency II Internal Model which provides greater clarity over capital requirements.
UK Life companies 58% With-profit 37% UK MARKET UK MARKET OPPORTUNITIES Foreign owned 30% OPPORTUNITIES Unit linked 40% BY OWNER BY PRODUCT TYPE Bank owned 12% Non-profit 23% PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 12 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION Opportunities and outlook Europe The retail pensions products offering has Our European businesses in Germany a strong digital and service offering which andIreland sell unit linked investment is critically important in this marketplace.
style business and the International bond is sold by Standard Life Aberdeen through Phoenix will continue to write new By offering a solution for both the retail market and investment platform.
business under the Standard Life Brand accumulation and decumulation, through the Strategic Partnership with customers can keep their assets in the Our European business is specifically Standard Life Aberdeen.
Phoenix is decumulation phase of their life and targeted to the more affluent population committed to the development of consolidate pension pots with other via broker distribution channels.
theStandard Life proposition which providers into one vehicle.
holds astrong position across the Opportunities and outlook following markets: This flexibility enables us to keep our The strong Standard Life brand customers in the longer term and retain recognition and a financially strong Workplace pensions assets under administration with the parentsupport new business growth.
The introduction of auto-enrolment, Group evidenced by the steady flow of which obliges employers to provide customers moving from our workplace andcontribute to a workplace scheme schemes to retail pensions when they for alleligible members, has resulted in change employer.
strong growth in the workplace pensions market with more than 9.5 million people We support the introduction of the automatically enrolled through the Pensions Dashboard and are engaging scheme since 2012.
Source ONS Over 50s market with the Department of Workplace SunLife specialises in the distribution Pensions with the rest of the industry.
Recent trends have included scheme ofinsurance products to the over 50s.
We believe our business will benefit reviews and employers shifting from Phoenix underwrites and administers from customers greater visibility unbundled to bundled arrangements.
thelife and pensions products within oftheirretirement savings and their range including life cover, equity increased engagement.
Opportunities and outlook release and funeral plans.
Continued growth is expected in Wrap theworkplace pensions market.
280,000 Opportunities and outlook The Wrap platform is owned and policies joined existing employer schemes The SunLife brand holds a dominant operated by Standard Life Aberdeen in 2018 and the increase in mandatory position in the over 50s market with a offering a range of Standard Life branded contribution rates from 5% to 8% from 57.8% market share of all whole of life products provided by Phoenix to circa April 2019 will contribute to the growth guaranteed acceptance plans bought 100,000 customers.
The Wrap platform ofthis business in the future.
Source: ABI statistics issued offers a high level of functionality which inNovember 2018 for 12 month period differentiates it from other platforms and Standard Life has built a strong to30 September 2018 based on new the strong and integrated relationship proposition to compete in this market with Phoenix Life policy sales trading with advisers gives it a market- 15,000 active schemes serving 1.9 million as SunLife.
customers and harnessing the benefit of strong relationships with large employer We will continue to invest in the SunLife Opportunities and outlook benefit consultants and employers.
brand and its service offering which Whilst the platform market is very wasawarded the 2018 Feefo Gold crowded and highly competitive, the Retail pensions Trusted Service Provider for the Wrap platform remains number one The retail pensions book is in part built up thirdyear running.
inthe market based on both advised by the Strategic Partnership with Standard gross and net volumes and is well Life Aberdeen selling retail pensions placed to grow in the future.
products via independent advisers and has 750,000 customers with 14,000 newdrawdown customers in 2018.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 13
