Directors Report Statutory information This section of the Annual Report The Company has chosen in accordance with section includes additional information 414C 11 of the Companies Act to provide disclosures and information in relation to a number of additional matters required to be disclosed under the which are covered elsewhere in this Annual Report.
These matters and cross-references to the relevant sections of Companies Act 2006 Companies this Annual Report are shown in the table below.
Act, the UK Corporate Governance Page Statutory information Section heading number Code 2016 Code, the Disclosure Amendment of the Articles Directors Report 66 Appointment and Directors Report Guidance and Transparency Rules Removal of Directors 64 and the Listing Rules of the Financial Board of Directors Directors Report 6061 Board of Directors 6061 Conduct Authority.
Branches outside of the UK Directors Report 69 Change of Control Directors Report 69 Colleague Involvement Strategic Report Corporate Social Pets At Home Group Plc Responsibility 3946 Registered Number: 8885072 Directors Report 63 Registered Office: Epsom Avenue, Stanley Green Trading Colleague Diversity and Disabilities Directors Report 63 Estate, Handforth, Cheshire, SK9 3RN Colleague Share Ownership and Plans Directors Remuneration Report 84 Telephone Number: 44 161 486 6688 Community Strategic Report Date of Incorporation: 10 February 2014 Corporate Social Country of Incorporation: England and Wales Responsibility 3646 Type: Public Limited Company Compensation for loss of office Directors Report 64 Compliance with the terms of the Directors Report Relationship Agreement including the independence provisions 70 Directors Biographies Board of Directors 6061 Directors information to Auditors Directors Report 70 Directors Insurance and Indemnities Directors Report 64 Directors Interests Directors Report 64 Directors Responsibility Statement Directors Report 71 Executive Share Plans Directors Remuneration Report 87, 9092 Financial Instruments Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements 150 Future Developments of the Business Strategic Report 1823 Financial position of the Group, Chief Financial Officers its cash flow, liquidity position Review and borrowing facilities 2427 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Corporate Social Responsibility 47 Going Concern Directors Report 67 Health and Safety Governance Report 56 Directors Report 68 Human Rights and Modern Directors Report Slavery Statement 67 Independent Auditors Directors Report 70 Audit and Risk Committee Report 76 Internal Controls and Risk Management Governance Report 56 Political Donations Directors Report 66 Profits and Dividend Directors Report 66 Post Balance Sheet Events Directors Report 66 Pets at Home Group Plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance report Research and development Page Statutory information Section heading number The Strategic Report sets out on page 5 the innovation carried out by the Group in relation to product and service Powers for the Company to issue Directors Report or buy back its shares 65 development.
In addition, the Group also funds a number Powers of the Directors Directors Report 64 of research projects and during this financial year we have Principal Activities Directors Report 63 continued to co-fund a Doctor of Philosophy PhD at Exeter Relationship Agreement Directors Report 70 University which is looking at how to identify and reduce Research and Development Directors Report 63 the stress factors in ornamental aquarium fish.
The PhD was Strategic Report 5 co-funded with an executive agency called CEFAS Centre Restrictions on transfer of securities Directors Report 65 for Environment Fisheries and Aquaculture Science which Share capital Directors Report 65 is sponsored by DEFRA Department for Environment, Food Note 20 to the & Rural Affairs and advises DEFRA, as well as other public consolidated and private sector customers on issues connected to the statements 140 aquatic environment.
The Group is also, in partnership with Significant related party transactions Directors Report 66 Mars Fishcare and the University of West Scotland, working Note 26 to the together on a combined PhD looking at stress caused during consolidated statements 156 transportation of fish from source right through into the Significant Shareholders Directors Report 66 Groups stores.
This project complements and builds on the Subsidiary and Associated Note 27 to the Groups first PhD project with Exeter University, and combined Undertakings consolidated with the Exeter University project will give the Group an statements 158 in-depth knowledge and understanding which can be used Statement of Corporate Governance Governance Report 49 to further increase the welfare of fish in the Groups stores.
The Audit and Risk Committee Report Governance Report 7276 Colleague involvement The Governance Report Governance Report 4861 The Group places significant emphasis on colleague The Directors Remuneration Report Governance Report 82101 engagement at all levels, in particular through its regular The Nomination and Corporate Governance Report Governance Committee Report 7779 listening surveys.
Colleagues are kept informed of issues Strategic Report Governance Report 147 affecting the Group through formal and informal meetings Treasury and Risk Management Strategic Report 37 and through the Groups internal written communications.
Viability Statement Directors Report 67 Further information on colleague engagement is included Voting Rights Directors Report 65 in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on page 45.
Details of the Groups colleague share plans are contained Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 84.
In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4C, the information Colleague diversity and disabled persons required to be disclosed in the Annual Report under Listing The Groups policy for colleagues and all applicants for Rule 9.8.
4R is disclosed on the following pages of this employment is to match the capabilities and talents of each Annual Report: individual to the appropriate role.
We are committed to Page ensuring equality of opportunity for all colleagues.
We aim to Disclosure number ensure that no colleague, potential colleague, customer, visitor Long term incentive schemes 92 or contractor will receive less favourable treatment on the Significant contracts 69 grounds of: Dividend Waivers Note 9 to the consolidated Sex Religious beliefs financial statements Race Sexual orientation or Principal activities Pregnancy and maternity following gender The principal activity of the Group is that of a specialist Ethnic origin reassignment omnichannel retailer of pet food, pet related products and pet Nationality Marital status accessories.
The Group is also the operator of a small animal Disability Colour veterinary business, specialist veterinary referral centres and Age pet grooming salons.
The principal activity of the Company Applications for employment by disabled persons are given is that of a holding company.
The Companys registrar is full and fair consideration for all vacancies, and are assessed in Computershare Investor Services Plc situated at The Pavilions, accordance with their particular skills and abilities.
The Group Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZZ.
does all that is practicable to meet its responsibilities towards the training and employment of disabled people, and to ensure that training, career development and promotion opportunities are available to all colleagues.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 63 Directors Report continued The Group makes every effort to provide continuity of On 21 May 2018, after the end of the financial period, employment in the event that any colleague becomes Tessa Green notified the Board of her intention to resign disabled.
Attempts are made in every circumstance to provide from the Board with effect from 12 July 2018.
Tessa Green employment, whether this involves adapting the current will be replaced by Professor Susan Dawson.
job role and remaining in the same job, or moving to a more Appointment and removal of Directors appropriate job role.
The appointment and replacement of Directors of the In common with many retailers, this year we published our Company is governed by the Articles.
Gender Pay Gap report for our Retail Group on 28 March 2018.
Appointment of Directors: A Director may be appointed by Further information on our Gender Pay Gap report is the Company by an ordinary resolution of the Companys contained in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 84. shareholders or by the Board.
The Board or any Committee Our Gender Pay Gap report can be found at https: investors.
authorised by the Board may from time to time appoint one petsathome.
com responsibility  or more Directors to hold any employment or executive office .
for such period and on such terms as they may determine Directors and may also revoke or terminate any such appointment.
The names of the persons who, at any time during the A Director appointed by the Board holds office only until the financial year, were Directors of the Company are: next Annual General Meeting of the Company and is then eligible for re-appointment.
Date of Date of Name appointment resignation Annual re-election of Directors: All Directors stand for re-election on an annual basis in line with the Tony DeNunzio 24 May 2017 n a re-appointed recommendations of the Code.
Dennis Millard 24 May 2017 n a Removal of Directors: A Director may be removed by the re-appointed Company in certain circumstances set out in the Articles Tessa Green 24 May 2017 Resigned on 22 May 2018 or by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
re-appointed but was a director during the financial period Vacation of office: The office of a Director shall be vacated if Paul Moody 24 May 2017 n a amongst other circumstances : i he is prohibited by law from re-appointed being a Director: ii he resigns: iii his resignation is requested Mike Iddon 17 October 2017 n a by all of the other Directors: iv he is or has been suffering from mental or physical ill health and the Board resolves that Sharon Flood 11 July 2017 n a his office be vacated: v he is absent without the permission Stanislas Laurent 11 July 2017 n a of the Board from meetings of the Board whether or not an Ian Kellett 11 February 2014 27 April 2018 alternate Director appointed by him attends for six Nicolas Gheysens 2 December 2016 28 November 2018 consecutive months and the Board resolves that his office Paul Coby 18 February 2014 11 July 2017 is vacated: vi he becomes bankrupt: vii he ceases to be a Amy Sterling 18 February 2014 11 July 2017 Director by virtue of the Companies Act: or viii he is removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
Ian Kellett resigned from his position as Group Chief Executive Powers of the Directors Officer on 28 November 2017 although his resignation did not Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act, any directions take effect until after the end of the financial year on 27 April given by the Company by special resolution of the Companys 2018.
Ians employment with the Group will terminate on shareholders and any relevant statues and regulations, the 31 May 2018.
Ian was succeeded by Peter Pritchard.
business of the Company will be managed by the Board who On 28 November 2018, Nicolas Gheysens also resigned from may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Nicolas had been appointed to the Board as the Directors interests nominated representative of the Companys then Principal Information relating to the Directors interests in, and options Shareholder, KKR My Best Friend Limited, an affiliate of over, Ordinary Shares in the capital of the Company are shown Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L. P.. KKR My Best Friend Limited in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 97.
Since the determined at that time not to exercise its rights under the end of the financial year and the date of this Directors Report, relationship agreement entered into with the Company to following the termination of Ian Kelletts employment with replace Nicolas position on the Board.
the Company on 31 May 2018, options in respect of a total During the financial period Amy Stirling and Paul Coby aggregate number of 476,461 ordinary shares will lapse.
In stepped down from the Board with effect from the close of addition, Mike Iddon received an award of 193,067 share options the Annual General Meeting on 11 July 2017 in order to fulfil under the Pets at Home Group plc Restriction Stock Plan.
commitments in their full time roles.
Amy was succeeded by Sharon Flood and Paul was replaced by Stanislas Laurent.
Pets at Home Group Plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance report In line with the requirements of the Companies Act, each There have been no movements in the Companys issued share capital in the 2018 financial period.
Director has notified the Company of any situation in which he or she has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that Details of colleague share schemes are provided in note 22 conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the to the Groups financial statements.
These were considered and Voting rights approved by the Board in accordance with the Articles and All members who hold Ordinary Shares are entitled to attend each Director informed of the authorisation and any terms on and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
On a show of hands at which it was given.
The Board has formal procedures to deal a general meeting every member present in person shall have with Directors conflicts of interest as and when they arise.
one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by The Board reviews and, where considered appropriate, proxy shall have one vote for every Ordinary Share held.
No approves situational conflicts of interest that were reported shareholder holds Ordinary Shares carrying special rights to it by Directors and a register of those situational conflicts relating to the control of the Company and the Directors are not is maintained by the Company.
The register is reviewed by aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys the Board on an ongoing basis.
shares that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Compensation for loss of office The Company does not have any agreements with any Powers for the Company to issue or buy back its shares Director or colleague that would provide compensation for Powers for the Company to issue shares: The Directors were loss of office or employment whether through resignation, granted authority at the previous Annual General Meeting on redundancy or otherwise resulting from a takeover bid except 11 July 2017, to allot shares in the Company under two that it should be noted that provisions of the Companys share separate resolutions: i up to one-third of the Companys schemes may cause options and awards granted to Directors issued share capital: and ii up to two-thirds of the Companys or colleagues under such schemes to vest on a takeover.
issued share capital in connection with a rights issue.
These For further information on the change of control provisions authorities apply until the end of the Annual General Meeting in the Companys share schemes refer to the Directors to be held on 12 July 2018 or, if earlier, until the close of Remuneration Report on page 92. business on 11 October 2018.
During the period, the Directors did not use their power to issue shares under the authorities, Directors insurance and indemnities but did satisfy options and awards under the Companys The Company maintains directors and officers liability option and incentive schemes.
insurance cover for its Directors and officers and those of The Directors were also granted authority at the previous other Group companies as permitted under the Articles and Annual General Meeting on 11 July 2017 to disapply prethe Companies Act.
Such insurance policies were renewed emption rights.
This resolution which is in accordance with during the period and remain in force as at the date of this the guidance issued by the Pre-Emption Group the PEG Annual Report.
Each Director and officer of the Company also Principles sought the authority to disapply pre-emption has the benefit of a qualifying indemnity, as defined by section rights over 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
236 of the Companies Act, and as permitted by the Articles.
An A further authority was also granted to disapply pre-emption indemnity deed is entered into by a Director at the time of his rights in respect of an additional 5% for financing a transaction or her appointment to the Board.
Prospectus liability insurance which the Directors determine to be an acquisition or other remains in force which provides cover for liabilities incurred capital investment as allowed by the PEG Principles.
During by certain Directors in the performance of their duties in the period, the Directors did not use their power to issue connection with the issue of the Companys prospectus dated shares under the authorities, but did satisfy options and 28 February 2014 in relation to the Companys Initial Public awards under the Companys option and incentive schemes.
No amount was paid under any of these indemnities or The Company will, consistent with the 2017 Annual General insurances during the financial year other than the applicable Meeting, seek to renew these powers at the 2018 Annual insurance premiums.
Powers for the Company to buy back its shares: The Share capital Company was authorised by its shareholders on 11 July 2017, The issued share capital of the Company as at 29 March 2018 at the 2017 Annual General Meeting, to purchase in the market was 500,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 1 pence each.
As at up to 10% of its issued Ordinary Shares excluding any treasury 21 May 2018, being the latest practicable date prior to the shares, subject to certain conditions laid out in the authorising date of this Annual Report, the issued share capital of the resolution.
This standard authority is renewable annually Company remained 500,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 1 pence and the Directors will seek to renew this authority at the 2018 each.
Further information regarding the Companys issued Annual General Meeting to be held on 12 July 2018.
The share capital can be found on page 140 of the Groups Directors did not exercise their authority to buy back any financial statements.
shares during the financial period.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 65 Directors Report continued Restrictions on transfer of Ordinary Shares month prior to the date of the Notice of Annual General The Companys shares are freely transferable, save as set Meeting, except as set out in the table below: out below.
Number of Percentage Nature of Ordinary of issued holding The transferor of a share is deemed to remain the holder Name of Shares as at share direct until the transferees name is entered in the register.
The Board shareholder 29.03.18 capital % indirect can decline to register any transfer of any share which is not Morgan Stanley 16,071,814 3.21 Direct a fully paid share.
The Company does not currently have any Indirect partially paid shares.
The Board may also decline to register Norges Bank 20,579,420 4.12 Direct a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of Schroders plc 64,234,925 12.85 Indirect transfer: A is duly stamped or certified or otherwise shown to be exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied by the Significant related party transactions relevant share certificate: B is in respect of only one class of Save for the Relationship Agreement further described on share: and C if to joint transferees, is in favour of not more page 70 of this Directors Report, there are no contracts of than four such transferees.
Registration of a transfer of an significance during the financial period between the Company uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances set or any Group company and: 1 a Director of the Company: out in the CREST Regulations as defined in the Articles and 2 a close member of a Directors family: or 3 a controlling where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number shareholder of the Company.
of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be Amendment of the Articles transferred exceeds four.
The Articles may only be amended by a special resolution Certain restrictions are also imposed by laws and regulations of the Companys shareholders in a general meeting, in such as the Market Abuse Regulation and pursuant to the accordance with the Companies Act.
Companys share dealing code whereby certain Directors Profits and dividend and Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibility and The consolidated profit for the year after taxation and restricted colleagues require clearance to deal in the excluding non-underlying items was 67,542,000 FY17: Companys securities.
The results are discussed in greater detail Significant shareholdings in the financial review on pages 24 to 27.
Information provided to the Company pursuant to the A final dividend of 5 pence per ordinary share FY17: 5 pence Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules is published per ordinary share will be recommended to the Companys on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys shareholders in respect of the 2018 financial year.
As at 29 March 2018, the following information had dividend will be proposed by the Directors at the 2018 Annual been received, in accordance with DTR5.1.
2R, from holders General Meeting on 12 July 2018 in respect of the financial of notifiable interests in the Companys issued share capital.
year ended 29 March 2018 to add to an interim dividend of These figures represent the number of shares and percentages 2.5 pence per ordinary share paid on 12 January 2018 FY17: held as at the date of notification to the Company.
It should 2.5 pence per ordinary share.
be noted that these holdings may have changed since notified to the Company however, notification of any change is not The Directors proposed final dividend of 5 pence per ordinary required until the next applicable threshold is crossed.
share takes the total dividend payable in respect of the 2018 financial year to 7.5 pence per ordinary share.
The ex-dividend Number of Percentage Nature of date will be 14 June 2018 and, subject to shareholder approval Ordinary of issued holding Name of Shares as at share direct being obtained at the 2018 Annual General Meeting, the final shareholder 29.03.18 capital % indirect dividend of 5 pence per ordinary share will be paid to Schroders plc 78,010,918 15.60 Indirect shareholders on the register at the close of business on Old Mutual 75,162,963 15.03 Indirect 15 June 2018.
Canada Pension Plan Political donations Investment 50,095,670 10.02 Direct The Group made no political donations and incurred no Nordea 1 SICAV 24,816,413 4.96 Direct political expenditure during the year FY17: Nil.
It remains the Norges Bank 19,904,631 3.98 Direct Companys policy not to make political donations or to incur Portland Hill Asset political expenditure, however the application of the relevant Management provisions of the Companies Act is potentially very broad in Limited 15,059,316 3.01 Indirect nature and, as with last year, the Board is seeking shareholder authority to ensure that the Group does not inadvertently No changes have been disclosed in accordance with Disclosure breach these provisions as a result of the breadth of its Guidance and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2R in the period between business activities.
The Board has no intention of using 29 March 2018 and 21 May 2018 being not more than one this authority.
Pets at Home Group Plc 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance report Suppliers The SBP process covers a three-year period.
The three-year plan provides a robust planning tool against which strategic The Group understands the importance of maintaining good decisions can be made.
In making their viability assessment, relationships with suppliers and it is Group policy to agree the Board has taken into consideration that financing appropriate terms and conditions for its transactions with facilities are maintained for the duration of the Strategic Plan.
suppliers ranging from standard written terms to individually The Directors have considered a combination of risks and negotiated contracts and for payment to be made in uncertainties and the mitigating controls operated by the accordance with these terms, provided the supplier has Group as detailed on pages 32 to 37 that may impact on the complied with its obligations.
Average trade creditors of the Groups reputation and its ability to trade.
These risks include Groups operations for FY18 were 48 days FY17: 47 days.
issues on pet welfare, competitor activity and broader Post balance sheet events macro-economic risks and their impact on the Strategic Plan On 27 April 2018, Peter Pritchard was appointed Group Chief on an individual and combined level.
Executive Officer, succeeding Ian Kellett who notified the Board of his intention to resign in November 2017.
Peter joined On this basis and in conjunction with other matters considered Pets at Home in 2011 as Commercial Director and moved to and reviewed by the Board during the year, the Board has the CEO of Retail in 2015.
Ian Kellett will remain employed reasonable expectations that the Group will be able to with the Group until 31 May 2018, following which his continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due employment will terminate.
over the three financial years used for their assessment.
In making this assessment, the Group has assumed that it is able On 22 May 2018, Tessa Green confirmed that she will step to refinance the existing Senior Finance Bank Loans at a similar down from the Board with effect from the close of the Annual level to the existing facilities which expire in April 2020.
Further General Meeting on 12 July 2018.
Tessa has been a Director of to this, the Board have assumed that there is no material Pets at Home since 2014 and during that time has been Chair change in the legislative environment in relation to the sale of of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee and the Pets small animals and the practice of veterinary medicine.
It is Before Profit Committee.
Tessa will be succeeded by Professor recognised that such future assessments are subject to a level Susan Dawson, Dean of the Institute of Veterinary Science at of uncertainty that increases with time and, therefore future the University of Liverpool and council member of the Royal outcomes cannot be guaranteed or predicted with certainty.
Professor Dawson will Chair Human rights and modern slavery statement the Pets Before Profit and Corporate Social Responsibility Pets at Home is the UKs leading specialist retailer of pets, pet Committees.
We run the UKs largest small Going concern animal veterinary and grooming businesses through our vets On the basis of current financial projections and facilities and services brands.
Our mission is to be the best pet shop available, the Directors are satisfied that the Group is well in the world.
We therefore take great care in operating our placed to manage its business risks successfully and therefore business and in selecting our business partners and suppliers.
have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate The products we sell are sourced from a broad range of resources to continue in operational existence for a period suppliers both national and international.
We are the only UK of 12 months from the date of approval of the financial pet retailer to have a dedicated sourcing office in the Far East.
Accordingly, the financial statements continue From our regional base in Hong Kong, which opened in 2012, to be prepared on a going concern basis.
we have a team of product technologists who support our buyers, oversee our suppliers and monitor production.
Viability statement The Group has developed a detailed strategic and business Our suppliers are required to comply with our Ethical planning SBP process, which comprises a strategic plan Trading Policy and we undertake ethical audits which cover: Strategic Plan containing financial projections and a business hours of work, labour practices, working conditions, onsite plan which forms a detailed near term one-year plan for the accommodation, health and safety, environment, supply upcoming financial year.
The SBP process produces standard chain management and wages.
We also require compliance outputs in respect of the key financial performance metrics with the Pets at Home Groups Code of Business Ethics of the Group which deliver consolidated financial plans at both and Conduct.
Group level and at a number of levels within the Group.
The In our modern slavery statement published in April 2016, we Strategic Plan is reviewed each year by the Board as part of highlighted a number of areas where we wished to strengthen the strategy review process.
Once approved by the Board, our processes to protect against the risk of modern slavery, the Strategic Plan is cascaded across the Group and provides following a Group wide risk assessment.
These areas included: the basis for setting all detailed financial budgets and strategic reviewing supplier due diligence and audit processes to actions that are subsequently used by the Board to monitor ensure compliance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 Act, performance.
updating supplier trading terms and the Code of Business Ethics and Conduct in relation to the Act.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 67 Directors Report continued During the last financial year, we reviewed our procurement The Group has incorporated a Health and Safety Committee which is chaired by the Chief People and Legal Officer and is processes in respect of modern slavery and have included attended by representatives of each business unit.
The Health appropriate questions in our tender documentation in relation and Safety Committee meets four times a year and discusses to supplier compliance with the Act.
In addition, we reviewed various Health and Safety related issues as well as undertaking our audit processes and looked in detail at the questions asked deep dive projects throughout the year.
The Groups during audits and the checks carried out.
On review, our distribution centres also host their own Health and Safety audits already include checks on working conditions, pay and Committee meetings seven times per year.
other appropriate areas in sufficient detail to highlight any instances of modern slavery.
There have been no Health and Safety Enforcement Notices We have updated our supplier general terms and conditions served on the Group.
to further drive compliance with the Act.
We have included We continue to benchmark Group Accident Rates which a warranty from suppliers requiring compliance with the Act, also includes accidents which have taken place in our Joint the right to audit in respect of the Act and also the right for Venture First Opinion veterinary practices and Specialist Pets at Home to terminate in the event of supplier nonReferral Centres.
We record all incidents including non-work compliance with the Act.
related injuries and report all accidents in accordance with the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrence In addition, we updated our Code of Business Ethics and Regulations RIDDOR.
We also classify all incidents where we Conduct to specifically cover the Act.
are aware the customer intends to go to hospital as RIDDOR We consider that training is also key to raising awareness on reportable.
This does result in some over reporting by the modern slavery and will assist our colleagues and suppliers Group under RIDDOR.
gain a better understanding on the issue of modern slavery and requirements set out in the Act.
In November 2016, During the financial year, total accidents across the we delivered a workshop on this subject to all 45 suppliers Group increased proportionate to our store, practice and attending our Asia supplier conference being an area where colleague growth.
There was a decrease of 0.03 in the we considered a greater potential risk of modern slavery Colleague Accident Rate from 9.37 per 1,000 colleagues was prevalent.
to 9.34 accidents per 1,000 colleagues, and an increase in Customer Accidents from 1.06 per 100,000 transactions We have also delivered training to colleagues in our UK to 1.22 per 100,000 transactions.
The number of RIDDOR support office where relevant.
reportable accidents decreased from 0.33 to 0.26 in our To ensure we continue to drive compliance with the Act, stores, First Opinion practices and Specialist Referral Centres.
during this financial year we intend to review the previously In our distribution centres, there was a decrease of 0.08 undertaken risk assessment to ensure it remains up to date accidents per 100,000 hours worked, and a 0.18 decrease and will assess any new risk areas or actions.
We will continue in RIDDOR reportable accidents.
to train colleagues and suppliers as appropriate.
Accident rates stores practices Distribution accident rates As set out in last years modern slavery statement, should any 9.37 9.34 0.43 instances of non-compliance with the Act arise in relation to 0.39 7.48 0.32 0.31 any of our suppliers then this will be reviewed and appropriate 0.28 action taken.
0.1 The Pets at Home Group Plc Board of Directors approved this 1.1 1.06 1.22 statement at a meeting of the Board on 11 July 2017.
Retail colleague Customer accident Colleague accidents RIDDOR accident accident rates rates per 100,000 per 100,000 rates per 100,000 Health and Safety per 1,000 colleagues transactions hours worked hours worked We are committed to providing a safe and healthy environment 2015 16 2016 17 2017 18 2015 16 2016 17 2017 18 for all of our colleagues, customers, third party contractors and Group RIDDOR rates pets.
We actively encourage a positive Health and Safety culture throughout our stores, distribution centres, First Opinion 0.34 0.33 practices, Specialist Referral Centres and support offices.
0.26 The Group recognises its responsibility for Health and Safety and we have robust control measures in place to minimise the risk of incidents.
Each year we host a Health and Safety week 0.02 0.02 0.02 in October with the aim of promoting good Health and Safety Customer RIDDOR Colleague RIDDOR practice across the Group.
The Group re-launches its Health accident rates per accident rate per 100,000 transactions 1,000 colleagues and Safety Policy Statement during Health and Safety week 2015 16 2016 17 2017 18 and the policy is reviewed and signed off by the Group Chief Executive Officer.
Pets at Home Group Plc 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance report For the third year running, our two distribution centres applied Branches outside of the UK for the British Safety Councils International Safety Award, both The Company has no branches outside of the UK.
Change of control We achieved 100% completion of First Opinion practice annual The only significant agreements to which the Company is audits within the Vet Group, and 100% compliance for Area a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of Manager audits within the Retail Group.
control of the Company following a takeover bid, and the effect thereof, are as follows: We continue to promote Health and Safety through the Group to all of our colleagues and promote a Stay Safe culture.
On 14 April 2015, the Group entered into an Amendment and Restatement Agreement relating to a senior facilities Target FY17 18 Achievements Target FY18 19 agreement dated 18 February 2014 with a total facility Achieve a 5% Achieved reduction Achieve a 5% amount of 260m Senior Facilities Agreement.
The Senior reduction in colleague in RIDDOR rates, reduction in colleague Facilities Agreement expires in 2020.
The Senior Facilities accident rates per colleague accident accident rates per Agreement contains customary prepayment, cancellation 1,000 colleagues and rate per 1,000 1,000 colleagues and and default provisions including, if required by a lender, a reduction in RIDDOR colleagues decreased a reduction in RIDDOR mandatory prepayment of all utilisations provided by that reportable accidents.
lender upon the sale of all or substantially all of the business Re-apply for the Safety Awarded Merit for Re-apply for the Safety and assets of the Group or a change of control.
awards and aim to both distribution awards and aim to achieve a merit or centres.
achieve a merits or The Companys subsidiary, Companion Care Services Ltd distinction for both distinctions for both CCSL, is a party to a facilities agreement dated 21 March distribution centres.
2018 for total commitments of 42m Lloyds Facility.
The Review and improve Achieved.
Risk Improve how we Lloyds Facility provides funding for the Groups Joint Venture Risk Assessment key Assessments are recognise and reduce First Opinion practices.
Pursuant to the terms of the Lloyds areas throughout reviewed annually risk and improve the Facility, CCSL provides a guarantee in respect of a certain year in retail and our for launch during working environment fixed proportion of the outstanding facility loans provided distribution centres Health and Safety for all colleagues to the Joint Venture practices which borrow under the and launch annual week to target key risk by providing safe facility.
The Lloyds Facility contains customary prepayment, review during Health areas and raise Safety equipment, storage cancellation and default provisions including in the event and Safety week.
and premises and relaunch our clean of a change of control direct or indirect of CCSL.
as you go policy in The Companys subsidiary, Companion Care Services Ltd relation to storage and CCSL, is a party to a facilities agreement dated 21 March slips and trips risk.
2018 for total commitments of 20,000,000 HSBC Facility.
Improve support and Implemented Review and improve The HSBC Facility provides funding for the Groups Joint assistance to Area and safety checks and involvement in Safety Venture First Opinion practices.
Pursuant to the terms of the Store Managers by simplification of at all levels, improving introducing specific paperwork and communications and HSBC Facility, CCSL provides a guarantee in respect of a Health and Safety processes launched colleague awareness certain fixed proportion of the outstanding facility loans checks, undertaking into business during and promote and provided to the Joint Venture practices.
The HSBC Facility store visits and Health and Safety encourage personal contains customary prepayment, cancellation and default targeting Health and week.
ownership of Safety provisions including in the event of a change of control Safety to simplify with colleagues taking direct or indirect of CCSL.
For these purposes control paperwork and ownership of our means the power to: a cast or control more than 90% of the processes so that they policies.
votes that may be cast at a general meeting of CCSL: b add value to our safety appoint or remove all or a majority of the directors of CCSL: management systems.
c give directions with respect to the operating and financial Undertake review Reviewed and Material Handling policies of CCSL with which the directors are obliged to of Material Handling developed Material Equipment comply: or d hold beneficially directly or indirectly at least Equipment operations Handling Equipment management training and training.
management safety to be completed 90% of the issued share capital of CCSL.
systems policies and and daily Material Risk Assessments.
Handling Equipment observations and coaching to be introduced.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 69 Directors Report continued Compliance with the terms of the Relationship Agreement Independent auditors including any Independence Provisions During the 2016 financial year, a competitive tender On 28 February 2014, and in connection with its Listing, the process of audit services was completed in accordance Company entered into the Relationship Agreement with with the requirements of The Statutory Audit Services for KKR My Best Friend Limited Principal Shareholder.
The Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use Relationship Agreement regulated the relationship between of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee the Company and the Principal Shareholder.
Pursuant to Responsibilities Order 2014 the Order.
KPMG LLP was the terms of the Relationship Agreement, the Principal re-appointed as auditor of the Company at the 2017 Annual Shareholder had certain rights amongst others to: A General Meeting.
representation on the Board and Nomination and Corporate The Companys auditor, KPMG LLP, has indicated their Governance Committee: B appoint observers to the willingness to continue their role as the Companys auditor.
Remuneration, Audit and Risk and the Pets Before Profit and Resolutions concerning the re-appointment of KPMG LLP CSR Committees: and C certain anti-dilution rights.
Such as auditor of the Company and to authorise the Directors to rights were subject to the Principal Shareholder maintaining a determine their remuneration will be proposed at the 2018 certain minimum level of shareholding.
On 29 January 2018, Annual General Meeting as set out in the Notice of Annual the Principal Shareholder divested of its remaining stake in the General Meeting.
For further information on the reCompany and reduced its shareholding in the Company to nil.
appointment of the auditors, refer to page 75 of the Audit The Relationship Agreement has accordingly terminated.
Whilst in effect, the Relationship Agreement complied with Approval of Annual Report the requirements of the Listing Rules, including Listing Rule The Strategic Report, Corporate Governance Statement 9.2.
and the Governance Report were approved by the Board In accordance with the requirements of LR 9.8.
4 14, the Board on 21 May 2018. confirms that the Company complied with its obligations This Directors Report was approved by the Board on under the Relationship Agreement, including in respect of the 21 May 2018 and signed on its behalf by: independence provisions set out in such agreement at all times since it was entered into, including during the financial period under review, and, so far as the Company is aware, KKR My Best Friend Limited and its associates complied with the provisions of the Relationship Agreement, including the independence provisions set out in such agreement, at all times since it was entered into, including during the financial Louise Stonier period under review.
Chief People and Legal Officer and Company Secretary Directors information to auditors 21 May 2018 In accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act, each Director who held office at the date of the approval of this Directors Report whose names and functions are listed in the Board of Directors on pages 6061 confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditor is unaware, and that each Director has taken all of the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditor is aware of that information.
Pets at Home Group Plc 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2018
