STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION OUR KEY PRODUCTS WE HAVE A WIDE RANGE OF PRODUCTS WHICH AREWRITTENACROSS DIFFERENT FUNDS.
The features of each policy influences whether it is the policyholders and or the shareholders who are exposed to therisks andrewards of a policy.
Type of business Typical characteristics Policyholder benefits Shareholder benefits With-profit These are typically savings Policyholders benefit from In the supported andinvestment products.
discretionary annual and or with-profit funds, the final bonuses.
shareholders capital is They comprise 56bn exposed to all economic endowments, whole of life The bonuses are designed movements until the and pensions products and todistribute to policyholders estateis rebuilt to cover some guaranteed annuity a fair share of the return therequired capital, at Assets under 25% options which guarantee onthe assets in the fund, which point the fund administration the annuity that a pension together with other becomes unsupported.
at 31 Dec 2018 pot willbeable to buy.
elements of experience inthe fund.
In the unsupported The policyholders and with-profit funds, typically shareholders share in the shareholders receive risks and rewards of the 10%ofdeclared bonuses policy, depending on the 90:10structure or nil structure of the fund.
100:0structure, including Excess assets created any estate distributed.
overtime estate provide abuffer toabsorb cost ofguarantees andcapital requirements.
In the supported with-profit funds, the shareholders provide capitalsupport to the fund.
Unit linked These are insurance Policyholders benefits Shareholders benefit orinvestment contracts areinthe form of unit fromfees earned through savings and pensions pricegrowth based on management charges, 145bn without guarantees.
theinvestment income bid offer spreads and or andgains, but subject to policy fees.
The policyholders bear management charges alloftheinvestment risk.
Assets under andinvestment 65% Policyholders buy units administration transactioncosts.
withtheirpremiums which at 31 Dec 2018 are investedin funds.
Units are sold when a claimismade.
Non-profit annuities Policyholders make fixed Policyholders receive Shareholders earn a spread orvariablepayments in regularpayments on the assets supporting lieuof a futurelump sum  theannuity payments.
19bn ora future incomestream immediate annuity or at The shareholders until death.
some time in the future aredirectly exposed deferred annuity.
toallmarket and Assets under demographicrisks.
9% administration at 31 Dec 2018 Non-profit protection Term assurance policies Policyholders have Profits are generated from which paya lump sum certaintyofthe benefits investment returns and ondeath if death occurs theywill receive.
Shareholders are exposed Whole of life policies tothe majority of the risks whichcover the entire life andbenefit from 100% of Assets under 1% and pay a lump sum on theprofits or losses arising.
administration death, whenever it occurs.
at 31 Dec 2018 Total Assets under administration of 223 billion analysed by product type excludes 3 billion held in shareholder funds.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 9
