Pets at Home way Home of all things pet Pets at Home Group Plc 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Overview Corporate social responsibility Page 38 As a new puppy owner theres a lot to think about, its a big responsibility were here to give customers the very best for their puppy across Pets at Home products, Vets4Pets practices and the Groom Room VIP puppy club Best Start in Life Brand new puppy veterinary healthcare plan product range Creating a positive experience with customers as they welcome their Our puppy healthcare plans are Puppies need the best food, new puppy can ensure we are seen offered by our in-store and accessories and toys, which is why as more than just a shop.
Our aim standalone vet practices and we relaunched our entire puppy is to make sure customers can also include everything theyll need from product range during the year.
benefit from our vet practices and a veterinary perspective to grow New branding, designs, products grooming salons as their dog grows up happy and healthy.
The plan and a bigger range of food and and matures, not just the initial includes: a first vaccination course, treats.
We want to make Pets at puppy shop.
microchip, three months worth of Home the first destination for every flea and worm treatment, a 10% new puppy owners first shop.
Every new puppy owner is greeted neutering discount, a bag of food with a VIP welcome in our stores, and four weeks Petplan insurance.
along with the Little Book of Puppy, which is filled with advice, as well as vouchers to help with that first puppy shop.
By joining the VIP puppy club, we Over can offer customers 10% off their first puppy product shop, a free bag 60,000 of food with a nutrition consultation, their first month for free with a flea puppies have joined product subscription, 50% discount the VIP puppy club on their first puppy groom and even a free nurse check at one of our Only vet practices.
Being part of the VIP puppy club 85 also means that customers will receive regular emails packed with for the Best Start in Life tips, advice and product offers that veterinary puppy plan are tailored to their needs.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 5 Pets at Home way continued Home of value and convenience Pets at Home Group Plc 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Overview Operating review Page 28 We have invested to deliver great value, whenever and however customers choose to shop with us Prices repositioned Digital investment We have also improved the online experience for customers, by in key product areas provides easy access redesigning our mobile checkout, to our online offer During the year we repositioned making it much easier to buy using our pricing in key product areas The introduction of Order-Ina smartphone or tablet.
This has to better reflect what is important Store, an addition to the services driven an increase in conversion, to customers.
Having tested our available through our proprietary encouraging us to make similar pricing strategy in a pilot study, iPad platform, PetPad, allows improvements to our PC checkout.
we understood that we needed colleagues to advise and sell from Our successful subscription to focus on very specific areas our extended online range.
This service has also been expanded rather than take a blanket approach.
initiative makes our full range of to offer additional flea treatments food and accessories available in We began with the Switch & Save in convenient individual pipettes every store and has proven popular campaign, which highlights the delivered to customers at the with both customers and colleagues, value in our private label Advanced right time to administer a single delivering additional sales.
We have followed preventative dose to their pet this with price reductions in branded dog or cat.
food lines and pet essentials.
This move to everyday lower prices removed price as a barrier for our Increase in omnichannel customers, allowing us to maximise revenue 75.1% all the unique attributes of Pets at 1 Home that competitors dont have.
Omnichannel revenue growth, The reduction in promotional activity 51m driven by new initiatives also delivered operational savings 60% in stores.
of omnichannel revenues involve either a colleague 29m assisted sale or are collected from store 1 A lternative Performance Measures APMs are defined and reconciled to IFRS information, where 2017 2018 possible, on page 169.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 7 Pets at Home way continued Home of veterinary excellence Pets at Home Group Plc 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Overview Corporate social responsibility Page 38 Our preferred model is to work in partnership, providing clinical freedom for vets to do what they judge to be in the best interest of their clients and patients Creating Joint Venture Expanding our specialist Having acquired four Specialist Referral Centres, our aim is to partnerships network achieve national coverage in In our First Opinion practices Specialist centres are much larger this premium segment of the we provide opportunities for than First Opinion practices and are veterinary market.
entrepreneurial vets to partner invested with state of the art facilities In addition, we continue to with us to establish their own and technology, which enable invest in our existing specialist business.
Our Joint Venture specialist vets to deal with the most centres.
Recent investments include Partnership model is a framework complex cases that are referred the establishment of a Feline within which vets have complete to them.
Reflecting our preference Hyperthyroid Clinic at Anderson clinical freedom, supported by our to work in partnership, we have Moores Veterinary Specialists in experienced business professionals developed a shared ownership Hampshire, making it one of only and a proven business model under model for these specialist centres, a handful of veterinary centres in the umbrella of the brand, Vets4Pets.
whereby the Group becomes the the south of England to provide a majority shareholder and clinicians Clinical freedom means that vets state of the art radioactive iodine have an opportunity to own a share use their professional judgement treatment for geriatric cats.
This in the future growth of the business.
to decide on the most appropriate gold standard treatment attracts treatment for their patient.
Our role none of the risks associated with is to leverage the scale of the Group, a surgical thyroidectomy and has providing business advice, services a cure rate of approximately 95%.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 9
