OUR STRATEGY AND KPIs WE HAVE FOUR AREAS OF STRATEGIC FOCUS.
OUR INITIATIVES AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS DEMONSTRATE HOW WE HAVE DELIVERED AGAINST THESE STRATEGIC AREAS.
IMPROVE CUSTOMER OUTCOMES PHOENIX LIFE Improving customer outcomes is central to our vision of being Europes Leading Life Consolidator.
Good progress has been made to We have seven key areas of focus KEY INITIATIVES AND PROGRESS improve our key point and regular related to our customer offering: IN 2018 PHOENIX LIFE communications, ensuring letters Customers can now digitally access Product Offering Offering products areengaging, clear and provide an annuity shopping around service based on customer needs using best allrequired information for customer.
which can shape and save their solutions and value for money, from annuity quotes and options and Our performance on complaint in-house or through external sourcing.
handling, as measured by the Financial Security Providing security A full Customer Dashboard has been independent complaints adjudicator, to our customers including continuing delivered and allows some customers the Financial Ombudsman Service to honourall policy guarantees.
to access their full policy details, view FOS, once again shows our Improving Value and Effective With online documents and self-serve.
commitment and focus on our Profit fund run-off Delivering improved complaint handling.
For FOS decisions In August we announced a cap on value to customers and effectively during this reporting period, the ongoing charges of our non-workplace managing With-Profit fund run-off.
overturn rate of 17% is significantly pension contracts at 1.5% for funds below the industry average rate Effective Service Delivery Delivering inexcess of 5,000 and at 3% for 1 of30%.
a fair, effective and value for money smaller pension pots.
All exit charges service to customers in a cost will be removed on pension pots of A positive customer satisfaction effective manner and having less than 5,000.
This ensures that scorebased on the results of the appropriate processes for identifying our pension contracts offer good value satisfaction survey managed by Ipsos potential customer detriment.
for money and there is no perceived MORI an external research firm has barrier to exit for customers with small been received.
Customers surveyed Clear and Effective Communications pension pots wishing to consolidate were asked to give a satisfaction Providing customers with clear, their savings.
rating of between 1 and 5 to a number accurate and unbiased information of questions asked with a rating of andaccess to advice and guidance We have refined the requirements 4or 5 regarded as satisfied and tosupport them in making under our death claims payment 93%of all questions scored a rating informed choices.
process for benefits valued at 10,000 of4 or above.
or less, ensuring a more simplified Product Outcomes Ensuring that customer journey.
Phoenix product terms continue to deliver appropriate outcomes for Our service offering has been aligned customers and Phoenix.
across Phoenix Wealth and Abbey Life, ensuring that all customers Customer Journey Delivery of receive the same fair service.
fairoutcomes, appropriate quality andimprovements in the customer journey.
PRIORITIES FOR 2019 commitment to a continued positive customer experience.
We will also be Progress work on our Digital Read more about customer extending our digital operating model Operating Model for Customer engagementactivities undertaken duringtheyear on to IFAs allowing them to engage and Services, which will give full digital P48 interact through our on-line channels.
self-serve capability and increase theability of customers tointeract Complete the implementation of our with usdigitally.
This will deliver charge reductions on non-workplace straight through customer journeys pensions contracts.
forPension Transfers, Policy Enquiries, Life Surrenders Quotes Note: 1 T he most recent published industry average overturn and Payments and Maturities rate across the industry in the Life and Pensions and andfurther strengthens our Decumulation category, in which the majority of our business sits was 22%.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 18 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION HOW WE MEASURE DELIVERY PHOENIX LIFE CUSTOMER SATISFACTION SCORE FINANCIAL OMBUDSMAN SERVICE SPEED OF PENSION TRANSFER 2 % FOS OVERTURN RATE % PAYOUTS ORIGO DAYS 93.0 11.31 92.4 18 18 91.1 91.2 11.03 10.97 10.73 17 17 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 Why is it important?
This is an externally calculated measure This is an independent view of This is a recognised industry measure ofhow satisfied customers are with howfirms are handling complaints.
forthe speed of processing Pension Phoenixs servicing proposition.
It provides us withan opportunity Transfers, Open Market Options and toreview and adjust our complaint Immediate Vesting Personal Pensions.
Analysis handling proposition in line with It allows us to benchmark performance bestindustry practice.
and our overall servicing and claims The Group achieved a satisfaction score proposition against our peers.
of93% reflecting our commitment to Analysis ensuring customers are satisfied with Analysis ourproducts and services.
The FOS overturn rate of 17% is significantly below the industry average The Groups pension transfer times Target of34% and the Decumulation, Life and arebetter than the industry target.
To maintain a customer satisfaction Target score of 90%.
Target 12 days in line with the industry stated To maintain a FOS overturn target of target for Origo Pension Transfers.
lessthan the industry average of 30%.
2 O rigo Timescales are Phoenix, Phoenix Wealth and Abbey the overall timescale has been applied based on the way that timescales are calculated for each individual entity.
These will be aligned from 2018.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 19 OUR STRATEGY AND KPIs CONTINUED IMPROVE CUSTOMER OUTCOMES STANDARD LIFE In 2018, we had 14,000 policies Our vulnerable customer policy KEY INITIATIVES AND PROGRESS moving into drawdown with the andprogramme remains a key focus.
IN 2018 STANDARD LIFE majority using our digital platform, An extensive training programme has ASSURANCE followed by our Telephony Guidance taken place over 2018.
This has been Significant changes have been made service.
Of all cases processed via our done through face-to-face training to our online, app and telephony retirement application we anticipate andvia E-learning modules and services in 2018 including extending that wewereable to process 60% 100%of our colleagues who our opening hours, implementing a straight-through.
havecontact with customers have new voice recognition system and completed theirtraining by the end of extending our secure messaging Furthermore, with more than 2018.
This training programme won facility which enables contact with us threemillion logins last year, our Excellence in skills in Learning and out of hours.
We have implemented 24 7 mobile app is now the easiest Development at the 2018 Contact anew online registration process, way for our customers to interact Centre Association CCA Awards.
making it easier to get registered, withus when they want, time fingerprint, pin and facial recognition andtime again.
We continue to look for ways to access to our mobile app and improve the administration experience For customers in our non-advised improvements to the investment we offer financial advisers.
In 2018 Active Money Personal Pension switching journey online for weenhanced our digital platform drawdown plan, we have developed trust schemes.
Adviser zone by delivering online an online retirement review to help portfolio analyser capabilities for Since Auto enrolment we have them assess if they are still on track anenhanced client experience and supported 11,000 schemes into a and in the right investment based continued to provide live, online qualifying workplace pension scheme ontheir objectives.
The timing of clientvaluations and contract with 1.7 million new joiners auto ourpre-retirement communications enquiries through 15 ofthe top enrolled into them by employers.
has also been changed as feedback backoffice providers.
We are continuing to enhance the has shown that people start to administration experience we offer thinkaboutmajor decisions in viaour Workplace Hub platform.
Our communications now trigger atages 49, 54, 59 and 64.
Face-to-face retirement roadshows were run throughout 2018 to help ourcustomers plan for their retirement.
This year we have hosted 44 events in 19 locations, attended byaround 2,000 customers and their guests.
Following the success of the nationwide retirement roadshows wehave introduced a digital option forretirement webinars.
Enhancing the proposition available Helping workplace clients through PRIORITIES FOR 2019 forour workplace clients, listening auto enrolment phasing increases Focus on improving the andacting on the feedback they thattake effect in April 2019. propositionsweoffer, the servicing havegiven us on what is important andadministration capabilities Investing in digital capability for financial tothem.
We will also be re-designing availableandthe overall experience advisers, as well as introducing save our Voice of Customer programme, wedelivertoour clients, members and replay functionality on our digital tocapture feedback more efficiently and customers.
We will also be and demonstrate how we act on it.
looking to make improvements to the investment switching journey online, fora majority of schemes.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 20 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION HOW WE MEASURE DELIVERY STANDARD LIFE ASSURANCE NET EASY CUSTOMER FINANCIAL OMBUDSMAN SERVICE SPEED OF PENSION TRANSFER 1 EFFORT SCORE % FOS OVERTURN RATE % PAYOUTS ORIGO DAYS 72% 17% 11.00 days Why is it important?
This is an internally calculated measure This is an independent view of This is a recognised industry measure of how easy our customers find it to howfirms are handling complaints.
forthe speed of processing Pension interact with our business.
It asks one It provides us withan opportunity Transfers, Open Market Options and question Please tell us how easy it was toreview and adjust our complaint Immediate Vesting Personal Pensions.
to get what you needed today between handling proposition in line with It allows us to benchmark performance 0 and 10, with 0 being very difficult and bestindustry practice.
and our overall servicing and claims 10 being very easy.
Analysis Analysis Analysis The FOS overturn rate of 17% is The Net Easy customer effort score of significantly below the industry average The pension transfer times arebetter 72% reflects that overall customers are of34% and the Decumulation, Life and than the industry target of 12 days.
finding us easy to deal with when they Pensions category average of 27%.
Note: 1 T he acquisition of the Standard Life businesses completed on 31 August 2018 but this measure hasbeen calculated for the full year 2018.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 21 OUR STRATEGY AND KPIs CONTINUED DRIVE VALUE In order to drive value, the Group looks to identify organic and inorganic growth opportunities   flows.
The closed life funds within our KEY INITIATIVES AND The integration of the AXA Wealth Heritagebusiness provide predictable PROGRESS IN 2018 and Abbey Life businesses completed fund maturity and liability profiles, ahead of plan delivering cost synergy The Group delivered 664 million in creating stable long-term cash flows benefits of 27 million per annum cash generation in the year.
With total fordistribution to shareholders and andcumulative cash generation of cash generation in 2017 and 2018 of repayment of outstanding debt.
1.3 billion, the Group exceeded the upper end of its 1.0 billion to The Group successfully entered Our Open business provides the 1.2 billion target range.
thebulk purchase annuity market opportunity to grow organically withthree transactions completed The acquisition of Standard Life throughthe matching of products in2018and total contracted liabilities Assurance and Strategic Partnership tonew and existing customers as of800 million.
The Group has with Standard Life Aberdeen partof our Strategic Partnership with invested c. 100 million of capital completed in August adding Standard Life Aberdeen and under the tofacilitate these transactions, significant scale and supporting future Groups SunLife brand.
Such growth reflecting the day 1 capital strain cash generation.
The Group expects brings additional scale to our business arising from the assets received.
to deliver cost synergies of 75 million anddampens the run-off of our The bulk purchase annuity per annum, to be delivered from a Heritage books.
investments increase the combined cost base of 600 million.
Groupsexpected longer term The Open and European businesses Additional value can be generated cashgenerationby c. 300 million, delivered new business contribution fromacquisitions of lifeand pension tobedelivered over the lifetime of 154 million net of tax on a pro books of business and further ofthe policies.
forma basis assuming the acquisition investment in the bulk purchase of Standard Life Assurance took place annuity market.
This measure provides a proxy for the expected Furthermore, there are significant future cash generation arising from opportunities toincrease and accelerate the new business written in the year.
cash flowsthrough the delivery of management actions across four key 409 million of management areas: operational management, risk actionswere delivered in the year management, restructuring and thatincreased Solvency II Own Funds.
This includes anticipated cost savings arising from the planned move to a single, digitally enhanced outsourcer platform, together with the impact of strategic asset allocation actions such as investment in illiquid assets which offer improved matching adjustment benefits in the annuity portfolios.
A total of 1.4 billion was invested in illiquid assets during the year, including equity release mortgage portfolios, commercial real estate and private placements.
Implement further management PRIORITIES FOR 2019 actions including progressing activity Deliver Phase 1 of the Standard Life to begin applying the Groupsstrategic acquisition transition programme and asset allocation to the Standard Life finalise the end state operating model Assuranceannuity book.
for the HR, Legal and Risk functions.
Seek further investment opportunities Commence Phase 2 and 3 of the in the bulk purchase annuity market.
Standard Life acquisition transition programme related to the operating Seek further acquisition opportunities.
model for the Finance and Actuarial, Customer and IT functions.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 22 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION HOW WE MEASURE DELIVERY OPERATING COMPANIES OPERATING PROFIT FINAL DIVIDEND PER SHARE 1 CASH GENERATION m m PENCE 708 46.0 664 653 45.2 41.9 40.8 486 23.4 22.6 21.5 20.4 368 351 324 225 22.6 22.6 20.4 20.4 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 Final dividend Interim dividend per share per share Why it is important?
Operating companies cash Operating profit is a non-GAAP The Groups dividend per share helps generationrepresents cash measure used by management and measure how the Group delivers value remittedbythe Groupsoperating isconsidered a more representative to shareholders in accordance with its companies tothe holding measure of performance than IFRS stable and sustainable dividend policy.
Maintaining strong profit or loss after tax as it provides cashflow deliveryunderpins debt long-term performance information Analysis servicing andrepayment as well unaffected by short-term asshareholder dividends.
The final dividend per share of 23.4pisa3.5% increase on the Analysis A reconciliation of operating 2017final dividend.
profitof708 million totheIFRS Cash remitted reflects the profitaftertax of 410 million generationofFree Surplus within 2017: 27 million is included thelife companies and the benefit intheBusiness Review section.
ofmanagement actions implemented inthe period.
Cash generation in Analysis 2018was664 million.
Operating profit has increased by Target 340million compared to prior year, principally reflecting the impact of To generate cash flows of between including the four month contribution 600 to 700 million in 2019 and ofStandard Life Assurance post 3.8 billion ofcash between 2019 completion of the acquisition together and 2023. with the net positive impact of updatesto actuarial assumptions.
1 Historic dividends per share rebased to take intoaccount the bonus element of the rights issuecompleted in November 2016 and the rightsissue completed in July 2018. p 664m 708m 23.4 2017: 653m 2017: 368m FINAL DIVIDEND PER SHARE Read more about cash generation on P29 Read more about operating profit on P35 Read more about the link to our executive remuneration on P76 PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 23 OUR STRATEGY AND KPIs CONTINUED MANAGE CAPITAL We continue to focus on the effective management of our risks  risks.
The Group aims to optimise its KEY INITIATIVES AND In September, following completion  addressing the PROGRESS IN 2018 ofthe acquisition, Fitch assigned diverse needs of various stakeholders, Standard Life Assurance Limited Receipt of regulatory approval to including policyholders, shareholders, anInsurer Financial Strength rating incorporate the Abbey Life business lending banks, bondholders ofA with a stable outlook.
It also into the Groups Internal Model in and regulators.
affirmed its A rating for the other March and the subsequent Part VII principal insurance subsidiaries of transfer of that business into Phoenix To ensure that unrewarded exposure theGroup with stable outlooks.
tomarket volatility is minimised or The on-shoring of the Group The Group delivered 161 million of therisks from market movements completed at the end of theyear.
management actions that decreased aremanaged, we execute our PGH became UKresident fortax SCR in the year, including the impacts hedging strategy.
purposes inJanuary 2018 andanew of the Abbey Life actions detailed UK registered holding company, above and other activities such as In addition, regular re-balancing of Phoenix Group Holdings plc, was interest rate hedging.
assetand liability positions is required putin place for the Group Capital synergies associated with toensure that only those assets which inDecember 2018. theacquisition of the Standard Life deliver appropriate risk-adjusted returns Assurance businesses benefited the are held within life funds, taking into PGH Solvency II surplus by 0.5 billion account any policyholder guarantees.
primarily as a result of implementing Phoenixs equity and currency hedging strategy.
Issuance of the capital qualifying 500 million Tier1Notes inApril andthe500 million Tier 2 bond inSeptember2018 facilitated the funding strategy for the acquisition ofthe Standard Life Assurance businesses and providedadditional financial flexibilityto the Group.
PRIORITIES FOR 2019 Implement further management Read more about the Solvency II actions to enhance theGroups surplus and Shareholder Capital Coverage Ratio on capital position.
P32 Progress activity to begin harmonisation of the Groups capitalframework towards a singleGroup Internal Model.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 24 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION HOW WE MEASURE DELIVERY SOLVENCY II SURPLUS SHAREHOLDER CAPITAL bn COVERAGE RATIO % 3.2 167 164 147 139 2.5 1.8 1.1 2016 2017 2017 2018 2016 2017 2017 2018 Pro Pro Pro Pro 1 2 1 2 forma forma forma forma Why it is important?
The Solvency II surplus is the The Shareholder Capital Coverage regulatoryassessment of capital Ratiodemonstrates the extent to which adequacy at PGH plc level.
shareholders Eligible Own Funds cover the Solvency Capital Requirements.
It is the excess of Eligible OwnFundsover the Solvency It is defined as the ratio of the Group CapitalRequirement.
Own Funds to Group SCR, after adjusting to exclude amounts relating Analysis tounsupported with profit funds andPGL Pension Scheme.
The Groups Solvency II surplus of 3.2billionhas increased from a pro 2 Analysis forma position of 2.5 billion driven by capital synergies from the acquisition of A coverage ratio of 167% reflects the Standard Life Assurance businesses theincrease in the Solvency II surplus together with management actions and intheperiod and represents a resilient the issuance of additional subordinated capital position.
debt compared to that assumed in the pro forma.
The increase was partly offset by financing costs and dividend payments including accrual of the 2018final dividend.
1 The position at 31 December 2016 included pro forma adjustments to illustrate the impacts of the issuance in January 2017 of the 300 million Solvency II qualifying Tier 3 bond and the receipt of the PRAs approval in 2 Pro forma assuming the acquisition of the March 2017 to include the acquired AXA Wealth  businesses took businesses within the Groups Internal Model.
3.2bn 167% 2017: 2.5bn 2017: 147% 2 2 PRO FORMA ENLARGED GROUP PRO FORMA ENLARGED GROUP PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 25 OUR STRATEGY AND KPIs CONTINUED ENGAGE PEOPLE Our focus on engagement and colleague empowerment creates a rich and diverse working environment, reflectedinour continued status as one of the UKs Top Employers.
KEY INITIATIVES AND Volunteering and Charity PROGRESSIN 2018 58% of colleagues participated in the2018 volunteering programme Learning and Development contributing 3,547 hours.
In partnership with Moving Ahead, welaunched the Phoenix Group Now into its fifth year of the sixinternal mentoring programme.
yearpartnership with Midlands Air Phoenix Groups ability to attract, We are fully committed to providing Ambulance Charity and Londons Air retainand motivate outstanding effective support for our colleagues Ambulance, the Group has donated talentwas, for the eighth year in personal and professional inexcess of 770,000 between the succession, formally recognised development and have 100 pairs twocharities since 2014. in2018through ouraccreditation currently working together across asoneofthe UKs TopEmployers.
Wellbeing We areproud to berecognised Corporate responsibility continues asaresponsible, sustainableand A new online performance toplay a central role in the colleague inclusiveemployer, whovalues management system was experience at Phoenix.
The three andrewards the contribution our launchedincreasing the efficiency strands of physical, mental and colleagues maketoour business.
ofthe performance management financial wellbeing continue to process at Phoenix.
underpin our colleague and community initiatives, which Our Values nowextend to the Standard Life The Big Conversation was a Assurance businesses.
significant listening exercise that was undertaken within Phoenix Group and We continued to utilise our Phoenix Life at the start of the year to  agenda raise the level of dialogue around the toprovide opportunities for skills Groups values, and provided greater development and team building.
The outcomeswere shared with Diversity and Inclusion colleagues, and provided a clear The Group remains committed framework for how individuals are towards creating an inclusive recognised, developed and recruited.
andattractive environment for allpotential employees.
Cultural Survey The Group values the power of In the absence of an all-staff employee itsemployee voice and through engagement survey, Phoenix issued theacquisition of Standard Life acultural survey tocolleagues across Assurancenow has further networks the Group in November.
This insight in operation across the Enlarged willhelp theGroup shape its values and Group.
Alongside the combination understand more about what is required ofthe Phoenix and Standard Life to create a high-performing organisation Assurance networks, we continue following our acquisition of the Standard toadopt a best of both approach Life Assurance businesses.
tofusing colleague groups across theenlarged organisation.
Enter into two further Corporate Charity PRIORITIES FOR 2019 Partnerships Scotlands Charity Air Remain an Employer of Choice, Ambulance and Hampshire and Isle of offeringrewarding careers and Wight Air Ambulance, helping to unite opportunities acrossallsites the Enlarged Group by sharing common within Phoenix.
Provide a common incentive plan Expand the Diversity and Inclusion forallcolleagues within the Enlarged programme across the Enlarged Group, Group, ensuring consistencyof providing a wide range of development corporategoals and individual opportunities and embedding changes performance management.
toexisting practices to delivera diverse, engagedand inclusive workforce.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 26 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION HOW WE MEASURE DELIVERY EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT INDEX % Phoenix is a signatory to the Reward 81 80 78 Womenin Finance WIF Charter The Group continues to attract andcontinues to strive for an andretaintalented staff by offering inclusiveculture which enables all acomprehensive range of benefits ofour colleagues to reach their anddevelopment opportunities.
Participation figures for the In line with the WIF Charter PhoenixGroup flexible benefits n a Targetspreviously set, which were schemehave increased to 95%.
2015 2016 2017 2018 due for completion by the end of In 2018, private medical insurance 2018, the group currently has women was made available to all staff and Due to the Standard Life acquisition, no in 20% of the top 100 roles target their partnersregardless of status engagement survey was commissioned 30%, 26% of the Groups green withinthe organisation.
There is an amber successors are female target anticipated change to our engagement 40% and the Group-wide mean Gender Pay and Bonus Gap survey provider for 2019, to enable gender pay gap is 23.3% target PGMSonly oneengagement provision across 22%.
Targets set for completion thecombined Group.
in2018 were impacted by changes Quartile Female Male insenior management through Lower Quartile 55% 45% Why it is important?
acquisitions, structural changes, Lower Middle Quartile 44% 56% We aim to ensure that employees resignation andretirement: and these understand the purpose of their role Upper Middle Quartile 38% 62% are now carriedforward to 2021. andfeel that their contribution is valued.
Upper Quartile 25% 75% Phoenix statutory pay figures are We need to understand how well we published on the Groups website.
are performing against these aims.
Mean Medium The gender pay figure for the WIFCharter target is based on Pay Gap 26% 28% 2019 Target  looking at Bonus Gap 53% 34% To maintain an employee engagement basesalary only: it is not based index above 70%.
onthestatutory gender pay Female Male gap calculations.
Proportion 2018 2017 Gender Pay statistics are calculated ofemployees 1 Total workforce 4,088 1,249 based on data gathered on Full receivingabonus 91% 92% Male 2,097 694 PayRelevant Employees in the Female 1,991 555 payroll period covering 5 April 2018.
Directors includes NonOf the employing entities within the Executive Directors 12 11 Group, only Pearl Group Management Male 8 7 Services Limited PGMS has the required 250 employees and so it is Female 4 4 PGMS employees who are included Executive Committee 9 8 intheregulatory reporting for 2018.
Male 8 7 Female 1 1 Workforce that is of Black, Asian or Minority 2 Ethnic background 141 107 Notes: Engage colleagues in the creation of 1 T he 2018 figure of 4,088 does not include workforce acombined set of values for the Group, based inGermany Austria.
2 T he 2018 figure of 141 does not include workforce building on previous work conducted at from acquired Standard Life Assurance businesses Standard Life Assurance and Phoenix.
Data relates to Phoenix Corporate and Phoenix Life companies only.
Creating one single platform for Talent Acquisition for the combined Group.
Maintain support of our communities across the Enlarged Group through employee volunteering, fund raising and engagement.
Read more about employee engagement activities undertaken during the year on P51 PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 27
