OUR BUSINESS SEGMENTS PHOENIX HAS THREE MAIN BUSINESS SEGMENTS FOR ITS LIFE AND PENSIONS BUSINESS: UKHERITAGE, UK OPEN AND EUROPE.
The UK Heritage business segment comprises products that are no longer marketed to customers, for example with-profits, annuities and many legacy unit linked life and pension products.
UK Open business comprises products that are actively marketedto new and existing customers and includes products sold under the Standard Life and SunLife brands.
The Europeansegment comprises both Heritage and Open business.
UK HERITAGE UK OPEN EUROPE With-profits Unit linked: Ireland: Unit linked Workplace Unit linked Annuities Retail pension With-profits Protection Wrap Annuities IN FORCE Germany: With-profit Unit linked NEW VESTING ANNUITIES UNIT LINKED UNIT LINKED BULK PURCHASE ANNUITIES BUSINESS UK HERITAGE Phoenix specialises in the safe In Force New business andefficient management of The UK Heritage business has been built The Group generates newbusiness UKHeritage business and has a from two decades of consolidation and intheHeritage business segment comprises over 100 legacy brands throughvesting annuities andbulk strong track record of delivery.
including Britannic, Pearl, Scottish Mutual, purchase annuities, orfrom incremental Our UK Heritage business AXA, Abbey Life and Standard Life.
It has contributions fromexisting pensions.
comprisesproducts that are a broad range of lifeand pensions Vesting annuities products which provide Phoenix with nolonger actively marketed to We offer annuities to existing natural diversification and includes customers and has 118 billion policyholders when their pension business from both Phoenix Lifeand ofassets under administration.
policiesvest across both the Standard Life.
PhoenixLifeand Standard Life The Groups strategy for our UK Heritage productranges.
The majority of our Businessissimple to deliver value vesting annuities are from pension toshareholders and customers and  guaranteed With-profit unsupported 34% toimprove customer outcomes.
With-profit supported 4% Heritage business cash generation runs Unit linked 42% Bulk purchase annuities off at 5-7% per annum depending onthe 118bn Non-profit annuities 15% In 2018 we successfully entered particular features of each legacy book.
UK HERITAGE Non-profit protection, shareholder 5% intothebulk purchase annuity market Organic cash emerges naturally from funds and other non-profit completing three transactions during ourUK Heritage business as it runs off theyear.
The bulk purchase annuity Based on assets under administration over time and weenhance this organic marketis a potential source of value at 31 December 2018. cash generation through thedelivery accretive annuity liabilities and we ofmanagement actions which either willcontinue to participate in this increase the overallcash flows from marketina proportionate and thebusiness oraccelerate the timing With-profit unsupported 34% selectivemanner.
With-profit supported 4% Unit linked 42% Integral to our efficient management 118bn Non-profit annuities 15% ofthe UK Heritage business is ensuring UK HERITAGE Non-profit protection, shareholder 5% that our cost base reduces more quickly funds and other non-profit than our policy count runs off.
Based on assets under administration at 31 December 2018.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 10 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION UK OPEN Responsibility for the Wrap Phoenix is committed to growing In Force Platform, which hosts some of our Open business mainly relates to those itscapital-light UK Open business.
investment products such as Wrap products being sold under the Standard Our UK Open business comprises SIPPand offshore bond also sits Life brand but also includes those aimed products that are actively marketed withStandard Life Aberdeen.
atthe over 50s market distributed by to customers and has 85 billion SunLife.
Where a customer needs or wants ofassets under administration.
Assets under administration in our open adviceit can be delivered by Standard business are held in three product lines: LifeAberdeens in house advice arm.
Workplace, Retail pensions and Wrap.
Phoenix are responsible for providing the These are predominantly unitised products insurance product and the administration which have no guarantees and where once the product is sold this plays very Workplace 44% investment risk sitswith the customer.
much to our strengths given our existing Retail pensions 29% Our Open business therefore comprises expertise in product administration for Wrap capital-light produc27% ts.
ourexisting c. 5.5 million Phoenix Life 85bn Based on assets under administration The Groups strategy for our Open customers.
The relationship is built to UK OPEN at 31 December 2018. businessis shared with our Heritage workseamlessly for customers with the bookas we aim to deliver value to full proposition from distribution through shareholders and customers alike.
toadministration being done under the OurStrategic Partnership is important Standard Life brand.
Under the agreement, Phoenix collects product charges from customers and New business Workplace 44% remits investment management fees Our Open business is growing through Retail pensions 29% toStandard Life Aberdeen.
Where new business generated through the Wrap 27% relevant, Standard Life Aberdeen may Client Service and Proposition Agreement 85bn alsocollect aplatform charges directly with Standard Life Aberdeen and through Based on assets under administration UK OPEN from thecustomer.
at 31 December 2018. an increase in pensions auto-enrolment.
The SunLife business also generates Under this agreement, Standard Life newbusiness across its range of Aberdeen is responsible for the over50sproducts.
distribution, branding and marketing ofproducts.
They do this through theirexisting networks of Retail and Independent Advisors and for some products using their successful investmentplatform.
The exception to thisare Workplace pensions products where distribution is performed by the Phoenix Group.
EUROPE Our European business In Force New business providesaplatform for potential New business is written across Germany allopenproduct lines of our future consolidation.
Germany closed its with-profits Europeanbusiness.
businessto new business in 2015 It contains both open and heritage andnow distributes only unit linked The international bond is sold products split across Germany and lifeassurance products which have no byStandardLife Aberdeen Ireland and has 23 billion of assets material guarantees.
These products  and the under administration.
target the over 50s market and utilise investmentplatform.
All other thebroker distribution channels through openproducts are soldby the operations in Frankfurt and Graz, Austria.
International bond Germany 49% This business is all open business Ireland 24% managed from our Dublin office International Bond 27% targetingcustomers in the UK.
23bn Theinternational bonds are unit Based on assets under administration EUROPE linkedproducts distributed by retail at 31 December 2018. advisers, banks and wealth managers.
Ireland A unit linked investment proposition forboth the pre and post retirement market, the Irish business is also Germany 49% capital-light in nature and is distributed Ireland 24% through adviserchannels.
International Bond 27% 23bn Based on assets under administration EUROPE at 31 December 2018.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 11
