28 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 29 BETBUDDY DELIVERING PROACTIVE HARM PREVENTION SIMO DRAGICEVIC BETBUDDY CEO BetBuddy is Playtechs Responsible Gambling analytics platform, Staying Ahead of the Curve: Q&A with Simo Dragicevic Playtech can use its data intelligently to help operators built around data mining and predictive analytics.
By combining To read more about our the latest research into problem gambling, the power of machine meet increasingly complex consumer protection proactive approach to learning and the scale of the data available across Playtechs IMS responsible practices, regulation and at the same time deepen and go to page 84 platform, BetBuddy delivers an end-to-end solution for identifying strengthen its relationships with players.
and managing at-risk gambling behavioural patterns.
What exactly does BetBuddy do?
Is BetBuddy a commercial tool as much 9 9 as a responsible and safe gambling tool?
BetBuddy is effectively applying artificial 8 intelligence to understand consumer behaviour.
Playtechs approach to responsible 8 We are aiming to assess if players are at risk gambling is to create a healthy and safe Artificial Intelligence In-game messaging of harm, then once we understand that, to give gambling and entertainment environment: Driving Industry them options to help them make safer choices, ultimately this will create a sustainable and A research partnership with the Research Centre Ongoing player interaction is a key requirement as we want to keep gambling as entertainment.
attractive long-term industry in the interests of all for Machine Learning at City, University of London, from regulators.
BetBuddy works seamlessly with Playtech provides licensees with stakeholders, regulators, players and operators.
ensures BetBuddy is helping to drive innovation IMS, Portal and Engagement 360, meaning you can the toolkit to proactively assess The addition of BetBuddy to Playtechs dataand research in the machine-learning industry, with deliver highly personalised and focused real-time and address player risk and driven platform means we can offer a classBetBuddys tools and capabilities can provide benefits across many sectors and industries, not just Responsible Gambling messages.
helps to empower players to do leading responsible gambling analytics solution the intelligence for operators and licensees to Responsible Gambling.
to all our licensees and partners.
know what certain promotions are marketing is the same.
Proactively using data Omni-channel appropriate for a player, rather than producing to manage and measure risk is Seamless IMS integration Build segment-specific risk models to support How can BetBuddy and Playtech 9 a blanket, one-size-fits-all approach to player central to developing a healthy, Licensees can access BetBuddys Responsible players across retail and online play with a help operators?
For example, we can ensure that Gambling insights seamlessly from Playtechs consistent approach and methodology, ensuring safe gambling and entertainment players who have a lower risk profile are IMS player management platform for a quickall customers are treated consistently.
The combination of BetBuddy and Playtech environment, and building and 8 not targeted with unsuitable promotions or to-implement, cost-effective out of the box allows operators to not only identify high-risk enhancing player trust.
advertising, ensuring they remain on a customer Responsible Gambling solution.
behaviour in players but, more importantly, journey where they are having an entertaining use the data to interact with the customer in an and safe experience.
intelligent manner, by driving highly personalised and brand positive communication and Whats next in 2019 for Playtech and 9 engagement with customers.
What we mean by brand positive is that One of our key aims is to foster further 8 operators can fully personalise the real-time engagement and, ultimately, deployment with messaging and interaction with customers, in Playtechs existing licensees and also Playtechs order to communicate the value of the operator own B2C brands.
We have started some or brand to the player.
For example, operators excellent work, but consumer protection is an can use brand ambassadors or its own branding ongoing challenge and we must strive to do to drive communication on staking limits or more and more.
We will also continue to invest encouraging a player to take a break, making in our technology to ensure that we are always the message feel more personal and engaging.
at the forefront of AI and using the most up-todate and advanced technology to support our Playtech can therefore use its data intelligently partners and stakeholders.
to help operators meet increasingly complex consumer protection regulation and also deepen and strengthen its relationships with players.
Find out more about BetBuddy on their website at: www.
