12 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 13 HOW WE CREATE VALUE Our mission in the gambling industry is to be the leading technology company in regulated markets, delivering sustainable long-term growth for our licensees and continuing to add new licensees in existing and new markets.
We are delivering on this goal by making strides in three strategic areas.
Growth Opportunities STRUCTURAL GROWTH CROSS-SELL Continue to extend the reach of Playtech ONE the Playtech eco system across channels, products, new Growth of existing licensees & partners Cross-sell product to existing customers Continued progress in these geographies, ultimately delivering new end customers three strategic areas delivers the Playtech partners with leading operators and Playtechs focus and delivery on product brands, and currently has more than 140 licensees innovation allows it to constantly deliver engaging Group with significant growth through partnering with and investing in the leading B2C opportunities: globally in its B2B business providing structural and market-leading content, across the most brands.
Playtechs scale and distribution network across growth opportunities popular product verticals in the industry, such 140 licensees in retail and online allows it to collect data as Casino, Live Casino, Sports and Bingo this Find out more in our Gambling Market continues to deliver opportunities to grow its non-personal information on player behaviour to power Overview on page 30 existing agreements with current licensees as and inform its leading suite of software and services.
Utilising its expertise in regulated markets, their needs continue to develop with the market Playtech can work with licensees ahead of See page 50 to see our strategy in action.
regulation to launch existing partners in newly 1 regulated markets SCALE & DISTRIBUTION NEW PARTNERS NEW REGULATION Continue to be a source for innovation in the industry, New licensees & partners New regulated markets delivering new content and new ways for end customers By executing on its strategy left, Playtech By continuing to strive to be the leading to experience content across different channels and continues to cement its position as the technology technology company in regulated markets, product verticals pioneer of omni-channel technology infrastructure of the gambling industry, investing Playtech continues to be a partner of choice for in new technology and delivering the possibility existing and new brands in new markets, such as and integrated content.
While continuing to produce to work with new partners in new and existing its agreement in 2018 to partner with Swiss Casino industry-leading and engaging content which will markets, such as Buzz Bingo in 2018 ahead of the new licensing regime in Switzerland drive player engagement in regulated markets.
Read more in our CEOs Report on page 16 Read more on regulation updates in our CEOs Report on page 16 See page 39 to see our strategy in action.
2 INNOVATION Regulation and Risk Management Governance Business Management Continue to utilise the scale that allows Playtech to collect Responsibity Our risk management framework High standards of corporate & Monitoring data across more than 140 licensees globally.
Provide Responsible business practices provides a structured and governance contribute to are critical to protecting consistent process for identifying, Playtechs continued success.
intelligent services and insights leading to improved our licences to operate assessing and responding to risks end customer experience commercial and Responsible Find out more on page 82 and to delivering long-term throughout the business.
Creating a seamless customer journey, commercial success.
Find out more on page 68 allowing improved cross sell and movement between Find out more on page 72 product verticals, and improve end customer value through data-driven campaign manager and intelligent bonus engines.
See page 24 to see our strategy in action.
