34 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 35 IMPLEMENTING OUR OFFERING PLAYTECH OUTLOOK 2019 Given our technology is present at every stage of the online and offline gambling value chain, Playtech is able to leverage its technology on a revenue share basis for the benefit of operators in its core B2B business.
Playtech also leverages its technology stack with strategic partners through white-label activity and in select jurisdictions through investing in B2C brands such as Snai in Italy.
Revenue share model to fully partner with Award-winning omni-channel technology offering, Diversifying our Income licensees in B2B providing unrivalled liquidity and market-leading Our operations across the B2B jackpots across all major product verticals Design, development and distribution of software, and B2C markets are driven by content, platform technology and services to the Advanced information management system our core strategy of scale and online and land-based gambling industry platform IMS allowing single user accounts distribution, innovation and and increased cross-selling data-driven services.
Over 140 licensees globally, including a number of leading operators in the gambling Big data capabilities and collection In case you missed it, industry, for example, bet365, Caliente, via data analytics platform read about our new Codere, GVC Ladbrokes Coral, Fortuna strategy on page 12 Unique marketing, operational support, and Sky Betting & Gaming advisory and CRM services THE BIG THEMES IN THE GAMING INDUSTRY IN 2019 2019 Themes Real-time player engagement Gamification While not a new concept, it will see a major step At Playtech, we have existing and new gamification forward this year.
concepts available across all products, including Real-time player engagement Sports.
Most will be familiar with traditional forms of Read more on page 36 Right now, as many as 70% of new customers only gamification, such as setting missions and creating play once with any given brand.
They never come Gamification leaderboards, but this barely scratches the surface back.
This is a revenue killer for operators and its in our view.
We are particularly excited about our Flexible access to content an industry-wide problem.
Live Trivia product and how that can be used by OUR TECHNOLOGY Read more on page 36 operators across the portfolio to engage both Historically, the industry has relied on a combination existing and new audiences PAGE 36 of reactive and offline communications to engage users.
Customers expect a better experience, Additionally, we are also looking at how and operators have more tools at their disposal.
gamification can potentially be used in responsible Improvements will be on the way with our new gambling initiatives.
It is hard to motivate customers Engagement 360 platform.
to act responsibly when it comes to their gambling activities but offering non-monetary incentives to Take casino, for example.
Operators know proactively set their own betting limits, or complete that horse racing customers are particularly questionnaires, could be a useful addition to the valuable, and Cheltenham is a big event.
traditional marketing may have focused on email communications around the event, real-time player Flexible access to content engagement should look at offers to players before OUR SERVICES Finally, tying all of this together is the content and after races using real-time interventions based ecosystem.
2019 will be the year the way the PAGE 37 on real-time activity.
industry creates, discovers and distributes content is transformed.
Offers can also include games which fall in their areas of interest.
Its one of the reasons why At the moment, content creation is hard, and the Playtech has created a game series like Sporting barriers to entry that exist can sometimes stifle Legends, which includes horse racing-themed slots innovation and creativity.
Technology such as and timed jackpots to appeal to the recreational Playtechs GPAS system, which can revolutionise player.
We have even extended the brand to poker, the way that games are developed by operators as we see interest in this product from a cross sell and suppliers, will solve this in 2019. perspective too.
If that opens the floodgates for more content, Of course, real-time interventions can be used for operators will need to be able to cut through the OUR PRODUCTS responsible gambling as well as marketing, and this mass of games to find the most powerful content in conjunction with our BetBuddy real-time analytics PAGE 58 for their audience, then deliver it across channels, tool, can provide customers with a significant because if content creation is hard, discovery and advancement across the whole product portfolio.
