14 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 15 OUR STRENGTHS Playtech believes it has significant competitive advantages that will be important factors in maintaining and further developing its business, including: EXPERTS INNOVATION Expert in regulated markets Track record of innovation Playtech is an expert at operating in regulated markets A pioneer of innovation, Playtech launched the with an established presence in various key regulated industrys first seamless customer wallet in 2011, the markets worldwide, including the UK, Italy, Spain, pioneering omni-channel platform in 2014, the golden Greece, Denmark and Finland and, more recently, in chip bonusing system in 2015 and the Gaming Platform newly regulated markets such as Mexico, Bulgaria and as a Service GPAS in 2017.
Following the acquisition of Snaitech in Italy, technology enables it to develop new content in a regulated markets accounted for 78% of the Groups faster, more cost-effective manner.
Alongside organic combined revenue in 2018.
This expertise positions innovation, the Group has also innovated through key Playtech well to enter jurisdictions which are expected strategic acquisitions.
We have an agreement in place with Holland Casino Netherlands, and are awaiting confirmation of a licence in New Jersey as a first step in the US market.
TECHNOLOGY DIVERSIFIED Scalable proprietary technology Diversified technology company Playtechs technology is highly scalable in terms of With a broad customer base and presence in all product development and distribution.
New licensees major verticals and numerous geographies, the and partners can also be on-boarded and integrated Groups gambling division is also diversified across via the IMS platform with limited further investment.
The B2B segment is further The scale of the platform, across over 140 licensees diversified through various verticals from casino, globally, allows Playtech to collect non-personal and sports, bingo, poker and services.
The B2C segment player behavioural data which powers one of the generates its revenue from gaming machines, retail industrys most powerful player management systems, betting and online gaming.
As at 31 December 2018, enabling Playtechs truly omni-channel offering, the Group had over 140 licensees globally and, in 2018, STRATEGY IN ACTION: Playtech ONE.
Alongside a comprehensive product combined Group revenues were split geographically portfolio and global expertise, the Groups scalable, across UK 21%, Italy 43%, Rest of Europe 10%, Asia SHOWCASING INNOVATION proprietary technology make it an attractive partner.
At ICE, we continued to present our leadership The development of our Engagement Centre ICE London in the industry through: and Engagement 360 platform, using real-time, For Playtech, ICE is much data-driven interactions to fully customise the TRACK RECORD EXPERIENCE The continued evolution of Playtech ONE: more than a trade show player journey particularly the integration of retail Bingo and Strong financial track record Highly experienced management team focused on new customers: Sports into IMS, highlighted by Playtech BGT The integration of several new SAAS-POP Playtech has a strong financial track record of Playtech has a highly experienced senior management it is an opportunity to showcase Sports joining us on the main stand for the first partners, bringing specialist services from significant revenue, profits and cash generation.
team with significant industry knowledge and a track Playtech to all our stakeholders, time and the presentation of our omni-channel carefully selected third parties to our licensees.
For example, Playtech has grown revenues from record of success in regulated markets.
including regulators, shareholders, bingo solution Highlighted by the showcase of Gamification 385.3 million in 2013 to 1,240.4 million in 2018 media and our own employees across both Sports and Gaming and Adjusted EBITDA from 159.4 million in 2013 from around the globe.
Our content creation and discovery suite POP, to 343.0 million in 2018.
GPAS and Marketplace coming to life, and being recognised with the Supplier Innovation Award at the Gaming Intelligence Awards The ongoing platform integration of BetBuddy, plus real-time interventions, raising standards in Responsible Gambling with industry-leading BI business intelligence and AI machine learning
