38 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 39 STRATEGY IN ACTION: INNOVATION & DATADRIVEN SERVICES Playtechs new content eco-system is the next phase of innovation to transform content creation and discovery.
This year saw Playtech launch its new content eco-system to change the way the industry discovers, configures and accesses gaming content.
Marketplace GPAS POP GPAS Content Creation Marketplace Content Discovery Playtech Open Platform Content Aggregation Gaming Platform as a Service GPAS Marketplace is Playtechs content provides the next stage of partnership discovery technology, where licensees Playtech Open Platform POP is Playtechs both with licensees, content providers can discover and access Playtechs content aggregation technology, allowing and developers.
GPAS allows third portfolio of content alongside third-party licensees to assimilate content, from parties to develop gaming content using content created or edited in GPAS.
Playtech and third parties, including IGT, a drag-and-drop maths engine to create The app style format is powered by the Red Tiger and Blueprint, onto Playtechs any type of game with any array of data in Playtechs platform and allows platform and distribution channels.
features for any type of market or player.
users to search for content-based STRATEGY IN ACTION: INNOVATION Integrated with IMS platform success and popularity by geography, Games developed use demographics, etc.
Access to advanced marketing tool, INTEGRATED THEMED CONTENT Playtech architecture operational support, advisory and Gives licensees access to Playtechs Develop omni-channel games CRM services In Live Casino, Playtech Live delivered a dedicated Supporting our Licensees Due to its omni-channel, one platform approach, award-winning games library and in one development cycle Playtech has a track record of delivering multifootball area featuring themed Roulette and Access to engagement centre for third-party content Unlimited Blackjack tables.
Live dealers provided Data-driven: Real-time stats real-time messaging and analytics vertical integrated content, such as its own Themed multi-vertical content Data-driven content discovery: RTP calculation, model sharing award-winning Age of the Gods suite of games, live commentary on all matches, with a video wall delivers cross-product jackPlaytechs BI tools allow for easy-toavailable across Casino, Live Casino, Bingo and displaying major game events and match statistics and collaboration pots and an integrated World follow stats and analysis on games Poker.
Playtechs player management IMS platform for an even more immersive experience.
Cup experience delivers branded and themed content across Shop window allows third-party Live Casino offers the opportunity to deliver studios to access Playtechs multiple verticals with the integrated wallet CRM Multi-vertical content includes flexible, entertainment-driven engaging content.
functionality allowing for cross-vertical prizes and technology and distribution Live Casino with World Cup During the World Cup, Playtechs Trivia Show bonusing delivering a seamless user experience.
commentary and Sporting Live, a new gameshow-style Live Casino Legends prize draw In the run-up to the FIFA Football World Cup, segment, was presented by a live host before Playtech worked alongside licensees to deliver each World Cup match and featured  integrated content.
Designed to add to the in addition to Playtechs Sporting Legends series, Live Casino football area atmosphere, Trivia Playtech launched Top Trumps Football Stars, Show Live is a no-stake, free-to-enter quiz based on the classic card game, allowing players to game built to engage sports lovers across the choose which of 30 footballers they want to feature board with a chance to win a range of prizes.
The game also gave players a shot at On the Poker tables, Playtech launched Poker the Sporting Legends guaranteed Daily and Weekly Predictor, a mission-based gamification tool: it Jackpots, plus the progressive Mega Jackpot.
gave players the chance to predict the scores Additionally, during the World Cup, Playtech ran in the big matches and accumulate points as a 250,000 promotion where players could win they played.
Points plus successful predictions prizes in a weekly draw from 18th June-15th July.
leads to the reward of either a Silver or Golden Spin of the prize wheel.
