44 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45 PLAYTECH BGT SPORTS OFFERING We deliver next-generation omni-channel sports and Our capabilities to offer an omni-channel betting solutions with content available across any solution across retail and online mean channel, device and location.
PBS has a strategic advantage in emerging, newly regulated markets.
Armin Sageder Playtech Sports develops market-leading turnkey BGT Sports BGT Sports CEO wagering solutions for the modern sports betting Unique player segmentation industry, covering all sectors and distribution and personalisation tools channels from retail to mobile to online products.
Brandable mobile solutions, PBSs vision is to create a fully integrated, bestplatform, user interface and in-class sports betting technology solution by The Power of the It has now been 18 months since you As well as Latin America, what other markets 9 9 features drawing on the overall business expertise and Sportsbook: integrated all the Playtech Sports businesses will PBS be concentrating on in 2019?
capabilities, together with a tailored, managed Q&A with Armin Sageder under your direction as CEO of Playtech BGT Our strategy in sports is three-fold.
Firstly, to 8 service proposition to suit any bespoke customer Sports: what has the integration brought to strengthen our leadership position in existing requirements.
A decade of experience with blue Read more about the Playtech?
key regulated markets with new licensees and chip operators has kept us ahead in innovation performance of BGT Sports When I joined Playtech with BGT Sports partners, such as the UK & Ireland, Southern 8 and customer service, while satisfying punters in the performance review in July 2016, Playtechs sports offering was Europe, particularly Spain and Greece, Central needs for versatility and reliability.
on page 44 a combination of very successful companies and Eastern Europe and, as we mentioned, Our betting terminals, as well as our digital such as Mobenga and Genuity, but all on Latin America.
Secondly, our capabilities to products, are revolutionising the world of separate platforms.
These companies had offer an omni-channel solution across retail and sportsbook operators and their omni-channel tremendous technology and great assets in online mean PBS has a strategic advantage in betting businesses.
We already have a solid terms of entrepreneurial culture and gifted emerging, newly regulated markets such as presence in many countries around the world, people.
We have now integrated all the best jurisdictions in the United States of America, and many others will follow soon.
components of that technology to one platform Canada and parts of Africa and Asia.
Finally, as delivering best practice data analytics, we highlighted above, there exists a significant one single settlements process, one single opportunity to cross-sell our new online back end and front end and one seamless capabilities to existing retail customers and also customer journey.
sports as a whole to existing Playtech licensees.
How is the Playtech BGT Sports integration In addition to PBSs omni-channel 9 9 delivering more opportunities?
capabilities, what are the sports divisions other compelling USPs?
PBS now has a unique place in the sports 8 STRATEGY IN ACTION: DISTRIBUTION betting industry, combining the best people, Product innovation is one of our key strengths.
8 AN INDUSTRY-DEFINING PLATFORM products and technology from retail and As with all product teams at Playtech, we place online.
Having one single platform delivers innovation at the core of our offering.
Along a harmonised, more efficient development with the distribution capabilities across retail Platform Features PBS Retail process for new products: a product can be and online, it is our commitment to innovative developed once and deployed simultaneously products that gives Playtech an advantage in Differentiated sports betting solutions for both PBS retail offering includes Self-Service Betting in online and retail.
Ultimately, this allows for regulated markets, as you must have engaging anonymous and registered customers across Terminals SSBTs, traditional over-the-counter an acceleration of the innovation process, and innovative product or no one will use your retail and digital channels OTC and space-saving devices such as Compact reducing our time to market for our partners services!
This often goes hand in hand with Terminals or Tablets especially for smaller venues.
Integration services: customer loyalty cards, and licensees.
the omni-channel capabilities, and in 2018 we Our Shop TV solution allows operators to display accounting systems, payment services, as well introduced a number of new innovations across the latest odds for any sport and promote as third-party solutions and protocols Has this produced any cross-sell opportunities 9 our omni-channel sports product Track my specific events.
Seamless betting experience across all channels from existing Playtech licensees?
SSBT Bet and Cash out functionality is now and devices, including over-the-counter OTC, PBS Digital available across all operators globally, either Absolutely, this has been one of the immediate 8 Self-Service Betting Terminals SSBTs, online through integration with the operators own and measurable benefits, during the year we Playtech BGT Sports PBS Online Betting Solution and mobile app or through the PBS Bet Tracker product.
deepened our relationship with key licensee is a digital Sportsbook that, due to the use of Industry-leading CMS tool to create banners, Moreover, in time for the FIFA World Cup, PBS Caliente in Mexico.
Playtech has worked with Responsive Design architecture, is now one bonus offers and to manage target groups launched its new Match Acca product across Caliente since 2014 in online casino, and integrated solution for both desktop and mobile retail and digital sportsbook.
The Match Acca since the integration of PBS has rolled out its Smart pricing: set and manage prices across devices.
The multilingual online solution makes product allows end customers to combine digital sportsbook in 2017: now in 2018 it has various channels within a single risk system betting entertaining and engaging for all users, multiple markets within the same event to create integrated retail SSBTs into the offering with and enables the bettors to quickly find their Maximum ARPU from multi-channel customers an accumulator bet with one single price, which the first SSBTs placed in Caliente casinos.
favourite teams, leagues or markets.
Highly customisable front ends to maximise was not previously possible due to the related Latin America is a key strategic geography brand loyalty contingencies of events.
For example, during for Playtech, and in sports we also work Manchester United vs. Watford, a customer can with Sportium in Colombia, providing a bet on a 2:2 Correct Score, United to score first, full omni-channel solution across retail Rashford to score first and Under 10.5 Corners.
