40 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 41 OUR CASINO OFFERING OUR STUDIOS We offer the most comprehensive portfolio of omni-channel content, delivering 600 of the most innovative casino games across all channels and devices.
Playtech offers more than 600 omni-channel casino Our commitment to providing new and existing Our Casino Offering Our Studios titles across all channels, platforms and devices.
licensees with access to our leading content, Extensive portfolio of content Each of Playtechs studios powerful platform and fully automated marketing delivers a unique flavour of As part of our Playtech ONE omni-channel offering, Mobile-Desktop launches tools ensures operators deliver the ultimate casino games and come together to form our casino product allows players to access content experience to their players.
the strongest and highest-quality anywhere, at any time and on any device through a Origins Psiclone QuickSpin content offering in the industry.
Psiclone Games is a Lichfield, QuickSpin is a Swedish game Playtech Origins has designed and created some of the most UK-based slot games design studio that develops innovative Driven by our powerful IMS platform and business studio focused on the production video slots for real money online famous, unique and innovative intelligence technology, Playtech Casino delivers games for more than a decade.
of unique and engaging highgambling and free-to-play social in-house and premium branded games, including quality titles, with a portfolio markets.
It was acquired by Using a diverse mix of expert a large selection of DC Entertainment titles such including the famous Fairground Playtech in 2016.
The aim of games designers based at inas 1960s Batman Classic TV Series, Man of Steel Fortunes, covering an increasing its 60-strong team of gaming house studios around the world, 2013, Green Lantern 2011, Superman 1978 and range of markets as its industry veterans is to cause a including Gibraltar, Estonia, Superman II 1980, to name just a few, while our expansion continues.
market-changing shift in quality Ukraine, Israel and Bulgaria, Open Platform offers hundreds more titles that and innovation by creating the it is a pioneer of online gaming flawlessly integrate with our licensees websites.
kind of games that we as players content creation.
TM ASHGAMING a Playtech company SUNFOX GAMES a Playtech company Sunfox Ash Gaming Playtech Vikings Based in Vienna, Austria, Ash Gaming is a leading Playtech Vikings mission is SUNFOX Games is an innovative London-based games design to create the most exciting casino games design and studio founded in 2002. roadmap possible, with a great production studio responsible Operating on a maths-first mix of games for all player types, for state-of-the-art 3D games, design paradigm by developing bringing years of experience and including The Glass Slipper, compelling, balanced and unique passion to every project.
Vikings Time for a Deal and 3 Blind models, it wraps its games in designers have a long tradition of Mice.
It was acquired by engaging themes that accentuate bringing never-before-seen slot Playtech in 2017 and expands the designed feature set.
features to life and are behind Playtechs product portfolio some of the most successful with a distinctive selection of games of the last ten years.
GECO Eyecon Rarestone Gaming Established in 2007 and acquired Eyecon was founded in Brisbane, Rarestone is the newest addition by Playtech in 2016, GECO Australia, in 1997 and develops to the Playtech studios family.
is headquartered in Sydney, slots and table games for online Founded by veterans of major Australia.
GECOs philosophy is gambling and free-to-play players in the industry, this one of innovation inspired out social markets.
It was acquired Australian-based studio is built on of experience and foundation.
With more a passion for developing games GECO offers a complete range than 70 titles distributed via its with global appeal.
Working on of game styles, from traditional proprietary Remote Gaming the principle that the best game Australian-style content and bingo Server RGS, Eyecon games are designers are game players, slots to story-driven, multi-layered, familiar across many of the major Rarestone focuses on mathsentertaining and engaging games.
led development to create titles tailored to seasoned players.
