52 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53 ACQUISITION: Snaitech cont.
A key strategic milestone in 2018 was the acquisition and integration of Snaitech.
Playtech now directly owns and operates the leading sports betting and gaming brand in online and retail in Italy.
The Italian Opportunity he combination brings together Playtechs he acquisition of Snaitech demonstrates Regulation in this market has also brought Snaitechs Strategic Pillars technology with Snaitechs powerful brand and the scale of our commitment and belief in opportunities for Playtech, including an agreement Brand equity Tlocal expertise in Europes largest gambling T the long-term value of the Italian market.
in principle for shared liquidity in Poker with France, Technology and innovation market.
It creates a fully vertically integrated retail This is an exciting opportunity for Playtech, which Spain and Portugal.
Shared liquidity is likely to Sports trading management and online Italian gaming business that can control now has a cornerstone presence in the largest, facilitate an increase in number of players in Strategic partnerships its own technology, from land-based to online.
and one of the fastest-growing, gambling markets tournaments and an increased volume of gambling Real estate assets in Europe.
across the participating countries, which given our Social responsibilities The acquisition significantly enhanced Playtechs international presence should offer us a competitive revenue mix and reflects the Companys strategy to The land-based market in Italy stands at 17.1 billion, economic advantage.
be the leading supplier in commercially attractive compared to the fast-growing online market, which regulated markets.
In 2018, the Group reported that grew 26% in 2018 to 1.9 billion.
Online penetration Playtechs significant investment in its Italian over 80% of combined revenues stemmed from is only 10%, compared to 43% in the UK, offering operations demonstrates our commitment to 894.6m regulated markets, and the acquisition has also Playtech the opportunity to capture a larger part delivering first-class products and services for Total revenue for 2018 improved the diversification of the Groups revenue.
our operators across the territory.
We believe the strength of the Snaitech brand in Italy, coupled with What is Snaitech?
Encouragingly, the Italian market is predicted to our leading technology, will allow the combined grow, according to H2GC, at 1.7% CAGR through Founded in 1906, Snai has built on its initial presence 155.6m Group to capitalise on the significant opportunity.
European Gaming Market in horse racing to become Italys leading online and to 2021.
This is expected to be driven by healthy Adjusted EBITDA for 2018 by GGR, 2017 bn online growth of 9% CAGR to 2021. retail gaming brand.
Snai SpA, previously listed on Italy: 20.1 the Milan Stock Exchange, has one of the largest However, the regulatory landscape continues to United Kingdom: 16.6 networks of betting shops and gaming machines in change, and in 2018 we have seen legislation Germany: 13.9 Italy.
Following the merger with the Cogemat group 85% regarding the planned advertising ban, which France: 10.5 in 2015, Snaitech is now one of the largest gambling Brand Awareness will be effective from 2019.
We believe that we Spain: 8.6 companies in the country, comprising more than Snai is the first brand in terms of are well positioned to adapt and manage this 1,600 betting points and approximately 38,600 AWPs brand awareness and recognition.
With the advertising and 10,600 VLTs.
ban facilitating market consolidation, companies Snaitech is fully regulated in the markets in with a strong retail brand and presence, like Snai, should be set to benefit and gain online which it operates.
In FY 2017, Snaitech reported total revenues of 890.0 million and EBITDA of market share.
136.0 million, which grew to 894.6 million and 155.6 million respectively in FY 2018.
The Snaitech Story Listing in Milan Forming the Snai Group International certification on Snai Servizi acquires - from This is the starting year for Snaitech was founded responsible online gaming Montedison Spa - the company sports betting in Italy during the Cogemat Cotetech From Snai to Snaitech Creation of Snaitech Beginning of the Trenno Spa as well as the Football World Cup in France: This important recognition merger with Snai Group Smart Technology management of Tris betting: horse racing tracks of Milan the horse betting agencies rewards the approach In continuity with the occurred start of TV broadcasting of and Montecatini as the parent become Snai Points.
In that Snai acquired 100% of the followed by the Group which integration in Snai of the The addition to Snaitech is horse races in all connected company of Trenno Spa: the same year, the Snai Group is share capital of Cogemat, is increasingly committed regulated Cogmat Cogetech a research and development Playtech agencies by using a company is listed in the Milan created, which participates in giving rise to the first listed to keeping gaming within companies, the corporate project with its aim being Transfer of the legal acquires land-based network with Stock Exchange with the stock the tender for expanding the pole in Italy dedicated to the limits of conscious name changed from Snai the unification of Snaitechs headquarters to Milan Snaitech microwave technology.
S. p. A to Snaitech S. p. A IT solutions.
1990 1997 1998 2015 2016 2016 2017 2017 2018 Starting of the Beginning of New app: Snai Sport New casino page Daily spin becoming Instant roulette becoming New gaming apps: Bingo, operations in the operations New portal: SNAI.
it and new casino content a key driver loyalty tool key driver in cross-sell Sette e mezzo, Black Jack the New Slots in VLTs market 2015 H1 2016 H2 2016 H1 2017 H2 2017 market 2010 2004 54 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 55 ACQUISITION: Snaitech cont.
The combination of our market-leading brand and strong distribution network with Playtechs technology stack will enable us to increase our market share and cement our strong position in the market.
Fabio Schiavolin Snaitech CEO The Importance What is the Snaitech story?
Tell us a bit about what Snaitech has been 9 9 of our Partnership: up to in the last 12 months.
Snaitech is the leading and largest retail betting 8 Q&A with Fabio Schiavolin brand in the Italian gambling market and has a The last 12 months have seen a number of 8 long history, dating back to 1906.
Originally, Snai changes to the regulatory landscape in Italy.
Read more about the was focused on horse racing and over the years We have done a good job navigating the performance of Snaitech has diversified into retail and online gambling, complexities and have delivered a strong in the financial review enabled by progressive regulation in Italy.
The financial performance, maintaining our position on page 62 turning point came in 2015 when Snai merged as the market leader in the Italian retail market.
with Cogetech to form Snaitech, combining We have redesigned the layout of many of our retail betting and gaming machines to become shops and, at the same time, successfully grown a technology led company.
What excites you about being part What made Playtech the ideal partner 9 9 of the Playtech family?
The combination of the two businesses creates The combination of our market-leading brand 8 8 the first gaming company to be fully vertically and strong distribution network with Playtechs integrated across retail and online.
Playtechs technology stack will enable us to increase our leading technology and experience in Italy, market share and cement our strong position alongside Snaitechs powerful brand, mean we in the market.
will be able to capitalise on the opportunity in We are very pleased with the integration so the Italian market.
We know the Playtech team far and we have made good progress on our very well, having worked with them since 2006, financial KPIs.
Playtech and Snaitech share the and we are really excited to continue working same DNA.
We believe in being a technologytogether going forwards.
driven, customer-centric company and our cultures are very similar.
We have always had What does Snaitech bring to the Italian market?
9 a good relationship with Playtech, having been Snaitech has achieved strong brand awareness 8 their customer for many years, and we look in Italy, with two out of three people recognising forward to what we can achieve as we move the brand as a leader in the betting market.
have strong ethical values and a commitment to responsible gambling, demonstrated by our G4 certification and our social and charitable initiatives.
We also have a wide distribution network via our franchisees and work closely with them to deliver the best technology and retail gaming experience.
