46 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47 LOTTERY & BINGO The industrys most complete omni-channel bingo portfolio, including the worlds largest bingo network and best-performing games.
Our cutting-edge lottery technology delivers Lottery unrivalled player visibility across online, mobile World Lottery Association and retail channels, arming you with the ability and European Lotteries to better understand behaviours, giving you 17 years of player a sharper focus on your players.
management Playtech is an associate member of The European Lotteries organisation and World Lottery Association, Playtech works alongside other corresponding parties to guarantee the constant work of the Association in educating and challenging the member lotteries as the industry continues to expand.
Playtech delivers an omni-channel bingo solution, Bingo allowing players to enjoy the same seamless Most extensive experience across any platform, on any device, side-games portfolio all through a single wallet and a single account.
Bespoke bingo client Our UK bingo network consists of more than 100 STRATEGY IN ACTION: DISTRIBUTION and room variants brands, manages more than 100,000 games daily more than 20,000 concurrent players.
PARTNERING WITH BUZZ BINGO Playtech has partnered with Buzz Bingo to deliver Buzz Bingo a groundbreaking content delivery and CRM Its fantastic to see 120 Bingo locations solution across both Bingo and Casino, integrating its award-winning IMS player management platform.
all the amazing work Omni-channel solutions across retail and online Playtech has collaborated closely with Buzz Bingo that has gone into this since the brands high-profile launch earlier this year, offering players a range of Bingo variants project come to fruition.
and a wide selection of Playtech Casino content.
Our collaboration with Additionally, integration with the Playtech Open Platform POP gives Buzz Bingo access to an Playtech allows us to exceptional range of original and third-party game content.
With several major content providers on offer one of the widest board from day one, and many others launching soon, Buzz Bingo players can choose from one of selections of Bingo games the industrys widest selections of Bingo variants and Casino slot games.
and slots in the market, as well as delivering an enhanced player journey across our physical venues and online.
Chris Matthews CEO Buzz Bingo
