72 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 73 REGULATION & RESPONSIBILITY PROMOTING REGULATED MARKETS & SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PRACTICES technology can help address improving and expanding its is subject to recurring annual of senior communications, Introduction Governance digital presence in a fragmented some of the most pressing reviews, the scope of which compliance, and regulatory In 2018, the regulatory and The Board of Directors reviews challenges affecting the and underdeveloped varies from year to year.
affairs executives from the external environment for social responsibility, compliance online market.
industrys reputation and Internal Audit also ensures that gambling sector and experts gambling, technology and and regulatory affairs risks and long-term sustainability.
compliance related questions from other organisations such financial services industries issues on a monthly basis.
The In Latin America, where Playtech and testing are integrated into as regulators and charities.
continued to evolve, Risk and Compliance Committee actively engaged with local Material issues other operational audits as and Topics covered include: creating both challenges continues to oversee and policymakers about the benefits when applicable.
Playtech conducts materiality and opportunities.
Crucial monitor the implementation of of sensible and effective Protecting and empowering assessments to identify and developments happened strategy and progress related regulations, there was positive Within the TradeTech division, consumers in a digital world prioritise short and long-term on a range of topics, including to regulatory affairs, compliance, momentum and opportunities there is a dedicated compliance Building trust in a data-driven regulatory, compliance, social data protection and privacy, AML, safer gambling, and arising in Brazil, Argentina and team with specialist experience world and environmental issues the societal impacts of responsible business practices.
In 2018, Brazil took an in financial services.
This team affecting the business, industry Bridging the diversity gap technology, financial crime, In 2018, Claire Milne became the important step towards the monitors the Groups ongoing in gambling and society.
The latest review consumer protection, responsible Chair of the Risk and Compliance regulation of online and retail practices, ensuring compliance was informed by regular business and safer gambling Committee, serving also as the Using data for social good sports betting.
In Argentina, both with the evolving regulatory monitoring of regulatory issues as well as the public Board champion on regulatory, the province and the autonomous landscape across the globe.
Alongside the roundtable events, requirements, compliance, perception of gambling.
compliance and responsible city of Buenos Aires passed The compliance team is Playtech actively participated ethics and responsible business business issues.
new laws to legalise online comprised of several units in Throughout the year, Playtech in events and working groups issues, and formal and informal gambling.
Peru also discussed the different regulated entities engaged constructively with its The Regulatory Affairs and dedicated to improving social stakeholder dialogue.
proposals to regulate online offering ongoing guidance to stakeholders on these evolving Compliance function oversees responsibility standards and SPOTLIGHT: ENABLING CROSS-SECTOR sports betting and casino games.
ensure regulatory developments At the Playtech Group level, topics, understanding and regulatory, compliance and practices, alongside industry This will complement Playtechs are monitored and obligations the most material issues of addressing them as part of its responsible business practices LEADERSHIP & COLLABORATION peers, opinion formers, charities, successful business in Mexico are adhered to.
focus include: broader business, responsibility, as well as related risks and academics, industry associations and Colombia.
In 2018, the and multi-stakeholder initiatives.
In 2018, Playtech initiated and sponsored a new Player protection Stakeholder engagement strategy.
Playtech welcomes function strengthened its team In the US, Playtech initiated the experiential leadership development programme bringing and safer gambling and collaboration Playtech supported and engaged policy developments designed to support delivery of Playtechs process of applying for a licence together leaders from charities and companies alongside with the Remote Gambling Data protection and As a technology leader in the to support the long-term success regulatory affairs, compliance and in the State of New Jersey, people who have experienced gambling-related harm.
The cybersecurity Association RGA, Senet Group, of the sectors in which it operates safer gambling agenda.
gambling and financial trading actively pursuing opportunities programme was led by John Peck and Tiger Teams, who Gambling Anti-Money Laundering industries, Playtechs success by creating a safer, fairer and Financial Crime and Antiacross the country and forming specialise in running experiential residential programmes with The Regulatory Affairs and Group GAMLG, Institute for more responsible industry.
is built upon maintaining strong money laundering AML strategic alliances.
The objective of this programme was to Compliance function, Risk Business Ethics, Young Gamblers partnerships with its stakeholders.
has developed partnerships and help participants further develop their confidence and self-belief Anti-bribery and corruption In the gambling arena, the Management process feeds Education Trust YGAM, GamCare, The value of partnerships is also struck deals with land-based in a way that will make them even more effective in all fields of ABC Company continued to promote into the current Group Risk Gordon Moody Association and fundamental to how the Company casino groups, media groups and their life.
Crucially, the programme was designed to encourage high standards in regulated Management Process.
As part of many others during 2018.
For TradeTech, Playtechs thinks about and delivers against existing international clients.
and foster cross-sector understanding, collaboration and ideas markets while actively advocating the risk process, the Regulatory its social responsibilities.
Playtech financial division, the list of to enable a safer gambling environment.
Two cohorts took part Playtech contributed research for sensible regulation in future Affairs and Compliance function As a partner of many of the worlds material issues is different is committed to contributing covering the areas of data in 2018, and the programme will continue in 2019. and emerging markets.
Playtech identifies and assess regulatory, major gambling and betting meaningfully to sector dialogue, and includes: analytics, AML and sustainable believes that properly regulated compliance and responsible companies, Playtech is in a unique Its not an exaggeration to say that the experience set me sharing learning and support game design at the European markets are key to raising The evolving regulatory business risks contained in position to help licensees navigate on a longer-term journey that I have found to be incredibly research and initiatives designed Association for the Study of landscape associated with industry standards and enabling the Group risk register.
The the continually evolving regulatory helpful.
I made friendships as well as valuable contacts, to raise standards more broadly.
Gambling EASG conference, a sustainable and reputable Contracts for Difference CFDs Head of Regulatory Affairs environment, particularly around aiding my charitys work and one of the service users is also a conference that gathers the and investment services During 2018, Playtech sector for the long term.
and Compliance sits on the responsible gambling in online now volunteering for us.
I have also been able to facilitate leading academic and industry convened several initiatives Executive Committee and and retail markets.
To achieve connections between the people that I met in Cumbria with Client protection Regulated markets in Europe thinkers and practitioners in to foster collaboration and best provides quarterly updates to this, Playtech has been investing others working on responsible gambling, so the ripple effect still represent significant growth Transaction reporting responsible gambling.
Playtech practice-sharing in the industry.
the Group Risk Management in systems, tools and expertise to continues.
For instance, also shared research findings at Some of these initiatives are Committee.
The Regulatory deliver better and safer services Playtech prepared to be one of - Jenny Brace, GamCare the Joint Multi-Conference on Market abuse and AML described in case studies Affairs and Compliance function and products.
the first technology companies Human Level Artificial Intelligence.
also provides the advice, tools For me the real positive was that it brought different operators The following sections to launch in Sweden when the During the year, the Company and support to the operational, and former gamblers together to share ideas and experiences.
Finally, Playtech continued its summarise the Companys Starting in 2017 and continuing market regulates in 2019. also collaborated with licensees, divisional and functional line Regardless of how versed you are in leadership principles constructive engagement with strategy and actions to address throughout 2018, Playtech In some European countries, academics, charities and industry management.
The Internal Audit and experienced you may be: there is always room to learn policymakers to encourage these material topics, all of which organised regular roundtable such as Italy, player protection, bodies to help raise and shape function provides assurance more and find out something about you as a person.
and improve the regulation are subject to regular reviews events to gauge and develop tax and advertising restrictions industry standards.
Furthermore, to the Board and Executive The event provided the environment to do this.
of online gambling across all and discussion within the Risk responses to new and emerging were prominent.
Yet Playtech through a series of roundtable Management Team that effective jurisdictions, outlining the options Committee of the Board.
challenges facing the sector - Pete Wallis, Sky Betting and Gaming remains confident about the sessions and participation in systems and controls are in place and approaches taken in other and society.
Attendees at these growth opportunities in Italy, external events, Playtech shared to manage all significant risks regulated markets.
As part of events comprised a range with Snaitech focusing on best practice and explored how within the business.
Compliance 74 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 75 REGULATION & RESPONSIBILITY cont.
2019 will see Playtech continuing With its unique reach and A. Escalations to Licensees B2B B.
Responsible Gambling Performance B2C to align existing policies and data capabilities, Playtech has processes with those of its an important role to play in 2018: 13 2018: 47 newly acquired companies.
developing solutions to address safer gambling challenges.
2017: 18 2017: 30 In 2018, the Company also Specifically, Playtech has focused published the first phase of 2016: 15 2016: 10 on refining and offering tools research on the role of artificial that can help raise standards intelligence AI in tackling money in operations and across the laundering.
This was the first industry to: phase of a three-year partnership between City, University of Promote safer and SAFER GAMBLING COLLABORATION: Londons Research Centre for responsible play FINANCIAL WELLBEING Machine Learning, Kindred and Empower licensees and BetBuddy.
The project explores players with advanced Playtech partnered with Sky Betting & Gaming and William Hill the use of deep learning and customer engagement and to sponsor a safer gambling collaboration day, exploring the AI techniques to strengthen AML % Collusion % Responsible Proportion of customers Proportion of customers responsible gambling tools topic of financial wellbeing and affordability.
The event brought AML processes across the self-excluding % using RG tools % Gambling % to reduce harm 2018: 0.04 2018: 2.13 together industry, charities, regulators and experts from the online gambling industry.
Phase Improve the use of 2018: 0.14 financial services sector.
Over 90 participants shared insights 1 focused on analysing areas Number of self-exclusions as a percentage of total unique customers within Playtechs 2017: 0.07 2017: 1.51 data to reduce harm B2C operations in the UK.
and innovations that could help further the financial wellbeing requiring improvement for AI 2017: 0.13 RG tools comprise reality checks, time-outs and deposit limits.
to be successfully deployed, 2016: 0.09 2016: 0.94 To further support the above whereas phase 2 will use real- 2016: 0.05 UK B2C operations only commitments, Playtech reviewed world online gambling data to its operational policies and detect signs of money laundering.
procedures on safer gambling Since the BetBuddy acquisition, Playtech also invested in the The table above Table A In the UK, the B2C division training programme, making these engagements, Playtech development of a game design to align with changes to the Playtech has accelerated its summarises the percentage continued to review and refresh Speak Up encourages regulators to develop the content more interactive regulatory landscape, changes efforts to: framework and took an active of unique cases escalated to its operational policies and and delivering it through a new In 2017, Playtech established regulatory frameworks that role in engaging with the industry, in the business model, evolving licensees on AML, collusion procedures related to AML promote a sustainable industry e-learning platform.
Face-toa Speak Up hotline and policy Integrate BetBuddy capabilities industry standards and emerging regulators and others to develop and Responsible Gambling and Responsible Gambling.
face compliance training for to enable employees to raise whilst enabling safer experiences into the core product offering guidance on sustainable game best practice.
In 2019, the over the past three years.
As with previous years, the for consumers and higher middle and senior managers concerns about unethical or Explore and define a Company will review its overall design principles.
During the division completed an AML risk increased, with 581 senior illegal behaviour, confidentially standards of businesses.
Eurolive framework for responsible year, the BetBuddy team began safer gambling strategy, in assessment and continued managers receiving training and anonymously.
Since its Playtechs Live casino operations game design addition to conducting ongoing working with the Playtech content to enhance its processes Integrity risk in 2018, an annual increase of launch, Speak Up has been continued to support licensees studios to develop, pilot and reviews of operational risks and for identifying and engaging Invest in R&D in AI 134.
The three-hour face-to-face promoted through formal Playtech is committed to with information about player controls across its B2C and B2B implement player labels, internal customer interactions on safer sessions were supplemented communications, posters and Improve approaches for behaviour that could indicate upholding and adhering to high slots classification and a plan to gambling tools.
with e-learning training for all within the compliance training labelling and measuring harm ethical standards and takes when players were at risk or extend slots classification to new Company delivered Responsible employees.
This will continue displaying harmful behaviour.
a zero-tolerance approach to B2B games verticals.
Playtech also Gambling training to relevant These areas of focus are of the Board of Directors received in 2019.
Employees can contact violations of those standards, Lives Customer Support tested game labelling to assess employees using refreshed underpinned and supported Playtechs acquisition of face-to-face training covering the hotline via a website link, personnel have been trained including attempts of bribery, how best to ensure players and content.
Playtech also invited by ongoing stakeholder BetBuddy in 2017 marked governance, AML, ABC, RG, email and phone.
In 2018, three money laundering or corruption.
to identify player behaviour operators can make informed GamCare and Gordon Moody to engagement and thought an important step forward in tax and ethics issues.
In 2018, unique issues were flagged and language that could indicate choices and stay in control of engage with Playtech colleagues leadership on safer gambling meeting the commitments noted Anti-money laundering AML, Playtech also provided bespoke through Speak Up, with additional there is a concern.
In addition, the game experience.
in order to raise awareness and analytics and game design.
BetBuddy is a dedicated training to relevant functional requests and information the Live team used an AI understanding about gambling responsible gambling analytics Playtechs Ethics Policy sets out and divisional managers on provided subsequently.
Of the iPoker Following the integration of application, which analyses related harm, their organisations, platform, built around machine the overarching standards around topics including human rights, total reports made to Speak Up, Within the poker network, chat content for words and BetBuddy into the Integrated effective referral processes learning and predictive analytics.
business conduct, corporate responsible gambling, tax and 19% came through email, 2% Management System IMS iPoker, Playtech employed its phrases indicating potential and the role of the industry in By combining the latest research governance, commitments crisis management.
from phone and 79% through analytical skills to proactively at-risk behaviour.
In 2018, 2,958 in 2018, the solution is now identifying and engaging at-risk with the power of machine to employees and corporate the website link.
being deployed to its first identify at-risk behaviour that players were identified as populations.
Lastly, during 2018 Other milestones and learning, the Company can citizenship.
In 2018, this policy could indicate potential collusion, exhibiting at-risk behaviour, licensees.
The combination of Playtech actively supported and developments relating deliver an end-to-end solution was updated along with ABC Safer gambling BetBuddys applied AI to assess responsible gambling and or with escalation notices going promoted GamStop, the new UK to Playtechs compliance for identifying and managing and AML policies to include money laundering issues.
Throughout 2018, regulators, risk, working seamlessly with online self-exclusion scheme.
programme in 2018 include: at-risk gambling behavioural changes in legislation, regulations industry, charities and the public the Companys real-time player 2016, iPoker has informed poker patterns.
Further to this, Playtech and industry good practice.
Updating and incorporating licensees of players whose B2C In 2018, Playtech also explored at large continued to challenge messaging capabilities, will invested in a range of safer In addition, the Company emerging technologies to ABC and AML language into the gaming and betting sector allow operators to implement financial returns fit a pattern of In 2018, Playtechs B2C gambling initiatives that cover approved a new Anti-Facilitation new and refreshed contracts sustained losses and thus could strengthen identification and to make gambling and gaming personalised messaging that operations grew as a result data analytics as well as game of Tax Evasion policy.
verification processes as well with external contractors products safer, fairer and crime empowers consumers to make indicate that the player is at-risk.
of the acquisitions of design, customer interaction and This information, combined with as the benefits of new initiatives free.
Among the important safe choices.
In addition, new The new and updated policies Updating due diligence forms Snaitech, one of the leading cross-sector collaboration.
like open banking to assist challenges was the question Responsible Gambling features the detailed player information concessionaries in the Italian were communicated to to include anti-facilitation of tax held only by the licensee, in affordability checks and of how companies can more in Playtechs platforms, aimed employees and contractors evasion considerations gaming market, and Trinitybet, AML controls.
effectively identify, engage and at increasing both licensee and enables the licensee to take an a sports-betting operation in through a wide range of channels Implementing AML compliance informed decision on the most intervene with those who could player education and awareness including new employee Germany and Austria.
These risk assessments to identify be at risk of harm and measure of Playtechs casino content, are appropriate course of action.
In acquisitions involve both online induction, newsletters, direct risks relating to money 2018, the iPoker team further the effectiveness of those planned to be trialled in 2019. employee communications as and retail operations.
Following laundering and terrorist interactions.
developed its process to support the acquisitions, Playtech began well as face-to-face and online financing licensees by developing a training.
In 2018, Playtech to align operational compliance, template streamlining the analysis player protection and AML strengthened its compliance of potential AML concerns.
processes, and this work will continue in 2019.
2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 76 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 77 REGULATION & RESPONSIBILITY cont.
GIBRALTAR: GIRLS IN TECH In 2018, Playtech continued its sponsorship of the Girls in Tech Gibraltar chapter GIT Gib, and the Chief Technology Officer of Playtechs Games Innovation Labs, Peter Mares, is also the co-Managing Director of GIT Gib.
GIT Gib is part of a global network established to inspire, engage and empower women in science, technology, engineering and mathematics STEM.
Playtech actively participated in chapter events including a design thinking workshop and hackathons.
November saw GIT Gibs first Hacking for Humanity hackathon, a two-day event where developers, designers and product managers banded together to collaborate on solving technical problems for various Gibraltarbased charities and non-profits.
A number of Playtech businesses Diversity and inclusion D. UK Gender Pay Gap C. Gender Split led the way on diversity initiatives, With approximately 5,800 Median Gender Pay Gap % : Employees by Gender : testing ideas and practices that employees across 17 countries, 2018 60.4% can later be shared across the Playtech places great emphasis 2018 M F Group.
For example, Quickspin, 2017 63.4% on bringing together different 57.5% 2018 42.5% based in Sweden, developed perspectives as a source of an ambitious Gender Equality 2017 M F innovation, serving the needs Mean Gender Pay Gap % : Plan, covering several strands 57.5% 2018 42.5% and meeting the preferences of activity in a holistic manner, 2018 49.4% of customers worldwide.
The 2016 M F including the work environment, Company recognises the value 2017 53.5% 60.2% 2018 39.8% parent-friendly workplaces, and importance of diversity in competence development and an its long-term success as well as inspiring Women in Gaming event.
Median Gender Bonus the need to strengthen diversity Senior Managers by Gender : Gap % : in the industry, more broadly.
In 2019, Playtech will continue to 2018 M F% 2018 16.7% Last year, Playtech set out the pursue its diversity and inclusion following objectives: 89.0% 2018 11.0% D&I objectives and focus on the 2017 30.8% following actions: Improve the gender balance 2017 M F at Board, executive and senior 92.0% 2018 8.0% The development of a Mean Gender Bonus management levels consistent Diversity & Inclusion Gap % : 2016 M F framework to be adopted Invest in and retain the next 2018 67.0% 92.0% 2018 8.0% at country level generation of leaders and 2017 62.3% talent by increasing access A Group-wide unconscious COMMITTED TO STRENGTHENING & RAISING to networking, mentoring and bias training programme Board by Gender : The UK Gender Pay Gap numbers reflect training initiatives payroll data for employees employed on for people leaders and RESPONSIBLE GAMBLING STANDARDS 2018 M F the snapshot date.
Payroll data includes those making hiring and Futureproof workplace policies basic pay, bonus, commissions and share 25.0% 75.0% 2018 and training to support the promotion decisions options gains paid as part of payroll In 2018, Playtech continued to invest in research, In 2019, Playtech will: 2019 Safer Gambling for April 2018.
The bonus data reflects progression of talent The launch of a new 2017 M F% education and treatment programmes designed to Themes: employees employed on the snapshot Refresh its safer gambling framework, policy date, but received a bonus within the enable safer gambling, prevent gambling-related Expand investment in and Harassment, Bullying 14.3% 85.7% 2018 and commitments to align with evolving societal 12-month period to 5th April 2018 period and Respect Policy harm, and better understand technology and support for cross-industry Empowering licensees with being from 6th April 2017 to 5th April 2018. expectations, regulation, licensing requirements 2016 M F solutions for reducing harm.
Playtech focused its partnerships and initiatives to Continue participating in advanced analytics and as well as the expansion of the B2C business in investments on initiatives designed to: 85.7% 2018 14.3% build a more inclusive sector industry initiatives, such as the customer engagement retail operations All-In Diversity Initiative, the first Improve approaches for proactive harm As noted in the charts C, Responsible Product Design Develop an internal game risk classification diversity benchmarking index prevention initiatives focused on at-risk the Company made incremental Employees are defined as the total methodology to quantify the RG risks of for the gambling sector number of employees on the payroll Cross sector collaboration and problem gamblers improvements in female individual games on 31 December.
to strengthen standards representation at the Board Increase access to public and mental health Conduct a feasibility assessment of producing Senior Managers are defined as the and at senior management levels.
and well-being programmes for at-risk and top 100 highest earning employees a game risk classification methodology for use at Playtech.
vulnerable groups by operators In the UK, Playtechs gender pay Directors are defined as Board Directors Increase access to financial wellbeing gap numbers improved slightly, Provide better and more comprehensive RG on 31 December.
programmes for at-risk and vulnerable with the median gender pay gap information to licensees which they can pass 2018 numbers include Snaitech groups decreasing by 3.1% percentage on to players employees.
Despite the progress Strengthen and scale the capacity of frontline Pilot new approaches to in-play messaging noted in tables D right, the staff e. g. health professionals, educators, around safer gambling and assess the Company recognises that there youth leaders who are working with vulnerable effectiveness of those interactions is much more to do to recruit and populations to deliver effective prevention and Strengthen safer gambling training promote a diverse workforce, resilience programmes and awareness particularly around gender As part of this strategy, Playtech will continue to diversity at senior levels.
Continue to develop safer gambling metrics support and collaborate with organisations, such and KPIs to allow for improved assessment as YGAM, GamCare, Gordon Moody and others to and continuous improvement meet the goals noted above.
78 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 79 REGULATION & RESPONSIBILITY cont.
Mapping and reviewing all The acquisition of Snaitech With the Snaitech acquisition Running a responsible Human rights E: Greenhouse Gas Emissions known processing activities also introduced new types of and its physical estate, the business Playtech subscribes to the Scope 1 energy emissions Scope 2 emissions electricity regarding personal data operations to the Group, including materiality of waste and water Safeguarding data principles outlined in the Total energy consumption gas, fuel oil and diesel and district heating race tracks and physical shops, became more prominent.
Again, Updating Playtechs crisis Universal Declaration of Human kWh Tonnes CO e Tonnes CO e Playtech recognises that safe 2 2 with different risk profiles than this is due to Snaitechs physical management and incident Rights, the International Labour and secure handling of data 2018 29,231,512 2018 9,041 2018 1,511 office-based jobs.
In recognition estate which includes horse response plans and data Organisations Declaration on and protection of personal data of this, occupational health and racing infrastructure and points 2017 14,757,420 2017 300 2017 6,646 subject rights processes Fundamental Principles and and information are critical to safety performance data covering of sale.
To that end, this report Rights at Work, and the United 2016 13,488,181 2016: 242 2016 7,176 the success of and trust in the The GDPR Compliance those operations has been features additional environmental Nations Guiding Principles on business.
Safeguarding these Programme was subject to included below.
KPIs that are relevant given the Total GHG emissions GHG intensity Business and Human Rights.
assets is the cornerstone of a comprehensive readiness environmental impact associated Tonnes CO e Tonnes CO e employee Playtechs most salient human 2 2 maintaining and protecting trust Occupational Health assessment by an external with those physical assets.
In and labour rights issues relate with Playtechs stakeholders.
2018 10,551 2018 1.9 & Safety Data partner, and findings were the future, Playtech will look to to employment, data protection, 2018 2017 2017 6,947 2017 1.4 reviewed by the Board.
2018 saw the deadline for broaden the reporting on waste procurement of goods and Playtechs GDPR efforts Total number and water to include not just implementing the EU General 2016 7,418 2016 1.5 services, and AML, specifically have now transitioned into of accidents 13 18 Data Protection Regulation Snaitech but the entire Group.
ensuring that individuals involved 2018 includes Snaitech data.
phase II where the focus GDPR.
The Playtech Group Data in human trafficking and slavery Injury rate 2.1 2.4 The increase in hazardous waste 2018 absolute data is an estimate based on 97% actual data coverage by headcount.
is on enhancement and Protection Office developed are not laundering their money produced in 2018 is primarily continued compliance.
Using the latest Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs DEFRA gas and district heating conversion factors CO e. and delivered against a detailed Number of days 2 through Playtechs operations.
due to Snaitechs replacement Using the latest DEFRA electricity conversion factor CO e for all UK locations and the latest International Energy Agency IEA roadmap to adhere to GDPR lost to accidents 248 523 2 Information security: of obsolete electronic devices, conversion factors for all non-UK sites CO. 2 During 2018, Playtech published requirements.
The overall aim In addition to the GDPR as part of its investment project Lost day rate 39.2 70.9 The 2016 and 2017 GHG data has been restated following further reconciliation.
its second Modern Slavery Act was to implement a robust and Programme, Playtechs aimed at adopting innovative statement, outlining the initiatives consistent approach to data Number of days information security team technological solutions.
With the to understand and assess protection compliance across all of absence 7,144 9,381 oversees the business goal of furthering the positive F: Water Consumption potential risks of modern slavery Playtech companies.
requirements for information environmental impacts generated and human trafficking.
During the Snaitech operations only.
The team strives by the activities of its horse During 2018, Playtech completed year, Playtech identified specific Number of accidents per 100 Full Time 3 to deliver best-in-class cyber racing tracks, the Group also a review of its internal training Equivalents FTE.
Total water consumption m 502,511 504,437 topics and operations to focus security solutions orchestrated renewed its commitment toward arrangements.
The review Average number of days lost per 100 FTEs Water consumption for on human rights and modern by the Global Cyber Security 3 due to accidents.
the structural redevelopment and resulted in a change of training watering race tracks m 232,615 232,087 slavery risks.
The Company Office and working closely soil reclamation of Milans horse provider and the roll-out of 3 also reviewed the human rights Water withdrawal by source m with the GDPR team.
improved computer and testand modern slavery information Environment Municipal aqueduct 42,681 40,263 based data protection training, provided by licensees and The Playtech Global Cyber Well extraction 454,430 464,174 In 2018, Playtechs most material Approach to tax applicable to new recruits, suppliers as part of its third-party Security function leads and environmental impact continued Others 5,400 0 and annual refresher training The Playtech Group is committed due diligence, which has enabled oversees information security to be the GHG emissions for all employees.
This was to complying with all relevant a more detailed review of risk for the Company, with a remit Data covering Snaitech operations only.
stemming from the energy used supplemented with the provision tax laws in jurisdictions in which within Playtechs supply chain.
covering physical and software in its data centres, offices and of face-to-face training to various it operates.
Playtech reviewed and The activities above were departments throughout the year.
affairs are managed in line with systems are constantly monitored mapped the GHG footprint of underpinned by training and G: Waste & Effluent its governance framework and and updated, and the team In addition, the GDPR Compliance the business during the year, awareness-raising sessions to tax strategy.
The Group acts continually assesses new 2018 2017 Programme included: identifying energy hotspots and reach a broader range of relevant responsibly with respect to its solutions that can help opportunities to reduce energy employees in the technology, Total waste production Tonnes 7,829 8,265 Updating Playtechs policies, tax obligations.
identify, assess and manage use for those hotspots where procurement, legal and HR Of which: contract templates and cybersecurity threats and risks the Company exercises The Group is headquartered in functions.
60 managers in the agreements with business Sent to landfill Tonnes 180 63 in the gaming ecosystem.
the Isle of Man, where the parent human resources, procurement, partners and suppliers Reused or recycled Tonnes 7,649 8,202 company is tax resident.
Playtech legal and technology functions Playtech offices are certified Playtechs GHG emissions, on Requiring all Playtech Hazardous waste Tonnes 127 1.7 has offices in 17 countries, with received bespoke training on against security industry a per capita-basis, increased employees and partners the majority of its development human rights during the year, standards, such as ISO from 1.4t to 1.9t, while absolute Data covering Snaitech operations only.
comply with confidentiality and technical operations in provided by a third-party adviser.
Playtechs production emissions increased by 52%.
requirements and legal Ukraine, Estonia, Latvia, Bulgaria environments are also certified Both of these two increases and regulatory obligations, Playtech engages with its and Gibraltar.
These locations are employee taxes, as well as The Group adheres to relevant to comply with gaming and cyber Tax planning resulted from the acquisition of with contractual terms workforce, including unions, in well known as technology hubs indirect taxes such as VAT and tax law and seeks to minimise the security industry standards, as snaitech, which not only offers Playtech engages in tax planning governing the use and a respectful and constructive with a large population of highly sales tax.
These taxes form a risk of uncertainty and disputes.
In 2018, digital services but also operates that supports its business disclosure of information manner.
The Groups significant part of the Groups the team focused on automating points of sale, slot machines and and reflects commercial and embarked on a rationalisation The structure of the Groups presence in some markets, such Reviewing IT systems, processes economic contribution to the incident response procedures terminals, and three race tracks economic activity.
Playtech and simplification process for tax affairs is based on sound and policies with the aim of as Austria, Australia, Denmark countries in which it operates.
and certification of sites against in Italy.
Without the acquisition selects the location of its employment contracts.
The commercial principles and in and Italy, is a result of acquisitions.
implementing better personal security standards and gaming of Snaitech, total GHG emissions operations based on commercial objective of this process is to The net income tax charge for accordance with the relevant data protection measures security regulation requirements.
would have decreased by 3% The Groups business activities and operational factors that guarantee a uniform treatment for the period is 53,640k 2017: tax legislation.
The Group In 2019, the team will continue Reviewing third party contracts and per capita emissions by 36%.
in its various territories results extend well beyond tax, including: all employees under the National 17,505k.
The Groups effective engages constructively with to ensure compliance and the assurance, certification in payments to relevant the prevailing regulatory Labour Contract and to identify tax rate has increased from 6.57% local tax authorities, either and recertification for sites and creating clearer lines of governments, including environment available, a widely the most suitable methods to to 13.78%.
For more information, directly or through trade ownership and responsibilities services as well as take additional corporate income taxes, royalty, available pool of technical talent, safeguard the workforce.
The please refer to Note 9. associations and other similar measures to strengthen IT employment, property taxes, the linguistic capabilities in these Company is currently engaging bodies, as appropriate.
In addition, jurisdictions, the location of the with employees affected by the the Group collects and pays Groups licensees, labour and change in national collective operational cost factors.
80 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81 REGULATION & RESPONSIBILITY cont.
ITALY: A SPECIAL PARTNERSHIP WITH SPECIAL OLYMPICS ENGAGING & SUPPORTING For the second year running, Snaitechs charitable foundation, iZilove Foundation, was a supporter of Special Olympics Italia, the sports programme LOCAL COMMUNITIES dedicated to people with intellectual disabilities.
In 2018, the partnership went far beyond economic support, with 130 colleagues volunteering during the XXXIV Summer National Games, managing logistics and hosting the opening ceremony at the Snai Sesana Racetrack in Tuscany.
The event brought together over 3,000 athletes from across Italy participating in 18 sporting disciplines.
Playtech employees are passionate about bringing their time, skills and dedication to the communities where they live and work.
In 2018, the Company launched a formal programme to enable employees to support their local communities in meaningful ways.
ESTONIA: USING TECHNOLOGY SKILLS AND DONATIONS TO SUPPORT A MORE INCLUSIVE IT SECTOR Our Plan For Increased Playtech Estonia is dedicated to bringing more ENCOURAGE DONATE CONNECT Engagement diversity into the IT sector.
Only a quarter of 2019 will see the first full year of Employees are encouraged to Every Playtech employee is In addition, the Company people employed in Estonias IT industry are Playtechs formalised community use their professional skills to now entitled to one day of paid launched an online platform women, and the country is facing a shortage of programme, with a dual objective create value for local charitable volunteering and a donation of to connect employees with technology professionals.
Playtech Estonia has of engaging 15% of employees organisations and causes.
good causes and volunteering set a goal to help encourage the rise of new in key markets and increasing opportunities, the rollout of female talent as well as fostering talent amongst the contribution of technological which will continue in 2019. people with physical disabilities.
For the past skills and expertise to projects three years, the Company has participated in an to enhance digital inclusion and IT skills development programme for adults and technology for good initiatives.
has welcomed trainees with no previous IT degree or work experience.
In addition, the Company is developing a long-term partnership with TechSisters to balance the gap between men and women in IT.
The Strategic Report on pages 02 to 81 is approved by the IPSWICH: BEACH CLEAN board of Directors and signed on their behalf: GIBRALTAR: USING SKILLS TO ENHANCE AWARENESS ABOUT THE ENDANGERED BARBARY MACAQUE Mor Weizer Colleagues in Playtechs Gibraltar office donated Chief Executive Officer their time and skills to help the Barbary Macaque charity develop a free app and audio guide to educate tourists about the Barbary Macaque, a type of monkey that is on the endangered species Red List.
Gibraltar is host to around 200 free ranging Barbary Macaques.
The app helps tourists find the best locations to spot the monkeys in the Upper Rock Nature Reserve and Andrew Smith provides information about current conservation Chief Financial Officer and protection efforts.
Playtech colleagues used their skills to deliver the app development, project 20 February 2019 management, robotic voices and translation services as well as content production.
