Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 11 MANAGERS REPORT 11 Market Review 12 Technology Review 13 Portfolio Performance 13 Market Outlook 18 Technology Outlook 20 Thematic Update 27 Portfolio Review 30 Full Portfolio 34 Top Twenty Investments MARKET REVIEW Equity markets enjoyed another positive year driven by While the first half of the year saw investors earnings growth and positive revisions while valuation question President Trumps ability to reaccelerate expansion was kept in check by rising risk-free rates, growth, the passage of the tax reform bill in political uncertainty and the return of market December resulted in a volte-face which, together volatility.
Returns were also hampered by further with nascent evidence of wage inflation presaged a Sterling strength, the Pound rising 6.5% and 4.5% significant bond market reversal as 10 year US against the Dollar and Yen respectively, although Treasury yields exploded higher.
This legislation falling 4.1% against a strong Euro.
This left the FTSE which reduced the corporate tax rate to 21% from World TR index in Sterling terms advancing 7.7% 35%, its lowest point since 1939 added additional during the year, with currency dampening returns.
impetus to earnings growth that had already been Developed markets benefited from strengthening benefiting from improved macroeconomic macroeconomic conditions which provided upward conditions and rebounding energy prices.
momentum to earnings estimates that also benefited US economic improvement most apparent in the from the weaker USD Dollar, the trade-weighted unemployment rate which fell to 3.9% and in the basket falling 7.3%.
However, a more synchronised new order component of the December ISM global recovery also saw oil 35% rise sharply, manufacturing index which posted its highest contributing to the upward move in 10 year US reading in nearly fourteen years resulted in Treasury yields which began the year at 2.28% and further policy tightening, the Federal Reserve ended the period at 2.94% having briefly exceeded 3%.
raising interest rates three times, leaving Fed This, together with elevated levels of political trade Funds at 1.75% by period end.
While bond and equity uncertainty and more hawkish central bank language markets continued to diverge, higher risk-free rates resulted in a dramatic return of market volatility made it difficult for stocks to rerate despite the during the final third of our fiscal year.
Together with President Although the US market 6.6% in Sterling terms Trumps increasingly aggressive rhetoric and continued to perform well in absolute terms, it protectionist trade policies, higher bond yields trailed other major markets on a relative basis as presaged the return of equity market volatility with economic momentum and tax reform were offset by the S&P 500 experiencing its first 10% correction in higher sovereign yields and the weaker US Dollar.
This came as a particularly rude awakening following an extended period of low volatility and a record fifteen consecutive months of positive S&P 500 returns.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 12 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Other developed markets performed well during our chose to reinvest their tax windfalls.
This was likely fiscal year, driven by improved economic backdrops, influenced by fear of technology disruption which continuing low interest rates and more modest reached fever pitch following Amazons acquisition bond-market corrections reflecting larger initial of Whole Foods in June.
Europe 7.5% enjoyed a strong first-half The improved backdrop saw Gartner revise up its 2018 following the triumph of Emmanuel Macron in the IT spending forecast to 6.2% the highest annual French Presidential election and upward revisions to growth rate forecast since 2007 while the sector ECB 2017 GDP forecasts.
Economic data also delivered strong earnings growth throughout the year.
remained supportive with the Eurozone manufacturing Next-generation software stocks performed PMI registering 60.6 in December, the highest level particularly well as beneficiaries of increased since the survey began in 1997.
However, less dovish spending, IT budget reallocation and increased focus commentary from the ECB as it began to articulate its on digital transformation with most delivering exit policy for quantitative easing QE and greater strong growth and for the most part improved political uncertainty following Italian general elections profitability.
The software subsector also proved a weighed on returns during the second half, further relative safehaven amid concerns about trade wars frustrated by US Dollar weakness and poor weather.
due to its minimal exposure to China, while the Japan 14.5% outperformed during the year, aided by acquisition of Mulesoft by Salesforce.
com set a new PM Shinzo Abes landslide election victory in October, valuation benchmark for software acquisitions in what and strong earnings momentum.
However, the was otherwise a quiet year for M&A.
strongest performance was reserved for Asian equities 17.0%, aided by US Dollar weakness The so-called FANG stocks Facebook, Amazon, and  strength.
Netflix and Google, together with their Chinese counterparts Alibaba, Baidu and Tencent, continued Although North Korean missile tests and political to dominate the headlines, although strong brinksmanship weighed on sentiment during the first fundamentals were at times overshadowed by half, this lifted following a historic meeting between regulatory and privacy-related concerns that began the leaders of North Korea and South Korea early in the year following the EU decision to fine confirming the common goal of a nuclear-free Korean Google 2.42 billion for allegedly breaking Peninsula and a remarkable warming of relations competition law.
between President Trump and President Kim Jong-un.
However, this paled into relative insignificance following TECHNOLOGY REVIEW news of an earlier Facebook data breach involving The technology sector delivered another strong period political consultant Cambridge Analytica that allegedly of absolute and relative returns, our benchmark, the used personal information harvested from more than Dow Jones World Technology index, advancing 17.1% 50m Facebook profiles without permission to target and in Sterling terms during the past fiscal year.
Not only influence US voters.
This escalation of privacy concerns did this follow a remarkable prior year, but unlike in added to worries about so-called fake news and led to previous periods outperformance was not aided by the Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg appearing before a sectors disproportionate US exposure.
Although the Senate sub-committee where he apologised for his weaker US Dollar detracted from the Trusts absolute mistake.
This overhang, together with greater return during the period, technology stocks investment spending saw both Alphabet 4% and outperformed materially in most major markets due Facebook 8% take time-outs during what was to a combination of superior earnings growth and otherwise a very strong year for the Internet subsector.
valuation rerating as the sector continued to attract E-commerce trends remained robust, with Cyber incremental investors.
In addition to strong secular Monday registering the largest online sales day ever with drivers, technology earnings benefited from $6.6bn spent, 17% y y, while in China, the Singles Day macroeconomic tailwinds and fiscal reform directly promotion saw gross merchandise value GMV growth via lower tax rates and indirectly as a result of accelerate to 39% y y from 32% in 2016. increased technology spending as many companies Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 13 These trends helped each of the Chinese Internet significant positive contribution to performance giants Alibaba 45%, Baidu 31% and Tencent was made by Amazon which was also our largest 50% deliver exceptional returns during the year.
In addition, the portfolio benefited Amazon 59% also benefited from these trends, from its significant overweight exposure to softwareas well as remarkable growth at its cloud platform, as-a-service SaaS companies such as New Relic AWS.
See the Technology Outlook on page 18.
64%, RingCentral 97%, ServiceNow 65% and Zendesk 60% which delivered strong growth and In contrast and consistent with our long-held thesis, multiple expansion.
Computer gaming companies also former enterprise computing winners such as IBM contributed positively, with Ubisoft 90% and -11%, Oracle -3% and SAP 5% none of which Nintendo 60% particularly strong performers while were held in the portfolio over the period all our small position in payments upstart Square 144% struggled to meet market expectations as Cloud proved our third largest absolute contributor during adoption continued unabated.
Against a backdrop of the year.
Stock selection was positive across all major increasing IT budget capital-spending trends, this regions and across all  tiers.
underperformance became increasingly difficult to explain away as business model transition or Relative performance was also positively impacted by short-term mis-execution, epitomised by weaker underweight zero positions in a number of large than expected 2H18 guidance from IT services leader index constituents including IBM, Oracle and Accenture who cited pricing pressure as a headwind, a Qualcomm that delivered disappointing returns during timely reminder of the deflation associated with Cloud the year.
The portfolio benefited from one acquisition migration.
That said, incumbents Cisco 26% and with MuleSoft acquired by Salesforce.
com for a 36% Intel 38% both delivered strong returns due to premium.
Our AMD -23% position proved our largest better than expected growth and resulting multiple detractor during the year, the stock digested its earlier expansion.
Apple 10% and the smartphone supply gains as progress with its new CPU GPU families chain round-tripped during an eventful year with failed to drive earnings estimates higher.
Chip-rival remarkable first-half strength in anticipation of an Intel 38%, where we were underweight, also hurt iPhone supercycle unwound during a painful second our relative performance as growth in its server half following disappointing iPhone X sales and the business reaccelerated driving a valuation re-rating.
likelihood of another flat year for total iPhone unit Performance was also hindered by other underweight sales.
That Apple was able to deliver inline positions in a number of positive index contributors performance reflected strength in its services such as Cisco 26% and Microsoft 31%, together business, an undemanding valuation and the effect of with a number of next-generation holdings that disappointed including Criteo, CyberArk and Tesla.
lower repatriation taxes following the passage of tax Our decision to hold a modest amount of liquidity and reform legislation given Apples massive offshore index put options also detracted from performance cash balance.
Smartphone-related weakness and the blocking of Broadcoms proposed acquisition of inwhat proved to be another strong year for Qualcomm -7% on national security grounds, took technologyreturns.
the shine off an exceptional year for semiconductor companies that benefited from strong demand for MARKET OUTLOOK sensors, memory, storage and advanced compute Looking back, 2017 proved the strongest year for driven by Cloud, Artificial Intelligence AI and the global growth since 2011, with GDP 3.8% y y as c. 120 Internet of Things IoT.
countries accounting for three quarters of world GDP experienced accelerating growth.
This broadening and PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE more synchronised upswing looks set to continue with Our total return performance came in ahead of our 2018 on track to be the first year since the financial benchmark, our own net asset value per share rising crisis that the global economy will be operating at or 22.7% during the year versus a 17.1% gain in the near full capacity with growth pegged at 3.9% this year Sterling adjusted benchmark.
In the US, the most and next.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 14 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Advanced economies are expected to expand by 2.5% S&P 500 companies sitting on nearly $1.8tr in cash in 2018, driven by 2.9% growth in the US 2017: 2.3% and equivalents, much of which has been stranded with consumption supported by wage growth, small offshore until recently.
This year is therefore likely to business optimism at the highest level in decades and prove a record year with more than $178bn in the expansionary impact of tax reform, offset by buybacks already announced by the end of February further policy normalisation.
After delivering its more than twice the prior 10-year average while fastest annual growth rate since 2007, Europe should Apple alone repurchased $23.5bn worth of stock in its experience another solid year with GDP expected to most recent quarter, the largest single-stock buyback expand by 2.4% 2017: 2.3% aided by labour market ever and more than the market value of 275 of the S&P improvement, business capital spending and 500 constituents.
Although elevated margins may supported by loose monetary policy quantitative appear a risk to earnings progress, this largely easing QE.
The UK is likely to trail with growth reflects the growing influence of margin-rich pegged at just 1.6% 2016: 1.8% due to soft technology companies that currently account for 19.1% consumption relating to earlier Sterling weakness of S&P 500 earnings.
Adjusting for this improved mix, and ongoing Brexit uncertainty.
Japan remains a key US non-financial ex-tech EBITDA margins remain far beneficiary of global economic acceleration although from 1990s highs.
While higher interest costs may growth is expected to moderate to 1.2% this year prove a headwind each additional percentage point on 2017: 1.9% due to lower fiscal stimulus and Yen the corporate bond yield said to reduce EPS by c. 4% strength.
After a strong 2017, developing economies the altogether thornier issue of wage inflation are expected to further accelerate this year to 4.9% represents the most latent risk to margins.
2017: 4.8% aided by reacceleration in India with Interest rate normalisation growth forecast at c. 7.4% 2017: 6.7%E following a weaker year due to rebounding oil prices, However, the elimination of output gaps is already demonetisation and the implementation of the Goods beginning to have an impact on monetary policy which and Services Tax.
Although growth rebounded in 2017 in the US, in particular has already become less for the first time in seven years, China is expected to market friendly.
The Fed has already begun to unwind its resume a gradual slowdown to 6.6% this year 2017: balance sheet and raise interest rates six times since 6.9% due to economic rebalancing structural the lows with expectations for a further two hikes in reforms and efforts to curb the expansion of credit.
The Bank of England has also raised interest rates for the first time since 2008, although this was largely Strengthening company numbers due to earlier Sterling depreciation, while the ECB The improved economic backdrop has presaged a having bought more than 2tr worth of bonds may sharp recovery in US corporate earnings which also begin to wind down its own QE programme.
bounced back sharply in 2017, aided by the weaker US However, we expect policy and liquidity conditions Dollar and the recovery of oil commodity-related to remain supportive with G4 central bank balance earnings.
Current forecasts have the pace of earnings sheets likely to expand until late this year and Mario growth accelerating this year with estimates currently Draghi all but ruling out ECB rate hikes this year.
experiencing their largest upward revision since As such we remain hopeful that inevitable policy Factset began tracking the data.
normalisation now that the era of QE and financial The first-quarter earnings season has been exemplary repression is ending will be carefully managed, not with the S&P 500 on track to deliver 24.9% earnings least because central banks have very little firepower growth y y the highest earnings growth since Q310 in the event of an unforeseen economic shock.
This boosted by recently enacted US tax reform and the view depends on core inflation remaining below target new 21% corporate tax rate.
Revenue growth has also core PCE averaging c. 1.6% during 2018 vs. the 2% Fed impressed with the S&P 500 tracking at 8.2% y y target despite unemployment falling to 3.9% 17-year which would represent the highest revenue growth lows and decisively below levels once considered the reported by the index since Q411.
As in prior years, natural rate.
While the market has begun to discount earnings should also be buttressed by buybacks with somewhat higher inflation 10-year Treasury Inflation Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 15 Protected Securities TIPS spread rising to 2.15% As we regularly opine in our monthly updates, we are rising long-term Treasury yields also reflect other hopeful that in the absence of further PE expansion, factors including higher growth, the Fed unwinding investors may gravitate towards and ultimately its balance sheet and $1.5tr of unfunded tax cuts.
crowd in stocks able to deliver genuine growth.
This While we expect the alignment of interest between may help to explain why growth often outperforms policymakers and investors the bedrock of this in late-stage bull markets when value ought to be long-bull market to be increasingly tested, we doing better as yields rise, epitomised by the soremain hopeful that their respective paths will not called Nifty Fifty period, Japan between 198890 and diverge critically over the coming year.
At these times, technology and regulatory change has often played a key role in The valuation conundrum carving out subsets of stocks that perfectly capture The combination of strong earnings progress and the excitement of the time.
Radio stocks played a choppier market conditions has resulted in some recent prominent role in the years prior to 1929 epitomised valuation compression, the forward 12-month by RCA which was growing revenues at 50% per year, PE on the S&P 500 falling back to 16.5x from 18.2x in while another frontier industry electric utilities January, leaving this metric broadly inline with were the favourites of speculators.
Technology the five-year 16.1x, but above the 10-year 14.3x companies were also well represented within the averages.
International markets appear better value, so-called Nifty Fifty 50 stocks identified by Morgan but less so on a sector adjusted basis.
However, lower Guaranty Trust that were among the fastest-growing equity multiples have been more than offset by higher companies on the planet in the latter half of the US Treasury yields and measures of inflation such that 1960s.
These included hardware high-fliers the relative valuation gap between equities and bonds Burroughs, Digital Equipment and IBM as well as has narrowed over the past year.
While the Fed Model reprographics darlings Polaroid and Xerox.
Likewise, which compares earnings and bond yields continues technology leadership in consumer electronics, to suggest that equities remain substantially video gaming and use of assembly-line robots in undervalued versus both Treasuries and corporate manufacturing helped create the preconditions for bonds, the so-called Rule of 20 where the fair value the late 1980s Japanese equity market bubble.
And PE is equivalent to 20 CPI suggests that equities are the late 1990s bubble characterised by the classic only modestly undervalued today having traded at fair new and old economy division was driven by the value briefly according to this measure at the January confluence of game-changing technologies and 2018 highs.
Although valuations remain appropriate for telecom deregulation.
the current low inflation environment, higher bond Disruption yields and or rising inflationary pressures will likely act as valuation headwinds going forwards.
As such we The zeitgeist of today is of course disruption made do not expect equity valuations to expand easily from possible and being delivered by technology winners, here and it is quite possible that cycle-high valuations epitomised by Amazon and the other FANG stocks 20 have already been seen.
That is not to say we are years after Internet 1.0.
Once again, the world is bearish downside risk to valuations should prove divided into winners and losers, while a number of modest absent deflation or inflation, the two primary nascent technologies such as artificial intelligence causes of sharply lower PEs.
But the key question and blockchain have the long-term potential to change remains at what level does the current inverse everything.
Despite this potentially heady mix, relationship between stocks and bonds break down?
markets have yet to really experience anything that Of course, we will not know the answer to this until resembles a late 1990s blow-off.
After all, bull after the event, but history suggests the relationship markets tend to go out with a bang not a whimper turns negative once 10-year US Treasury yields breach with peaks often marked by excess.
However, we imagine the path to 3.5%4% is likely form of investment fads, sentiment, use of leverage to involve more serious buffeting than investors have and valuation.
become accustomed to simply because we do not know where the break point is.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 16 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Each of these variables has become a little more Although the yield curve has been flattening, this elevated over the past year: Bitcoin and marijuanashould be expected late cycle while the lead time related stocks have delivered incredible returns to between full inversion and a recession can be as much speculative investors, equity flows have continued to as 18 months.
Finally, we will watch for deteriorating improve and leverage is at post-financial crisis highs as breadth as per our Nifty Fifty scenario where an US corporates replace equity with cheap debt.
However, ever-diminishing number of stocks shore up a market valuations still look appropriate and sentiment remains that really wants to go down.
The so-called melt-up between the S&P 500 making a series of new highs, scenario therefore still exists as a bull case and could while market breadth makes a series of lower highs be presaged by a great rotation moment where higher has been present in virtually every market top, a yields force a reallocation away from bonds, but remain process that can last anywhere from four months to below levels that might derail equities.
Deteriorating breadth characterised tops subdued in 2017 could also explode back to life as in 1929, 1972, 1987 and of course during the 1990s a result of repatriation and technology disruption, technology bubble.
However and despite much with private equity a potent incremental buyer.
FANG-related chatter to the contrary recent market breadth has been positive while none of the indicators In short, the final phase of this bull market could yet we follow look particularly concerning.
surprise us to the upside given that we have the necessary ingredients for another Nifty Fifty and Risks many of the late-cycle conditions that could trigger As ever, there are myriad risks that could challenge a melt-up.
The most significant of these relates to policy error and or the loss of policymaker support Looking for signals with the elimination of output gaps and late-cycle That said, we are ever mindful of the duration of this long fiscal stimulus potentially forcing the Fed to normalise bull market now the second longest on record.
While interest rates ahead of schedule.
Mario Draghis bull markets dont die of old age, we will continue to anticipated departure from the ECB in 2019 could watch for signs of deterioration that might help us better further increase the risk of missteps or disorderly navigate choppier waters.
Fortunately, there are few financial market adjustments with the changing of signs today of the usual preconditions that might indicate the guard feeling a little like politicians moving from the market is at a peak such as widening credit spreads, a peace to a war footing.
loss of breadth and recession probability above 20%.
With corporate leverage back at highs and mindful of The market sell-off in January following the spike in the 2016 market correction caused by the high yield average hourly earnings made it abundantly clear that market seizing up as energy prices plunged we remain wage pressure remains the most significant risk to focused on credit spreads as a potential trigger.
Sharply higher rates would likely spill into equity markets, potentially According to CSFB, a widening of high yield spreads presaging a 1987-type moment, and or a recession, has preceded eight of the last nine market peaks on already statistically overdue given the length of the average by seven months and at least two months current expansion 105 months as compared to the before an equity market correction.
Another key median of 37 months.
A recession or a growth scare indicator we will be watching is the yield curve because could also be induced by a trade dislocation should it typically inverts in anticipation of the next recession President Trump succeed in further emulating and ahead of an equity market correction.
As Ned President Reagan, considered by some to have been Davis states, Bull markets often end in a predictable the most protectionist president since Herbert manner.
The economy begins to grow above potential Hoover.
A key tenet of his pre-election campaign, with inflation starting to rise, and the Fed raising investors should not be surprised by Trumpist interest rates to keep inflation in check.
This generally leads to an inverted yield curve, which makes it either unprofitable or risky for banks to lend.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 17 efforts to save U. S. jobs through higher tariffs, punished by voters worried about immigration at a bilateral trade deals, and lower trade deficits.
time when the economy remains below pre-crisis levels The decision in January to impose US tariffs on with unemployment above 10%.
As discussed last year, imported solar panels and refrigerators and aimed continued failure by political establishments to listen squarely at the Chinese, has commenced a tit-for-tat to voters and unwind some of the perceived excesses series of tariffs today covering more than $100bn will make a 1930s rerun significantly more likely a worth of trade.
Markets have absorbed this well as a position that looks increasingly obvious and war of words ahead of negotiations aimed at reducing inauspicious twelve months later.
the US trade gap with China by $100bn.
While we In addition to those outlined above, there are a number expect worst-case scenarios to be avoided, the of additional risks that investors should consider.
As in Presidents acerbic style trade wars are good, prior years, China represents a key risk to the global and easy to win will only add to the uncertainty.
Having stabilised in 2017, growth is expected to slow this year as economic While the Trump victory has so far proved the high rebalancing continues.
This trend may continue as watermark for so-called populism, the risk posed President Xi - now the most powerful Chinese leader by this political movement, continues to simmer.
of the modern age having consolidated power by Condemned as right-wing or worse, populist parties abolishing term limits could continue to address the have been on the rise in Europe since the financial longer-term issues facing Chinas economy or make crisis initially as protests against income inequalities, trade concessions to placate the US that come at the political correctness, liberal elites, globalisation and expense of near-term growth.
These issues include the EU.
However, the migration crisis and Angela excessive leverage overall credit reaching 250% of Merkels Willkommenspolitik open door policy has GDP and an overvalued housing market.
seen many of these protest parties morph into anti-immigration socially conservative parties that As we have consistently argued, China should be defy classic left right categorisation.
This issue has able to avoid a hard landing due to the self-funded apparently driven a wedge between old and new nature of its growth, while reserves have been Europe with some governments in the Visegrad group somewhat rebuilt and inflation remains relatively containing political parties in favour of heterodox benign affording policymakers some room for policies that break away from the patterns set by manoeuvre.
Political risk remains elevated, with Western democracies including Fidesz in Hungary North Korea and Iran likely focal points, while led by Viktor Orban and Law and Justice in Poland.
European populist movements and arguably In Austria, the nationalist Freedom party joined the Jeremy Corbyns Labour Party represent latent government having captured 26% of the vote in threats to the market friendly status quo.
While this outcome has been risks include Brexit where the divorce from Europe avoided in Germany, Angela Merkels party suffered could take the best part of a decade, the ongoing its worst post-war election result during September challenge to nation states posed by Islamic elections.
Immigration dominated the contest extremism, unintended consequence of US Dollar benefiting the Alternative for Germany AfD party strength particularly in emerging markets, and which received 12.6% of the vote identical to UKIPs seasonality the six months prior to mid-term share in 2005.
Unlike UKIP which achieved its Brexit elections due in November empirically the referendum goal and then imploded the AfD weakest stretch of the Presidential cycle.
continues to gain support 14% at present because popular illiberal concerns continue to go unaddressed by liberal elites.
Recently concluded Italian elections delivered the same message with Mario Renzis ruling centre-left Democratic Party Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 18 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED re-rate versus the market over the coming year due to TECHNOLOGY OUTLOOK ongoing Cloud disruption, relative valuation downside Worldwide IT spending is expected to reach $3.7tr in should also prove limited given the sectors growth 2018 with estimated growth of 6.2%, the highest in a and balance sheet profile.
While less impressive on a constant currency year, we remain constructive and continue to see basis 3.4% technology spending appears to be significant opportunities within the technology sector recovering with the improved macroeconomic for 2018.
In contrast, many commentators instead backdrop and the sector a beneficiary of fiscal reform remain focused on the downside risks associated with as companies opt to reinvest their tax windfalls in our sector while others believe technology stocks are order to reinvent themselves and stay relevant during in the middle of another bubble.
We remain of the view a period of what we believe is unprecedented that the 1990s parallel is too easy, while overdisruption.
As in prior years, budgets continue to shift exuberance is contained to a few exciting longer-term in favour of newer technologies with security, cloud opportunities.
Rather than signalling a return to software and mobility the top three IT priorities this bubble-like conditions, we regard this excitement as year, according to Piper Jaffray.
The combination of normal fare for a sector where mainstream adoption secular and cyclical factors saw the technology sector often takes significantly longer than originally hoped.
deliver outstanding growth in 2017 with revenue and earnings of 10.4% and 16.9%, well ahead of the S&P Our own excitement remains underpinned by a new 500 which posted 6.3% and 10.8% respectively.
While cycle thesis that appears to be gathering strength the relative lustre of technology may dim this year as with every earnings season.
Cloud adoption the tax reform lifts all boats, technology earnings should kernel of this long-held view is continuing to capture be well supported by the better economy, improved every additional workload.
Gartner a long-time margins and of course, lower taxes.
Tax reform may naysayer and proponent of the hybrid approach also be acting as a tailwind for business spending with recently conceded that public cloud computing was the CEO of Salesforce.
com recently noting that growing more strongly than initially forecast.
After multiple customers were accelerating software reaching $34.7bn last year 37% y y, infrastructure investments due to tax reform.
This view appears well as a service IaaS is forecast to grow 32% in 2018 as supported by an outstanding first-quarter earnings enterprises continue to migrate production workloads.
season that has seen technology deliver the highest Amazon Web Services AWS remains at the vanguard blended revenue growth of any sector 16.1% y y, of this mass production form of computing having nearly twice the overall market 8.5% rate.
While the achieved a $22bn revenue run rate, with growth technology sector is expected to deliver less earnings accelerating to 49% y y in Q118.
That AWS has been growth than the broader market for the full year able to maintain its growth trajectory at scale speaks 16.1% vs. 19.2%, this reflects the uneven impact of volumes about the size of the market opportunity, tax reform and sharp recoveries expected in both something that Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos called out in energy and financials.
However, in revenue terms his 2014 letter to shareholders when he said that AWS technology 11.9% should substantially outgrow was market size unconstrained.
Azure and Google Cloud have also made good progress estimated 90% and 75% y y growth The combination of superior growth and marked respectively, although Google remains a distant outperformance saw the technology sector enjoy a number three.
While Alibaba has built a strong well deserved re-rating over the past year leaving it beachhead in China, everyone else appears all but trading on a forward PE of 18.0x as compared to 17.8x irrelevant in an industry where scale really matters.
This represents the highest level E SaaS has also continued to prosper, reaching since 2007 and a c. 9% premium to the broader market, $58.6bn last year and is expected to grow 22% in 2018. ignoring the sectors relative balance sheet strength.
We expect growth in excess of 20% to continue for Although we do not expect the sector to materially the foreseeable future as the market potentially Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 19 triples during the so-called second decade of SaaS.
The growing divergence between incumbents and Platform as a service PaaS is also expected to next-generation companies is likely to intensify over grow c. 25% this year driven by rapid-application the coming years as workloads continue to gravitate development platforms aPaaS and low-code towards the public cloud, while emerging technologies business process management BPM.
such as AI where the Internet platforms enjoy a leadership position are likely to accelerate this trend.
The Cloud is the future This is already apparent from the reallocation of IT While it is impossible to know precisely where budgets away from legacy areas while deflation is penetration is, a recent survey of 100 CIOs revealed permeating up the stack.
According to Jeff Bezos, the that the public cloud accounts for c. 21% of workloads Cloud threat encompasses servers, networking, data today.
This is headed much higher as adoption centres, infrastructure software, databases, data inflects with the same survey estimating penetration warehouses, and more.
The impact is already apparent of 44% by 2021, while Cisco believes that more than today, with overall device unit growth having come to a 60% of workloads and compute instances will be halt and market shares in flux.
However, the improving processed by public cloud data centres three years economy and improved pricing aided by component from now.
The reason that the Cloud has become shortages are ameliorating this impact for now.
the default computing platform reflects the fact it Enterprise Computing Workloads is more scalable and cheaper we believe every $1 90% spent at AWS represents c. $4 lost to traditional IT, 80% more secure IaaS workloads will suffer at least 60% 70% less security incidents than traditional data centres, 60% increasingly global number of hyperscale data 50% centres expected to near double between 201621 40% with lower migration costs as offshore IT providers 30% ramp their skills and capacity.
The Cloud also allows 20% enterprises to reduce maintenance spending said to 10% account for as much as 75% of IT budgets by 0% 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 eliminating technical debt associated with maintaining legacy systems.
And for most On Premise Off Premise Cloud Provider companies, the Cloud represents the only real way to embrace Artificial Intelligence AI today.
The PC market is expected to be flat in 2018 having However, the overarching reason why Cloud adoption contracted c. 3% in unit terms during 2017, with is accelerating is as a key enabler of the so-called enterprise strength due to Windows 10 offset by digital transformation the business imperative ongoing consumer weakness.
Storage continues to of responding to needs of a new generation of fall as an IT priority despite expectations that the customers, partners and suppliers who expect volume of data stored will triple by 2021.
While the transactions to be seamless, real-time, Facebookserver market has been stronger than expected like in experience, Amazon-like in reliability.
This 4.7% y y in 2017 this largely reflects hyperscale requires the adoption of concepts such as DevOps AI-related demand and pass-through of higher prices and innovation at scale likely beyond the of components.
Downward pressure on units will capabilities of internal IT and legacy vendors but continue to be exerted by c. 4x greater workload table stakes for AWS with multiple CIOs reporting intensity in cloud data centres compared to traditional that they have never seen a technology company of ones.
Smartphone growth is also faltering with units this size and scale deliver this much continuous forecast to grow 3% annually through 2021.
While IT innovation to customers.
services are also expected to enjoy a c. 4.5% five year CAGR, segment growth will be varied with IaaS driving net new spending with next to zero growth in infrastructure and network implementation.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 20 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED The structural headwinds facing legacy technologies giants are awash with cash, their net cash positions are and once-dominant incumbents is most apparent at far less healthy.
For instance, we calculate that Oracle IBM which suffered 22 consecutive quarters of negative has negligible net cash once a 15% haircut is applied to year-over-year revenue growth before turning the its $58bn offshore cash and its onshore cash $13bn corner in Q118 when it posted 1% y y growth which and debt $61bn are considered.
Likewise, Microsofts CEO Ginni Rometty was pleased with.
$146bn gross cash is nearer $23bn net, while Intel is in a net debt position.
Even Apples fully taxed net cash Oracle has also fared poorly: having mocked the Cloud position is closer to $122bn, equivalent to c. 42% of its as complete gibberish and idiocy in 2008, CEO Larry headline $285bn gross cash.
In contrast, no such Ellison has attempted to catch up via a series of distinction exists at either Alphabet or Facebook with acquisitions including Netsuite, Responsys and their combined gross net cash of $145bn $132bn and RightNow.
However, Oracles revenues are essentially debt of $4bn.
Of course, generalist investors may not flat with where they stood in 2011 despite spending care about this nuance as technology balance sheets more than $25bn on acquisition since then.
Rival SAP remain unusually strong compared to other sectors, has also been reinvesting vigorously having spent more something likely to become increasingly attractive as than $28bn on M&A we believe equivalent to c. 90% of interest costs rise.
the free cash flow generated during the period but has only rarely been able to deliver Cloud growth and THEMATIC UPDATE margin improvement.
While both Cisco and Intel are Beyond Cloud computing and the bifurcation of faring better reflecting their dominant positions and fortunes within the technology sector, there are a less competition they also appear increasingly reliant number of other core themes that are captured within on M&A to shore up growth.
Unlike people who can opt the portfolio.
As we have previously articulated, to age gracefully, technology companies cannot Internet platforms remain the greatest beneficiaries terminal growth is negative, and the value of of smartphone ubiquity and plentiful bandwidth with incumbency atrophies - thanks to deflation and the more than 4.1bn people accessing the Internet today, so-called innovators dilemma.
c. 54% of the worlds population.
While 2017 proved another vintage one for many Internet stocks, the The road to redemption is a difficult one that few subsector began the year amid greater regulatory successfully travel.
Microsofts successful Cloud pivot scrutiny and ended it embroiled in a data privacy greatly aided by its dominance of office productivity debate following Cambridge Analytica revelations.
software and a visionary CEO is thus likely to prove The growing political and press narrative at times a siren call for investors.
resembled an outright backlash, likely driven by growing Internet-related disruption.
The introduction of That said, at a time when global growth is General Data Protection Regulation GDPR in Europe reaccelerating, there is a chance that incumbents might legislation designed to strengthen the data rights of enjoy an economic time-out as budgets lift.
The EU citizens from May 2018 also helped shape the improved economic environment prompted Mark narrative.
At the risk of sounding overly sanguine, we Benioff CEO of Salesforce.
com - to recently declare he do not believe that the Internet platforms have had never seen a demand environment like this.
breached anti-trust regulations either via higher pricing Repatriation could also help as previously offshore cash or consumer welfare they are not exclusive suppliers is deployed on buybacks, M&A and business spending.
and in many instances deliver their services for free in Financial engineering has long been the mainstay of exchange for the collection and use of data.
Nor do we challenged incumbents the potential return of c. $1tr of think that GDPR and similar data protection legislation offshore cash by the largest technology companies will that may follow will undermine their raison detre.
Not provide them with a new source of ammunition.
only do the Internet companies appear confident that However, this positive is likely being overplayed because they will be compliant, but they may end up benefitting incumbent balance sheets have already been greatly as the inability to collect data in the offline world depleted via bond issuance to finance dividends, embellishes their inherent dataadvantage.
While it is true that tech Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 21 While the risk of greater taxation exists for instance, a The growth in e-commerce continues at a steady draft European Commission has proposed a levy based pace, assisted by the tailwinds of an improving global on where the customer rather than the company is economy.
In 2018, global retail is forecast to grow located we do not think it will prove easy to change c. 5% while eCommerce is expected to deliver 15%, the basis of global taxation.
Instead, we hope that the with online penetration increasing a further 1% as it internet sub-sector is able to avoid worst-case continues to take market share steadily from offline.
outcomes by proactively improving their business Mobile commerce mCommerce continues to outpace practices, use of data and cleaning up content on overall eCommerce, representing 23% of online but their platforms.
only 3% of overall US retail spending.
There are still Risks and rewards large retail categories significantly underpenetrated online such as grocery and home furnishings and a While regulatory risk may be dominating the headlines, B2B eCommerce market ripe for disruption.
the Internet economy remains in rude health.
The Traditional bricks and mortar retailers are likely to outlook for online advertising 16% y y in 2017 continue to face headwinds, especially those who fail remains resilient as it continues to take share from to adapt to the new digital environment or those with offline media spend.
The US continues to lead with a larger store base than required today.
Over 5,000 online accounting for c. 40% of overall spending with store closures were announced in the US during 2017, mobile search display video a key growth driver.
As highlighting the level of stress experienced offline in previously, Alphabet Google and Facebook continue to contrast to the fortunes of Amazon which captured dominate the market with their large audiences and ROI more than 70% of US online retail sales growth and advantages that they deliver for their advertisers.
This 35% of total retail growth during 2017.
Omnichannel advantage is likely to persist as innovation around new remains a major theme following Amazons acquisition ad formats and superior targeting contributes to the of Whole Foods and the introduction of Alibabas Hema wide and deep moats both have established.
However, supermarket store format, central to its New Retail both Amazon and eBay are also increasing their focus strategy for blending offline and online experiences.
on their respective advertising opportunity.
Retail remains the largest ad vertical in the US at c20% of Internet-driven disruption is also accelerating in the total market and both companies have specific media content as time shifting to digital away from advantages specific to the sector in their purchase linear TV continues.
Consumer consumption of media data and ability to close the attribution loop between content remains in flux as new forms of content across advertising and purchases.
Social media continues to a wide range of devices compete for leisure time.
grow its share of advertising Dollars and time spent YouTube has now surpassed 1.5bn monthly logged-in online with Facebook the undisputed global leader with users who spend on average more than one hour per 2.1bn monthly active users MAU and 1.4bn daily active day watching content just on their mobile device.
users DAU while its messaging platforms Messenger However, its fastest growing medium of consumption and WhatsApp boast 1.2bn and 1.5bn MAU respectively.
As a key battleground, the race for In China, Tencents WeChat remains the market leader premium video supremacy continues.
In 2018 Netflix in China with more than 1bn MAU.
and Amazon are expected to spend c. $7bn and $5bn Internet Advertising Spend on content respectively, Google is forecast to invest $90B 30% several billion dollars to support YouTube, and both $88 Twitter and Snap are also increasing spending.
In this environment, it is not surprising that fears of peak $73 $60B TV have been wide of the mark a phrase coined by 20% $60 the CEO of FX Networks in 2015 to describe the $50 overwhelming amount of TV content available on $37 $43 $32 broadcast, cable, satellite and streaming platforms.
$30B 10% $26 $23 0 0% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Desktop Advertising Mobile Advertising Y Y Growth Internet Advertising Spend, USA Y Y Growth Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 22 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED At that time, a then record 422 scripted series aired of ownership, particularly in the case of Apple.
in the US, but this has continued to grow, reaching Nevertheless, it is clear that the best days of the 487 in 2017 with almost all of the growth driven by the smartphone market are behind it unless something enormous incremental budgets of the over-the-top like augmented reality AR can genuinely change OTT players.
Subscription models remain a popular everything by obsoleting the c. 3.2bn smartphone and successful mode of monetising media content installed base.
Until then, we have no idea where employed by all of todays top ten grossing non-game replacement cycles will extend to, although the PC apps in stark contrast with 2009 when none used it.
experience is sobering now at 56 years.
Consistent with our long-held views, Apple remains Video streaming category leader Netflix has reached our favourite smartphone-related stock which we 110m paying subscribers while music streaming believe is best understood as a mass affluent luxury leader and recent IPO Spotify has exceeded 70m.
goods company whose premium brand, customer base Dating app Tinder has quickly risen to become the and ecosystem allow it to capture a vast majority of second highest grossing app globally in 2017 aided by industry profits with only c. 16% smartphone market subscriptions and its innovative use of micropayments share.
While disappointing iPhone X sales have put an designed to boost profile views.
end to hopes of a so-called supercycle, Apples ability Smartphone: sales up, units down to raise prices is highly supportive of our own view.
We also remain excited about its services business which Our concerns about a slowing smartphone market were generated $8.5bn in Q1 27% adjusting for the longerborne out in 2017.
Although smartphone sales to end quarter last year and 500m customers visiting the users rose 2.7% y y to 1.54bn units, worldwide sales App Store each week.
recorded their first ever decline in Q4 with 408m units shipped -5.6% y y while the Chinese market the As this recurring revenue stream grows in Apples mix largest in unit terms - faltered as annual shipments fell its valuation may tend towards consumer peers such year over year.
With global smartphone penetration as Coca-Cola.
However, our bullishness is constrained estimated at 66% and 80-90% in the most advanced by smartphone-related headwinds maturity and markets, the unit story is essentially over with growth lengthening replacement cycles at a time when iPhone forecast at c. 3% CAGR between 201621.
This may be sales may be plateauing at c. 215m units year.
It will further frustrated by extending replacement cycles also be difficult for the company to grow units which in the US increased to 2.6 years, up from 2.4 years in the US where it already sells 70m units which in 2016.
However, in value terms the smartphone market represent 58% market share of c. 120m phones that expanded by 9% in 2017 as average selling prices ASPs come up for replacement each year assuming a 2.3 increased 6% and a whopping 11% in Q4 driven by the year upgrade cycle.
Other risks include China, both in $1000 iPhone X and the $930 Galaxy Note 8.
This is both terms of demand c. 30% of iPhone sales and supply new news and an unusual feature in mature technology components made in China in the event of a trade markets following significant price hikes at the high-end war.
As such, we expect to retain a large but of the market led by Samsung and Apple.
Although significant underweight position inthis remarkable, higher prices reflect a significant increase in features inexpensively valued but growth challengedcompany.
OLED screen, 3D sensors, wireless charging etc and a corresponding bill of materials BOM the gross margin The Apple-related inventory correction during the final dollar uplift is material.
third of our fiscal year took the shine off a remarkable year for the semiconductor sector which posted c. 22% Apple and Samsung with their dominant share of revenue growth during 2017.
Surging memory prices profits and high-end smartphones look well placed to greatly contributed to ASPs which rose 7% the highest capture most if not all of this additional value.
While rate achieved since 2000, but even without this boost, higher prices make easy copy, high-end smartphones the industry still delivered c. 10% growth.
We expect continue to represent incredible value for money given growth to slow during the year ahead due to their utility and frequency of use 25% of users spend smartphone-related weakness and as memory more than 7 hours per day on their smartphones with price increases moderate or potentially reverses.
high residual values also ameliorating the actual cost Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 23 However, AI and cloud computing should continue to New Smartphone Unit Shipments vs. Y Y Growth drive demand while PC unit growth may turn positive 1.5B 90% for the first time in six years as chip-set security problems found in legacy Intel and AMD chip-sets ignite a corporate upgrade cycle.
We are also very 1.0B 60% excited about opportunities related to power-train electrification but cautious on smartphone-related segments due to slowing unit growth, particularly at 0.5B 30% the high end where semiconductor content is multiple times higher than mainstream smartphones.
Following a much quieter year for semiconductor M&A value of 0 0% deals declining to $27.7bn in 2017 we expect the 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 muted deal backdrop to persist following President Android iOS Other Y Y Growth Trumps pre-emptive decision to block the proposed acquisition of Qualcomm by Broadcom on national securitygrounds.
While OLED-related weakness represents a near-term headwind, we remain hugely excited about longer-term The disappointing debut of the iPhone X also reminded prospects for the robotics industry.
investors of the smartphone exposure that comes with robotics in what was otherwise an outstanding year for After a difficult 2016, software stocks enjoyed a banner industry fundamentals and share prices alike.
The year as valuations recovered alongside fundamental proliferation of machine vision, industrial IoT and strength.
In addition to an improved backdrop for real-time analytics aided by cheap compute and storage spending, the subsector also benefited from a shift in enabled by cloud computing has given robots new investor focus from consumer Internet names in favour capabilities that have radically changed payback periods of critical modernisations that are beginning to happen and reduced implementation costs.
Modular production as the agility that consumers want and now expect, lines thanks to improvements in control systems and begins to ripple back up through the corporate structure.
reduced time spent reprogramming robots for multiple In this new data-driven world, software has evolved tasks provide greater flexibility to manufacturers of from being a method of modernisation to a source of multiple low volume products.
This has created large differentiation, but in order to meet the new exacting incremental opportunities as users are able to achieve needs of customers, companies need agile yet broad faster time to market, epitomised by so-called Fast back-end capabilities.
It also requires the recognition Retail.
In addition, demand from traditional users of that for every business, the showroom, the storefront robots has remained strong.
The automotive industry is digital and the importance of leveraging the which accounts for c. 35% of total robot volume, has corporate treasure its data.
At the same time, the accelerated its adoption of lightweight materials, leading Cloud has enabled smaller companies that may not even to a meaningful increase of robot density to deal with have an IT department to access applications previously more complicated manufacturing processes.
Likewise, tackled with spreadsheets or pen and paper with just a the adoption of new technologies has been driving credit card.
Today there are myriad vertical SaaS apps demand in the smartphone industry, the growth of OLED that bestow upon their users domain expertise once the Organic Light-Emitting Diode displays included in the reserve of enterprise customers and their IT service iPhone X creating a large opportunity for the robotic partners.
While we have taken some profits after a industry due to the complicated manufacturing process.
strong run and some multiple expansion, we believe the In addition, the Samsung battery issue and recall led to sector remains well supported by actual and potential smartphone makers introducing machine vision-based M&A, much improved profitability and the emergence production trace systems to improve quality control.
of winners in many of the most important business softwarecategories.
New Smartphone Shipments, Global Y Y Growth Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 24 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Computer gaming companies enjoyed another today its distinctive card is now prevalent among strong year with most of our holdings significantly millennials in the UK.
The updated European outperforming the technology market.
With two-thirds Payment Services Directive or PSD2 came into of American households regularly playing them, video force in January this year and will only exacerbate games have truly evolved into a mass market medium.
Its central aim is Adoption has been enabled by the proliferation of to open the market to greater competition and increasingly capable electronic devices and Internet ultimately lower the cost of payment processing.
connectivity, which has enabled the creation of large Banks are required to build Application Programme player networks and digital distribution.
The global video Interfaces APIs in order to allow qualified parties to games software industry is estimated to have grown a access customer data with the consumers approval, healthy 10.7% in 2017 to $116bn with mobile c. 43% of of course.
This should enable start-ups with very the total industry driving nearly all of the growth.
In asset light models to compete on a reasonably level addition, industry profitability has been transformed by playing field, benefiting from existing infrastructure full game digital downloads now c. 40% penetrated and that banks have invested in.
Although there are a additional digital content DLC MTX which today limited number of pure-plays on this theme, we accounts for between 2040% of sales at EA, Activision continue to favour Visa which should benefit from and Take-Two with c. 90%incremental gross margins.
growth in digital spending which only accounted for Back end monetisation is actually greater than upfront 9% of total retail spend in 2016 but is expected to game sales at some successful digital franchises GTA reach 15% by 2020.
While losing part of the eBay Online registered its highest ever bookings in Q417 more business will create an earnings headwind, Paypal than four years after launch and this trend looks set to also remains a preferred payments play as it continue with the emergence of AI which can leverage continues to enjoy strong core growth and good immense data sets of human behaviour to further traction with its acquired assets.
We also have improve monetisation.
exposure to two of the most important global payment assets WeChat and AliPay via our While we remain constructive on the group, we are holdings in Tencent and Alibaba.
continuing to monitor the progress of Fortnite, a free to play console and now mobile and PC game which China Mobile Payment China Mobile Payment has attracted more than 45m players with a new Volume Share game genre Battle Royal.
Unlikely to pose much risk to existing AAA franchises, the back-end only $16T Others monetisation of Fortnite is new to console gaming 8% and could potentially prove disruptive over time.
$12T In addition, there are a number of other themes that we are excited about including payments where $8T WeChat Pay AliPay smartphone-enabled disruption is extending, driven 38% 54% by new entities that have been able to create superior $4T user experiences and generate trust.
Although these companies are enabled by technology, they are not about technology.
It is about financial inclusion, $0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 consumer empowerment, and disruption of the status quo.
For instance, Atom Bank - one of the UKs first digital banks, already offers mortgage products and has started taking customer deposits.
Revolut started life as a provider of competitive foreign exchange rates, before broadening its offering.
Monzo was initially pitched as an elegant way to ringfence spending but Mobile Payment Volume, China Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 25 The final word belongs to AI following a breakthrough being explicitly reprogrammed that have driven the year when almost every company was alerted to the recent evolution of AI.
For us, how AI diffuses in the potential opportunities and disruption it posed.
real economy and brings changes to existing business Interest in start ups exploded as VC investors poured models matters far more than a smart speaker over $14bn into AI companies, 2.4x more than during capable of playing music via voice commands.
Interestingly, c. 70exit events also happened in target and average age of VC funding is any guide 2017 75% y y driven by corporates wanting to own then we can get a sense which sectors are going to be the technology in-house.
Speech translation recognition is one of technology companies such as Apple, Cisco and the very few AI applications reaching a mature phase Samsung but also non-traditional ones too including as consumers use these technologies on their Centrica and John Deere.
Consumer-facing smart robots and recommendation engines are also considered This explosion in AI-related activity reflects the potentially disruptive to incumbents while computer significant improvement in machine learning ML vision, natural language processing, video recognition and deep learning a network based on complicated and virtual assistants are still at an early stage but algorithms capable of adapting to new data without hold great potential.
Artificial Intelligence Timeline Machine Learning General AI Algorithms Focused on a Specific Problem Applies Intelligence That Provides Insights to Any Problem Near-Human-Level AI Research Intelligence Initial AI Concepts Supervised Unsupervised Reinforcement Learning Learning Learning Deep Learning Narrow AI General AI 1960s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s 2020s Unknown Much of the recent excitement and why this potential is 1970s calculators could perform arithmetic better beginning to feel within reach reflects the remarkable than humans, AI today remains extremely narrow progress made comparing human and AI systems and not very intelligent.
According to Facebooks when playing games a relatively simple, controlled, head of AI, the most advanced systems today are experimental environment.
According to this, AI has dumber than rats.
Likewise, while as many as clearly made significant progress with performance 800m jobs could be under threat from automation achieving human Jeopardy Atari Switchboard and only 6% of the most repetitive jobs are at danger super-human Go Pac-Man levels.
However, just as of being automated entirely.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 26 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED This reality is in stark contrast with views held by Bill Gates and Steven Hawking who believe malevolent superhuman AI is coming while Elon Musk famously stated, with artificial intelligence we are summoning the demon.
This difference of opinion may be explained by the fact that the timeline to general purpose AI remains unknown.
AI experts believe that so-called artificial general intelligence AGI could arrive between 20402050 while futurist Ray Kurzweil thinks the Singularity the point where there will be no distinction between human and machine could occur in 2045.
Until then or some later date it is more likely that we will invent whole new modes of cognition that dont exist in us and dont exist anywhere in biology.
As the founding executive editor of Wired explained when we invented artificial flying we were inspired by biological modes of flying...
But the flying we invented propellers bolted to a wide fixed wing was a new mode of flying unknown in our biological world.
Likewise, the future of AI, at least for now, is not general AI.
Rather it will be many hundreds of extra-human new species of thinking a galaxy of finite intelligences, working in unfamiliar dimensions, exceeding our thinking in many of them, working together with us in time to solve existing problems and create new ones.
