Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 56 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their Directors Report on 15 January 2018 and Michael Moule who retired as including the Report on Corporate Governance a Director at the AGM in September 2017.
Charles Park together with the Audited Financial Statements for and Stephen White will seek election at the AGM on the Company prepared under International Financial 6September 2018 in accordance with the Articles of Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Association.
All the other Directors are also retiring Union IFRS for the year ended 30 April 2018. and standing for re-election at the AGM with the exception of Brian Ashford-Russell who is retiring.
The fees paid to the Directors are set out in the INTRODUCTION AND STATUS Directors Remuneration Report.
The Company is incorporated in England and Wales as a public limited company and domiciled in the LISTING RULE 9.8.
It is an investment company as defined in Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and Listing Rule 9.8.
4 requires the Company to include its ordinary shares are listed and traded on the certain information in a single identifiable section of the London Stock Exchange.
Annual Report or a cross reference table indicating where the information is set out.
The Directors confirm The close company provisions do not apply.
there are no disclosures to be made pursuant to this rule other than the waiver of Directors fees by Brian The Company seeks to operate as an investment trust Ashford-Russell in respect of the financial year ended in accordance with sections 1158 and 1159 of the 30 April 2018 and his intention to waive his fees for his Corporation Taxes Act 2010 as amended by section remaining period in office until retirement at the AGM 42 2 of the Finance Act 2011.
This qualification on 6September 2018. permits the accumulation of capital gains within the portfolio without liability to UK Capital Gains Tax.
The CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Company has received confirmation from HM Revenue The Report on Corporate Governance on pages 59 to & Customs that on the basis of the information 68 form part of this Directors Report.
supplied, the Company is an approved investment trust.
The Directors, under advice, expect the affairs CAPITAL STRUCTURE of the Company to continue to satisfy the conditions.
Issued The Company has registered as a Foreign Financial The Companys share capital is divided into ordinary Institution with the US IRS and been allocated a shares of 25p each.
At the year end there were Global Intermediary Identification Number GIIN 133,795,000 ordinary shares in issue 2017: of J29SBF- 99999-SL-826.
The Company has 132,487,000 ordinary shares.
At the date of this report also been allocated the Legal Entity Identifier there were 133,825,000 ordinary shares in issue.
The Company is an investment trust and as such Changes during the year its ordinary shares are excluded from the FCAs 1,308,000 ordinary shares were issued in the year restrictions which apply to non-mainstream ended 30 April 2018.
Since the year end a further investment products.
The Company conducts its 30,000 shares have been issued.
No shares have been affairs and intends to do so for the foreseeable purchased for cancellation or to be held in treasury.
future so that the exclusion continues to apply.
Voting rights The attention of Shareholders is drawn to the Strategic Report Section Chairs Statement, the Ordinary shares carry voting rights which are Managers Report and the Strategic Report which exercised on a show of hands at a meeting, or on a provide further commentary on the activities and poll, where each share has one vote.
Details for the outlook for the Company, including future lodging of proxy votes are given when a notice of developments and dividends.
DIRECTORS Transferability The current Directors of the Company are listed on Any shares in the Company may be held in pages 52 and 53.
All the Directors held office uncertificated form and, subject to the Articles, throughout the year under review with the exception of title to uncertificated shares may be transferred Charles Park and Stephen White who were appointed by means of a relevant system.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 57 Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all Powers to issue ordinary shares and make or any of his certificated shares by an instrument of market purchases of ordinary shares transfer in any usual form or in any other form which The Board was granted by Shareholders at the AGM in the Board may approve.
The instrument of transfer 2017 the power to allot equity securities up to a must be executed by or on behalf of the transferor and nominal value of 3,319,050 and to issue those shares in the case of a partly-paid share the transferee.
for cash without offering those shares to Shareholders in accordance with their statutory pre-emption rights.
The Board may, in its absolute discretion and without These powers will expire at the AGM in 2018 and giving any reason, decline to register any transfer of renewal of the authorities will be sought at the AGM in any share which is not a fully paid share.
New ordinary shares will not be allotted and may also decline to register a transfer of a certificated issued at below the Net Asset Value.
share unless the instrument of transfer: i is duly stamped or certified or otherwise shown to the The Board also obtained Shareholder authority at the satisfaction of the Board to be exempt from stamp duty AGM in 2017 to make market purchases of up to and is accompanied by the relevant share certificate 19,901,020 ordinary shares of the Company for and such other evidence of the right to transfer as the cancellation in accordance with the terms and Board may reasonably require: ii is in respect of only conditions set out in the resolution.
This authority one class of share: and iii if joint transferees, are in expires at the AGM in 2018 and renewal of the favour of not more than four such transferees.
authority to make market purchases of ordinary shares will be sought at the AGM in 2018.
The Board may decline to register a transfer of any of the Companys certificated shares by a person with a The level of the ordinary share price discount or 0.25% interest as defined in the Articles if such a premium to the Net Asset Value together with internal person has been served with a restriction notice as guidelines for the repurchase or issuance of new defined in the Articles after failure to provide the ordinary shares are kept under regular review by the Company with information concerning interests Board.
The Board considers that discount volatility is in those shares required to be provided under the unattractive to Shareholders but as a specialist Companies Act 2006, unless the transfer is shown to investment fund market sentiment can create the Board to be pursuant to an arms length sale as sustained discount pressure.
With this in mind the defined in the Articles.
Board has a pragmatic approach to share buy backs.
The Company is not aware of arrangements to restrict the votes or transferability of its shares.
Major interests in ordinary shares Declarations of interests in the voting rights of the Company at 30 April 2018 are set out below.
The Company has not recieved any further shareholder notifications between 30 April 2018 and the date of this report.
Number of Percentage of ordinary shares voting rights Rathbone Brothers Plc Indirect 10,653,445 7.96 Brewin Dolphin Limited Indirect 9,946,829 7.43 Old Mutual plc Direct 7,811,334 5.84 Investec Wealth& Investment Ltd Indirect 6,712,073 5.02 Lazard Asset Management LLC Indirect 6,383,454 4.77 The above percentages are calculated by applying the shareholdings as notified, to the issued ordinary share capital at 17 July 2018 of 133,825,000 ordinary shares.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 58 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED LIFE OF THE COMPANY 2018 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Articles of Association of the Company provide The Annual General Meeting will be held on that a vote on whether the Company should continue 6September 2018 at 2.30pm at the RAC Club, will be proposed as an ordinary resolution at every 89 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS.
Shareholders are fifth Annual General Meeting of the Company.
encouraged to attend the AGM as it provides an opportunity for them to hear a presentation from Such a resolution was proposed at the AGM on theInvestment Manager and meet the Directors and 9September 2015 and passed with 99.9% of the Investment team members.
votescast in favour of continuing for a further five years.
The next continuation vote will be proposed The separate Notice of Meeting contains the usual atthe Annual General Meeting in 2020. resolutions to receive the Financial Statements, approve the Directors Remuneration Implementation CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Report, re-elect retiring Directors, appoint the Auditors and empower the Directors to set their fees.
A statement on corporate responsibility and As in previous years the Directors are also seeking theapplications of policies is included in the powers to allot shares for cash and to buy back shares StrategicReport.
for cancellation or to be held in treasury.
The full text of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM and an DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO explanation of each resolution are contained in the THE AUDITORS separate Notice of Meeting.
As far as the Directors are aware and to the best of their knowledge, having made enquiries, there is no By order of the Board relevant audit information of which the Auditors are unaware and the Directors have taken steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information Tracey Lago and to establish that the Auditors are aware of such information.
Polar Capital Secretarial Services Limited Company Secretary 17 July 2018
