STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES Sustainability We are strengthening our business through sustainability innovation, often leading 2018 was a year in which we achieved a great deal across the way in our industry.
I am pleased to every area of sustainability, creating value for all stakeholders.
present here our achievements in 2018.
As a result of integrating this approach throughout our business, we qualified for the maximum interest rate reduction on our first  loan.
Safety is an absolute priority and were committed to achieving a zero-incident work environment.
In 2018, we Sustainability highlights upgraded from the OHSAS 18001 to ISO 45001 standard 0 and saw a 40% reduction in our year-on-year LTIFR, with zero injuries in Q4.
However, we regret to report a fatality MAJOR ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS Human rights training in 2018.
1st and first Modern Slavery IN RUSSIA TO ENTER DJSI Looking after our employees is important if we wish to Statement attract and retain the best people.
We also believe -7% businesses do best when employees are diverse.
In 2018, GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY 20% of our employees were female and we appointed our first female mine managing director at Svetloye.
We continued to focus on employee training, providing an average of 49 hours of training per employee.
In addition to our existing Code of Conduct, Supplier INDUSTRY MOVER Code of Conduct and Human Rights Policy, were further Improved H&S risk AWARD developing a suppliers due diligence process.
We also management and published our first public statement in compliance with the UK Modern Slavery Act.
Next we will implement a decreased LTIFR by 40% supply chain risk assessment procedure and expand our engagement with our partners on ESG issues.
On energy and climate change, weve launched pilot solar and wind energy projects, and are exploring other ways to minimise our carbon footprint.
We decreased our GHG emissions intensity by 7% and implemented an Energy Management System.
Signed partnership 1st Building strong and trusted relationships with our local agreement with Yakutia IN CIS TO SIGN stakeholders through proactive engagement is central to region with intention to SUSTAINABILITY our business success.
We contributed to local communities LINKED LOAN and economies in all regions of operation by sourcing from employ locals local suppliers, social and infrastructure investments, and providing local employment.
We also contribute to national economies and welcome fiscal transparency.
In 2018, we published our second report on payments to governments, required by UK regulations.
We also support the EITI standard in Kazakhstan.
Launched pilot projects Embedded sustainability in our supply chain on solar and wind We are strengthening our business through sustainability innovation, often leading the way in our industry.
I am pleased energy resources Audited 2 mines and supply to present here our achievements in 2018 and plans for 2019. chains against Cyanide Code standards Daria Goncharova, Chief Sustainability Officer 52 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Polymetal International plc 53 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES Sustainability continued helping us build a business that is effective, accountable and, Our approach above all, sustainable.
We believe responsible and efficient mining can be a force Non-financial information statement for good and take a long-term view 50 years of both the environmental and social impacts of our activities.
Our Stakeholders and materiality The following information is provided in compliance with the new Non-Financial Reporting Directive requirements.
The table strategy of focusing on high-grade deposits in specific Stakeholder engagement is a key aspect of sustainability below sets out where relevant information can be found in this Annual Report.
More detailed information is available in our geographies minimises our environmental footprint and at reporting.
We report most material topics according to GRI Sustainability Report or on the Companys website www.
the same time enables us to gain a better understanding Standards.
As part of this, we identify the social, economic of the needs and priorities of local communities.
It also and environmental issues that our stakeholders care most RELEVANT INFORMATION REPORTING REQUIREMENT POLICY AND STANDARDS reinforces our belief that sharing the economic benefits of about.
We also analyse industry and societal trends, investor mining fairly between stakeholders is essential if we are to and ESG analyst requests, peer companies, community Business model, page 2021 Business model retain the social licence to operate.
grievances, risks identified and issues reported to our Board.
Strategy, pages 2425 Ten issues of high priority were identified through our most Code of Conduct Employees, page 59 Universal matters We are deeply committed to sustainability and recent poll, with economic efficiency and safety of most UN Global Compact Code of Conduct Companys website EBRD Environmental and Social Policy Our approach, page 54 continuous improvement, which translates into safer concern.
The table on pages 54 and 55 outlines all top ten Cyanide Code EBRD loan, Sustainability Report, page 58 working conditions for people, responsible environmental material issues of high priority, how each issue fits into our management, support for our local communities and growing sustainability priorities, and our progress in 2018.
Environmental Policy Environment, page 60: Environmental matters Carbon Management Policy Sustainability report, pages 4655 economic value for our stakeholders.
Our sustainability Tailings and Hydraulic Facilities Environmental risk, page 80: strategy is designed to meet the principles of the UN Global Minimising risk Management Policy Sustainability Report, page 24 Compact, to which we signed up voluntarily in 2009.
We We use our risk management system to help us minimise Energy Policy comply with the Ten Principles relating to the environment, risks across the business, achieve our strategic objectives Acid rock drainage management standard ISO 14001 labour, human rights and anti-corruption, and participate in and create sustainable value for our stakeholders.
We have ISO 15001 the UN National Network Russia.
Alongside our corporate identified the potential risks that relate to achieving the SDGs values of dialogue, compliance, ethical conduct, fairness, Employment and labour standard Employees, page 59: and incorporated them into our risk management system.
Employees Health and Safety Policy Sustainability report, pages 3845 stewardship and effectiveness, the Ten Principles help inform There are 73 targets that are relevant to our own business Policy on Staff and Management Diversity Health and safety, page 58: our sustainability policies.
and to which we can contribute.
We have evaluated our ILO, national labour codes Sustainability Report, pages 3237 impact on these target areas, and are working to maximise ISO 45001 Diversity and equal opportunities, page 59: Sustainability focus our positive impacts and minimise any negatives.
OHSAS 18001 Sustainability Report, pages 40, 43 Human Resources Management Policy Human capital development, page 59: The United Nations established its Sustainable Standard Regulation on Social Conditions and Sustainability Report, pages 4042 Development Goals SDGs in 2016 as part of its aim Our robust risk management framework takes into Service Quality Control Health and safety risk management, page 58, to tackle the worlds biggest challenges.
The UN calls account sustainability, ensuring that risks are appropriately Collective agreements 80: Sustainability Report, pages 24 and 33 upon every part of society governments, organisations, identified, assessed against tolerance levels and managed Recruitment standard Corporate culture, pages 2 and 107: Sustainability Report, page 21 businesses and citizens to help achieve its 17 goals and Group-wide.
UNDHR Human rights, page 61: Human rights Our risk management is supported by a bottom-up Human Rights Policy Sustainability Report, page 57 Modern Slavery Statement We have aligned our sustainability focus to the following approach and reviewed from the top-down.
This ensures Supplier Code of Conduct SDGs: promoting sustainable economic growth, productive all employees are engaged in the process, while our Board Community Engagement Policy Community engagement, page 61: employment, lifelong learning opportunities, safe and and executive management ensure alignment with our Social matters Political and Charitable Donations Policy Sustainability Report, page 57 resilient communities, protection and restoration of terrestrial Company strategy.
Our commitment to social investment, page 61: ecosystems, inclusivity and access to justice.
All of which are Sustainability Report, page 58 Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy Anti-corruption, page 57: Anti-corruption and Supplier Code of Conduct Sustainability Report, page 62 anti-bribery Our sustainability focus areas Procurement Policy and Guidelines Gifts and Entertainment Policy Our strategic focus areas are aligned with stakeholders expectations and the UNs Sustainable Development Goals, Policy on Use of Agents, Representatives, Intermediaries and Contractors Due Diligence reflecting Polymetals commitment to their aims.
Whistleblower Policy Policy on Disciplinary Action against Employees Improving health and safety Maintaining positive working Attracting and retaining more for Violations of Internal Anti-Bribery and 1 2 3 Corruption Documents of the Company for our employees and relationships with local high-quality people, creating Risks Policy Risks and risk management, pages 7683: contractors government, NGOs and an even better place to work Principal risks Sustainability Report, page 24 the communities where and impact from we operate business activity Our performance, pages 5657 Non-financial key Sustainability highlights, page 53 performance indicators Continuously upgrading our Enhancing transparency Further developing water Key performance indicators, page 29 4 5 6 technologies and approach to in our communications and energy efficiency environmental protection with suppliers, contractors programmes and partners 54 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Polymetal International plc 55
