Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 37 STRATEGIC REPORT The Strategic Report Section of this Annual Report Over the last four decades the technology industry comprises the Chairs Statement, the Investment has been one of the most vibrant, dynamic and rapidly Managers Report including information on the growing segments of the global economy.
Technology portfolio and this Strategic Report.
It has been companies offer the potential for substantially faster prepared to provide information to Shareholders on earnings growth than the broad market.
the Companys strategies and potential for those Investments are selected for their potential strategies to succeed, including a fair review of the shareholder returns, not on the basis of technology strategy and performance of the Company during the for its own sake.
The Investment Manager believes year ended 30 April 2018, the position of the Company in rigorous fundamental analysis and focuses on: at the year end and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties.
The Strategic Report Section management quality: contains certain forward looking statements, made by the identification of new growth markets: the Directors in good faith based on the information available to them at the time of their approval the globalisation of major technology trends: and of this report.
Such statements should be treated with exploiting international valuation anomalies and caution due to inherent uncertainties, including both sector volatility.
economic and business risk factors underlying any such forward-looking information.
Objective The Companys investment objective has been since INTRODUCTION AND BUSINESS MODEL formation, and will continue to be, to maximise The Companys business model follows that of an long-term capital growth by investing in a diversified externally managed investment trust and the investment portfolio of technology companies around the world.
objective is to provide Shareholders with access to an actively managed portfolio of technology shares selected Policy on a worldwide basis with the investment objective to At the Annual General Meeting in 2012 the current maximise long-term capital growth.
investment policy, as detailed below and available on the Companys website, was approved.
The portfolio Further information on the operation of the business has been managed in accordance with the policy and is set out in the Directors Report on pages 56 to 58. restrictions in the year to 30 April 2018.
The Board has appointed Polar Capital LLP as its Asset Allocation Investment Manager and AIFM.
Technology may be defined as the application of Polar Capital LLP also provides or assists in scientific knowledge for practical purposes and providing Company Secretarial services and technology companies are defined accordingly.
general administration including liaison with While this offers a very broad and dynamic investing directly appointed third party suppliers.
universe and covers many different companies, the portfolio of the Company the Portfolio is focused on INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE AND POLICY companies which use technology or which develop and supply technological solutions as a core part of their Shareholders should be aware that the portfolio is business models.
This includes areas as diverse as actively managed and is not designed to track any information, media, communications, environmental, particular benchmark, indices or market.
The healthcare, finance, e-commerce and renewable performance of the portfolio can vary from the energy, as well as the more obvious applications Benchmark performance, at times considerably.
such as computing and associated industries.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 38 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED The Board has agreed a set of parameters which closed ended investment funds which themselves have seek to ensure that investment risk is spread and published investment policies to invest no more than diversied.
The Board believes that this provides the 15% of their total assets in other listed closed ended necessary flexibility for the Investment Manager to investment funds.
However, the Company will not in pursue the investment objective, given the dynamic any case invest more than 15% of its total assets in and rapid changes in the field of technology, while other closed ended investment funds.
Borrowing, Cash and Derivatives Risk Diversification The Company may borrow money to invest in the The Company will at all times invest and manage its Portfolio over both the long and short-term.
Any assets in a manner that is consistent with spreading commitment to borrow funds is agreed by the Board investment risk and invests in a Portfolio comprised and the AIFM.
primarily of international quoted equities which is diversified across both regions and sectors.
The Companys Articles of Association permit borrowings up to the amount of its paid up share The Company will satisfy the following investment capital plus capital and revenue reserves but any net restrictions: borrowings in excess of 20% of the Companys net assets at the time of drawdown will only be made The Companys interest in any one company will not with the approval of the Board.
exceed 10% of the gross assets of the Company, save where the Benchmark weighting of any The Investment Manager may also use from time to investee company in the Companys portfolio time derivative instruments as approved by the Board exceeds this level, in which case the Company will such as financial futures, options, contracts-forbe permitted to increase its exposure to such difference and currency hedges.
These are used for the investee company up to the Benchmark neutral purpose of efficient portfolio management.
Any such weighting of that company or, if lower, 20% of the use of derivatives will be made in accordance with the Companys grossassets.
Companys policies on spreading investment risk as set The Company will have a maximum exposure to out in this investment policy and any leverage resulting companies listed on emerging markets as defined from the use of such derivatives will be subject to the by the MSCI Emerging Markets Index of 25% of its restrictions on borrowings set out above.
Changes to investment policy The Company may invest in unquoted companies Any material change to the investment policy will from time to time, subject to prior Board approval.
require the approval of the Shareholders by way of Investments in unquoted companies in aggregate an ordinary resolution at a general meeting.
The will not exceed 10% of the gross assets of the Company will promptly issue an announcement Company measured at the time of acquisition of to inform Shareholders and the public of any change the relevant investment and whenever of its investment policy.
the Company increases the relevant holding.
In addition to the restrictions set out above, the INVESTMENT STRATEGY GUIDELINES Company is subject to Chapter 15 of the UK Listing AND BOARD LIMITS Authoritys Listing Rules which apply to closed ended The Board has within the Investment Policy investment companies with a premium listing on the established guidelines for the Investment Manager Official List of the London Stock Exchange.
In order to in pursuing the Investment Policy.
The Board uses comply with the current Listing Rules, the Company will these guidelines to monitor the portfolios exposure not invest more than 10% of its total assets at the time to different geographical markets, sub-sectors within of acquisition in other listed closed ended investment technology and the spread of investments across funds, whether managed by the Investment Manager or different .
This restriction does not apply to investments in Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 39 These guidelines are kept under review as cyclical During the year the Company had two three-year changes in markets and new technologies will bring loan facilities with ING Bank NV: One for US Dollars certain sub-sectors or companies of a particular size 23,000,000 of which was drawn down on 2 October or market capitalisation into or out of favour.
2015 at a fixed rate of 2.21%pa and one for Japanese Yen 2,800,000,000 at a fixed rate of 0.995%pa.
These Market parameters loans fall due for repayment on 2 October 2018.
It is Notwithstanding the ability to invest up to 100% of anticipated that the loan facilities will be replaced the portfolio in any one market, with current and following expiry of the current facilities.
foreseeable investment conditions the Portfolio will Details of the loans are set out in Note 17 to the be invested in accordance with the objective across Financial Statements.
worldwide markets within the following geographical and market parameters: FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS North America up to 85% of the Portfolio The Board remains positive on the longer-term outlook for technology and the Company will continue Europe up to 40% of the Portfolio to pursue its investment objective.
The outlook for Japan and Asia up to 55% of the Portfolio future performance is dependent to a significant Rest of the world up to 10% of the Portfolio degree on the worlds financial markets and their reactions to economic events and other geo-political The Board has set specific upper exposure limits for forces.
The Chairs Statement and the Managers certain countries where they believe there may be Report comment on the outlook.
PERFORMANCE Cash At 30 April 2018 the total net assets of the Company The Company may hold cash or near cash amounted to 1,551,611,000 2017: 1,252,525,000.
The equivalents if the Investment Manager feels that NAVper share rose by 22.7% from 945.39p to 1,159.69p.
these will at a particular time or over a period As at 30 April 2018 the portfolio comprised of 110 2017: enhance the performance of the Portfolio.
The top twenty investments in the Board has agreed that management of cash may portfolio at 30 April 2018 are described on pages 34 to be achieved through the purchase of appropriate 36 and a full listing of investments is on pages 30 to 33 government bonds, money market funds or bank and can also be found on the Companys website.
deposits depending on the Investment Managers view of the .
The portfolio has been analysed on pages 28 and 29 and provides details on the distribution of investments Gearing by market capitalisation and by the different sectors in The Board monitors the level of gearing available to the different principal geographies.
the Investment Manager and agrees, in conjunction with the AIFM, all bank facilities.
Deployment of such The changes in the share price, NAV and Benchmark facilities in excess of 20% of the net asset value of over the financial year are shown on page04.
the Company at the time of draw down requires A review and commentary are given in the Chairs Boardagreement.
Statement on pages 8 to 10 and the Managers Report on pages 11 to 26.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 40 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED The ongoing charges ratio shown on page 4 has been There have been no material changes other than calculated in accordance with guidance issued by the those reflected in these Financial Statements to this AIC and constitutes the management fee in Note 8 and information requiring disclosure.
Any information the other administrative expenses Note 9 as a requiring immediate disclosure pursuant to the AIFMD percentage of average daily net assets over the year.
will be disclosed to the London Stock Exchange A second ongoing charge is provided which takes into through a primary information provider.
account the performance fee detailed in Note 8.
Statements from the Depositary and the AIFM can be found on the Companys website.
DIVIDENDS The Company seeks to manage its portfolio in such a The Companys revenue varies from year to year and way as to meet the tests set down in Section 1158 and the Board considers the dividend position in each 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 as amended by year in order to maintain the Companys status as Section 49 2 of the Finance Act 2011 and continue to aninvestment company.
The revenue reserve qualify as an investment trust.
This qualification remains in deficit and historically the Company has permits the accumulation of capital within the portfolio not paid dividends given its focus on capital growth.
without any liability to UK Capital Gains Tax.
Further The Directors do not recommend the payment of information is provided in the Directors Report.
The Company has no employees or premises and the REGULATORY ARRANGEMENTS Board is composed of Non-executive Directors.
The day The Company is designated an Alternative Investment to day operations and functions of the Company have Fund AIF under the Alternative Investment Fund been delegated to third parties.
Management Directive AIFMD and as required by the Directive has contracted with Polar Capital LLP to SERVICE PROVIDERS act as the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Polar Capital LLP has been appointed to act as AIFM and HSBC Bank Plc to act as the Depositary.
the Investment Manager Investment Manager or Manager and AIFM as well as to provide or procure Both the AIFM and the Depositary have responsibilities company secretarial services and administrative under AIFMD for ensuring that the assets of the services, including accounting, portfolio valuation Company are managed in accordance with investment and trade settlement which it has arranged to deliver policy and are held in safe custody.
The Board remains through HSBC Securities Services.
responsible for setting the investment strategy and operational guidelines as well as meeting the The Company also contracts directly with a number requirements of the FCA Listing Rules and the of third parties for the provision of regularly Companies Act.
requiredservices: The AIFMD requires certain information to be made Stifel Nicolaus Europe Limited were appointed available to investors in AIFs before they invest and on 3 November 2017 as corporate broker: requires that material changes to this information be disclosed in the Annual Report of each AIF.
Investor Equiniti Limited as the share registrars: Disclosure Documents, which set out information on KPMG LLP as independent Auditors: the Companys investment strategy and policies, Camarco as PR advisors: and leverage, risk, liquidity, administration, management, fees, conflicts of interest and other Shareholder Emperor as website designers, internet hosting information are available on the Companys website.
services and designers and printers for Shareholder communications.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 41 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The Board appraises the performance of the Company and the Investment Manager as the key supplier of services to the Company against Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
The objectives comprise both specific financial and Shareholder related measures, these KPIs have not differed from the prior year.
KPI Control process Outcome The provision of The Board reviews at each meeting The Companys NAV has, over the year to 30 April investment returns the performance of the portfolio in 2018, outperformed the Benchmark.
The NAV per to ordinary detail and hears the views of the share rose by 22.7% while the Benchmark rose Shareholders Investment Manager.
17.1% in Sterling terms over the same period.
measured by The reasons are explained in the Chairs Statement long-term NAV and the Investment Managers Report.
growth and relative performance against Over the longer-term, as shown by the historic the Benchmark.
performance data shown on page 05, growth in the NAV has exceeded the Benchmark.
Monitoring and The Board receives regular The discount premium of the ordinary share reacting to issues information on the composition price to NAV per ordinary share diluted when created by the of the share register including appropriate has been as follows: discount or premium trading patterns and discount Financial year to 30 April 2018 of the ordinary share premium levels of the Companys price to the NAV per ordinary shares.
Maximum premium over year: 3.9% ordinary share with Maximum discount over year: -5.7% The Board is aware of the the aim of reduced vulnerability of a sector specialist Average discount over year: -0.5% discount volatility for Trust to a change in investor Shareholders.
The Company has not bought back any shares in sentiment to that sector.
While there the year to 30 April 2018 and has issued 1,308,000 is no formal discount policy the Board shares when the issue was NAV enhancing to discusses the market factors giving existing Shareholders.
Since the year end a further rise to any discount or premium, the 30,000 shares have been issued.
long or short-term nature of those factors and the overall benefit to Over previous 5 financial years ended 30 April 2018 Shareholders of any actions.
The market liquidity is also considered Maximum premium over period: 5.0% when authorising the issue or buy Maximum discount over period: -13.8% back of shares when appropriate Average discount over period: -2.2% market conditions prevail.
Over 5 years the Company has not bought back any A daily NAV per share, diluted when shares and has issued 2,158,841 as the result of appropriate, calculated in accordance market demand and 3,404,417 from the conversion with the AIC guidelines, is issued to of subscription shares.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 42 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED KPI Control process Outcome The Board receives regular financial This has been achieved for every year since To qualify and information which discloses the continue to meet the launch in 1996. current and projected financial requirements for HMRC has approved investment trust status position of the Company against Sections 1158 and subject to the Company continuing to meet the each of the tests set out in Sections 1159 of the relevant eligibility conditions and ongoing 1158 and 1159.
The Directors believe that the tests have been met in the financial year ended 30 April 2018 and will continue to be met.
Efficient operation The Board considers annually the The Board has received and considered of the Company services provided by the Investment satisfactory the internal controls report of the with appropriate Manager, both investment and Investment Manager and other key suppliers investment administration and reviews on a including contingency arrangements to facilitate management cycle the provision of services from the ongoing operations of the Company in the resources and third parties including the costs of event of withdrawal or failure of services.
services from third their services.
The ongoing charges of the Company for the year party suppliers The annual operating expenses are ended 30 April 2018 excluding the performance within a stable and reviewed and any non-recurring fee were 0.99% of net assets 2017: 1.01%.
The risk controlled project related expenditure ongoing charges including the performance fee environment.
payable in respect of the year ended 30 April 2018 were 1.76% of net assets.
PRINCIPAL BUSINESS RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Board is responsible for the management of risks faced by the Company in delivering long-term returns to Shareholders.
The identification, monitoring and appraisal of the risks, any mitigation factors and control systems is crucial.
The Directors carry out on an annual basis a robust assessment of the principal risks with the assistance of the Investment Manager through the use of a Risk Map which seeks to record risks in four main risk categories: Business, External, Portfolio Management and Infrastructure.
Directors continually monitor risks faced by the Company and have met to discuss long-term risks outside of the normal cycle of Audit meetings.
The Risk Map is constructed by identifying and assessing various risks as to their likelihood and their severity of impact, then considering, both internal and external controls and factors that could provide mitigation to arrive at a post mitigation risk impact.
The Risk Map therefore provides a structure for robustly reviewing the risks and controls as well a method to report and monitor changes and developments.
The investment objective is to invest the Companys funds in a portfolio of technology companies worldwide and as such the portfolio will be exposed to market and currency fluctuations with only limited ability to mitigate the consequences through the holding of cash in the portfolio and the use of derivatives and or currency hedging.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 43 The Board has identified top risks faced by the Company which are those classified as the having the highest risk level post mitigation, these are kept under regular review by the Board in addition to the periodic review of the full risk map which incorporates all risks and policies.
The top risks are detailed below within the greater business risk categories of Business, External and Infrastructure.
Changes in overall Principal Business Risks Management of risks through assessment of the risks and Uncertainties Mitigation & Controls over the financial year Business Failure to achieve investment objective and or Failure in services provided by Investment Manager Unchanged The appropriateness of the The Board seeks to mitigate the impact of such risks through the regular reporting and monitoring of the investment mandate and the execution of the investment strategy investment performance against its peer group, other closed ended and open ended funds and Exchange Traded may be out of favour or poorly delivered which may lead to poor Funds ETFs.
performance against the A day a year is set aside to conduct an annual review of the Benchmark and peer group leading investment strategy and investment markets which is used to a depressed share price, as a framework to assess portfolio construction and unacceptably large and persistent performance across the remainder of the year.
The Board discount as investors seek when considering the investment strategy has regard to alternative investments or lower the degree of risk which the Investment Manager incurs in risk strategies.
order to generate investment returns.
The ordinary shares of the Company For months when the Board is not scheduled to meet they are listed on the London Stock receive a monthly report containing financial information Exchange and the share price is on the Company including gearing and cash balances.
determined by supply and demand.
They also receive a monthly commentary from the The shares may trade at a discount Investment Manager in the factsheet.
or at a premium to the Companys underlying NAV and this discount or A continuation vote is held every five years to provide premium may fluctuate.
Shareholders with an opportunity to wind up the Company.
In consultation with its advisors, including the corporate stock broker the Board regularly considers the level of premium and discount of the share price to the NAV and the Board reviews ways to enhance Shareholder value including share issuance and buy backs.
The Board is committed to a clear communication program to ensure Shareholders understand the investment strategy.
This is maintained through the use of monthly factsheets, an informative and relevant website as well as annual and half year reports.
External Global geopolitical risk Elevated There is significant exposure to the The Board regularly discusses the global geo-political The effects of the economic cycles of the markets in issues and general economic conditions and developments.
political changes in the which the underlying investments US, Europe and UK Note 27 describes the impact of changes in foreign conduct their business operations have increased exchange rates.
as well as the economic impact on uncertainty and investment markets where such increased volatility investments are listed.
fluctuations of exchange rates can also have a material impact on Shareholder returns.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 44 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED Changes in overall Principal Business Risks Management of risks through assessment of the risks and Uncertainties Mitigation & Controls over the financial year Uncertainty in regulatory environment due to Brexit vote Unchanged The exit of the UK from the The consequences of the Brexit decision were considered European Union at the time and are monitored on an ongoing basis through existing control systems with particular attention focused on advanced indicators of potential problems.
The Board does not believe that there is any direct impact on the operation of the Company from this decision but fluctuations in exchange rates can impact investor returns.
Cyber Risk and or Black Swan Risk Elevated There are risks from the failure of, There is an annual review of internal control reports from The number and or resulting from cyber-attack suppliers which includes the disaster recovery procedures severity and success disruption to, operational and of the Investment Manager.
of cyber-attacks have accounting systems and processes increased over the The Company has a disaster recovery plan in place along provided by the Investment Manager year.
including: any subcontractors to which the Investment Manager has delegated a task as well as directly appointed suppliers.
Financial loss due to an unexpected event.
Adverse impact on personnel or the portfolio.
Temporary or permanent requirement to move offices.
Breach of Statutes and Regulations including failure to keep up with legislative changes Elevated The legal and regulatory risks At each Board meeting there is an administration report The impact of MiFID II include failure to comply with the which provides details on corporate matters including and the disruption to FCAs Prospectus Rules, Listing legislative and regulatory developments and changes, the workings of the Rules and Transparency and substantial changes in shareholdings and the share European Asset Disclosure Rules: not meeting the register, and share price performance.
Management industry provisions of the Companies Act could be significant.
Information and guidance on legal and regulatory risks is 2006 and other UK, European and managed by using the Investment Manager or professional The implementation of overseas legislation affecting UK advisers where necessary and the submission of reports the General Data companies including MiFID II and to the Board for discussion and, if required, any remedial Protection Regulations the GDPR and not complying with action or changes considered necessary.
provides for greater accounting standards.
Further risks data privacy, while the arise from not keeping abreast of In addition, as an investment company, the Company is risk to the Company is changes in legislation and dependent on a framework of tax laws, regulation both UK deemed to be low the regulations which have in recent and EU and Company law.
impact of fines should years been substantial.
The Board monitors new developments and changes in they occur could be the regulatory environment and seeks to ensure that significant.
their impact on the Company is understood and complied with although the Board has no control over such legislative changes and such changes may be intended to affect us, or we may suffer unintended consequences from changes designed to affect others.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 45 Changes in overall Principal Business Risks Management of risks through assessment of the risks and Uncertainties Mitigation & Controls over the financial year Infrastructure Accounting Errors Elevated The Mis-valuation of investments or the Regular reporting from the Depositary on the safe Performance fee due custody of the Companys assets and the operation of to the Investment loss of assets from the custodian or sub control systems related to the portfolio reconciliation Manager for the year custodians which affect the NAV per share are monitored.
ended 30 April 2018. or lead to a loss of Shareholder value.
Material accounting errors or Management accounts produced and reviewed on a Immaterial misstatements resulting in incomplete or monthly basis.
Statutory reporting and daily NAV misstatement of note inaccurate financial information.
calculations produced by external Administrator 28 to the prior year and verified by the Investment Manager.
Failure to meet investment trust status.
financial statements published in July 2017.
Accounting records are tested and valuations verified Inaccuracies in fee calculations.
independently as part of the year end financial Inability of the Company or Shareholders reporting process.
A full review of the internal controls framework is carried out at least annually.
Termination arrangements MANAGEMENT COMPANY AND MANAGEMENT OF THE PORTFOLIO The investment management agreement may be terminated by either party by giving 12 months notice, As the Company is an investment vehicle for but under certain circumstances the Company may be Shareholders the Directors have sought to ensure that required to pay up to one years management charges if the business of the Company is managed by a leading immediate notice is given and compensation will be on specialist investment management team and that the a sliding scale if less than 12 months notice is given.
investment strategy remains attractive to Shareholders.
Fee arrangements The Directors believe that a strong working relationship with the investment management team will achieve the Management fee optimum return for Shareholders.
The base fee is 1% on the Net Asset Value per share multiplied by the arithmetic mean of the number of Investment team shares up to 800m and above 800m the base fee The Investment Manager is Polar Capital LLP Polar reduces to 0.85%.
On 1 January 2018 in connection with Capital, which is authorised and regulated by the discussions and the Companys agreement to making Financial Conduct Authority.
a contribution to Research costs under MiFID II regulations, a temporary third tier management fee of Under the terms of the investment management 0.80% on assets over 1.7bn was introduced.
The fee is agreement Polar Capital provides investment payable quarterly in arrears based on the NAV at the management, and provides and procures accounting, end of each quarter.
Any investments in funds managed company secretarial and administrative services.
by Polar Capital are wholly excluded from the base management fee calculation.
Polar Capital provides a team of technology specialists led by Ben Rogoff.
Each member focuses on specific areas while Ben has overall responsibility for the portfolio.
Polar Capital also has other specialist and geographically focused investment teams which may contribute to idea generation.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 46 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED Performance fee CONTINUED APPOINTMENT OF INVESTMENT MANAGER Performance periods will coincidewith the Companys accounting periods.
The Board, through the Management Engagement Committee, has reviewed the performance of the Annual performance fee equal to 15% of the amount Investment Manager in managing the portfolio over the by which the increase in the adjusted NAV per share longer-term.
The review also considered the quality of exceeds the total return on the Dow Jones World the other services provided by the Investment Manager, Technology Index total return, Sterling adjusted with including the strength of the investment team, the depth relevant withholding taxes removed multiplied by of the other services provided by the Investment the time weighted average of the number of shares Manager and their resources available to provide such in issue during that period, subject to a high services.
We have discussed with the Investment watermark.
Manager the provision of increased resources and are The NAV per share Adjusted NAV per share is pleased to see the recruitment of additional people to adjusted for the purposes of the performance fee support the Company, which includes the organisation calculation by adding back any accruals for unpaid on the Companys behalf of third party suppliers, and performance fees, any dividends paid or payable the quality of the Shareholder communications.
by reference to the performance period and the The Board, on the recommendation of the Management removal of any benefit of share issuance or Engagement Committee, has concluded that on the basis buybacks.
of longer-term performance it is in the best interests of High water mark the performance fee will only Shareholders as a whole that the appointment of Polar be payable if, and to the extent that, the Adjusted Capital LLP as Investment Manager is continued on the NAV per share exceeds the highest of: existing terms.
the NAV per share on the last day of the previous LONGER-TERM VIABILITY performance period: In accordance with the Corporate Governance the Adjusted NAV per share on the last day of provisions, the Company is required to make a a performance period in respect of which a forward looking longer-term viability statement.
performance fee was lastpaid: Due to this, the Board has considered and addressed Any performance fee accrual will be included in the ability of the Company to continue to operate over the NAV calculated in accordance with the AIC a longer period.
The Board has considered the financial position of The performance fee which can be paid by the the Company and believes such extends significantly Company in any one performance period is capped beyond the twelve-month period required for the at 2% of net assets.
In addition, the Board has In the event of a termination of the investment considered the industry and the market in which the management agreement, the date the agreement Company operates and the continued appetite for is terminated will be deemed to be the end of the technology investment.
The Board continues to relevant performance period and any performance use five years as a reasonable term over which fee payable shall be calculated as at that date.
the viability of the Company should be considered: shareholders have the opportunity to vote on the Management fees of 13,202,000 2017: 9,896,000 continuation of the Company every five years, have been paid for the year to 30 April 2018, of which therefore the outlook for the next five-year period nil 2017: 2,747,000 was outstanding at the year end.
incorporates the continuation vote which will be A performance fee of 11,169,000 has been earned for put to shareholders at the AGM in 2020. the year to 30 April 2018 2017:nil, and the whole of this amount 2017: nil was outstanding at the year end.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 47 In establishing the positive outlook for the Company over the next five years to 30 April 2023, the Board has taken into account: The ability of The financial position of the Company and its cash flows and liquidity position are described the Company in the Strategic Report and the Financial Statements.
Note 27 to the Financial Statements to meet its includes the Companys policies and process for managing its capital: its financial risk liabilities as management objectives: details of financial instruments and hedging activities.
Exposure they fall due to credit risk and liquidity risk are also disclosed.
The portfolio comprises of investments traded on major international stock exchanges, there is a spread of investments by size of company.
The current portfolio could be liquidated to the extent of 99.4% within seven trading days and there is no expectation that the nature of the investments held within the portfolio will be materially different in future.
The expenses of the Company are predictable and modest in comparison with the assets and there are no capital commitments foreseen which would alter that position.
Repayment of the bank facilities, due in October 2018, would equate to approximately 35% of the cash or cash equivalents available to the Company at 30 April 2018, without having to liquidate the portfolio of investments.
The Company has no employees except for the Non-executive Directors and consequently does not have redundancy or other employment related liabilities or responsibilities.
The Company Under the AIC SORP guidance that, where Shareholders have the opportunity to vote in faces a favour or against a company continuing in existence, it will normally be the case that continuation vote Shareholders will have to vote in favour of a liquidation before it can occur.
It is reasonable at the AGM in to believe that if good performance is achieved over the period until the next continuation September 2020 vote in 2020 the Company will pass the continuation vote.
Factors The Strategic Report Section, comprising the Chairs Statement, the Investment Managers Report impacting the and the Strategic Report provide a comprehensive review of such factors along with the principal forthcoming years risks as set out on pages 43 to 45.
Regulatory Despite the increased level of regulations and the unpredictability of future requirements changes it is considered that regulation will not increase to a level that makes the running of the Company uneconomical in comparison to other competitive products.
That the business model of being a closed ended investment fund will continue to be wanted by investors and the investment objective be desired and achievable.
Further, the Board recognise that there has been considerable growth in the technology sector and immense change in what is deemed to be a technology company which broadens the universe for potential investment.
Technology remains a specialist sector for which there continues to be a need for independent specialist sector investment expertise.
The Board therefore believe it appropriate to confirm their assessment for the longer-term viability of the Company for the next five years to 30 April 2023.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 48 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED The Investment Manager reports to the Board, when GOING CONCERN requested, on the application of the Stewardship The Board has also considered the ability of the Code and Voting Policy.
The Investment Managers Company to adopt the Going Concern basis for Stewardship Code and Voting Policy can be found on the preparation of the Financial Statements.
the Investment Managers website in the Corporate Consideration included the Companys current Governance section www.
financial position, its cash flows and its liquidity position and its assessment of any material Environment and Greenhouse Gas Emissions uncertainties and events that might cast significant The Companys core activities are undertaken by its doubt upon the Companys ability to continue as a Investment Manager which seeks to limit the use going concern.
In conjunction with the financial of nonrenewable resources and reduce waste considerations taken into account when reviewing the where possible.
longer-term viability, the Board considered the year under reviews performance of the portfolio net The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and assets 22.7%, being in line with the investment Directors Reports Regulations 2013 require objective and strategy against the performance of companies listed on the Main Market of the London the benchmark 17.1% : the liquidity of the portfolio Stock Exchange to report on the greenhouse gas GHG 99.4% liquid over 7 days and the opportunity for emissions for which they are responsible.
The Company investment and reinvestment of funds.
The Board is an investment trust, with neither employees nor believe it appropriate to present the Company and premises, nor has it any financial or operational control the Financial Statements as a Going Concern.
of the assets which it owns.
Consequently, it has no GHG emissions to report from its operations nor does CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY it have responsibility for any other emissions.
Socially responsible investing and exercise of Diversity, gender reporting and human voting powers rights policy The Board has instructed the Investment Manager to The Company has no employees and the Board take into account the published corporate governance is comprised of two female and five male Nonof the companies in which it invests.
The Company has also considered the Investment If any new appointments are made to the Board, the Managers Stewardship Code and Proxy Voting Policy.
Board will continue to have regard to the benefits of The Voting Policy is for the Investment Manager to vote diversity, including gender, when seeking to make at all general meetings of companies in favour of any such appointments.
resolutions proposed by the management where it believes that the proposals are in the interests of The Company has not adopted a policy on human rights as Shareholders.
However, in exceptional cases, where it it has no employees or operational control of its assets.
believes that a resolution could be detrimental to the interests of Shareholders or the financial performance Modern Slavery Act of the Company, appropriate notification will be given As an investment company, the Company does not and abstentions or a vote against will be lodged.
provide goods or services in the normal course of business and does not have any customers.
The Investment Manager has voted at 127 meetings Accordingly, it is considered that the Company is not during the year under review in each case supporting required to make any slavery or human trafficking the recommendations of the management.
statements under the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 49 Anti-bribery, Corruption and Tax Evasion The Board has adopted a zero-tolerance policy, which is available on the Companys website to bribery, corruption and the facilitation of tax evasion in its business activities and uses the principles of the policies formulated and implemented by the Investment Manager and expects the same standard of zero-tolerance to be adopted by thirdparty service providers.
The Company has implemented a Conflicts of Interest policy to which the Directors must adhere, in the event of divergence between the Investment Managers policy and the Companys policy the Companys policy shall prevail.
The Company is committed to acting with integrity and in the interests of Shareholders and will seek to ensure that the law is enforced should such a need arise.
Approved by the Board on 17 July 2018 By order of the Board Tracey Lago Polar Capital Secretarial Services Limited Company Secretary Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 50 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 51 GOVERNANCE 52 Directors 54 Investment Team 56 Directors Report 59 Report on Corporate Governance 69 Audit Committee Report 73 Directors Remuneration Report 77 Statement of Directors Responsibilities
