STRATEGY VISION To be the leading provider of sustainable water and climate management solutions for the built environment.
We will do this by: } Building a world-class sustainable business. }
Developing cost-efficient solutions to substitute legacy materials. }
Leveraging our core UK competencies across key markets around the world.
SOLUTIONS FOR THE BUILT ENVIRONMENT THAT HOW OUR VISION ALIGNS WITH OUR PURPOSE, DRIVE OUR GROWTH MISSION AND VALUES Our seven strategic objectives consist of two TARGET PRODUCT We fulfil our vision though our day-to-day activities and through all SECTORS and five STRATEGIC GROWTH DRIVERS, as described on aspects of the development of our business: pages 19 and 20: } Filling product gaps to provide one-stop shop solutions } These strategic objectives form a framework against which we not just plastic as we develop our business, we take the consider our options for organic and inorganic growth.
perspective of our customers and endeavour to propose optimised solutions for the problems they are trying to tackle, } Together they provide significant further scope for Polypipes which can lead us to complement our proposition, with product continued development ahead of the market.
For example, this framework leads us to prioritise the } Delivering water and climate solutions ahead of legislation development of incrementally differentiated performance of e. g. roof to river we participate in industry bodies, in order our core offers such as focusing on solutions for air quality, to bring solutions to market ahead of emerging legislation such or water quality, in addition to those for efficiently handling as SuDS, air quality, or plastics recycling, for example.
large quantities of air or water, or complementary offers } Pursuing continuous innovation in products and processes we that fill product gaps and provide our target customers with continue to invest in our operations to automate where justified a complete offer, or one-stop shop solution.
and to drive out non-value adding cost. }
Also, each potential target for acquisition is considered for the } Working sustainably throughout our activities people, processes, extent to which it helps generate value and synergies against products beyond our product solutions, as we invest in our these objectives.
operations, we develop the skills of our staff, while deploying modern energy-efficient technologies in our factories to } Taken together, these strategic objectives open up opportunities eliminate waste, and to reduce water and energy consumption.
in adjacent sectors such as Manthorpe opening up opportunities for Polypipe at roof level, or in other materials } Leveraging our expertise across wider geographies our which do not necessarily have to be plastic and so position knowledge and IP can be exported under licensing arrangements Polypipe for sustained future growth.
18 OUR STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGY: STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES TWO TARGET PRODUCT SECTORS SUSTAINABLE WATER MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS SUSTAINABLE CLIMATE MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS 1 2 a plumbing, water quality h high-efficiency, low-energy, high air quality ventilation, with heat recovery b drainage, soil and waste i underfloor heating c external roof to river solutions: drainage, sewers j Blue-Green placemaking solutions, encouraging biodiversity, d rainwater retention helping to tackle the urban island heating effect e flow control, treatment k Reduced-temperature low-CO heat distribution 2 f stormwater attenuation g Blue-Green solutions j b j h a j j i k g f d c f ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 19 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC e STRATEGY: STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES FIVE STRATEGIC GROWTH DRIVERS LEGACY MATERIAL SUBSTITUTION 3 Using engineered plastics rather than traditional materials such as concrete or clay can lead to innovative project solutions that offer transportation, installation and cost-saving benefits.
As thermoplastic pipes are inherently lighter in weight than legacy materials, they are quicker and easier to install.
Polypipe produces pipes and fittings utilising recycled materials where appropriate and all products are recyclable at the end of their useful life.
These benefits, combined with Polypipes strong brand and technical expertise, offer potential for Polypipes propositions to penetrate further against legacy materials such as concrete, clay or copper pipes.
LEGISLATIVE TAILWINDS 4 As legislation continues to tighten to meet the international performance targets on water management, air quality, carbon reduction, and city resilience, Polypipe continues its long-term investment into Water Management and Climate Management solutions.
For example, Government planning policy has defined the need for sustainable drainage systems SuDS to ensure that flood risk is taken into account during all stages of the planning process.
This planning policy is further interpreted into national frameworks, local legislation and regulations, which provide a dynamic legislative environment.
Polypipes solutions are engineered to address these challenges, providing an effective controlled retention, attenuation or infiltration system to suit site-specific requirements.
SMART SOLUTIONS, INNOVATION AND CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT 5 Through our focused research and development, our proven design expertise, patented technologies, detailed understanding within our sectors and our own award-winning delivery fleet, Polypipe provides solutions that integrate the latest technologies to tackle challenges faced by design engineers and drive efficiencies in our internal processes.
CUSTOMER-FOCUSED COMPLETE SOLUTIONS 6 Polypipe has extensive expertise in the plumbing, drainage and ventilation aspects of projects, and by working closely with specifying engineers, local authorities, and installation contractors, we provide a broad ranges of solutions that are value-engineered to reduce whole life costs addressing ease of installation and cost of maintenance in service, for example as well as providing a proven level of performance, and as such we provide a one-stop shop proposition.
GEOGRAPHIC REACH 7 With Polypipes UK standard-based products, and the esteem that UK manufacturing is held in within a number of growing markets around the world, the Group seeks to expand in selected markets overseas.
Many factors supporting Polypipes growth are not unique to the UK, such as urbanisation, managing water as a scarce resource, combined sewer systems already at capacity, urban island heat effect, and poor air quality.
Our track record of growth in the UK, along with our experience of working with the technology licensing model deployed by the Permavoid business, form the basis of a set of unique competencies across the Group, which position Polypipe well for future development outside the UK.
