INVESTMENT PROPOSITION MARKET LEADERS INVESTMENT AND SCALE Polypipe enjoys a position of market leader in the Polypipe continues UK, where the Group is to invest in order to the largest plastic piping maintain and develop systems manufacturer by its position as a leader sales volume and largest light commercial in the management and movement of ventilation producer.
It also has a broad air and water.
This investment in new product offer to underpin and complement automation technology and scale provides this market position.
Polypipe has balanced both operational efficiency and considerable exposure to all major sectors of the UK economic reach to serve the broadest range construction market.
Read more in At a Glance and Read more in Business Marketplace on pages 06 and 10 Model on pages 14 and 15 SUCCESSFUL BUSINESS DIFFERENTIATED SIGNIFICANT MODEL WITH BARRIERS SOLUTIONS STRUCTURAL GROWTH TO ENTRY OPPORTUNITIES Based around a core Through the business offer of plastic piping, Polypipe is able to model, Polypipe leverages supported by complete pursue significant its investment, scale and engineered system design, growth opportunities expertise.
Investment in process efficiency incorporating in-house manufactured fittings by developing effective solutions ahead and automation delivers continuous and ancillaries that are patent protected of new and emerging legislation, improvement in operational productivity where possible, Polypipe is uniquely placed in addition to providing customers with and allows our workforce to develop new to offer differentiated total solutions for a high-performance alternative to pipes skills and knowledge, which in turn provide water and air management.
manufactured from legacy materials barriers to entry and protect our market such as clay, copper and concrete in Read more in Value Creation position versus competition.
The value each of the sectors the Group serves.
Model on pages 16 and 17 creation model results from the continuous In this way, Polypipes sales growth has development of our business model.
In consistently outperformed the construction particular, value-added products and market.
There are also significant growth engineered solutions help to ensure that the opportunities overseas, as well as regulatory Group maintains leadership in its markets tailwinds from UK water and climate ahead of emerging legislation and ahead of legislation.
Read more in Marketplace on pages 10 and 11 Read more in Business Model on pages 14 and 15 SUSTAINABLE STRONG AND Read more online at SOLUTIONS RESILIENT FINANCIAL https: investors.
com PERFORMANCE Polypipe focuses on providing solutions Polypipes focus on that enable resilience in value addition through the built environment, engineered solutions, its by helping to protect against effects of above-market growth and extreme weather and climate change, and as its commitment to investment leverages an such provide long-term value for customers existing operational footprint to generate and the wider society.
This is an inherent incremental profitability, which allows part of the Groups long-term success and Polypipe to deliver a strong and resilient forms an instrumental element of both our financial performance.
Read more in the CFOs Report on pages 36 to 41 Read more in Our Sustainable Journey on pages 24 to 31 02
