DIRECTORS REPORT INTRODUCTION VIABILITY STATEMENT DIRECTORS The Directors present their Annual Report In accordance with Provision C. 2.2 of the The current Directors biographies are set and Accounts for the period ended UK Code, the Directors have assessed the out on pages 56 and 57.
In accordance with the prospects of the Group over a longer period with the UK Code, each Director will retire Companies Act 2006 as amended, and the than the 12 months required by the Going annually and put themselves forward for Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance Concern provision.
The Board conducted re-election at each AGM of the Company.
and Transparency Rules, the reports within this review for a period of three years as Louise Hardy joined the Board on 25 June the Governance section of the Annual the Groups Strategic Review covers a three- 2018 and will offer herself for election at Report and Accounts should be read in year period.
the 2019 AGM, and for re-election annually conjunction with one another, and with the thereafter.
During 2018, the Board carried out a robust Strategic Report.
As permitted by legislation, APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT assessment of the principal risks facing the some of the matters normally included in OF DIRECTORS Group, including those that would threaten the Directors Report have instead been The rules about the appointment and its business model, future performance, included in the Strategic Report pages 06 replacement of Directors are contained in solvency or liquidity.
In their assessment of to 53 as the Board considers them to be of our Articles of Association the Articles.
the viability of the Group, the Directors have strategic importance.
They provide that Directors may be considered each of the Groups principal THE COMPANY appointed by ordinary resolution of the risks and uncertainties detailed on pages 42 members or by a resolution of the Directors.
to 49 of the Strategic Report.
The Directors Polypipe Group plc is a public company Directors must retire and put themselves believe that the Group is well placed to limited by shares, incorporated in England forward for election at their first AGM manage its business risks successfully, having and Wales with registered number following their appointment and every taken into account the current economic 06059130.
Since 16 April 2014, the third anniversary thereafter.
Accordingly, the Board believes Company was and remains listed on the Directors wishing to continue to serve as that, taking into account the Groups current premium segment of the London Stock members of the Board will seek re-election position, and subject to the principal risks Exchange.
While the Group operates annually in accordance with the UK Code.
faced by the business, the Group will be predominately in the UK, it does have able to continue in operation and to meet operations in France, Italy, the Netherlands Details of the Non-Executive Directors letters its liabilities as they fall due for the period and the United Arab Emirates.
of appointment are given on page 61 under up to 31 December 2021, being the period STRATEGIC REPORT Appointment and Tenure.
The Executive considered under the Groups current Directors have service contracts under which The Companies Act 2006 requires the three-year strategic plan.
12 months notice is required by both the Company to present a fair review of the GOING CONCERN STATEMENT Company and the Executive Director.
development and performance of the After making enquiries, the Directors have Groups business during the financial year a reasonable expectation that the Group and the position of the business at the end has adequate resources to continue its of that year.
This review is contained within operational existence for the foreseeable the Strategic Report on pages 06 to 53. future and for a period of at least 12 months The principal activities of the Group are from the date of this report.
Accordingly, described in the Strategic Report on pages the Board continues to adopt and consider 06 to 16. appropriate the going concern basis in FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies, including information on financial risks that materially impact the Group and financial instruments used by the Group if any, are disclosed in Note 29 to the Groups consolidated financial statements on pages 153 to 156.
74 OUR GOVERNANCE POWERS OF DIRECTORS COMPENSATION FOR LOSS OF OFFICE DIRECTORS INDEMNITY ARRANGEMENTS The general powers of the Directors set out The Company does not have arrangements Directors and officers of the Company are in Article 94 of the Articles provide that the with any Director that would provide entitled to be indemnified out of the assets business of the Company shall be managed compensation for loss of office or of the Company in respect of any liability by the Board which may exercise all the employment resulting from a takeover, incurred in relation to the Company or powers of the Company, subject to any except that provisions of the Companys any associate company, to the extent the limitations imposed by applicable legislation share plans may cause options and awards law allows.
In this regard, the Company is or the Articles.
The general powers of the granted under such plans to vest on a required to disclose that, under Article 212 Directors are also limited by any directions takeover.
Further information is provided of the Articles, the Directors have the benefit given by special resolution of the shareholders in the Directors Remuneration Report on of an indemnity, to the extent permitted by of the Company which are applicable on the pages 95 to 103. the Companies Act 2006, against liabilities date that any power is exercised.
incurred by them in the execution of their duties and exercise of their powers.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 75 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT This indemnity has been in place since the These authorities will expire at the Particulars of treasury share purchases are Companys application for listing on the Companys AGM to be held on 23 May also disclosed in Note 23 to the Groups London Stock Exchange on 28 March 2014 2019 and the Directors will be seeking a consolidated financial statements.
The Company has new authority to issue shares on a non Rights attaching to shares purchased and maintained throughout the pre-emptive basis up to 9,989.37.
In The rights attaching to the ordinary shares financial period Directors and Officers addition to this, the Directors will seek are summarised as: liability insurance.
authority to issue non pre-emptively for cash shares up to 9,989.37 representing } the ordinary shares rank equally for SHARE CAPITAL 9,989,375 ordinary shares or approximately voting purposes: As at 31 December 2018 the share capital 5% of the ordinary share capital for use } on a show of hands each shareholder of the Company was 199,999,862 ordinary only in connection with an acquisition or has one vote and on a poll each shares of 0.001 each, of which 221,211 specified capital investment, in accordance shareholder has one vote per ordinary ordinary shares were held in treasury.
Details with the Pre-Emption Group Statement of share held: of the Companys share capital are disclosed Principles as updated in March 2015. in Note 23 to the Groups consolidated } each ordinary share ranks equally for Excluding any shares issued in connection financial statements on pages 146 and 147. any dividend declared: with an acquisition or specified capital } each ordinary share ranks equally for Authority of the Directors to allot shares investment as described above, the Directors any distributions made on a winding-up The Company passed a resolution at the do not intend to issue more than 7.5% of of the Company: AGM held on 23 May 2018 authorising the the issued share capital on a non pre-emptive } each ordinary share ranks equally in the Directors to allot ordinary shares up to an basis in any rolling three-year period.
right to receive a relative proportion of aggregate nominal amount of 133,145.86 Purchase of own shares by the Company shares in the event of a capitalisation of representing approximately two-thirds of A special resolution was passed at the AGM reserves: the ordinary share capital.
No shares have held on 23 May 2018 granting the Directors been issued under this authority. }
the ordinary shares are freely the authority to make market purchases up transferable: and This authority will expire at the Companys to 29,937,847 ordinary shares with a total } no ordinary shares carry any special AGM to be held on 23 May 2019 and the nominal value of 29,937.85, representing rights with regard to control of the Directors will be seeking a new authority approximately 14.99% of the Companys Company and there are no restrictions to allot shares, to ensure that the Directors issued ordinary share capital.
continue to have the flexibility to act in The authority to make market purchases will AMENDMENT TO THE the best interests of shareholders, when COMPANYS ARTICLES expire at the Companys AGM to be held opportunities arise, by issuing new shares.
on 23 May 2019 and the Directors will be There are no current plans to issue new The Company may alter its Articles by special seeking a new authority to make market shares except in connection with employee resolution passed at a general meeting of purchases up to 14.99% of the Companys share schemes.
issued ordinary share capital, which will Issue of shares POLITICAL DONATIONS only be exercised if the market and financial A special resolution was passed at the The Group made no political donations conditions make it advantageous to do so.
AGM held on 23 May 2018 granting the during the year.
Further details are set out in the explanatory Directors the authority to issue shares on notes on pages 05 to 06 of the Notice GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS a non pre-emptive basis up to 9,985.93 convening the AGM.
Information on the Groups greenhouse gas representing 9,985,939 ordinary shares emissions is set out in the Supporting our or approximately 5% of the ordinary share Sustainable Journey on pages 50 to 53 and capital.
No shares have been issued under forms part of this Report by reference.
A special resolution was also passed granting the Directors the authority to issue shares on a non pre-emptive basis in respect of an additional 5% of the ordinary share capital in connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment.
No shares have been issued under this authority.
76 OUR GOVERNANCE FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS WITHIN RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS EMPLOYEES THE GROUP An interim dividend totalling 3.7 pence The Companys policies in relation to the The Strategic Report contains details of likely per share was paid on 21 September employment of disabled persons and gender future developments within the Group.
2018, reflecting the continued strong breakdown and employee involvement are The Groups research and development cash generation of the Group.
The Board included in the Supporting our Sustainable costs are disclosed in Note 6 to the Groups recommends a final dividend of 7.9 pence Journey on pages 50 to 53. consolidated financial statements on per share.
Shareholders will be asked to page 133. approve the final dividend at the AGM on 23 May 2019, for payment on 29 May 2019 OVERSEAS OPERATIONS to shareholders whose names appear on the As explained in the Strategic Report, the register on 23 April 2019.
Group operates in the UK, France, Italy, the Netherlands and the United Arab Emirates.
Total ordinary dividends paid and proposed for the year amount to 11.6 pence per share POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS or a total return to shareholders of 23.1m.
There have been no significant post balance sheet events to report.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Board has carried out a robust assessment of our current key risks and these are summarised in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section of the Strategic Report on pages 42 to 49.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 77 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS As at 31 December 2018 and 19 March 2019 the Company was aware of the following interests in voting rights representing 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
This information was correct at the date of notification.
It should be noted that these holdings may have changed since they were notified to the Company.
However, notification of any change is not required until the next applicable threshold is crossed.
AUDITOR REQUIREMENTS OF THE LISTING RULES A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP Apart from the details of any long-term as the Companys external auditor and to incentive scheme as required by Listing Rule authorise the Directors to fix the auditors 9.4.
R, which is disclosed in the Directors remuneration will be proposed at the Remuneration Report on pages 95 to 103, 2019 AGM.
disclosure of the information listed in Listing Rule 9.8.
DIRECTORS STATEMENT OF DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITOR ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Each of the Directors has confirmed that as The 2019 AGM will be held on 23 May at the date of this report: 2019 at the Holiday Inn, High Road, Doncaster, DN4 9UX.
A full description of } So far as each Director is aware, there is the business to be conducted at the meeting no relevant audit information of which is set out in the separate Notice of AGM.
the Companys auditor is unaware: and By order of the Board. }
The Directors have taken all reasonable steps that they ought to have taken as Emma Versluys Directors in order to make themselves Company Secretary aware of any relevant audit information 19 March 2019 and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
