POLYPIPES VALUE CREATION MODEL PRODUCTION OF PIPE AND FITTINGS SERVES AS A FOUNDATION FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE GROUPS SOLUTIONS.
The evolution of Polypipes commercial proposition over the years reflects the Companys new product development strategy, to deliver value-engineered solutions for customers, while generating incremental profitability and maintaining commercial competitiveness and market leadership.
Value Data driven monitoring and control SMART SOLUTIONS for optimised system performance Bespoke one-off designs, prefab, ENGINEERED SOLUTIONS UFH, ventilation systems PIPING SYSTEMS Pusht plumbing, ventilation and ducting DISCRETE PRODUCTS Pipe and ttings Proximity to customers 1980s: DISCRETE PRODUCTS 2000s: ENGINEERED SOLUTIONS TODAY: SMART TECHNOLOGIES In the 1980s Polypipes offer was largely Later, this evolution continued with This evolution is continuing through the a basic product offer of discrete lengths large diameter pipe solutions for water development of smart technologies, to bring of pipe and fittings sold through the attenuation, leading to the development of together the optimised performance of merchant distribution channel, which over the Polystorm geocellular range, designed to underfloor heating systems with ventilation the years has become commoditised and provide retention, attenuation or infiltration systems, for the convenience and comfort more difficult to differentiate.
Adoption of stormwater runoff at a range of burial of the building occupants.
Latterly, with of kitemarks and continued investment depths.
Polystorm is suited to deeper burial the deployment of Permavoid-based in manufacturing efficiency over this time depths and can accommodate a wide range solutions for blue-green roofs for example, has retained a competitive position for of traffic loadings, from pedestrianised Polypipe is introducing effective Sustainable these products.
Further investment in areas to large HGV parks.
As a proposition, Drainage Systems SuDS solutions that new products and differentiated features it is taken to market as bespoke one-off incorporate green infrastructure designed continues today, which helps support designs, engineered according to the to deliver multifunctional benefits such the Polypipe brand as the leading UK particular design characteristics for each as rooftop amenity and the cooling of manufacturer of these discrete products.
project, such as soil conditions, flood urban environments.
Throughout this intensity requirements and flow versus evolution, Polypipe has encountered new 1990s: PIPING SYSTEMS retention requirements, among many competitors, but through its progressive In the mid-1990s, this proposition evolved other parameters.
Working closely with market reach, and managing these activities to combine these discrete products into end customers and specifying engineers and manufacturing in-house, Polypipe performance systems, such as pushfit in this way helps to generate pull-through generates incremental profitability while plumbing, for example.
Through developing demand for Polypipes solutions through the maintaining commercial competitiveness an intimate understanding of the distribution channel.
This collective requirements of end customers and installers learning and track record forms the basis plumbers in this case in 1998 Polypipe of a set of competencies across the Group, launched the very successful range of nonwhich position Polypipe well for future demountable grey fittings, Polyplumb, which development in the UK and further afield.
has since become an industry standard system offer in the UK.
16 OUR STRATEGIC REPORT CASE STUDY BioCote technology trap Permavoid-based solutions Permavoid is a modular interlocking polypropylene void-former.
It was originally designed as a high-strength, lightweight subbase replacement system, but as an integral part of the regeneration works in the Netherlands city of Heerlen, the Waste traps relaunched Maanplein Project award-winning Maanplein Project is a showpiece for the possibilities BioCote antimicrobial technology added to all traps Polypipe of modern construction.
From what was a dull, uninspiring was the first to market with this technology.
transport hub, the project now brings together a Green  landscape, due to the incorporation of By incorporating BioCote antimicrobial technology, Polypipe Permavoid technology.
has endeavoured to bring additional features and benefits, as a source of differentiation, by officially launching the worlds Situated at roof level, the innovative raised deck design of the first antimicrobial range of traps, connectors and waste pipes.
crescent-shaped Maanplein, or Moon Square, is enhanced with trees and walkways designed to provide shade, cooling and By partnering with BioCote, Polypipe has extended its a pleasant, interesting and relaxing place which people can offering far beyond what is currently available on the market enjoy while benefiting from a system that stores and reuses incorporating permanent, in-built protection from bacteria.
Polypipes Permavoid geocellular system These microbes not only present a potential health hazard, but was installed beneath permeable pavements, with additional they can also impact the performance of the piping by causing Permavoid units to create grass-covered mounds for the trees to bad odours and impairing water flow.
flourish, allowing natural drainage through the trees roots as part of a planted drainage system.
The Permavoid units include } This is the only traps range on the market to be capillary cones, which provide the trees with important nutrients Kitemark accredited.
and water, which in turn provide natural irrigation without the } New Fit-Rite technology for simple fitting and removability.
use of pumps, hoses, or energy: just like nature.
New and improved finned seal for ease of installation.
Read more on our Value Creation Model Engineered } Contains BioCote antimicrobial technology to Solutions on page 16 combat odours. }
Exclusively endorsed product by Help for Heroes For the renovation of the roof of Polypipes offices in Aylesford, Registered Charity Number 1120920.
Kent, we took advantage of the opportunity to design and Read more on our Value Creation Model Discrete develop a new, intelligent water management system for Products on page 16 a healthy Blue-Green roof.
Controlled and monitored remotely online via a smartphone, tablet, or computer, the Cloud Water } This is an example of our investment in our core products Control System combines monitoring sensors, remote valve range: to bring differentiated features and benefits to operation technologies and cloud computing software to market, and to maintain our market leadership in provide adaptive irrigation, creating the ideal conditions for plant a product area which is otherwise broadly commoditised.
life, while maximising water usage efficiency. }
Targeted at the Residential sector, both new build and Using Permavoids capillary cones which draw water upwards RM&I: but also intended to provide the merchant with and are unique to Polypipe geocellular systems stored something new and interesting to publicise in the rainwater irrigates the Green roof, while sensors within the cells plumbing aisle.
If a pre-determined low setpoint is reached, the system will open a solenoid valve to add water from the rainwater recovery tank until the correct level is reached.
Read more on our Value Creation Model Smart Solutions on page 16 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 17 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC
