OUR STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGY IN ACTION Location: Client: Fitzpatrick Mechanical Services 10 Fenchurch Avenue Application: Above-ground drainage Product: Terrain FUZE HDPE The Project It is also available in longer lengths, which require less jointing once Polypipe supplies drainage solution to new on-site.
Terrain FUZE HDPE enabled installer Fitzpatrick Mechanical 150m London landmark Services to negotiate the constraints of the buildings unique Polypipe, the UKs leading plastic piping manufacturer, has supplied design by cutting and butt welding fittings to create customised a water management system to one of Londons most recognisable angled pipes, which improved the aesthetics of the installation.
Furthermore, the use of butt welding minimised the need for couplings, significantly reducing the amount of materials stored The Group provided its Terrain FUZE HDPE plastic drainage solution on-site.
Fabricated drainage stacks, meanwhile, also enabled to the 150m 10 Fenchurch Avenue tower in the City Fitzpatrick Mechanical Services to make floats and sections of stacks of London.
during on-site delays, which resulted in a more efficient installation.
The 15-storey, 420,000 sq ft mixed-use property, which was designed by the award-winning Eric Parry Architects, will have a crown-shaped landscaped roof garden, complete with a restaurant, pergola canopies, water feature, a range of climbing and hanging plants, and walking and seating areas.
The vast complex replaces six buildings, which were demolished throughout 2014 and 2015.
Once completed, the facility will house office and retail units.
Having delivered drainage systems to tall buildings for more than 50 years, the Polypipe Terrain team was able to design and deliver an engineered solution to significantly reduce installation time and labour on-site.
The Terrain FUZE HDPE plastic involved is easy Made of high-density polyethylene, Terrain FUZE HDPE weighs less to install, durable and light in weight, which is than systems manufactured using materials such as copper.
perfect for our construction sites.
Lee Rouvray, Contracts Director at Fitzpatrick Mechanical Services ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 21 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC
