REMUNERATION POLICY This part of the report sets out the Directors } Reward delivery of the Companys } Performance-related pay, based on Remuneration Policy Remuneration Policy business plan and our key strategic and stretching targets, will form a significant which was approved by shareholders at the operational goals.
2018 AGM and applies to payments made } Motivate and retain our industry leading } There will be an appropriate balance from that date.
The information provided in employees.
between rewards for delivery of shortthis section of the Directors Remuneration term and longer-term performance } Attract high quality individuals to join Report is not subject to audit.
targets taking into account, where the Company.
POLICY TABLE } Align our employees interests with the interests of shareholders and other The following table sets out details of external stakeholders.
each component of the Executive Director remuneration package.
Our aim is to provide Consistent with these aims, the Committee pay packages that will: has agreed a remuneration policy for Executive Directors, whereby: } Promote the long-term success of the Company. }
Salaries will be set at competitive, but not excessive, levels compared to peers } Encourage and support a high and other companies of an equivalent performance culture.
84 OUR REMUNERATION EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Performance conditions and Purpose and link to provisions for recovery of 1 strategy Operation Maximum opportunity sums paid Fixed pay Base salary Generally reviewed annually with any No absolute maximum has been set for No performance conditions.
increase normally taking effect from 1 Executive Director base salaries.
Current To appropriately recognise Malus and clawback provisions do January although the Committee may Executive Director salaries are set out skills, experience and not apply.
award increases at other times of the in the Annual Report on Remuneration responsibilities and attract year if it considers it appropriate.
section of this Remuneration Report.
and retain talent by ensuring salaries are market The review takes into consideration a Any annual increase in salaries is at the competitive.
number of factors, including but not discretion of the Committee taking into limited to : account the factors stated in this table and the following principles: } The individual Directors role, experience and performance. }
Salaries would typically be increased at a rate consistent with } Business performance.
the average salary increase for UK } Market data for comparable roles employees.
Larger increases may be } Pay and conditions elsewhere in considered appropriate in certain the Group.
circumstances including, but not limited to, a change in an individuals responsibilities or in the scale of their role or in the size and complexity of the Group. }
Larger increases may also be considered appropriate if a Director has been initially appointed to their position on the Board at a lower than typical salary.
Read about our Strategy on pages 18 to 21 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 85 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC REMUNERATION POLICY Performance conditions and Purpose and link to provisions for recovery of 1 strategy Operation Maximum opportunity sums paid Fixed pay Benefits Benefits currently include company car There is no overall maximum as the No performance conditions.
or car allowance, income protection level of benefits depends on the annual To provide marketMalus and clawback provisions do insurance, private family medical cost of providing individual items in competitive benefits.
insurance, permanent health insurance the relevant local market and the and life assurance of four times annual individuals specific role.
The Committee has discretion to add to or remove benefits provided to Executive Directors.
Executive Directors are entitled to reimbursement of reasonable expenses.
Executive Directors also have the benefit of a qualifying third party indemnity from the Company as well as Directors and Officers liability insurance.
Pension Current policy is for the Company Executive Directors receive a pensionNo performance conditions.
to contribute to the Group Pension related contribution of up to 15% of To provide marketMalus and clawback provisions do Plan, a personal pension scheme and salary, reduced from 20% under the competitive retirement not apply.
or provide a cash allowance in lieu of previous policy.
86 OUR REMUNERATION Performance conditions and Purpose and link to provisions for recovery of 1 strategy Operation Maximum opportunity sums paid Variable pay 2, 3 Annual bonus The Executive Directors are participants The maximum award that can be made The bonus is based on performance in the annual bonus plan which is to an Executive Director under the assessed over one year using To link reward to key financial reviewed annually to ensure that bonus annual bonus plan is 125% of salary.
appropriate financial, operational and operational targets for opportunity, performance measures and individual performance the forthcoming year.
and targets are appropriate and measures.
supportive of the business plan.
Additional alignment with The majority of the bonus will be shareholders interests No more than 75% of an Executive determined by measures of Group through the operation of Directors annual bonus is delivered in financial performance.
cash following the release of audited A sliding scale of targets is set for results and the remaining amount is each Group financial measure with deferred into an award over Company payout at no more than 25% for shares under the Deferred Share threshold financial performance Bonus Plan.
increasing to 100% for maximum } Deferred awards are usually performance.
granted in the form of conditional The remainder of the bonus will share awards or nil-cost options be based on financial, strategic or and may also be settled in cash.
operational measures appropriate to } Deferred awards usually vest in the individual Executive Director.
two equal tranches two and three Details of the bonus measures years after award although may operating each year will be included vest early on leaving employment in the relevant Annual Report on or on a change of control see later Remuneration.
is ultimately at the discretion of the } An additional payment in the Committee.
form of cash or shares may be made in respect of shares which The cash bonus will be subject to vest under deferred awards to recovery and or deferred shares reflect the value of dividends will be subject to withholding which would have been paid at the Committees discretion in on those shares during the exceptional circumstances where, vesting period this payment may within three years of the bonus assume that dividends had been determination or before the reinvested in Company shares on a vesting of each tranche of deferred cumulative basis.
shares, a material misstatement or miscalculation comes to light which resulted in an overpayment under the annual bonus plan or if evidence comes to light of material misconduct by an individual or if evidence emerges of a material health and safety breach.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 87 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC REMUNERATION POLICY Performance conditions and Purpose and link to provisions for recovery of 1 strategy Operation Maximum opportunity sums paid Variable pay Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards are usually granted annually The maximum annual award permitted All LTIP awards granted to Executive 3, 4 LTIP under the LTIP to selected senior under the LTIP is shares with a Directors must be subject to a executives.
market value as determined by the performance condition.
To link reward to key Committee of 200% of salary.
strategic and business targets Individual award levels and Vesting of Executive Directors LTIP for the longer term and to performance conditions on which Each year the Committee determines awards would be dependent on align Executive Directors vesting will be dependent are reviewed the actual award level for individual measures which could include Group interests with shareholders annually by the Committee.
senior executives within this limit.
earnings, return on capital employed interests.
and total shareholder return with Awards may be granted as conditional the precise measures and weighting awards of shares, nil-cost options of the measures determined by the or, if appropriate, as cash-settled Committee ahead of each award.
Performance will usually be Awards normally vest or become measured over a performance period exercisable at the end of a period of of at least three years.
For achieving at least three years following grant a threshold level of performance although may vest early on leaving against a performance measure, employment or on a change of control no more than 25% of the portion see later sections.
The Committee of the LTIP award determined by has flexibility at its discretion to add that measure will vest.
Vesting an additional holding period after a then increases on a sliding scale to performance period before awards vest.
100% for achieving a maximum performance target.
An additional payment in the form of cash or shares may be made in respect LTIP awards will be subject of shares which vest under LTIP awards to withholding or recovery at to reflect the value of dividends which the Committees discretion in would have been paid on those shares exceptional circumstances where, during the vesting period this payment before the later of the vesting of an may assume that dividends had been award and the second anniversary reinvested in Company shares on a of the end of the performance cumulative basis.
period, a material misstatement or miscalculation comes to light or if evidence comes to light of material misconduct by an individual or if evidence emerges of a material health and safety breach.
3 UK tax-approved monthly savings Monthly savings limit of 500 or The Sharesave Plan is structured Sharesave Plan scheme facilitating the purchase of such other limit as may be approved in accordance with HMRC To create staff alignment shares through share options at a from time to time by HMRC under all requirements so has no performance with the Group and promote discounted exercise price by all eligible savings contracts held by an individual.
conditions but requires participants a sense of ownership.
to make regular contributions into a savings contract.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate on the same basis as other Malus and clawback provisions do UK employees.
Share Ownership Executive Directors have been required Following a review by the Committee in Not applicable.
Guidelines to build and maintain a shareholding 2017, the required level was increased as a percentage of salary in the form from 100% to 200% of salary with To create alignment between of shares in the Company since effect from 2018. the long-term interests of Admission.
Executive Directors are expected to achieve the shareholding requirement within five years of an individual becoming subject to the requirement.
88 OUR REMUNERATION Notes to table: 1.
The Committee may amend or substitute any performance condition s if one or more events occur which cause it to determine that an amended or substituted performance condition would be more appropriate, provided that any such amended or substituted performance condition would not be materially less difficult to satisfy than the original condition in its opinion.
The Committee may also adjust the calculation of performance targets and vesting outcomes for instance for material acquisitions, disposals or investments and events not foreseen at the time the targets were set to ensure they remain a fair reflection of performance over the relevant period.
In the event that the Committee was to make an adjustment of this sort, a full explanation would be provided in the next Directors Remuneration Report.
The annual bonus measures are reviewed annually and chosen to focus executive rewards on delivery of key financial targets for the forthcoming year as well as key strategic or operational goals relevant to an individual.
Specific targets for bonus measures are set at the start of each year by the Committee based on a range of relevant reference points, including, for Group financial targets, the Groups business plan and are designed to be appropriately stretching.
The Committee may: a in the event of a variation of the Companys share capital, demerger, special dividend or dividend in specie or any other corporate event which it reasonably determines justifies such an adjustment, adjust: and b amend the terms of awards granted under the share schemes referred to above in accordance with the rules of the relevant plans.
Share awards may be settled by the issue of new shares or by the transfer of existing shares.
In line with prevailing best practice at the time this Remuneration Policy is approved, any issuance of new shares is limited to 5% of share capital over a rolling ten-year period in relation to discretionary employee share schemes and 10% of share capital over a rolling ten-year period in relation to all employee share schemes.
The LTIP performance measures will be chosen to provide alignment with our longer-term strategy of growing the business in a sustainable manner that will be in the best interests of shareholders and other key stakeholders in the Company.
Use of earnings and return on capital employed measures would reward management for delivery of key financial measures of Company success that should result in sustainable value creation.
Use of a total shareholder return measure would align managements interests with the interests of our shareholders.
Targets are considered ahead of each grant of LTIP awards by the Committee, taking into account relevant external and internal reference points and are designed to be appropriately stretching.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and or payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the 2015 AGM the date the Companys first shareholder-approved Directors Remuneration Policy came into effect : ii before the policy set out above came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder approved Remuneration Policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
The Committee may make minor amendments to the Remuneration Policy for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation, without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Non-Executive Director NED fees comprise payment of an annual basic fee and Fees are set at an appropriate level that is market NED fees additional fees for further Board responsibilities such as: competitive and reflective of the responsibilities and time commitment associated with specific roles. }
Senior Independent Director To appropriately recognise } Chair of Audit Committee responsibilities, skills and No absolute maximum has been set for individual NED experience by ensuring fees } Chair of Remuneration Committee fees.
Current fee levels are set out in the Annual Report on are market competitive.
Remuneration section of this Remuneration Report.
The Chairman of the Board receives an all-inclusive fee.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that the total No NED participates in the Groups incentive arrangements aggregate fees paid to the Chairman and NEDs will not or pension plan or receives any other benefits other exceed 600,000 per annum.
than where travel to the Companys registered office is recognised as a taxable benefit in which case a NED may receive the grossed-up costs of travel as a benefit.
NEDs are entitled to reimbursement of reasonable expenses.
NEDs also have the benefit of a qualifying third party indemnity from the Company and Directors and Officers liability insurance.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 89 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC REMUNERATION POLICY ILLUSTRATIONS OF APPLICATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY The Implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2019 section of the Annual Report on Remuneration details how the Committee intends to implement the Remuneration Policy during 2019.
The charts below illustrate, in three assumed performance scenarios, the total value of the remuneration package potentially receivable by Martin Payne, Paul James and Glen Sabin in relation to 2019.
This comprises salary and benefits plus an annual bonus of up to a maximum of 125% of salary for Martin Payne and 100% of salary for Glen Sabin and Paul James and an LTIP award of 125% of salary for Martin Payne and 100% of salary for Glen Sabin and Paul James.
The charts are for illustrative purposes only and actual outcomes may differ from that shown.
LTIP awards have been shown at face value, with no share price growth or discount rate assumptions.
All-employee share plans have been excluded.
The totals shown in the charts relate to the potential value receivable by the current Executive Directors in relation to 2019.
POTENTIAL REMUNERATION OUTCOMES FOR THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS MARTIN PAYNE PAUL JAMES GLEN SABIN 1,800,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,688,700 930,194 918,666 900,000 900,000 1,600,000 34% 800,000 800,000 1,400,000 31% 31% 700,000 700,000 1,200,000 638,069 631,153 1,116,200 600,000 600,000 1,000,000 23% 23% 26% 500,000 500,000 34% 31% 31% 800,000 400,000 400,000 345,944 23% 343,640 23% 26% 600,000 543,700 300,000 300,000 400,000 200,000 200,000 % % % 100% 54% 38% 100% 54% 38% 200,000 100% 48% 32% 100,000 100,000 0 0 0 Minimum On target Maximum Minimum On target Maximum Minimum On target Maximum Fixed Pay Annual Bonus Long-Term Incentive Plan Assumed performance Assumptions used All performance scenarios Fixed pay } Base salary salary effective as at 1 January 2019 } Benefits the value of benefits received in 2018 have been included Consists of total fixed pay, including base salary, benefits and pension } Pension 15% of salary Minimum performance Variable pay } No pay-out under the annual bonus } No vesting under the LTIP Performance in line with expectations Variable pay } 50% of the maximum pay-out under the annual bonus } 50% vesting under the LTIP Maximum performance Variable pay } 100% of the maximum pay-out under the annual bonus } 100% vesting under the LTIP 90 OUR REMUNERATION APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT Maximum level of variable pay The Committee would seek to structure REMUNERATION buyout and variable pay awards on The maximum level of variable remuneration Principles recruitment to be in line with the Companys which may be granted to new Executive remuneration framework so far as practical In determining remuneration arrangements Directors in respect of recruitment shall be but, if necessary, the Committee may for new appointments to the Board limited to the maximum permitted under also grant such awards outside of that including internal promotions, the the Remuneration Policy, namely 325% of framework as permitted under Listing Rule Committee will apply the following their annual salary.
2 subject to the limits on variable pay principles: payments or awards that may be made to set out above.
The exact terms of any such buy out the Executive Director for terms, } The Committee will take into awards e. g. the form of the award, time awards or other compensation forfeited from consideration all relevant factors, frame, performance conditions, and leaver their previous employer discussed below.
including the experience of the provisions would vary depending upon the Buyouts individual, market data and existing specific commercial circumstances.
arrangements for other Executive To facilitate recruitment, the Committee Recruitment of Non-Executive Directors Directors, with a view that any may make a one-off award to buy out In the event of the appointment of a new arrangements should be in the best compensation arrangements forfeited on Non-Executive Director, remuneration interests of both the Company and our leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, arrangements will normally be in line with shareholders, without paying more than the Committee will take account of all the Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive is necessary.
relevant factors, including any performance Directors.
However, the Committee or conditions attached to incentive awards, the } Typically, the new appointment will the Board as appropriate may include any likelihood of those conditions being met, have or be transitioned onto the same element within the Remuneration Policy, or the proportion of the vesting performance remuneration structure as the other any other element which the Committee period remaining and the form of the award Executive Directors, in line with the considers is appropriate given the particular e. g. cash or shares.
The overriding principle Remuneration Policy.
circumstances, with due regard to the best will be that any buyout award should be } Upon appointment, the Committee may interests of shareholders.
In particular, if of comparable commercial value to the consider it appropriate to offer additional the Chairman or a Non-Executive Director compensation which has been forfeited.
remuneration arrangements in order to takes on an executive function on a shortHowever, such buyout awards would only secure the appointment.
In particular, the term basis, they would be able to receive be considered where there is a strong Committee may consider it appropriate any of the standard elements of Executive commercial rationale to do so.
to buy out terms or remuneration Director pay.
arrangements forfeited on leaving a Components and approach previous employer discussed below.
The remuneration package offered to new } The Committee may provide costs and appointments may include any element support if the recruitment requires within the Remuneration Policy, or any relocation of the individual.
other element which the Committee } Where an Executive Director is an considers is appropriate given the particular internal promotion, the normal policy circumstances, with due regard to the best of the Company is that any legacy interests of shareholders, subject to the arrangements would be honoured limits on variable pay set out above.
in line with the original terms and In considering which elements to include, conditions.
Similarly, if an Executive and in determining the approach for all Director is appointed following the relevant elements, the Committee will Companys acquisition of or merger with take into account a number of different another company, legacy terms and factors, including but not limited to market conditions would be honoured.
practice, existing arrangements for other Executive Directors and internal relativities.
If appropriate, different measures and targets may be applied to a new appointees annual bonus in their year of joining.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 91 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC REMUNERATION POLICY SERVICE CONTRACTS Key terms of the current Executive Directors service agreements and Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are summarised in the table below.
It is envisaged that any future appointments would have equivalent contractual arrangements unless otherwise stated in this Report.
Provision Policy Notice period Executive Directors 12 months notice by either the Company or the Executive Director.
Non-Executive Directors at the Companys discretion, Non-Executive Directors may have a notice period of up to three months.
The Non-Executive Directors do not have a notice period in their letters of appointment.
Termination payment Following the serving of notice by either party, the Company may terminate employment of an Executive Director with immediate effect by paying a sum equal to salary.
Executive Directors are not contractually entitled to any bonus for the period of service in the year in which their employment ends.
Non-Executive Directors are only entitled to receive any fee accruing in respect of the period up to termination.
Expiry date Executive Directors have rolling 12-month notice periods so have no fixed expiry date.
Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment have no fixed expiry date.
In accordance with the Code, each Director at its discretion, take into account LTIP will retire annually and put themselves performance up to the date of cessation } On cessation of employment, unvested forward for re-election at each AGM of the or over the financial year as a whole awards will lapse unless cessation is Company.
based on appropriate performance as a result of death, ill health, injury, measures as determined by the disability, transfer of employing All Executive Directors service agreements Committee.
company or business to which an and Non-Executive Directors letters of } The treatment of outstanding share individuals employment relates out appointment are available for inspection awards is governed by the relevant share of the Group or any other scenario in at the Companys registered office at plan rules as summarised below.
which the Committee determines at its Broomhouse Lane, Edlington, Doncaster, discretion that good leaver treatment is South Yorkshire, DN12 1ES.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan appropriate other than circumstances } On cessation of employment, unvested justifying summary dismissal.
In these POLICY ON PAYMENT FOR LOSS shares will vest in full unless the OF OFFICE scenarios, unvested awards will usually Committee determines otherwise.
continue until the normal vesting date In relation to payments under nonunless the Committee determines that contractual incentive schemes, the } On a change of control, unvested shares the award should vest earlier and will Committee would take the following factors will vest in full.
vest to an extent that takes into account into account: } If other corporate events occur such as the performance condition assessed a demerger, delisting, special dividend, } The Committee may determine that the at the date of vesting and, unless the voluntary winding-up or other event Executive Director is eligible to receive Committee determines otherwise, to which in the opinion of the Committee a bonus in respect of the financial an extent that takes into account the may affect the current or future value year in which they cease employment.
period of time between grant of the of shares, the Committee will determine This bonus would usually be time award and cessation of employment.
whether unvested shares should vest.
apportioned and may be settled wholly in cash.
In determining the level of bonus to be paid, the Committee may, 92 OUR REMUNERATION } On a change of control, unvested LTIP CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYMENT CONSIDERATION OF CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE GROUP SHAREHOLDERS VIEWS awards will vest immediately to an extent that takes into account the performance The Committee does not formally consult The Company is mindful of general investor condition assessed at the change of with employees when determining Executive views on certain aspects of remuneration, control and, unless the Committee Director pay.
However, the Committee is and continues to take these views into determines otherwise, to an extent that kept informed of general management account, where appropriate, when setting takes into account the period of time decisions made in relation to employee Executive Director remuneration.
The between grant of the award and the pay and is conscious of the importance of Committee Chair is available to meet with change of control.
If other corporate ensuring that its pay decisions for Executive any shareholders who wish to discuss any events occur such as a demerger, Directors and the senior management aspect of the Companys remuneration delisting, special dividend, voluntary team are regarded as fair and reasonable policy in more detail.
The last formal winding-up or other event which in the within the business.
As outlined in the consultation with the top 20 shareholders opinion of the Committee may affect Remuneration Policy table, pay and and the shareholder advisory bodies was the current or future value of shares, conditions in the Group are one of the carried out in 2017 and the feedback the Committee will determine whether specific considerations taken into account received from those that responded unvested LTIP awards should vest.
If when the Committee is considering changes was generally supportive.
Following the they do vest, they will vest immediately in salaries for the Executive Directors and the change in Chairmanship of the Committee to an extent that takes into account senior management team.
during 2019, it is our intention to offer the performance condition assessed at shareholders the opportunity to meet with DIFFERENCES IN POLICY FROM BROADER the date of the event and, unless the the new Chair during 2019.
EMPLOYEE POPULATION Committee determines otherwise, to an A greater proportion of Executive Directors extent that takes into account the period potential wealth is at risk, either through of time between grant of the award and their existing shareholding or through LTIP the date of the event.
awards than for our employees generally Sharesave Plan and a greater proportion determined by performance than for our employees } Options become exercisable immediately generally.
However, common principles on death, ceasing employment due to underlie the pay policy throughout the injury, disability, retirement, redundancy, Company including for the Executive sale of the employing company or Directors.
In particular, we place great business to which an individuals emphasis throughout the Company on employment relates out of the Group reward being linked to performance or on a change of control voluntary either Group performance or performance winding-up of the Company.
of an individuals business unit and on The Committee reserves the right to make encouraging share ownership through any other payments in connection with a participation in the LTIP or an all-employee Directors cessation of office or employment share scheme.
where the payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of a compromise or settlement of any claim arising in connection with the cessation of a Directors office or employment.
Any such payments may include but are not limited to paying any fees for outplacement assistance and or the Directors legal and or professional advice fees in connection with his her cessation of office or employment.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 93 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC
