Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 54 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 INVESTMENT TEAM BEN ROGOFF NICK EVANS FATIMA IU Director, Technology Senior Fund Manager Fund Manager Ben joined Polar Capital in 2003.
Nick joined Polar Capital in 2007.
Fatima joined Polar Capital in 2006.
Ben is the lead manager of Polar Nick has 20 years experience as a Fatima has 12 years experience.
She is Capital Technology Trust and is a fund technology specialist.
He has been lead a fund manager on the Polar Capital manager of the Polar Capital Global manager of the Polar Capital Global Technology Fund, Polar Capital Technology Fund and Polar Capital Technology Fund since January 2008 Technology Trust and Polar Capital Automation and Artificial Intelligence and is also a fund manager on the Polar Automation and Artificial Intelligence Fund.
Capital Technology Trust and Polar Fund.
Fatima is responsible for the Capital Automation and Artificial coverage of European Technology, Ben has been a technology specialist Intelligence Fund.
Global Security, Networking, Clean for 22 years.
Prior to joining Polar Energy and Medical Technology.
Capital, he began his career in fund Prior to joining Polar Nick was head of management at CMI, as a global technology at AXA Framlington and Prior to joining Polar, Fatima spent technology analyst.
He moved to lead manager of the AXA Framlington 18 months working at Citigroup Asset Aberdeen Fund Managers in 1998 Global Technology Fund and the AXA Management with a focus on consumer where he spent four years as a senior world fund AWF Global Technology products and pharmaceuticals.
Ben graduated from 2001 to 2007 both rated five stars holds an MSc in Medicinal Chemistry from St Catherines College, Oxford by S&P.
He also spent three years as a from Imperial College of Science & in 1995.
Pan-European investment manager and Technology in London.
She is also a technology analyst at Hill Samuel Asset CFA Charterholder.
Nick has a degree in Economics and Business Economics from Hull University, has completed all levels of the ASIP, and is a member of the CFA Institute.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 55 XUESONG ZHAO CHRIS WITTSTOCK PAUL JOHNSON BRADLEY REYNOLDS Fund Manager Senior Investment Analyst Investment Analyst Investment Analyst Xuesong joined Polar Capital Chris joined Polar Capital Paul joined Polar Capital Brad joined Polar Capital in 2012. in 2017. in 2012. in 2011.
Xuesong has 11 years Chris joined Polar as a senior Prior to joining Polar Capital Brad joined Polar Capital investment experience.
technology analyst based in Paul helped manage a as an Analyst and Trader He is a lead manager of the the US.
Prior to joining, Chris private investment fund working within the European Polar Capital Automation led the International between 2010 and 2012.
Market Neutral team with a and Artificial Intelligence research sales effort at focus on media and internet.
Paul holds a BA in History Fund and is a fund manager Pacific Crest, a technology In 2014, he joined the and Politics and a Masters on the Polar Capital investment bank that was Technology team as an in History from Keele Technology Trust and ultimately acquired by Investment Analyst.
Paul has Polar Capital Global KeyBanc Capital in 2014. successfully passed all three Prior to joining Polar, Brad TechnologyFund.
Prior to joining Pacific Crest levels of the CFA program.
worked at Ratio Asset in 2004, Chris led the Prior to joining Polar Capital, Management as an analyst International sales effort he spent four years working and trader, and from 2007 to at Schwab SoundView, the as an investment analyst 2011 he worked at F&C as a successor company to within the emerging markets hedge fund analyst.
Brad Soundview Technology Group & Asia team at Aviva started his career in 2001 where he was from 1996.
Investors, where he was at Gartmore Investment responsible for the Chris spent significant time Management working within technology, media and in Europe as a derivative the hedge fund team.
Prior to products specialist in the Brad graduated from the that, Xuesong worked as a late 80s and 90s, lastly with University of Hertfordshire quantitative analyst and risk Morgan Stanley with a degree in Business manager for the emerging International.
He is a Studies and has passed the market debt team at Pictet graduate of the University Level I examination of the Asset Management.
Xuesong of Toronto, Faculty of CFA Program.
holds an MSc in Finance Engineering Industrial.
from Imperial College of Science & Technology, a BA in Economics from Peking University and is also a CFA Charterholder.
