Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 08 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 CHAIRS STATEMENT Our Benchmark is the Dow Jones World Technology index total return, Sterling adjusted with relevant withholding taxes removed and this has driven returns over time.
The Polar Capital technology team, led by Ben Rogoff in respect of the Company, has delivered further returns by outperforming that Benchmark, both last year by 2.7% and this year by 5.6%.
The team is not hidebound by the Benchmark to mix metaphors but does pay some attention to it.
We have said to our shareholders that we will provide a broad technology exposure and, in what is a volatile sector, we seek to pay attention to risk both in Dear Shareholder absolute and relative terms.
Companies in this sector I am pleased to be reporting to you for the first time perform spectacularly well, from time to time, and as your Chair.
I would like to thank my predecessor, also perform spectacularly badly.
Obviously the team Michael Moule, for his contribution to your Company.
tries to pick the former group and avoid the latter, but His immense enthusiasm, investment knowledge and from time to time, the unexpected happens.
Hence curiosity make him a very hard act to follow.
I shall Ben Rogoffs approach is to run a reasonably do my best.
diversified portfolio with the aim of delivering good long-term outperformance but avoiding peaks and As Michael said last year, he was appointed in 2011 troughs in the shorter term.
Therefore, we are and presided over considerable growth in Polar Capital pleased to see relative outperformance over 5 and Technology since that point, fuelled by post crisis 10years.
Central Bank support and extraordinary change in and opportunities provided by the technology sector.
Part Ben describes the reasons for the teams of the role of a Chairs statement is to put the twelveoutperformance in detail in his report on pages 11 to month period of this report into context.
In broad terms, his long-term thesis, that cloud worth remembering that in the year to 30 April 2017, the computing would have a radical effect on the sector, net assets per share of your Company rose by just over has continued to prove correct.
One or two older 56.0%, despite considerable political surprise and companies and perhaps Microsoft is one have shown upheaval during that period.
signs of reinventing themselves but many spiral downwards and are not included in the portfolio.
The twelve months on which I now report seems almost muted by comparison: the net asset value per Looking in a bit more detail, the portfolio has share rose a further 22.7%, taking net assets per outperformed in all of its market capitalisation share to 1,159.69p and the net assets of your Company categories and almost all of its geographic regions.
The share price rose by almost as much, providing a return of 21.2%.
We are pleased, therefore, to be paying a performance fee this year, for the first time since 2011.
This reflects Shareholders may remember that a considerable part both good absolute returns without which a of 2016 17s return was due to the weakness of performance fee is not payable and an effective Sterling, following the result of the Brexit referendum.
long-term approach which has delivered This year, that weakness reversed to some extent outperformance for shareholders.
providing a headwind, and not a tailwind to returns.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 09 We do consider the performance fee and the In response to the arrival of what is called unbundling, Benchmark carefully.
The business model of Polar we negotiated with Polar that we would pay 50% of the Capital, which involves performance fees, has worked newly unbundled research costs for the calendar year well for shareholders and we do understand the ethos 2018, with a cap of USD$878,000 approximately of Polar Capital in managing the capacity constraints 637,000, in addition to our execution costs, which of their investment teams according to the markets Polar have also negotiated downwards.
The total cost and sectors in which they invest.
We regularly review of research for 2018 is estimated at $1.76m and has the overall fee structure including the performance been calculated based on prior years research consumption and revised, reduced cost rates with element with the next review due later this year.
REGULATION In connection with the contribution to research I had wondered perhaps too optimistically if this costs we have also put in a third tier on the basic section could be removed over time.
However, the management fee with effect from 1 January 2018. last year has thrown a few further curve balls into We will review these arrangements with Polar Capital our paths.
later in the year in the light of experience and the services being provided for the fees paid.
MiFID II: although if we were starting from here, I dont think anyone would set up the way client commission PRIIPS KIDS has been used for broker research for fund managers, Along with other investment trusts, we were required and the agency problem is real, the transition is less by our regulatory authorities to produce a new form straightforward for a trust which is competing for of Key Investor Document, which is available on the research and resources with investment vehicles Companys website.
We did at the time indicate that we in other regulatory regimes.
We expect, however, thought that this was perhaps not the only document change to continue on this front.
Our research and investors might consider when investing in the shares commission costs have been falling quite quickly and of the Company and made an announcement to that we have had detailed discussions with Polar over the effect.
In 2016 our commissions payable were 2.7m of which THE BOARD 1.8m was for research, in the year to April 2017 they We have appointed two new Directors to your Board: were 2.3m of which 1.5m was for research and, in Stephen White and Charles Park.
For the appointment the year to 30 April 2018, commissions were lower of both we used an external online-based Board level again at 2.1m of which 1.4m was for research.
Of the service and we are very pleased Stephen and Charles latter, 1.2m was prior to the implementation of MiFID agreed to join us.
Their biographical details are on II 1 May 2017-2 January 2018 and 0.2m was the page 53.
Stephen brings many years of direct direct cost for the four months from 3 January to 30 investment experience and considerable investment April 2018, this period reflects the new MiFID II trust expertise as well.
Charlie brings many years of regime.
From 30 April 2017, assets have risen by experience of looking at US company cashflows as he 23.9% from 1,252.5m to 1,551.6m.
puts it as well as considerable experience of starting and growing his own investment firm.
Brian AshfordRussell has decided to retire at the AGM, which will be an important milestone for the Company, after his great contribution to its foundation and development.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 10 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 CHAIRS STATEMENT CONTINUED The sector is itself volatile.
Technologies get AGM DETAILS superseded and in some instances the winners take We are pleased to confirm the AGM will this year all.
In addition, valuations for our preferred nonreturn to the Royal Automobile Club, Pall Mall, London legacy companies within the sector are not cheap, and will be held at 2.30pm on 6 September followed by and we have had extraordinary returns over the last tea.
I would encourage shareholders not to miss this two years.
Ben Rogoff, the investment manager, will give shareholders a presentation which provides insight However, market timing is a very unreliable source into the development and impact of new technologies of returns.
Our view is therefore that it is entirely on the Companys portfolio.
There will be ample possible that there will be some downturn in the opportunity to ask questions and to meet the Board, prices of the companies in which we invest although Ben and his team after the meeting.
A video of the we dont know when that might happen.
We have tried presentation will be placed on the Companys website to make sure that we avoid the riskiest companies shortly after the AGM.
The formal business of the within the sector, cash levels are a little higher than AGM is contained in a separate circular and also on usual and we have a small investment in put options to the website.
The purpose of this is to be able to take advantage of any set back to invest further into OUTLOOK those companies which our manager believes will take In the Managers Report, Ben Rogoff describes in advantage of the extraordinary opportunities provided detail his view of the long-term direction of the sector, by the technology sectors in the long term.
or sectors, in which Polar Capital Technology Trust invests.
He has been right about the radical impact of cloud computing on enterprise computing as well as Sarah Bates the development of big data and these trends have Chair underpinned the portfolio in recent years.
We expect these themes to continue and the disruption caused 17 July 2018 already by such trends not to diminish.
The companies at the forefront of these changes are doing well, demand seems robust and debt levels are generally low.
The speed with which dominant market shares are developed is to an extent alarming, and margins are substantial.
In many ways, its better to be invested in the disrupting than the disrupted and its the disruptors that are the focus of your Company.
