Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 02 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 ABOUT YOUR COMPANY OBJECTIVE BENCHMARK The investment objective is to maximise long-term The Company has a Benchmark of the Dow Jones capital growth through investing in a diversified World Technology Index total return, Sterling portfolio of technology companies around the world.
adjusted, with the removal of relevant withholding The investment policy is set out in full in the taxes against which Net Asset Value NAV StrategicReport on pages 37 and 38. performance is measured for the purpose of assessing performance fees.
RATIONALE While the Investment Manager is Benchmark aware in Over the last three decades the technology industry the construction of the portfolio, the team seeks to has been one of the most vibrant, dynamic and rapidly identify high growth companies which can result in a growing segments of the global economy.
Technology significant difference between the portfolio and the companies offer the potential for substantially faster Benchmark.
An analysis of the portfolio is set out on earnings growth than the broader market.
The full portfolio at 30 April 2018 is also available on the Companys website.
Technology may be defined as the application of scientific knowledge for practical purposes and GEARING technology companies are defined accordingly.
The Company may use gearing in the form of bank While this offers a very broad and dynamic investing loans which are used on a tactical basis by the universe and covers many different companies, the Investment Manager, when considered appropriate.
portfolio will be focused on companies which use The overall level of net gearing is agreed between technology or which develop and supply Polar Capital LLP as the Alternative Investment Fund technological solutions as a core part of their Manager AIFM and the Board.
The Board approves business models.
This includes areas as diverse as and controls all bank facilities and any net borrowings information, media, communications, environmental, over 20% of the Companys net assets at the time of healthcare, financial, e-commerce and renewable draw down will only be made after approval by energy, as well as the more obvious applications the Board.
such as computing and associatedindustries.
The Investment Managers use of derivatives is INVESTMENT APPROACH controlled by the Board in accordance with the Companys investment policy and any leverage from Stocks are selected for their potential shareholder the use of such derivatives will be subject to the returns, not on the basis of technology for its own restriction on gearing.
The Investment Manager believes in rigorous fundamental analysis and focuses on: DIVIDENDS management quality: The Company has not historically paid a dividend as the objective is capital growth.
the identification of new growth markets: the globalisation of major technology trends: MANAGEMENT exploiting international valuation anomalies: and The Company is led by an experienced Board of sector volatility.
Non-executive Directors with extensive knowledge of investment matters and the regulatory framework in CONTINUATION VOTE which such activity is undertaken.
The Directors have appointed various third party suppliers to provide a The shareholders have the opportunity to vote on the range of services including investment management, continuation of the Company in its current form every depositary and administrative services to the Company.
The next continuation vote will be held at the AGM in 2020.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 03 The role of the Board is to provide oversight of the WEBSITE Companys activities and to ensure the appropriate The Companys website can be found at financial resources and controls are in place to deliver www.
co. uk the investment objective and manage the risks associated with such activities.
Details of the Directors skills and It contains useful information on the Company relevant experience are given on pages 52 and 53. including stock exchange announcements, financial statements and other reports and notices, Polar Capital LLP has been the appointed Investment commentary by the portfolio manager and useful Manager and AIFM throughout the year.
Ben Rogoff, the links to third parties.
appointed portfolio manager, has been responsible for the Companys portfolio since 1May 2006 and is REGISTRAR supported by a team of technology specialists.
Details of Equiniti Limited the investment team are given on pages 54 and 55.
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA Polar Capital LLP is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
co. uk FEES The Company pays both a tiered basic management Shareholders who have their shares registered in fee and a performance fee, details of which are set out their own name, not through a share savings scheme in the Strategic Report on pages 45 and 46. or ISA, can contact the registrars with any queries on their holding.
Post, telephone and Internet contact SHARE PRICE AND details are given above.
NET ASSET VALUE In correspondence you should refer to Polar Capital Information on the Company including Monthly Technology Trust plc, stating clearly the registered Factsheets, the NAV and share price can be found on name and address and, if available the full the Companys website.
The Companys NAV, is accountnumber.
released on the next working day following the calculation date, to the London Stock Exchange.
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS Share price information is also available from The London Stock Exchange Website www.
If you hold your shares in your own name you can londonstockexchange.
choose to receive communications from the Company LN, Datastream PCT, Lipper 71000395 and Reuters in electronic format.
This method reduces costs, is PCT.
L. environmentally friendly and, for many, is convenient.
The SEDOL code for the ordinary shares is 0422002 If you would like to take advantage of Electronic and the ISIN is GB004220025.
Communications please visit our registrars website at www.
You will need your Shareholder PORTFOLIO DETAILS reference number.
Once registered, on the day that shareholder documents are sent out by post you will A full portfolio listing is published quarterly on the receive an e-mail providing the website address where Companys website.
the documents can be viewed and downloaded.
Paper copies will still be available on request.
AIC The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Companies AIC and the AIC website www.
co. uk contains detailed information about investment trusts including guides and statistics.
