Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 52 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 DIRECTORS SARAH BATES BRIAN ASHFORD-RUSSELL TIM CRUTTENDEN Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Chair Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board in 2011 Appointed to the Board in 1996.
Appointed to the Board in 2017. and elected Chair in 2017.
Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Sarah is a past Chair of the Association Brian is a director and founder of Polar Tim is currently Chief Executive Officer of Investment Companies and has Capital Partners.
He was previously of VenCap International plc having been been involved in the UK savings and head of the technology team at with that company in various positions investment industry in different Henderson Global Investors.
VenCap invests in venture roles for over 30 years.
He managed the Company from capital funds in the US, Asia and launch until 30 April 2006.
Europe, with a primary focus on Other Appointments early stage technology companies.
Sarah is a Non-executive Director Other Appointments of Worldwide Healthcare Trust plc.
Brian is a Non-executive director Other Appointments Sarah has announced her retirement of Polar Capital Holdings plc.
None from the board and as Chair of St. Committee attendance: Committee attendance: James Place plc which is expected to None Audit Member be imminent.
Sarah is a member of the investment committees of the BBC Management Engagement Member Shares held: Pension Scheme and of the University Nominations Member 270,000 Superannuation Scheme.
She was Remuneration Member previously Chair of JP Morgan Standing for re-election: American Investment Trust plc and of NO Brian will retire from the Board Shares held: Witan Pacific Investment Trust plc.
at the conclusion of the AGM.
nil She was previously chair of the audit committees of New India Investment Standing for re-election: Trust plc and of U and I Group plc.
YES Sarah is a Fellow of CFA UK.
Committee attendance: Audit by invitation Management Engagement Chair Nominations Chair Remuneration Member Independence and Committee Membership: The Board considers that all Shares held: Directors are independent in character and there were no circumstances which 10,500 were likely to affect or could appear to affect their judgement.
Due to the direct Standing for re-election: link with the Management company Mr Ashford-Russell is not deemed to be independent and is therefore not a Member of any of the Board Committees.
YES It was agreed with effect from 1 May 2017 that all the independent non-executive directors will sit on each Board Committee with the exception of the Chair of the Board who may attend by invitation but is not part of the Audit Committee.
Other Appointments: The holding of a number of directorships has been considered carefully by the Board: it has been deemed acceptable, where a Director remains able to devote sufficient time to each appointment.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 53 CHARLOTTA GINMAN PETER HAMES CHARLES PARK STEPHEN WHITE Independent Independent Independent Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board and as Chair of the Audit and as Senior Independent in 2018. in 2018.
Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Charlotta is a Fellow of Peter spent 18 years of his Charles has over Stephen qualified as a the Institute of Chartered investment career in 25 years of specialist Chartered Accountant at PwC Accountants in England and Singapore, where in 1992 he investment experience and before starting a career in Wales and qualified with co-founded Aberdeen Asset is a co-founder of Findlay investment management.
Ernst & Young before Managements Asian Park Partners, an He has more than 35 years spending a career in operation and as Director of investment firm specialising investment experience, most investment banking and Asian Equities he oversaw in quoted American equity notably as Head of European commercial organisations, regional fund management investments.
Prior to this, Equities at Foreign & Colonial principally in technology teams responsible for he was a US fund manager Investment Management related businesses.
running a number of at Hill Samuel Asset and currently as Head of top-rated and award Management.
European and US Equities at Other Appointments winning funds.
Charlotta is a Non-executive Other Appointments Director and chairs the audit Other Appointments Charles is Non-executive Other Appointments committees of Pacific Assets Peter is a Director of MMIP Director of North American Stephen is a Non-executive Trust plc, Motif Bio plc and Investment Management Income Trust plc and is a Director and Chairman of the Keywords Studios plc.
Peter is also an member of Salters audit committees of Charlotta is also a Nonindependent member of the Management Company Ltd. Blackrock Frontiers executive Director of Consort Operating Committee of Investment Trust plc and Committee attendance: Medical plc and Unicorn AIM Genesis Asset Managers Aberdeen New India Audit Member VCT plc.
As three of LLP and is a Director of the Investment Trust plc and a Charlottas six non-executive Genesis Emerging Markets Non-executive Director of JP Management Engagement directorships are with quoted Investment Company.
Morgan European Smaller Member investment companies that Companies Trust plc.
Nominations Member Committee attendance: involve less time and Remuneration Member Audit Member Committee attendance: commitment than trading Audit Member companies, hence Charlotta Management Engagement Shares held: is able to devote sufficient Member Management Engagement nil time to all of her Member Nominations Member appointments.
Standing for re-election: Nominations Member Remuneration Chairman YES Remuneration Member Committee attendance: Shares held: Audit Chair 10,000 Shares held: Management Engagement 10,000 Member Standing for re-election: YES Standing for re-election: Nominations Member YES Remuneration Member Shares held: 3,688 Standing for re-election: YES
