MARKET OVERVIEW Commodity prices were higher during 2018 although significant price volatility persisted As a medium-sized exploration and production company, Premier is impacted by the volatility in the oil price.
Premier looks to manage this through an active hedging programme and by planning its business on a conservative basis.
Commodity Foreign exchange Investment prices rates and costs Brent oil prices improved during the The sterling dollar exchange rate Global capital expenditure by the first nine months of 2018, peaking at remained volatile during the course of industry increased in 2018, supported by US$86 bbl in October buoyed by strong 2019, peaking at US$1.43 in April before the strengthening in commodity prices, global economic demand and trending downwards for the remainder but remained low by historical standards.
anticipation of US sanctions on Iran.
This was driven by the With the fall in commodity prices in the The fourth quarter saw Brent oil prices uncertainty around the potential Brexit fourth quarter of 2018, the investment fall steeply to a low of US$50 bbl as outcomes together with a progressive outlook for 2019 remains uncertain and, concerns over global economic growth, US interest rate policy.
As a result, while minor cost inflation has started record US shale output and US waivers sterling closed the year at US$1.27.
to come through in certain offshore for Iranian crude impacted oil prices.
UK segments, it is unclear whether recent gas prices remained robust through the oil price weakness will continue to year supported by an increase in global weigh on demand and therefore costs.
Our response Our response Our response Premier looks to reduce the volatility in Premier has considerable operating The key contracts for Premier's its revenues and to protect the downside cost exposure in sterling from its North Tolmount Main gas project were placed to commodity price fluctuations through Sea operations, and a proportion of its on a turnkey basis reducing the Group's a rolling hedging programme, whilst capital expenditure is also in sterling.
In addition, retaining upside to any potential This is partially hedged by Premier's Premier has entered an infrastructure medium-term rally in prices.
For 2019, sterling revenue streams from its UK gas partnership which minimises the the Company has hedged approximately production, whilst the Company also Group's share of the capital expenditure.
40 per cent of its oil production at an undertakes forward hedging to protect Long-term contracts, including FPSO average price of US$69 bbl.
In addition, against potential volatility in the dollar lease contracts on Chim So, also ensure 25 per cent of the Group's UK gas sterling exchange rate.
Premier also has that the Company is partially insulated production has been hedged at an 250 million of sterling debt which has from any potential future cost inflation.
average price of 61 pence per therm.
been hedged by cross-currency swaps at Premier has also hedged part of its 2019 the time those debt arrangements were and 2020 Indonesian gas production.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 16 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 17 READ MORE IN MANAGING OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS PAGE 36 Exploration Acquisitions and Equity markets disposal activity Global exploration activity remained M&A activity continued to increase, 2018 was a turbulent year for equity muted, largely reflecting the supported by an improvement in the oil markets with US markets down 5-7 per discretionary nature of the spend.
price outlook in the first nine months of cent, Europe down 10-18 per cent, the UK The exception to this being certain the year.
In particular, 2018 saw increased down more than 10 per cent and China emerging high impact plays and basins North Sea M&A activity with some of the down 25 per cent all of which drove the in Guyana, Suriname and Mexico, majors looking to divest large portfolios FTSE All World Index down 12 per cent.
which saw strong competition for with several of these processes live at Sentiment was also impacted by the access to the best exploration licences year-end.
Capital markets activity also inverting of the US yield curve which is and increased activity.
increased towards the end of the year seen as a recessionary indicator.
Sector with bids made for two of the Group's issuances on the London market peers listed in London.
remained subdued from historic levels with 2018 the lowest level of issuance since 2015.
Our response Our response Our response Premier's exploration spend in 2018 Premier continued to monetise its Premier re-entered the FTSE 250 in remained low as our free cash flow was non-core assets and rationalise its 2018 and made good progress prioritised towards debt reduction.
In 2018, Premier announced reinstitutionalising its share register.
Despite this, Premier secured highly and subsequently completed the disposal Premier's balance sheet and leverage prospective licences offshore Indonesia of its interests in the Babbage Area, means that the Group's equity value and Mexico, enabling us to build our realising further value from the E. ON is perceived as more leveraged to portfolio for the future.
Premier also movements in the oil price than its Group's exploration spend will be completed the sale of its interests in the peers in the sector.
Consequently, while focused on appraisal activities at Zama Kakap asset offshore Indonesia and the Premier delivered a strong operational Mexico and Tolmount East UK.
ETS pipeline system in the North Sea.
and financial performance in 2018, Premier continues to monitor acquisition the share price was impacted materially activities that can create operational and by the fall in oil prices towards financial synergies with its core the end of the year.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements
