DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their Annual Report on the affairs of the Group, together with the audited Group financial statements and Auditors Report for the year ended 31 December 2018.
There are certain disclosure requirements which form part of the Directors Report and are included elsewhere in this Annual Report.
The location of information incorporated by reference into this Directors Report is set out on page 110. Dividend No dividend is proposed in respect of the year ended 31 December 2018 2017: nil.
Annual General Meeting The Companys next AGM will be held on Thursday 16 May 2019 at 11.00am.
The Notice of the AGM, together with details of all resolutions which will be placed before the meeting, accompanies this report and is also available online at www.
Directors The Directors of the Company as at 6 March 2019 are shown on pages 60 to 63.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by special resolution at a General Meeting of shareholders.
The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions regarding the appointment, retirement and removal of Directors.
A Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of shareholders in a General Meeting following nomination by the Board or a member or members entitled to vote at such a meeting.
The Directors may appoint a Director during any year provided that the individual stands for election by shareholders at the next AGM.
Further detail regarding the appointment and replacement of Directors is included in the Corporate Governance Report.
Subject to applicable law and the Companys Articles of Association the Directors may exercise all powers of the Company.
Details of the Matters Reserved for the Board are set out on the Companys website and summarised in the Corporate Governance Report on page 65.
Indemnification of Directors and insurance During the financial year, the Company had in place an indemnity to each of its Directors and the Company Secretary under which the Company will, to the fullest extent permitted by law and to the extent provided by the Articles of Association, indemnify them against all costs, charges, losses and liabilities incurred by them in the execution of their duties.
The indemnity was in force for all Directors who served during the year.
The Company also has Directors and Officers liability insurance in place.
Share capital Details of the Companys issued share capital, together with details of any movement in the issued share capital during the year, are shown in note 20 to the consolidated financial statements on page 153.
The Company has one class of Ordinary Shares which carries no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at General Meetings of the Company.
Subject to applicable law and the Companys Articles of Association the Directors may exercise all powers of the Company, including the power to authorise the issue and or market purchase of the Companys shares, subject to an appropriate authority being given to the Directors by shareholders in a General Meeting and any conditions attaching to such authority.
The current authority, approved at the General Meeting held on 16 May 2018, for the allotment of relevant securities is for a nominal amount of up to i 31,999,485 and ii equity securities up to a nominal amount of 63,998,971 less the nominal amount of any shares issued under part i of the authority.
In addition to the authority given at the 2018 AGM, at the General Meeting held on 15 June 2017, in connection with the Companys refinancing which was completed on 28 July 2017 shareholders authorised the Directors to allot Ordinary Shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, Ordinary Shares in the Company up to a nominal amount of 59,039,247.10.
This authority is specific to the issue of shares pursuant to the terms of the Companys refinancing.
Further details are contained in the Circular to Shareholders dated 30 May 2017, a copy of which can be accessed in the Shareholder Information section of the Companys website.
Furthermore, at the 2018 AGM, shareholders authorised the Directors to make market purchases up to a maximum of approximately 10 per cent of the Companys issued share capital being 9,599,845 in nominal value excluding treasury shares.
Any shares purchased under this authority may either be cancelled or may be held as treasury shares provided that the number of shares held does not exceed 10 per cent of issued share capital.
No shares were bought back during the year.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, both of which are governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements on page 154.
The voting rights in relation to the shares held within the Employee Benefit Trust are exercisable by the Trustee but it has no obligation to do so.
Details of the number of shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust are set out in note 20 on page 153.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
American Depositary Receipt programme Premier Oil plc has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR programme which BNY Mellon administers and for which it acts as Depositary.
Each ADR represents one Ordinary Share of the Company.
The ADRs trade on the US over-the-counter market under the symbol PMOIY.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 108 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 109 Significant shareholdings As at 6 March 2019, the Company had received notification from the institutions below, in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of their significant holdings of voting rights 3 per cent or more in its Ordinary Shares: Date of notification Notified number Notified percentage 1 Name of shareholder to the stock exchange of voting rights of voting rights Nature of holding Goldman Sachs Group, Inc 06.03.2019 59,463,574 7.28% Indirect Baillie Gifford & Co 04.01.2019 41,626,147 5.09% Indirect BlackRock Inc 27.12.2018 41,414,912 5.07% Indirect Dimensional Fund Advisors LP 13.07.2018 38,917,945 5.02% Direct & Indirect Artemis Investment Management LLP 13.05.2015 25,451,951 4.98% Direct & Indirect 1 Aviva plc and its subsidiaries 27.04.2009 3,933,529 4.95% Direct & Indirect AXA Investment Managers SA 03.03.2017 23,907,981 4.68% Indirect Ameriprise Financial Inc 20.01.2012 24,666,346 4.66% Direct & Indirect Note: 1 Interests shown for Aviva plc and its subsidiaries pre-date the Share Split in 2011.
Hedging and risk management Details of the Groups hedging and risk management are provided in the Financial Review.
A further disclosure has been made in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 147to 151, related to various financial instruments and exposure of the Group to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk.
Significant agreements The following significant agreements will, in the event of a change of control of the Company, be affected as follows: Under the US$718,967,054 super senior revolving credit facility agreement between, among others, the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company and a syndicate of financial institutions, upon a change of control the commitments under the agreement would be cancelled and all amounts owing would be immediately due and payable.
Under the US$1,781,032,945 senior revolving credit facility agreement between, among others, the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company and a syndicate of financial institutions, upon a change of control the commitments under the agreement would be cancelled and all amounts owing would be immediately due and payable.
Under the 100 million and US$150 million term loan facilities between, among others, the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company and current lenders, upon a change of control, the commitments under the agreement would be cancelled and all amounts owing would be immediately due and payable.
The Group has outstanding retail bonds with a principal amount of 150 million which were issued under a 500 million Euro Medium Term Notes programme.
Upon a change of control, the bonds would become immediately redeemable, together with any accrued interest.
The Group has outstanding senior loan notes totalling 63.6million and US$335 million, which were issued to insurance companies and funds predominantly based in the US.
Upon a change of control, the entire unpaid principal amount of the notes would become immediately prepayable, together with any accrued interest.
The Company has an outstanding English-law governed term loan facility totalling US$130 million.
Upon a change of control, the commitments under the facility would be cancelled and all amounts owing would be immediately due and payable, together with accrued interest Political donations No political donations were made during the year 2017: US$nil.
Significant events since 31 December 2018 Details of significant events since the balance sheet date are contained in note 27 to the financial statements on page 163.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Information set out in the Strategic Report The Strategic Report set out on pages 1 to 55 provides a comprehensive review of the performance of the Companys operations for the year ended 31 December 2018 and the potential future developments of those operations.
The Strategic Report also includes details of the Companys principal risks and uncertainties and research and development activities during the year.
Information regarding the Companys policy applied during the year relating to the recruitment, employment, training, career development and promotion of staff including employment of disabled persons is included within the Corporate Responsibility Review in the Strategic Report on pages 51 to 52.
Inaddition, information regarding the Companys greenhouse gas emissions is also included in the Corporate Responsibility Review in the Strategic Report on pages 49 to 50.
In accordance with s414C 11 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors have chosen to set out the information outlined above, required to be included in the Directors Report, in the Strategic Report.
The Strategic Report and the Directors Report together include the management report for the purposes of the FCAs Disclosure & Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
Information set out elsewhere in this Annual Report Information regarding the Companys governance arrangements is included in the Corporate Governance Report and related Board Committee reports on pages 56 to 107.
These sections of the report are incorporated into this report by reference.
For the purposes of Listing Rule 9.8.
4C R, the information required to be disclosed by Listing Rule 9.8.
4 R can be found in the followinglocations: Listing Rule sub-section Item Location 9.8.
4 1 Interest capitalised Financial statements, note 5, page 136 9.8.
4 5 Waiver of emoluments by a director Directors Remuneration Report, page 95 Auditor Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report and Financial Statements confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and the Director has taken all reasonable steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
By order of the Board Andy Gibb Interim Company Secretary 6 March 2019 Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 110 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 111 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Group financial statements Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing the Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework has been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 Presentation of Financial Statements requires that Directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys and Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website www.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors responsibility statement We confirm to the best of our knowledge: 1. t he Group financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: 2. t he Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and 3. t he Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 6 March 2019 and is signed on its behalf by: Tony Durrant Richard Rose Chief Executive Officer Finance Director Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PREMIER OIL PLC For the year ended 31 December 2018 1.
Our opinions and conclusions arising from our audit Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion, the financial statements of Premier Oil plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries collectively, Premier : give a true and fair view of the state of Premiers and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018, and of Premiers and the Parent Companys income for the year then ended: Premiers financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU : the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards Premiers financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and based on the work undertaken in the course of our audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Our confirmations that we have nothing to report by exception, in relation to those matters where we are required so to report, are set out in sections 8 and 9 below.
What we have audited We have audited Premier Oil plcs financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018, which are included in the Annual Report and comprise: Premier Parent Company Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2018 Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2018 Consolidated Statement of Income for the year then ended Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended Related Notes 1 to 28 to the Financial Statements, Related Notes 1 to 10 to the Parent Company Financial Statements including a summary of significant accounting policies The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and both IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISA UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of Premier and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained during the planning, execution and conclusion of our audit is sufficient and appropriate to provide a suitable basis for our opinion.
Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the Annual Report, in relation to which ISA UK requires us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the Annual Report set out on pages 38 to 39 that describe the principal risks and how the risks are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation set out on page 36 in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the Directors statement set out on pages 35 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the Directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the Directors explanation set out on page 41 in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 112 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 113 4.
Overview of our audit approach Updating our Our audit team has deep industry experience through working for many years on the audits of oil and gas companies.
Our audit planning started with updating our view on external market factors, for example geopolitical risk, the potential understanding of impact of climate change and energy transition, commodity price risk and major trends in the industry.
Building on this Premiers business knowledge, we updated our understanding of Premiers strategy and business model.
This was achieved through enquiry, and its environment analytical procedures, observation and visiting Premiers operating units, as well as the review of external data.
This understanding of Premiers business and its environment informed our risk assessment procedures.
Identifying and We concluded that the following risks are to be downgraded or removed from our current year audit focus: assessing the risks Refinancing due to the successful completion in July 2017, the accounting for the refinancing was no longer a significant risk or key audit matter.
of material misstatement Decommissioning in the prior year we did not identify any material misstatements in decommissioning.
As a result, and due to the use of specialists across the business and the consistency in inputs year-on-year: we concluded that decommissioning was no longer a significant risk: however, it remains an area of audit focus.
Recoverability of oil and gas assets with the improvement in oil prices in 2018 we were no longer of the view that there was a high likelihood of a material error in the recoverability of oil and gas assets.
The on-going risk will be covered by our significant risk around the estimation of oil and gas reserve volumes.
Considering the oil price environment in 2018, our work also considered the potential for impairment reversals.
We have not identified any new significant risks in the current year.
In summary, the significant and fraud risks for the current year are as follows: estimation of oil and gas reserves and resources volumes: deferred tax asset recoverability: going concern and covenant compliance: revenue recognition: and management override.
Our response to key audit matters is detailed in Section 7.
When we established our audit strategy, we determined overall materiality for the financial statements.
We considered Determination of which earnings, activity or capital-based measure aligns best with the expectations of those charged with governance at materiality Premier and users of Premiers financial statements.
In so doing, we applied a reasonable investor perspective, which Section 5 reflected our understanding of the common financial information needs of the members of Premier as a group.
We also made judgements about the size of misstatements that would be considered material.
The levels set are as follows: Overall Materiality: US$16 million 2017: US$12 million : Performance Materiality: US$12 million 2017: US$6 million : and Reporting differences threshold: US$0.8 million 2017: US$0.6 million.
The increase in our planning materiality is primarily driven by higher oil realisations, resulting in higher earnings.
The increase in performance materiality from 50 per cent of overall materiality in 2017 to 75 per cent of overall materiality in 2018 is mainly due to our assessment of the likelihood of undetected misstatements on the basis of the results of our 2017 audit and our assessment of Premiers overall control environment.
Determining the Our scope is tailored to the circumstances of our audit of Premier and is influenced by our determination of materiality and our assessed risks of material misstatement.
scope of our audit We reassessed our audit scope for 2018.
The main changes were: Section 6 Pakistan: specific scope procedures no longer required in respect to closing balance sheet primarily decommissioning estimation given expected disposal: Indonesia: Kakap is no longer in scope following the sale in April 2018: and Mauritania: removal of revenue specific scope procedures following cessation of production in Q4 2017.
We have identified the following key audit matters that, in our professional judgement, had the greatest effect on our Identification of overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and in directing the global audit teams efforts: Key Audit Matters the estimation of oil and gas reserves, including reserves used in the calculation of depreciation, depletion and Section 7 amortisation, impairment testing and the assessment of the recoverability of deferred tax assets: recognition and measurement of deferred tax assets: going concern assessment and covenant compliance: and the recoverability of oil and gas assets.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PREMIER OIL PLC CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2018 5.
Our application of materiality The scope of our work is influenced by our view of materiality.
As we develop our audit strategy, we determine materiality at the overall level and at the individual account level referred to as our performance materiality see below.
Overall materiality Performance materiality Reporting threshold US$16 million US$12 million US$0.8 million Overall materiality What we mean We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our audit, as well as in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements including omissions on our audit and in forming our audit opinion.
For the purposes of determining whether or not Premiers financial statements are free from material misstatement whether due to fraud or error, we define materiality as the magnitude of misstatements that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of these financial statements.
We are required to establish a materiality level for the financial statements as a whole that is appropriate in the light of Premiers particular circumstances.
Our overall materiality provides a basis for identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature and extent of audit procedures.
Our evaluation of materiality requires professional judgement and necessarily considers qualitative as well as quantitative considerations.
It also considers our assessment of the expectations of those charged with governance at Premier and users of Premiers financial statements.
As required by auditing standards, we reassess materiality throughout the duration of the audit.
Level set Group materiality We set our preliminary overall materiality for Premiers Consolidated Financial Statements at US$16 million 2017: US$12 million.
We kept this under review throughout the year and reassessed the appropriateness of our original assessment in the light of Premiers results and external market conditions.
Based on this review, we did not find it necessary to revise our level of overall materiality.
Parent Company materiality We set our preliminary overall materiality for the Parent Company at US$8 million 2017: US$8 million.
Any balances in the Parent Company financial statements that were relevant to our audit of the consolidated Group were audited using an allocation of Group performance materiality.
Our basis for Group materiality determining Our assessment of overall materiality is US$16 million, which is 2 per cent 2017: 2 per cent of EBITDA excluding non-recurring items.
Our preliminary assessment of overall materiality was based on managements budget.
We materiality for 2018 maintained our preliminary assessment of overall materiality as opposed to increasing the threshold for full year actuals.
We believe that EBITDA excluding non-recurring items provides us with a suitable basis for setting materiality as this measure is a particular focus of shareholders, the basis of covenants included in the Groups loan agreements and a key performance indicator of the Group.
The non-recurring item reported by Premier in 2018 that impacted EBITDA was a gain on disposal of non-current assets of US$42 million.
The non-recurring item reported by Premier in 2017 that impacted EBITDA was a gain on disposal of non-current assets of US$129 million.
Parent Company materiality We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be US$8 million 2017: US$8 million, which is 0.5 per cent 2017: 0.5 per cent of total assets.
Total assets is an appropriate basis to determine materiality for an investment holding company and 0.5 per cent is a typical percentage of total assets to use to determine materiality.
Performance materiality Having established overall materiality, we determined performance materiality, which represents our tolerance for What we mean misstatement in an individual account.
It is calculated as a percentage of overall materiality in order to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds overall materiality of US$16 million for Premiers financial statements as a whole.
Once we determined our audit scope, we then assigned performance materiality to our various in-scope operating units.
Our in-scope operating unit audit teams used this assigned performance materiality in performing their Group audit procedures.
The performance materiality allocation is dependent on the size of the operating unit, measured by its contribution of earnings to Premier, or other appropriate metric, and the risk associated with the operating unit.
Level set On the basis of our risk assessment, our judgement was that performance materiality should be 75 per cent 2017: 50 per cent of our overall materiality, namely US$12 million 2017: US$6 million.
In assessing the appropriate level, we consider the nature, the number and impact of the audit differences identified in 2017 as well as the overall control environment.
The increase in performance materiality is mainly due to our assessment of the likely level undetected misstatements.
In 2018, the range of performance materiality allocated to operating units was US$3 million to US$8 million 2017: US$2 million to US$4 million.
Audit difference reporting threshold What we mean This is the amount below which identified misstatements are considered to be clearly trivial.
The threshold is the level above which we collate and report audit differences to the Audit and Risk Committee.
We also report differences below that threshold that, in our view, warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences of more than Level set US$0.8 million 2017: US$0.6 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 114 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 115 6.
Our scope of the audit of Premiers financial statements What we mean We are required to establish an overall audit strategy that sets the scope, timing and direction of our audit, and that guides the development of our audit plan.
Audit scope comprises the physical locations, operating units, activities and processes to be audited that, in aggregate, are expected to provide sufficient coverage of the financial statements for us to express an audit opinion.
Our assessment of audit risk and our evaluation of materiality determined our audit scope for each operating unit within Criteria for Premier which, when taken together, enabled us to form an opinion on the financial statements under ISA UK.
Our audit determining effort was focused towards higher risk areas, such as management judgements and on operating units that are our audit scope considered significant based upon size, complexity or risk.
The factors that we considered when assessing the scope of the Premier audit, and the level of work to be performed at the operating units that are in scope for Group reporting purposes, included the following: the financial significance of an operating unit to Premiers earnings, total assets or total liabilities: the significance of specific risks relating to an operating unit: history of unusual or complex transactions, identification of significant audit issues or the potential for, or a history of, material misstatements: the effectiveness of the control environment and monitoring activities, including entity-level controls: our assessment of locations that carry a higher than normal audit risk in relation to fraud, bribery or corruption: and the findings, observations and audit differences that we noted because of our 2017 audit.
Selection of We reassessed our audit scope for 2018 compared to 2017.
We kept our audit scope under review throughout the year to reflect changes in Premiers underlying business and risks: however no significant changes were required.
in-scope In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate units quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 40 reporting components of the Group, we selected 18 components covering entities within the United Kingdom, Vietnam, Indonesia, Brazil, Mexico, the Falkland Islands, Pakistan and Mauritania, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the 18 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of 8 components 'full scope components', which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining 10 components specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
The reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 99 per cent 2017: 100 per cent of the Groups EBITDA, 100 per cent 2017: 100 per cent of the Groups Total assets and 100 per cent 2017: 100 per cent of the Groups Revenue.
For the current year, the full scope components contributed 98 per cent 2017: 97 per cent of the Groups EBITDA, 80 per cent 2017: 85 per cent of the Groups Total assets and 97 per cent 2017: 97 per cent of the Groups revenue.
The specific scope components contributed 1 per cent 2017: 3 per cent of the Groups EBITDA, 20 per cent 2017: 15 per cent of the Groups total assets and 3 per cent 2017: 3 per cent of the Groups revenue.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of the Group.
Of the remaining 22 components, which together represent 1 per cent of the Groups EBITDA, we performed other procedures, including the following to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the consolidated financial statements: test of consolidation journals, intercompany eliminations and foreign currency translation recalculations: enquiry of management in respect to any unusual transactions recorded in these components: and review of minutes of Board meetings held throughout the period.
The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams.
EBITDA Total assets Revenue Full scope 98% Full scope 97% Full scope 80% Specific scope 1% Specific scope 20% Specific scope 3% Other procedures 1% Other procedures 0% Other procedures 0% Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PREMIER OIL PLC CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2018 Involvement with The overall audit strategy is determined by the Senior Statutory Auditor, Gary Donald.
We have separate component teams in Aberdeen United Kingdom, Ho Chi Minh Vietnam and Jakarta Indonesia.
Our audit procedures with respect local EY teams to the other components were carried out by the Group audit team.
During 2018 Gary Donald visited Ho Chi Minh Vietnam and Jakarta Indonesia to meet with local Ernst & Young EY teams and Premier local management.
In addition, Senior members of the Group team separately visited Aberdeen United Kingdom, Ho Chi Minh Vietnam and Jakarta Indonesia.
Senior members of the Group team therefore visited each component team during the period.
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the Group audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
For eight full scope components and one specific scope component where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
The Group audit team interacted regularly with the EY component teams during each stage of the audit, were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process and reviewed key working papers.
Site visits involved discussing the audit approach with the component team and any issues arising from their work, meeting with local management, attending planning and closing meetings, and reviewing key audit working papers addressing areas of risk.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Our assessment of key audit matters As Premiers auditors, we are required to determine from the matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee during the year those matters that required significant attention from us in performing our audit of Premiers 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements.
In making this determination we took the following into account: the risks that we believed were significant to our audit and therefore required special audit consideration: areas of higher assessed risk of material misstatement that influenced our audit focus: significant audit judgements relating to areas in Premiers Consolidated Financial Statements that involved significant management judgement, including accounting estimates that we identified as having high estimation uncertainty: the effect on our audit of significant events or transactions that occurred during the period: and those assessed risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the audit team.
On this basis, we have identified the following key audit matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of Premiers 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements.
These matters included those that had the greatest effect on: the overall strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the audit team.
The key audit matters have been addressed in the context of the audit of Premiers Consolidated Financial Statements and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The table below describes the key audit matters, a summary of our procedures carried out and our key observations that we communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Oil and gas reserves estimation Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit and Risk Committee Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report Our response was primarily performed by the We reported to the Audit and Risk Committee page 74 : Accounting policies page 123 : and Group audit team, with input from our three in the March 2019 meeting that, based on our Note 10 of the Consolidated Financial component audit teams based in Ho Chi Minh testing performed, we had not identified any Statements page 141.
Vietnam, Jakarta Indonesia and Aberdeen errors or factual inconsistencies between United Kingdom.
We performed the following Premiers internal and external oil and gas At 31 December 2018, Premier reported 193.7 audit procedures with respect to managements reserves and resource estimates that would million barrels of oil equivalent of proved and estimation of oil and gas reserves: materially impact the financial statements probable reserves.
2017: 301.8 million barrels of and that, as a result, we consider the internal oil equivalent.
Confirmed our understanding of Premiers estimate appropriate.
oil and gas reserves estimation process as The estimation and measurement of oil and gas well as the control environment implemented reserves impacts many material elements of by management: the financial statements including depreciation, depletion and amortisation Assessed the appropriateness of reliance on DD&A, impairment, going concern, management's internal and external reserve decommissioning and deferred tax asset DTA estimators by performing procedures to recoverability.
There is technical uncertainty in evaluate their objectivity and competency: assessing reserve quantities and there are Compared management's internal complex contractual arrangements that estimations to those of the independent determine Premiers entitlement of reserves.
external specialist and investigated all This risk has remained consistent with the significant variations: prior year.
Investigated all material volume movements from the prior period and lack of movement where changes were expected based on our understanding of operations and findings from other areas of our audit: For contingent resource volumes not included in the scope of the independent external specialists procedures that have an impact on the financial statements, we obtained an understanding of the source data used by managements internal specialist in generating its estimate.
We corroborated the appropriateness of source data based on consistency with other areas of the audit: and Ensured reserve volumes were consistently applied throughout all relevant accounting processes including DD&A, impairment, going concern, decommissioning and DTA recoverability.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 116 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 117 Deferred tax asset recoverability Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit and Risk Committee Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report Our response was performed by the Group and We reported to the March 2019 meeting of page 75, Accounting policies page 123 : and Aberdeen component audit teams covering 100 the Audit and Risk Committee that, based on Note 19 of the Consolidated Financial per cent of the deferred tax balance.
We our testing performed, forecasted future Statements page 152. performed the following audit procedures in taxable profits underpinning the recognised respect to managements DTA recoverability DTA are probable in accordance with As at 31 December 2018, Premier recognised a assessment: accounting standards and consistent with gross deferred tax asset of US$1,434 million those used for asset impairment testing and 2017: US$1,462 million.
Confirmed our understanding of Premiers the going concern assessment.
DTA recoverability assessment process as The recognition of material deferred tax asset well as the control environment implemented In particular, management's oil and gas price balances is supported by forecast future by management: assumptions are within the range of the views taxable profits, primarily in the UK, which are of market participants and therfore underpinned by managements assumptions Audited the appropriateness of managements considered appropriate.
applied when forecasting future taxable forecasted oil and gas prices based on profits, including oil and gas price assumptions, comparison with the views of market production profiles and cost forecasts.
participants including consultants, brokers and banks as well as the futures curve: In some cases, the utilisation of deferred tax assets extends to the full life of the fields and Ensured the forecasts used by management are reliant on cash flows to be derived from the for assessing the recoverability of DTAs were production of volumes currently classified as consistent with those used for assessing asset contingent resources and not yet developed.
impairment: This risk has remained consistent with the Evaluated the reasonableness of tax planning prior year.
strategies applied in determining the recoverability of deferred tax assets: and Assessed the likelihood of executing required development activities in order to allow for cash flows to be derived as forecast from fields yet to commence production.
Refer to our response to oil and gas reserve estimation for detail of procedures performed to test the appropriateness of source data used in generating resource estimates in respect to such assets.
Going concern assessment and covenant compliance Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit and Risk Committee Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report Our audit procedures to respond to the risk We reported to the March 2019 meeting of the page 74, Accounting policies page 122 : and associated with managements going concern Audit and Risk Committee that, based on our Note 15 of the Consolidated Financial assessment were performed by the Group and testing performed, we believed that the going Statements page 145.
Aberdeen component audit teams and concern assumption adopted in the 2018 comprised the following: financial statements is appropriate, based on Premiers ongoing covenant compliance is a key forecast covenant compliance headroom consideration when considering the Confirmed our understanding of Premiers calculated under managements base case.
appropriateness of adopting the going concern going concern assessment process as well as basis of accounting.
the control environment implemented by Managements base case oil and gas price management: assumptions applied throughout the going Under managements base case assumption, no concern period are consistent with those used breach of covenants is forecasted throughout Tested the integrity of managements going when assessing the recoverability of deferred the going concern period or the period of the concern model by auditing the changes in the tax asset recoverability and testing for viability statement.
However, in downside price model from the prior year: impairment.
These prices are within the range and production scenarios, a breach of one or Ensured the forecast incorporated in the of the views of market participants including more of the financial covenants may arise in model was consistent with the budget banks, brokers and consultants as well as the absence of mitigating actions.
approved by the Board and assessed below the price at which futures are currently This risk has remained consistent with the historical forecasting accuracy through being contracted.
forecast versus actual analysis: We noted that under certain production and Audited the reasonableness of all key oil price downside scenarios, covenants could assumptions, including oil and gas prices, be breached during the going concern period: production profiles and cost forecasts, as well however, we are satisfied that the going as their consistency with other areas of the concern assumption is appropriate based on audit including impairment assessments and Premiers base case assumptions as well as the deferred tax asset recognition: credibility of managements assumptions in Recalculated managements forecast respect to the ability to execute mitigating covenant ratio compliance calculations to actions in the required timeframe in downside attest that there were no breaches for each scenarios.
Mitigating actions include asset covenant ratio throughout the going concern disposal options and oil price hedging.
period under managements base case: Performed sensitivity analysis on the cash flow forecasts to consider their impact on forecast covenant compliance during the going concern period.
Our sensitivity analysis included assuming oil price realisations at the bottom of broker forecasts, being US$5.50 bbl and US$12.90 bbl lower than managements base case in 2019 and 2020 respectively, and production downside of a high-margin field, representing a 10 per cent fall in forecast Group production: and Assessed the ability of management to execute mitigating actions, as required, to prevent a breach of covenants in downside scenarios.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PREMIER OIL PLC CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2018 Recoverability of oil and gas assets Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit and Risk Committee Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report Our response was performed by the Group We reported to the March 2019 meeting of the page 75 : Accounting policies page 122 : and and Aberdeen component audit teams Audit and Risk Committee that, based on our Note 10 of the Consolidated Financial covering 100 per cent of the current period testing performed, we considered the current Statements page 141. impairment reversal.
Our procedures comprised period impairment reversal to be materially the following: stated.
In particular, we concluded that there In the current period, management recorded a was sufficient external evidence to support net impairment reversal of US$35 million Confirmed our understanding of Premiers the reasonableness of Premiers oil and gas 2017: net impairment charge of US$252 million.
impairment assessment process as well as price assumptions and that the impairment the control environment implemented Accounting standards require management discount rate adopted by management was by management: to assess at each reporting date whether within the range of acceptable discount rates.
indicators of asset impairment exist.
Evaluated the completeness of managements Production forecasts incorporated within Where indicators of impairment or reversal assessment of the indicators of impairment or current period impairment tests were exist, management must carry out an reversal on both intangible and tangible oil consistent with the results of our testing impairment test.
and gas assets through obtaining of reserves.
corroborating evidence to support Management prepare their tangible asset managements assessment: impairment tests under the value-in-use methodology.
The models include a number of In conjunction with our EY valuations accounting estimates and judgments including: specialists, we assessed the reasonableness future oil and gas prices, discount rates, of managements key assumptions, including inflation rates, production forecasts, operating oil and gas prices, discount rates, and expenditures and capital expenditures for each inflation rate.
Changes to any of Where an indicator of impairment or reversal these key inputs could lead to a potential of an oil and gas property existed, we impairment or a reversal of impairment.
obtained the underlying VIU model, tested In the current period, the net impairment the model integrity and the appropriateness reversal was because of changes in of managements assumptions in estimating decommissioning cost estimates.
Where applicable, less judgement was required in auditing assumptions were consistent with those managements current period impairment applied in managements DTA recoverability assessment when compared to the prior period.
However, given the pervasive impact of key assumptions considered in managements impairment assessment, including oil and gas prices, we identified the recoverability of oil and gas assets as a key audit matter for our current period audit.
In 2017, our auditors report included key audit matters in relation to audit transition, decommissioning provision estimation and refinancing accounting.
Following the completion of our initial audit, as well as the refinancing in the prior period, audit transition and refinancing accounting key audit matters were not applicable for our current period audit.
Based on knowledge of the decommissioning provision estimation process generated during our prior period audit, as well as limited additional judgement applied when forming the current period estimation, decommissioning provision estimation did not represent a key audit matter for our current period audit.
Other information The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report set out on pages 1 to 111 and 169 to 177 including the Strategic Report, Governance and Additional Information sections, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to address specifically the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 111 the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Premiers performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit and Risk Committee reporting set out on page 72 to 76 the section describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 111 the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to Premiers compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 118 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 119 9.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of Premier and the Parent Company, and its environment obtained in the course of our audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Responsibilities Of Directors As explained more fully in the statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 111, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing Premier and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate Premier or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISA UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Group and determined that the most significant are those that relate to the reporting framework IFRSs, Companies Act 2006, the UK Corporate Governance Code and Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and the relevant tax compliance regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
In addition, we concluded that there are certain significant laws and regulations that may have an effect on the determination of the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and laws and regulations relating to health and safety, employee matters, environmental and bribery and corruption practices.
We understood how the Group is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of management and with those responsible for legal and compliance procedures.
We designed audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations identified in the paragraph above, including corroborating our enquiries through our review of Board minutes, papers provided to the Audit and Risk Committee and correspondence received from regulatory bodies, and noted that there was no contradictory evidence.
We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by incorporating data analytics and manual journal entry testing into our audit approach.
Our journal entry audit procedures focused on addressing the risk of management override of controls at all full and specific audit scope entities, as well as review scope entities that are not dormant.
Our audit procedures also covered post-closing year-end journal entries.
We used our data analytics techniques to focus our testing on higher risk manual journal entries, journal entries related to the debt covenants, in particular unusual account pairing impacting revenue and completeness of costs, and other search criteria that could indicate management override or fraud.
Data completeness checks were carried out to ensure that the journal entry population was complete.
Based on the results of our risk assessment we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations identified above.
Our procedures involved journal entry testing, with a focus on journals meeting our defined risk criteria based on our understanding of the business, enquiries of legal counsel, Group management and all full and specific scope management.
If any instance of non-compliance with laws and regulations were identified, these were communicated to the relevant local EY teams who performed sufficient and appropriate audit procedures supplemented by audit procedures performed at the Group level.
Where appropriate we consulted our forensic specialists.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PREMIER OIL PLC CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2018 13.
Other matters we are required to address Following the recommendation of the Audit and Risk Committee, we were re-appointed by Premier Oil plcs Annual General Meeting AGM on 16 May 2018, as auditors of Premier Oil to hold office until the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company, and signed an engagement letter on 13 June 2017.
Our total uninterrupted period of engagement is two years covering periods from our appointment through to the period ending 31 December 2018.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to Premier or the Parent Company and we remain independent of Premier and the Parent Company in conducting the audit.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our additional report to the Audit and Risk Committee explaining the results of our audit.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Gary Donald Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Statutory Auditor, London 6 March 2019 Notes: 1 T he maintenance and integrity of the Premier Oil plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 120
