Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Adviser Engagement Committee report Responsibilities The main roles and responsibilities of the Committee include: annual review of the terms of the Advisory Agreement: consideration and discussion of any amendments to be made to the Advisory Agreement: Members of the Advisory Engagement Committee annual review and evaluation of the performance of the Adviser: theCommittee annual review and approval of remuneration paid to the Adviser: and Number of meetings and attendance advising the Board on such other matters relating to the Member while in post Advisory Agreement and the Adviser as may be requested Nick Wiles Chairman 4 4 by the Board.
Steven Owen 4 4 Attendance at meetings Geraldine Kennell 4 4 The table above sets out attendance by Committee members at Ian Krieger 3 3 meetings held during the year.
The Committee has also invited Dr Stephen Kell OBE 3 3 Harry Hyman Managing Director and Richard Howell Finance Peter Cole 2 2 Director to attend selected meetings.
Dear shareholder, Report on the Committees activities during the year I am delighted to present my first report as chairman of the The Committee had an active year, considering a number Adviser Engagement Committee, since I was appointed in ofstrategically important issues, and met four times during January 2018, following the announcement that Mark Creedy theyear, in February, April, July and November.
would not be standing for re-election as a Non-executive The main activity of the meeting in February was to review Director at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
andagree the calculation of the performance incentive fee PIF The Company is advised by Nexus TradeCo Limited Nexus who due to Nexus under the terms of the Advisory Agreement, which also provide property management and administration services was revised during 2017.
After consideration of the calculation to the Group.
Nexuss appointment is governed by the terms and after discussion with the auditors, a PIF payment of ofan Advisory Agreement dated 27 January 2014 the Advisory 0.5million was paid to Nexus as a result of the total return on Agreement.
Nexus also provides the services of Harry Hyman the Groups portfolio in 2017 exceeding the hurdle rate of 8%.
as Managing Director and Richard Howell as Finance Director.
The revised Advisory Agreement also provides for at least For the purposes of Rule 11 of the Listing Rules published by the 25%of the PIF paid to be shared between the senior members Financial Conduct Authority and applicable to all companies with ofNexuss management involved in servicing the Company.
a premium listing of its shares on the London Stock Exchange, TheCommittee also reviewed the proposals from Nexus for Nexus is deemed to be a related party of PHP and its subsidiaries.
theallocation of this sum among the members of the team to The Advisory Engagement Committee is charged with oversight satisfy itself that the proposed allocation would aid retention of the terms and operation of the Advisory Agreement and to and motivation as intended.
ensure that any proposed amendments to the Advisory Agreement During the April meeting, the Committee undertook a formal are in the best interests of the Company and approved and evaluation of the performance of Nexus, both as a provider of implemented in compliance with Rule 11 of the Listing Rules.
property management and investment services and also as the provider of financial and administrative services to the Company.
This took the form of an evaluation of Nexus against a detailed and comprehensive performance matrix used and evolved by the Committee over several years and a presentation from the Managing Director.
The result of this evaluation was that the Committee considered that Nexus continued to perform well.
Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 57 Adviser Engagement Committee report continued Report on the Committees activities during the year The key terms of the Deed of Variation, provide that: continued in respect of the services provided in relation to the The meeting also considered arrangements for the sharing properties currently owned by the MedicX Group, PHP shall ofpersonal data between the Company and Nexus and agreed pay a monthly fee to Nexus equal to 0.225%.
per annum to formalise these in the light of changes required by the General ofthe MedicX Groups gross asset value for a period of five Data Protection Regulation and the Data Protection Act 2018. years from the date of the completion of the merger, after which PHPs marginal property fee scale will apply this The Committee in July formally approved minor changes to monthly fee will be reduced by the monthly cost contribution thewording of the Advisory Agreement to clarify the operation from Nexus referred to in the next paragraph: of the provisions of the PIF and the execution of a data sharing deed to reflect the arrangements regarding personal data referred a cost contribution paid by Nexus to PHP equal to 25% to above.
At the same meeting, the Committee also considered ofthe payment made by MedicX to terminate the MedicX the Advisers plans for succession planning in its staff and the Investment Management Agreement with Octopus Healthcare potential risk if any associated with the departure of any key capped at 2.5 million, such contribution to be payable members of the Advisers senior management team.
inmonthly instalments, over five years, by reducing the feespayable to Nexus under the Advisory Agreement with The meeting in November considered a number of further such contribution terminating five years after the date of changes to the terms of the Advisory Agreement in light Completion or, if earlier, the date on which the Company ofthenegotiations with MedicX and the proposal that the serves notice terminating the Advisory Agreement: Adviser would take over management of the enlarged groups portfolio, if the transaction completed.
the fee payable in respect of the provision of the finance and company secretarial services shall increase by an annual The changes were contained in two documents considered by figure of 250,000: the Committee, one of which is conditional upon the completion of the merger with MedicX and on shareholder approval the in respect of property management services, setting an Deed of Variation, while the other the Amendment Deed initial term of the appointment of three years from the date is not conditional.
The Amendment Deed provides that PHPs of Completion and thereafter continuing until terminated on current marginal property fee scale of 0.275%, applied in at least two years notice: and calculating the annual property services fee, will reduce in in respect of financial and company secretarial services, accordance with the following scale - where the gross asset setting an initial term of appointment of three years from value of the portfolio is: the date of Completion and thereafter continuing until between 1.752.00 billion, the rate applied is 0.25%: terminated on at least twelve months notice.
between 2.002.25 billion, the rate applied is 0.225%: and The Deed of Variation is conditional upon shareholder approval and on completion of the merger.
2.25 billion and above, the rate applied is 0.200%.
In addition, during the year, at each meeting, the Committee: Prior to the amendments made by the Amendment Deed, a rate of 0.250%.
was applied in calculating the annual property services monitored compliance with the Advisory Agreement and fee where the gross asset value of the portfolio was greater than considered the continued appropriateness of the terms 1.75 billion.
ofthe Advisory Agreement: and scrutinised a schedule of the fees and expenses paid to theAdviser to that date to ensure that they had been paid in accordance with the terms of the Advisory Agreement.
I will be standing down as Chairman of the Committee and willhand over to Laure Duhot on completion of the proposed MedicX merger.
Nick Wiles Chairman of the Adviser Engagement Committee 30 January 2019 58 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018
