A p p r o p s r u i c a t o f e m c a r p e i t t a g l n s o t L r u c t u r e Business model Creating long term sustainable value What we do Experienced and innovative management We invest in flexible, modernproperties for local primary healthcare.
The overall objective of the Group is to create progressive returns toshareholders through a 1.
Grow combination of earnings growth and capital appreciation.
Toachieve this, PHP has invested in healthcare real Deliver estate let on long-term leases, progressive returns backed by a secure underlying covenant where the majority 3.
Manage of rental income is funded directly or indirectly by a government body.
Our key strengths Prudent risk management: Experienced and innovative management: PHP aims to operate in a relatively low risk environment PHPs portfolio is managed by an experienced team within togenerate progressive returns to shareholders through anefficient management structure, where operating costs are investment in the primary healthcare real estate sector, tightly controlled by the adviser and its fees are structured to whichis less cyclical than other real estate sectors.
gain economies of scale as the group continues to grow.
Long term focus: Appropriate capital structure: By providing additional space facilitating the provision PHP funds its portfolio with a diversified mix of equity and ofadditional services or extending the term of underlying debt, in order to optimise risk-adjusted returns to shareholders.
leases, PHP can increase and lengthen its income streams andcreate the opportunity to add capital value.
10 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 E x p e r i e t n n c e e d m e a g n a d n i a n m n o k v s a i t r i v t e n e m d a u r n P a g e m e n t Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Delivering on our Wider outcomes Analysis of leases unexpired strategicobjectives Grow Social impact The group looks to selectively grow PHP aims to provide modern premises itsproperty portfolio by funding and located within residential communities acquiring highquality, newly developed toenable better access to an increasing facilities and investing in already rangeofservices being delivered locally completed, letproperties.
with greater accessibility than fromhospitals.
Manage 1 5 28 33 18 15 L Environmental impact PHP manages its portfolio effectively andefficiently, managing the risks faced Environmental impact is an integral by its business in order to achieve its consideration in the development, design 3 years 1.5% strategic objectives.
and construction of new PHP properties.
45 years 5.2% Developing new premises PHP and its Fund development partners seek to achieve 510 years 28.0% thehighest BREEAM standards.
The group funds its portfolio with 1015 years 32.7% adiversified mix of equity and debt Healthcare targets onasecured and unsecured basis, 1520 years 18.0% inorder to optimise risk-adjusted The modern, flexible premises that PHP 20 years 14.6% .
provides facilitate the provision of more wide ranging and integrated care services helping to realise the NHS target of 24 7 Achieving each of access to GP services and the HSEs thesestrategic objectives expansion of primary care infrastructure.
will enable PHP to meet itsoverriding aim of delivering progressive shareholder returns Read more about Environment and social issues onpages 3337 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 11
