Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report to shareholders Directors forthe year ended 31 December 2018.
Biographical information for the current Directors can be found on pages 38 to 40.
The Groups Strategic Report on pages 1 to 37 includes matters that would otherwise be required to be disclosed in this report Details of the Directors who served during the year and their including on the Companys business model and strategy, principal interests in the Companys Ordinary Shares can be found in the risks and uncertainties facing the Group and how these are Directors Remuneration Report on page 63. managed and mitigated, an indication of future likely developments The Companys Articles of Association the Articles require in the Company and details of important events since the year that Directors should submit themselves for election at the first ended 31 December 2018.
Annual General Meeting following their appointment and thereafter The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide information for re-election at least every three years.
The Company has, tothe members of the Company, as a body.
The Company, however, adopted the requirements of the UK Corporate itsDirectors, employees, agents or advisers do not accept Governance Code the Code in requiring the annual re-election orassume responsibility to any other person to whom this of all Directors.
document is shown or into whose hands it may come and Mr Cole having been appointed since the Annual General anysuch responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
Meeting in 2018 will stand for election at the Annual General TheAnnual Report contains certain forward-looking statements Meeting to be held on 11 June 2019 2019 AGM.
with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these statements All other Directors who served during the year will retire and involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election at the 2019 cancause results and developments to differ from those AGM.
A proposal to re-elect such Directors will be included anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge within the Notice calling the 2019 AGM.
The Chairman confirms and information available at the date of preparation of this to shareholders that, following formal performance evaluation, Annual Report.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be all the Directors standing for re-election continue to be effective construed as a profit forecast.
and their contribution is valuable and they demonstrate full commitment to and independence in their roles.
Principal activity Information on the performance evaluation of the Board The principal activity of the Group of which Primary Health isshown in the Corporate Governance Report on page 50.
Properties PLC is the Parent Company is the generation of rental income and capital growth through investment in primary Appointment and removal of Directors healthcare property in the United Kingdom and Ireland.
Unless and until otherwise determined by the Company by The Group became a Real Estate Investment Trust UK REIT ordinary resolution, the number of Directors other than any on 1 January 2007.
It is the opinion of the Directors that the alternate Directors shall not be less than two and there shall Group has conducted its affairs so as to be able to continue beno maximum number of Directors.
The Managing Director and Finance Director have service agreements with the Adviser and are not employees of Results and dividends theCompany.
Details of the service agreements of the The results for the year are shown in the Group Statement Non-executive Directors including the notice periods required ofComprehensive Income on page 78. toterminate the agreements are shown in the Directors As in 2017, the Board resolved in 2018 to pay quarterly interim Remuneration Report on page 61.
Save in respect of any dividends.
In line with this policy interim ordinary dividends payments that may be made in lieu of notice on termination, totalling 5.40 pence per ordinary share of 12.5 pence each there are no arrangements between the Company and the Ordinary Share were paid during the year year ended Directors or other employees for compensation for loss of 31December 2017: 5.25 pence.
The quarterly dividends were officeor employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
split into elements comprising a property income distribution PID and an ordinary dividend.
On 3 January 2019, the Board declared an interim dividend of1.4 pence per Ordinary share, payable on 22 February 2019, to shareholders on the register at 11 January 2019, being the first quarterly dividend in 2019.
Further information on dividends can be found in the Shareholder Information section on page 120.
Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 65 Directors report continued Powers of Directors Indemnities Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the The Companys Articles of Association permit it to indemnify memorandum and articles of association of the Company Directors of the Company or of any associated company in andto any directions given by special resolution, the business accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may of the Company shall be managed by the Board, which may fund expenditure incurred by Directors in defending proceedings exercise all the powers of the Company.
The Company may indemnify any Director of the Company or of any associated company against any liability.
The Directors were empowered by resolutions of the Company However, the Company may not provide an indemnity against: passed on 18 April 2018 to allot equity securities as defined i any liability incurred by the Director to the Company or to bythe Companies Act 2006 for cash and to make market any associated company: or ii against any liability incurred purchases of the Companys shares, up to a maximum aggregate bythe Director to pay a criminal or regulatory penalty: or iii number of 62,092,932 ordinary shares.
It is proposed to seek against any liability incurred by the Director in defending renewal of these authorities at the forthcoming 2019 AGM.
criminal proceedings in which they are convicted: or iv in defending any civil proceedings brought by the Company or an Appointment of Directors associated company in which judgment is given against them: Subject to the articles of association, and without prejudice or v in connection with certain court applications under the tothe power of the Company to appoint any person to be a Companies Act 2006.
No indemnity was provided and no payments Director, the Board shall have power at any time to appoint were made pursuant to these provisions during the year.
anyperson who is willing to act as a Director, either to fill a The Company also procures Directors and officers liability vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board, but the total insurance in respect of itself, the Directors and the Directors number of Directors shall not exceed any maximum number ofits subsidiaries.
These indemnities are qualifying third-party fixed in accordance with the articles of association.
indemnity provisions as defined by Section 234 of the Any Director so appointed shall hold office only until the Companies Act 2006. nextAnnual General Meeting of the Company following The indemnities were valid throughout the year and are suchappointment and shall then be eligible for election.
Retirement of Directors Substantial interests Under the articles of association at each annual general meeting As at 30 January 2019, the Company had been notified or any Director who shall have been a Director at each of the two wasotherwise aware of the following shareholders who were preceding annual general meetings is required to stand for directly or indirectly interested in 3% or more of the voting re-election as a Director.
However, the Company has, however, rights in the Companys issued share capital: adopted the requirements of the Code in requiring the annual re-election of all Directors.
Percentage of existing Removal of Directors issued share As at 30 January 2019 Ordinary Shares capital In addition to any powers of removal conferred by the Companies Blackrock Investment Management 53,214,035 6.9 Act, the Company may by special resolution remove any Director before the expiration of his period of office and may subject to Investec Wealth & Investment 40,064,371 5.21 the articles by ordinary resolution, appoint another person Charles Stanley Group 31,328,539 4.07 toact in their place.
Hargreaves Lansdown 30,925,436 4.02 CCLA Investment Management 26,729,268 3.48 Troy Asset Management 26,504,851 3.45 Vanguard Group 26,373,928 3.43 66 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Share capital Transfer At the date of this report, the Company has one class of share Any member may transfer all or any of his uncertificated shares inissue, being 774.4 million Ordinary Shares of 12.5 pence each by means of a relevant system in such manner provided for, and and each carrying the right to one vote at general meetings subject as provided, in the CREST Regulations and the rules of ofthe Company and to participate in any dividends declared any relevant system.
Subject to the articles of association, any inaccordance with the articles of association.
No person has member may transfer all or any of his or her certificated shares any special rights of control over the Companys share capital.
by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
Subject to the provisions The Company did not purchase or acquire any of its Ordinary ofthe Companies Act, the Board may, in its absolute discretion, Shares during the year, nor did any nominee or third party with decline to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully the Companys assistance acquire any shares on behalf of the paid share provided that where such a share is a member of a Company.
Save as specifically authorised by shareholders in class of share admitted to the Official List, such discretion may connection with the placings on 13 April 2016 and 18 April 2018 not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in shares of new Ordinary Shares and under the Companys scrip dividend of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis.
scheme, the Company has not issued any shares for cash other than on a pre-emptive basis in any financial period since The Board may only decline to register a transfer of an 31December 2014. uncertificated share in the circumstances set out in the CREST Regulations, and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, Details of changes in share capital are set out in Note 19 of the the number of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is financial statements.
to be transferred exceeds four.
The Board may, in its absolute discretion, decline to register any instrument of transfer of a Rights attaching to shares under the articles of association certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is: i left at The Companys articles of association do not contain any the registered office, or at such other place as the Board may specific restrictions on the size of a shareholders holding.
decide, for registration and is accompanied by the certificate for the shares to be transferred and or such other evidence Voting rights asthe Board may reasonably require to prove the title of the Subject to any special rights or restrictions as to voting attached transferor and the due execution by him of the transfer: or ii to any shares by or in accordance with the articles of association, if stamp duty is generally chargeable on transfers of certificated on a show of hands every member who is present in person or shares the instrument of transfer is duly stamped or adjudged by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote and on a poll every or certified as not chargeable to stamp duty: or iii the instrument member who is present in person or by proxy and entitled to is in respect of only one class of share: and iv in the case of a vote has one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom Restrictions on voting the share is to be transferred does not exceed four.
No member shall, unless the Board otherwise determines, Amendment of the Companys articles of association beentitled to vote at a general meeting or at any separate Any amendments to the Companys articles of association may meeting of the holders of any class of shares, either in person be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies or by proxy, in respect of any share held by such member or to Act 2006 by special resolution.
There were no amendments exercise any right as a member unless all calls or other sums made to the Companys articles of association in the year.
presently payable by such member in respect of that share have been paid to the Company.
In addition, any member or Corporate governance other person appearing to be interested in the shares a third A report on corporate governance and compliance with the party, who having been served with a notice under section provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, which forms 793 of the Companies Act 2006 by the Company requiring part of this Directors Report, is contained on pages 42 to 51. such member to disclose to the Board in writing within such reasonable period as may be specified in such notice, details Report on greenhouse gas emissions ofany past or present beneficial interest of such member or any such third party in the shares or any other interest of any The Group is externally advised and administered by the Adviser kind whatsoever which a member or third party may have in and therefore has no employees or office premises.
Any emissions the shares and the identity of the person having or having had are therefore negligible.
Further information on the Groups social any such interest, fails to do so may be disenfranchised by and environmental impact can be found in the Responsible service of a notice by the Board.
Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 67 Directors report continued Annual General Meeting Additional payments that may be made to Nexus for non-standard real estate related services are capped at 10% of the total annual The Annual General Meeting of PHP the AGM will be held on Property Services Fee payable to Nexus.
11 June 2019 at 10:30 a. m. The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting and explanatory notes for the resolutions sought As regards Property Advisory Services, the Advisory Agreement will be sent to shareholders separately from this document.
is terminable by not less than two years written notice.
As explained on page 7 if the merger with MedicX completes Auditors and shareholders approve the changes to the Advisory Agreement, Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office in respect of the property management services, the term will as auditors and a resolution to re-appoint them will be put to be three years and thereafter continuing until terminated on at shareholders at the AGM.
Related party transactions b Administrative services Mr Hyman is a director of Nexus Tradeco Limited Nexus.
The Advisory Agreement provides for the Company to pay Nexus Nexus is the Adviser to the Group and, as a result, Mr Hyman is in relation to Administrative Services a fixed annual fee of 964,536 deemed to have an interest in the Advisory Agreement referred from 1 May 2018. to below and is thus a related party.
Details of the transactions The Administrative Services fee may be increased or decreased with the related party are set out in note 4 to the financial by up to 5% per annum subject to movements in RPI from statements on page 90.
Advisory Agreement Nexus appointment to provide Administrative Services was initially for a minimum two-year period ending 1 May 2016.
Pursuant to an advisory agreement between the Company Thereafter, the notice period to terminate such services is andthe Adviser Nexus the Advisory Agreement, as amended, 12months given by either Nexus or the Company.
If the the Company has appointed Nexus: proposed changes to the Advisory Agreement are approved to provide property advisory and management services byshareholders the fee payable in respect of the Administrative tothe Group and the services of the Managing Director services shall increase by an annual figure of 250,000 and oftheCompany Property Advisory Services : theterm shall be three years from completion ofthe proposed MedicX merger and thereafter continuing until terminated on to provide administrative and accounting services to the atleast twelve months notice.
Group: and c Performance Incentive Fee PIF to act as the appointed Company Secretary together the Administrative Services.
Nexus is entitled to a PIF equal to 11.25% of any performance inexcess of an 8% per annum increase in the Groups EPRA Net The Advisory Agreement contains no provisions to amend, alter Asset Value, plus dividends paid subject to an overall cap at or terminate the Advisory Agreement upon a change of control the lower of 20% of the Management Fee payable to Nexus of the Group following a takeover bid.
Advisory fees Half of any PIF payment is deferred to the following year, with performance against the hurdle rate both positive and negative a Property Advisory Services carried forward in a notional cumulative account with any future The current fee arrangement for Property Advisory Services payment subject to the account being in a surplus position.
the Property Services Fee, based on gross asset value, Furthermore, for the three years from 1 January 2017, the payment isasfollows: of any PIF is restricted if it would otherwise cause PHPs dividend Gross assets Total fee cover to fall below 98%.
The Nexus team working on PHPs account, other than Harry Hyman, will receive 25% of any PIF First 250 million 0.500% paid, to aid staff motivation and retention of which 50% may Between 250 million and 500 million 0.475% be satisfied in PHP shares, subject to a three-year holding period.
Between 500 million and 750 million 0.400% Between 750 million and 1 billion 0.375% Between 1 billion and 1.25 billion 0.325% Between 1.25 billion and 1.5 billion 0.300% Between 1.5 billion and 1.75 billion 0.275% Between 1.75 billion and 2.0 billion 0.250% Between 2.0 billion and 2.25 billion 0.225% Above 2.25 billion 0.200% 68 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Employees Regulatory disclosures The Group has no employees, no employee share scheme and The following disclosures are made in compliance with Listing there are no agreements between the Company and its Directors Rule 9.8.
4 and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs.
providing for compensation for loss of office or employment Details of the Directors and their connected persons interest whether through resignation, proposed redundancy a takeover in the shares of the Company are set out on page 63 and details bid or otherwise.
of significant interests in the Companys shares disclosed under DTR5 at the year end are set out in the Directors Report on Donations page 66, and the going concern statement on page 69.
Details of the financial instruments used by the Group are set out in The Group does not make any political or charitable donations.
Note 17 forming part of the Group financial statements on pages 101 to 102, which are incorporated into this Report of the Share service directors by reference.
No interest was capitalised by the Group The Shareholder Information section on page 120 provides details in the financial year to 31 December 2018.
All other sub-sections of the share services available.
Information that fulfils the requirements of LR 9.8.
6 6 can be found in the Financial instruments Corporate Governance report on pages 42 to 51 and is The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
are discussed in Notes 17 and 18.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information Post balance sheet events toauditors Details of events occurring since the year end are given The Directors who were members of the Board at the time inNote29 on page 110. ofapproving the Directors Report are listed on pages 38 and 40.
Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Companys Going concern auditors, each of the Directors confirms that: The Groups business activities together with the factors so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit likelyto affect its future development, performance and information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and position, together with the financial position of the Group, itscash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to setout inthe Strategic Report.
have taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish The Groups property portfolio is 99.8% occupied with 91% of its that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
income funded directly or indirectly by the UK government.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance As at 31 December 2018, the Group had 200.8 million with the provisions of S418 of the Companies Act 2006. ofheadroom on its debt facilities, with a further 5.9 million ofcash.
The Group has total commitments of 16.0 million By order of the Board outstanding to fund on properties under construction through thecourse of 2019.
The Groups consolidated loan to value ratio, including drawn, unsecured debt, is 44.8%, with all Nexus Management Services Limited banking covenants being met during the year and subsequent Company Secretary totheyear end.
30 January 2019 The Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage itsbusiness risks successfully.
Having reviewed the Groups Primary Health Properties PLC business activities, financial development, performance and Registered office: 5th Floor, Greener House, 6668 Haymarket, position including its cash flows, liquidity position, borrowing LondonSW1Y 4RF facilities and covenant cover, the Directors have a reasonable Registered in England Number: 3033634 expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence and meet its liabilities asthey fall due for a period of at least twelve months from thedate of this report.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 69
