Board of Directors 1 Steven Owen 2 Harry Hyman Independent Non-executive Chairman Managing Director E N R S S 1 2 Election to the Board Election to the Board Steven Owen was elected at the Harry Hyman was the founder of the Companys Annual General Meeting Company in 1996 and has served on in2014 having been appointed to the theBoard as Managing Director from Board in December 2013.
Following his that time and represents the Adviser, election to the Board he took up the Nexus Tradeco Limited, on the Board.
position as Chairman of the Audit 3 4 Committee and Senior Independent Career Director and was appointed Chairman in Harry Hyman graduated from Cambridge April 2018 and took over the chair of the University and trained as a Chartered Nomination Committee from Nick Wiles.
Career Harry is the Managing Director of Steven embarked on his career NexusTradeco Limited and its subsidiary 5 6 withKPMG before moving into property companies.
He is a Fellow of the Institute with Brixton plc where he became of Chartered Accountants in England Finance Director and subsequently andWales.
He is currently Skills, competence and experience CEO and founding partner of Wye Valley Partners LLP, a commercial real estate Harry has extensive experience asset management business.
Steven is ininvesting in the primary healthcare also a Director of ICE Campus Ventures Ltd. sector, having developed the Companys 7 8 business from inception over 20 years Skills, competence and experience ago to its current position with an Steven combines his financial skills as investment portfolio of over 1.5 billion.
He also brings entrepreneurial flair to Key to Committee membership aChartered Accountant with extensive expertise of investment and development theBoard having established a number A Audit Committee of successful private companies.
in commercial property in a listed company N environment, having spent 24 years at Nomination Committee Other listed directorships Brixton plc, then a listed FTSE 250 R Remuneration Committee company.
Steven is also a Fellow of the Harry is the Non-executive Chairman E Adviser Engagement Committee Association of Corporate Treasurers.
ofSummit Germany Limited, an AIM listed German commercial real estate company.
S Standing Committee Other listed directorships In addition, Harry is a non-executive C Chairman of Committee director of Biopharma Credit PLC, which None invests in the fast-growing science industry.
Independent Non-executive Independent Non-executive Yes Not applicable 38 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information 3 Peter Cole 4 Richard Howell 5 Dr Stephen Kell OBE Finance Director Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director A E N R S A E N R Election to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Peter was appointed to the Board Richard Howell was appointed to the Dr Stephen Kell was elected at the on1May 2018.
Board from 31 March 2017, having joined Companys Annual General Meeting Nexus on 13 March 2017 and following in2018 having been appointed to Career his appointment, elected a Director at theBoard in February 2018. the 2017 Annual General Meeting on Peter is a Chartered Surveyor andis 26April 2017.
Career Chief Investment Officer ofHammerson plc, the FTSE listed owner, manager and Stephen is a General Practitioner and Career developer of retail destinations in the UK, Managing Partner of a large medical Ireland and continental Europe.
He was Richard is a chartered accountant and practice in Worksop, Nottinghamshire amain board director ofHammerson from has over 20 years experience working with 14 partners, 32,000 patients and October 1999 until 31 December 2018. with London-listed commercial property operating across five sites.
Until 2016, companies, gained principally with Stephen was also Chair of the Bassetlaw Skills, competence and experience LondonMetric Property plc and Clinical Commissioning Group, Vice-Chair Brixtonplc.
Richard was part of the of the Nottinghamshire Health and Peter has considerable experience senior management team that led the Wellbeing Board and Co-Chair of NHS ofproperty investment and a deep merger ofMetric Property Investments plc Clinical Commissioners and consequently understanding of the real estate market and London & Stamford Property Plc in has an in-depth understanding of healthcare and investor sentiment.
He brings to 2013 to create LondonMetric Property plc commissioning and has helped to establish theBoard a combination of skills in UK with a combined property portfolio a national membership organisation with and Europe property investment and of1.4 billion.
significant political and NHS influence.
development and an understanding He is a director of Community Health ofthe regulatory environment for Skills, competence and experience Partners Limited which provides listedcompanies intheUK.
consultancy services in the primary Richard has extensive finance experience, health market.
Other listed directorships having previously held senior accounting positions within listed property companies None Skills, competence and experience operating across the UK.
Whilst working for LondonMetric and Brixton plc, he has Stephen has spent his career involved Independent Non-executive been involved in over 4 billion of inthe healthcare sector, principally in Yes property transactions.
theprovision of primary care and this experience is invaluable to the Board Other listed directorships bybringing the perspective of one oftheCompanys key stakeholders to None discussions in the boardroom.
He has an intimate knowledge of the NHS and has Independent Non-executive a considerable understanding of the Not applicable drivers of health commissioning in the UK, particular as to how this affects theprimary care market.
Other listed directorships None Independent Non-executive Yes Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 39 Board of Directors continued 6 Geraldine Kennell 7 Ian Krieger 8 Nick Wiles Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director andSenior IndependentDirector A E N R A A E N R A E N R S Election to the Board Election to the Board Election to the Board Geraldine Kennell was elected a Director Ian Krieger was elected a Director at Nick Wiles was elected at the at the 2016 Annual General Meeting the2018 Annual General Meeting having CompanysAnnual General Meeting in andjoined the Board on 5 April 2016. been appointed to the Board in February 2016, and was appointed to the Board On7June 2016, Geraldine was appointed 2018 and chairs the Audit Committee.
He took over a chair to chair the Remuneration Committee.
ofthe Adviser Engagement Committee Career inJanuary, when Mark Creedy announced Career his intention not to seek re-election at Ian is a Chartered Accountant and was the AGM in April 2018.
Following the After gaining a degree in economics apartner and vice-chairman at Deloitte appointment of Steven Owen as fromBristol University, Geraldine joined until his retirement in 2012.
His is currently Chairman, Nick was appointed as Samuel Montagu & Co Limited as a senior independent non-executive director SeniorIndependent Director.
graduate trainee, before taking up roles and chairman of the audit committee at first at 3i and subsequently at Silverfleet Safestore Holdings plc and Premier Foods Career Capital LLP, formerly the private equity plc.
He is also a non-executive director arm of Prudential plc, where she became atCapital & Regional plc, where he also Following a period at Sandhurst and a partner, specialising in mid-market chairs the audit committee.
He is Chair ashort service commission in the Army, buy-outs across Europe.
of Anthony Nolan, a major blood cancer Nick joined Mercury Asset Management charity, and Trustee and Chairman of the as a fund manager and equity analyst.
Skills, competence and experience finance committee of the Nuffield Trust.
Hesubsequently worked for more than 20 years in investment banking at Geraldine brings skills and experience in Skills, competence and experience Cazenove & Co. and subsequently complex business decision making across JPMorgan Cazenove.
Nick retired as a broad range of sectors, monitoring and Ian qualified as and practised as a chairman of UK investment banking supporting investments and extensive Chartered Accountant and brings atNomura in 2012.
He was also a experience and strength in originating, awealth of recent financial experience non-executive director of Strutt & Parker negotiating, and structuring transactions, tothe board as well as his experience from 20032014. including the negotiation of complex cash aschairman of the audit committees flow and asset backed debt facilities.
oftwo other UK listed companies in Skills, competence and experience AtSilverfleet, she served on the boards theproperty sector to the Board.
of a number of companies in which the Nick has considerable experience fund was invested.
ofinvestment banking and a deep Other listed directorships understanding of equity markets and Premier Foods plc, non-executive Other listed directorships investor sentiment.
He brings to the director.
Safestore Holdings plc, Board a combination of skills in banking None non-executive director.
Capital & and corporate finance, an understanding Regional plc, non-executive director.
of regulatory environment for listed Independent Non-executive companies in the UK and international Independent Non-executive Yes financial services markets.
Yes Other listed directorships Nick is currently non-executive chairman of PayPoint plc a UK listed provider of cash dispensing and payment services.
Independent Non-executive Yes 40 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Adviser Nexus Tradeco Limited Nexus The Company has appointed Nexus Tradeco Limited Nexus Nexus has provided property advisory and management to provide property advisory, management, administrative and services since its appointment in March 1996.
The Nexus accounting service and company secretarial services to the PHP property teamhas grown with PHPs business and currently Group under an advisory agreement.
Further information on the comprises 37members of staff, of whom twelve are qualified Advisory Agreement is on page 68. chartered surveyors.
It is headed by David Austin, a qualified surveyor who joined Nexus in July 2016 with over 20 years The Nexus team have a wealth of knowledge and experience experience in the sector, having previously worked with inhealth sector real estate and in company secretarial matters Lasalle, Axa and Land Securities and he is supported by and comprises a mix of property, finance and legal professionals.
DavidBateman, who has been with Nexus since 2014 and Nexus is engaged to provide property management services leadsthe team focusing on potential investment opportunities.
which include identifying suitable properties, negotiating, subject to Board approval, the terms of purchase of those properties The property team, which is based in offices in central London and providing day-to-day property management on behalf of the and in Stratford-upon-Avon, comprises professionals engaged Group.
Nexus provides the services of the Managing Director, in property acquisition, portfolio management, asset and property the Finance Director, the Company Secretary and also management, and includes a further two trainee surveyors and administrative and accounting services to the Group.
The property team has a combined wealth of experience of the healthcare real estate sector, having The performance of Nexus is evaluated and scrutinised by between them worked in investment, development and asset theAdvisers Engagement Committee, which consists entirely and property management functions at either Nexus or other of independent Non-executive Directors led by Nick Wiles.
specialist sector operators prior to joining Nexus.
TheAdvisers Engagement Committee meets in April each year to formally review and evaluate the performance of Nexus in Nexus finance team includes three qualified accountants, delivering its services to the Company and reviews the charges twopart-qualified accountants and two finance assistants levied at each of its meetings.
To date Nexus has had an exemplary under the management of Richard Howell, the Finance Director.
track record in providing advice and identification of investment Members of the team have worked within large professional opportunities delivering solid yields and enabling the Company services companies advising major property companies or held to enjoy over 22 years of continuous dividend growth.
positions within listed and privately-owned real estate businesses.
The Nexus Group is engaged in the provision of independent Company secretarial services are provided on a day-to-day advice and financial services to other organisations operating basis by Paul Wright, a qualified solicitor, with over 15 years inthe public and private sectors, with particular emphasis on experience as a company secretary to listed companies.
Paulwas previously Company Secretary and Legal Counsel atCambian Group plc, Playtech plc and Company Secretary Nexus team andGeneral Counsel at TNS plc.
Nexus provides the Company with the services of Harry Hyman, Nexus remuneration Managing Director and Richard Howell, Finance Director.
Harry Hyman is an experienced adviser to and manager of listed property Details of the fees payable to Nexus for its advisory services groups and has many years experience in PHPs sector of focus.
and the basis for their calculation can be found in the Directors Richard, who joined in March 2017, is an experienced chartered Report on pages 65 to 69. accountant with extensive experience within the commercial property sector.
Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 41
