4 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Overview Our business model We provide our customers with tailored and affordable products that match theirspecific needs, and we help them to handle the inevitable challenges thateveryday life throws their way.
TV Direct Face-to-face Online Consumer credit Customer needs adverts mail meetings applications 1002k 138 years Consumer loan range Experience We create value for customers through offers of We create value for customers by generating financial inclusion, and for colleagues and brokers high satisfaction and loyalty.
through the income and commission they earn.
We develop We attract tailored products to customers who meet customers needs we can serve We focus on the UK credit market, We use many ways to reach developing simple, transparent consumers.
We target our offers using products with flexibility to help increasingly digital methods, as well customers not well served by as face-to-face and partners such mainstream lenders cope as field colleagues, agents with life.
Vehicle finance Credit cards Attractive offers Great service 4k25k 2504k 2.4m 5,700 Vehicle loan range Credit card limits Customers Employees The resources and relationships critical to our success: Our customers Regulators and government Long-term funds and capital Our 2.4 million customers are at the heart of what we The nature of our customer base and the market we We secure long term, lower rate funding through do, they are the 20% of UK adults who at any one time specialise in makes the building and maintaining of open strong relationships with our lending banks, are looking for something that mainstream lenders and trusting dialogue with policy makers and our key depositors and investors.
We generate capital to dont offer.
We specialise in serving their needs and regulators the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA, deploy in growing our business and servingmore have adapted our business model to do so.
Financial Conduct Authority FCA and Central Bank of customers as well as delivering returns Ireland CBI critical to a sustainable business model.
See more about this content pages 36-43 See more about this content pages 55-56 See more about this content pages 57-71 5 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Overview Call centre Digital Face-to-face communications communications meetings We create value for customers by helping themminimise the impact of any difficulties inanunderstanding way.
Data Face-to-face Building From 100 analytics interaction credit scores We collect payments due We offer many ways to pay in cash and remotely, maintaining We create value for customers by ensuring loans We create value for customers by helping frequent customer contact.
We stay are appropriate to their situation, and thereby them access credit, stay in control and close to customers through call generate sustainable returns for shareholders.
build their credit score to improve future centre, digital communications access and choice.
and face-to-face meetings inthe home.
We carefully assess customer We lend responsibly affordability and creditworthiness We tend to lend smaller amounts over shorter periods and take a low We use internal and external data, and grow approach as customers including face-to-face interactions, demonstrate sustainability.
taking into account both the current situation and the likely future.
We manage arrears and customer difficulties We establish early contact and anongoing dialogue with customers who have difficulties, Enhanced affordability Corporate responsibility with a sympathetic approach, to understand and offer forbearance.
1 November 2018 1.7m Implementation date Community investment We create value for customers by helping them stay on track and adapt to lifes The resources and relationships critical to our success: challenges whilst building their credit score.
Sympathetic Dialogue with approach customers Our people Our communities Our 5,700 people are critical to delivering our tailored Our community investment strategy is aligned and understanding business model, balancing the tooursocial purpose and seeks to invest in personal touch with the use of technology where activitiesand initiatives which address the customers increasingly want andexpect it.
key factorsthat tendto reduce somebodys accessto credit.
See more about this content pages 73-89 See more about this content pages 73-89
