Statutory and regulatory disclosures Financial reporting The Directors who held office at the date Powers of the Board The Directors have a duty to report to of approval of this Directors report confirm The Board may exercise all powers shareholders on the performance and that, so far as they are each aware, there is conferred on it by the Companys Articles financial position of the Group and are no relevant audit information of which the and the Companies Act 2006.
This responsible for preparing the financial Companys auditor is unaware: each includes the powers of the Company to statements on pages 172 to 329 and the Director has taken all the steps that he or borrow money and to mortgage or charge supplementary information on pages 342 she ought to have taken as a Director to any of its assets subject to the limitations to 375.
It is the responsibility of the auditor make himself or herself aware of any set out in the Companies Act 2006 and to form independent opinions, based on its relevant audit information and to establish the Companys Articles and to give a audit of the financial statements and its that the Companys auditor is aware of that guarantee, security or indemnity in audit of the EEV basis supplementary information.
This confirmation is given and respect of a debt or other obligation of information, and to report its opinions to should be interpreted in accordance with the Company.
the Companys shareholders and to the the provisions of Section 418 of the Securities dealing and Company.
Its opinions are given on pages Companies Act 2006. inside information 330 to 340 and page 376.
Going concern Prudential has adopted securities dealing Company law requires the Directors to In accordance with the guidance issued rules relating to transactions by Directors prepare financial statements for each by the Financial Reporting Council in on terms no less exacting than required by financial year that give a true and fair view September 2014, Guidance on Risk Appendix 10 to the HK Listing Rules and of the financial affairs of the Company and Management, Internal Control and Related by relevant UK regulations.
The Directors of the Group.
The criteria applied in the Financial and Business Reporting, after have complied with these rules throughout preparation of the financial statements making sufficient enquiries the Directors the period.
are set out in the statement of Directors have a reasonable expectation that the The Group has adopted an Inside responsibilities on pages 329 and 375.
Company and the Group have adequate Information Policy which includes Company law also requires the Board to resources to continue their operations for guidance and procedures for the approve the Strategic report.
In addition, a period of at least 12 months from the date identification, dissemination and escalation the UK Code requires the Directors that the financial statements are approved.
of inside information as well as appropriate statement to state that they consider the In support of this expectation, the controls on the disclosure of such Annual Report and financial statements, Companys business activities, together information in line with regulatory taken as a whole is fair, balanced and with the factors likely to affect its future requirements.
All staff are made aware understandable and provides the development, successful performance and of the policy and receive communications information necessary for shareholders position in the current economic climate, reminding them of their obligations when to assess the Companys position and are set out in the Strategic report on pages they work on any confidential matters in performance, business model and strategy.
The risks facing the Groups the business or are notified when the capital and liquidity positions and their The Directors are further required to Company enters or exits a closed period.
sensitivities are referred to in the Strategic confirm that the Strategic report includes report on pages 52 to 69 and note II c a fair review of the development and Requirements of Listing Rule 9.8.
4 Solvency Capital Position at 31 December performance of the business, with a Information to be included in the Annual 2018 within Additional unaudited financial description of the principal risks and Report and accounts under Listing Rule information.
In addition the Directors uncertainties.
4 may be found as follows: considered the operational and financial included in the statement of Directors Listing Rule Description Page risks arising from the UKs intended responsibilities on pages 329 and 375. departure from the European Union in a 9.8.
4 4 Details of long-term 161 The Strategic report provides, on pages 48 number of possible scenarios, including incentive schemes to 50, a description of the Groups capital those which assume no withdrawal required by Listing position, financing and liquidity.
The risks agreement is enacted.
3 facing the Groups business are discussed financial statements include the details of in the Group Chief Risk Officers report of 9.8.
4 10 Contracts of Significance 106 the Groups borrowings in note C6 on page the risks facing our business and how these involving a Director 269, the market risk and liquidity analysis are managed on pages 52 to 69. associated with the Groups assets and liabilities can be found in note C3.4 a on pages 236 to 238, policyholder liability maturity profile by business units in notes C4.1 b, c and d on pages 244, 246 and 248 respectively, cash flow details in the consolidated statement of cash flows and provisions and contingencies in notes C11 and D2.
The Directors therefore consider it appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018.
128 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  US regulation and legislation Change of control Customers As a result of its listing on the New York Under the agreements governing The five largest customers of the Group Stock Exchange, the Company is required Prudential Corporation Holdings Limiteds constituted in aggregate less than to comply with the relevant provisions of life insurance and fund management joint 30 per cent of its total revenue from sales the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 as they apply ventures with China International Trust & for each of 2018 and 2017. to foreign private issuers and has adopted Investment Corporation CITIC, if there is procedures to ensure such compliance.
a change of control of the Company, CITIC In particular, in relation to Section 302 may terminate the agreements and either of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 which i purchase the Companys entire interest covers disclosure controls and procedures, in the joint venture or require the Company a Disclosure Committee has been to sell its interest to a third party designated established, reporting to the Group Chief by CITIC, or ii require the Company to Executive, chaired by the Chief Financial purchase all of CITICs interest in the joint Officer and comprising members of Group venture.
The price of such purchase or sale head office management.
The work of the is to be the fair value of the shares to be Disclosure Committee supports the Group transferred, as determined by the auditor Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer of the joint venture.
in making the certifications regarding the effectiveness of the Groups disclosure procedures.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 129
