34 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Our purpose and strategy In 2018, our focus has been on addressing the immediate business challenges I described earlier.
Now however, PFG is at a turning point.
Success in the eyes of investors, regulators and our people rests on our ability to pivot the Group back to growth, and in doing so, address competing demands quickly, effectively and sustainably.
99.2% The Blueprint createsshared purpose and ambition that motivates me.
We believe our purpose embodies our role to help and support customers with their We coupled this with what well deliver, looking at the everydaylives.
areas of strategic focus and the key priorities that will Malcolm Le May Malcolm Le May drive both competitive advantage and commercial Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer success for the whole Group.
Finally, we have looked athow well deliver this and identified the behaviours We need to balance providing our customers with wewill need to succeed.
an excellent proposition, maintaining high levels of regulatory compliance, providing a stimulating and The first part of our Blueprint is our purpose.
rewarding workplace for our employees, and delivering In setting our social purpose, we wanted something appropriate, sustainable returns for our shareholders.
that provides the anchor for the whole organisation: what we do commercially, how we do it and why we We know we can better address the needs of our exist.
Our customers told us: i they use our products customers across the Group.
This means building and services to help them in the everyday: ii they abetter understanding of what our customers lives are aspirational and sometimes borrow for holidays are like, what they need and want from us, as well or treatsfor the kids: and iii they value ease and as buildingsmarter propositions and driving a more convenience, but not at the expense of the human touch.
As a result of this feedback, weve developed We can also better harness the scale of the Group ourpurposeas: We help put people on a path to deliver better solutions for our customers by toabettereveryday life.
bringing thebest of PFG and doing so in a smarter way.
We believe our purpose embodies our role to help We believethere is significant opportunity to enhance our andsupport customers with their everyday lives.
market-leading positions through our businesses working much more collaboratively across our core capabilities: During 2019, we will devote significant time and effort credit, collections, distribution, data and analytics.
to embedding our new strategic Blueprint throughout In addition, continuing to develop our digital capability will PFG and link everything we do to the messages therein, be central to maintaining our market leading positions.
including training and development, reward and our performance KPIs.
We can only do this if we are clear on why and how we are more than the sum of our parts.
To this end, we have In our strategy and progress section on pages 24 to invested a lot of time and effort in building a Blueprint 32, wehave continued to report against our historic forthe future of PFG.
It will give us this clarity, unify strategic objectives and KPIs.
However, next year we the whole organisation and create a springboard for will report against our new purpose and the strategic drivers underpinning these, together with the KPIs significant change at pace.
Our Blueprint brings together why we exist as anorganisation, framed in the context of the role weplayinour customers lives.
Respondents to a postevent survey strongly agreed or agreed with this statement.
35 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Constructing the Blueprint Purpose Strategic drivers Behaviours Our reason for being.
It unifies us and Our purpose is built upon a number of To make sure we deliver on our purpose, issomething everyone can get behind strategic drivers.
Theyre critical pillars of our it is essential we create a culture where: both practically and emotionally.
strategy, under which sit practical priorities.
i we think customer all the time: They drive our competitive advantage ii weconstantly innovate and make A great purpose leads to action.
However, they are not things better for all our stakeholders: Help our purpose, our role in helping everything we do as an organisation: they and iii we hold ourselves and each customers achieve.
are designed to focus our minds, time otherpersonally accountable for success.
People references the humanity, and investment.
During our process, we As a result, we have developed a set intrinsicto the way we do business.
identified four strategic drivers: ofbehaviours we are now beginning toembed in our overall culture: On the path progression, growth, moving Customer progression We will build them forward in their lives, its a journey.
products, services and partnerships that Be hungry for better This is seeking Better everyday life our business is not change the game for our customers.
out opportunities for constant in the big life-changing moments, we help improvement, as well as having Human experiences We will build people in the everyday spending.
conversations that will help us move enduring relationships by delivering thedial, even when its tough.
experiences that seamlessly integrate the latest technology with our Put the customer on the team This is brilliant people.
making every decision with our customer in mind, as well as owning the trade-off Head AND heart decisions between commercial and Wewilldeliver for our stakeholders customer impact.
bybalancing: i data and insight: ii financialreturn and doing the right Act like its yours This is using thing: and iii customer need and resources with the same respect and customer want: in order to build a consideration you would your own, long-term, sustainable business.
as well as doing your bit to step-change our performance and maximise value.
Fighting fit We will continuously challenge our cost base, efficiency andeffectiveness, and change our capability to ensure we remain the mostcompetitive player in the market.
36 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Our customer proposition Vanquis Bank Vanquis Bank is the leading provider of credit cards to people inthe nonstandard credit market, promoting financial inclusion by bringing credit cards and loans topeople who are typically declined by mainstream providers.
now structured along distinct price points, which makes I am proud that our proposition easy to understand and communicate.
Vanquis Bank has In 2018, we broadened our product offering to our delivered stable existing customers by providing a seamless process profits in 2018 inour mobile app for customers to process their nonwhilst adapting Vanquis credit card debt on to promotional rate, which to changes resulted in a 20% uplift in the number of customers transferring a balance to Vanquis.
70% of all Balance in regulatory Transfers are now processed through the app.
In the requirements firstquarter of 2019 we will also be providing our and almost customers the opportunity to seamlessly process entirely settling aMoney Transfer within the app.
the ROP refund Account Level Profitability ALP capability In 2018 programme.
wedeveloped our ALP tool which provides a rich source Malcolm Le May ofdata exposing the drivers of profitability at a customer Vanquis Bank Interim level, including allocating the cost base taking account Managing Director of specific customer behaviour.
For example ALP allows us to analyse the cost of servicing a customer through the call centre allocating the cost of the call to the Malcolm Le May second versus the cost of servicing a customer via our Vanquis Bank Interim Managing Director self-serve channels such as the App.
This level of detail unlocks a wealth of information that helps improve all elements of our analytics, from optimising customer Develop tailored products engagement strategies, to adjusting our underwriting tomeetcustomers needs where segments or channels have varying costs of servicing customers.
ALP also serves as a strategic asset The key areas where Vanquis Bank has developed to further enable our move to machine learning, serving itsbusiness model in 2018 are as follows: as a core feedback loop through activity tracking against In being the leading provider of credit cards to people our test and learn strategies, accessing 500m data in the under-served market, Vanquis Bank helps people points per month.
to establish or rebuild a credit history and to share Vanquis Bank has also launched an unsecured loan in modern buying methods such as online shopping, proposition to its existing credit card customers.
that can only really be achieved with card-based payment products.
Attract target customers Vanquis Bank has over 16 years of experience in lending The business continues to be active in many responsibly to its chosen target market through a low distribution channels and improved offering to thin file and grow business model where credit line increases customers, building ongoing relationships with declined are provided utilising improved decision science and customers financial fitness and increased penetration open banking.
Its success is based on a clearly defined in the near prime segments through expansion strategy and a tailored approach to serving customers of distribution.
We have developed further partnerships, including In 2018, the product agenda focused on enhancing the newaffiliate and co-brand relationships.
customer proposition and operational efficiency through product portfolio consolidation and simplification.
We have also built systems to allow the development The product offering was successfully streamlined from and marketing of Vanquis Bank credit cards to the sixteen down to four core credit cards targeted towards Moneybarn customer base.
The Vanquis portfolio is 37 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Working with IncomeMax to help customers manage their finances Vanquis Bank continues to work with IncomeMax, through an innovative partnership that began in 2015, to support customers of the Bank that are experiencing financial difficulties.
IncomeMax is a Community Interest Company that helps people to maximise their household income by providing them with independent personal welfare advice that helps them take control of their finances.
Vanquis Banks dedicated One Call team, which offers additional support through financial capability andcapacity assistance, puts customers in touch with IncomeMax.
Our new TV adverts, launched in May, were screened atVanquis Bank.
The new scorecards and underwriting over 46,000 times driving a 50% increase in effective routines represent a significant uplift in predictive, 1773k recognition people who recognise the adverts and powerand improved data matching routines.
know who they are for, a 17% improvement in prompted customers In Q4 2018 we implemented a new Decision platform awareness of the Vanquis brand and the cost of driving for New Business, which represents a step change 3.1% increase year a response from TV advertising has fallen by over onyear in our ability to marry advancements in analytical 25% as a result of continuous channel and time of strategies with the speed with which these changes day optimisation.
These new capabilities will support The launch of the Provident Knowledge Universe, ourcontinued optimisation of our new business adatacollaboration with Experian, has added a channels and ensure we have the flexibility to enhance 86% substantial growth in new customers originated through or coursecorrect our strategies quickly and safely.
Of Vanquis Bank our Direct Mail channel relative to our BAU baseline.
Vanquis Bank has demonstrated that it is considerably customers are satisfied 2018 sees a record number of new customers originated less sensitive to changes in the employment market with the service they had been provided with through comparison site channels as key initiatives than mainstream card issuers.
This has been significantly improve the customer journey and provide have been progressively tightened over the last consistently delivered a seamless customer experience.
Vanquis use advanced 18 months which, together with the historic resilience yearon year.
analytical techniques to ensure the right product is of the business model, means that Vanquis Bank presented to the customer, pre approving customers iswell-positioned if there is any deterioration in the where possible.
Material improvements to the customer UKeconomic environment.
journey, including pre-populating application forms has Lend responsibly significant improved the conversion rate of applications through to account booking.
Vanquis Banks low and grow approach to extending credit and high levels of customer contact underpin Assess affordability and credit worthiness asustainable, responsible lending model which Following the FCAs review of credit worthiness in producesconsistently high levels of customer consumer credit which concluded in July 2018, Vanquis satisfaction approaching 90%.
When an existing Bank, along with all of the Groups businesses reviewed, customer has demonstrated a sound payment and continued to develop its affordability process performance they may also be able to benefit to ensure it is able to meet regulatory requirements fromaVanquis Bank loan.
Vanquis Bank has successfully delivered a number A suite of new Acquisition scorecards were deployed of business model refinements during 2018 in order in the first half of 2018, which are built on the more to adapt to changes in regulation.
In response to the granular, raw bureau data available to us, demonstrating remedies arising from the FCAs credit card market the continued advancement in analytical strength study, the business has undertaken a number 38 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Our customer proposition continued Vanquis Bank continued Collect repayments due 700k Vanquis Banks migration to digital platforms continues to progress.
More than 1 million customers were customers use the registered for the mobile app at the end of 2018, with mobile app each month, logging in an average 700k customers active through this channel inany of 9 times per month.
More than half of debit card payments are We increased minimum nowmade through the app, replacing telephone due payments in the asthechannel of choice for customers.
second half of the year, to reduce the number Vanquis Next Best Action capability continues ofcustomers falling into to support customers in avoiding arrears.
the FCAs definition Around 300k customers actions were taken following of persistent debt.
We will also be introducing recommendation of improving financial fitness, such as recommended payments setting up a regular payment method, making additional in early 2019.
These payments to avoid going overlimit, or changing when measures are designed payments are due to align to personal circumstances.
tohelp customers manage their finances Early intervention strategies are helping customers better and retain the to avoid default and overlimit fees.
All customers now utility of a Vanquis receive payment due and overlimit reminders by SMS, Bankcredit card.
where we have been provided with a mobile number.
Increased customer engagement and regular releases ofnew functionality is moving customers away from more traditional channels and into self-serve methods.
80% of new customers register for the app within 30 days of activating their card.
For example, 55% of all debit card payments are now taken via the app and 58%of first time card activations are completed.
1m Manage arrears and customer difficulties customers have registered for In 2018, Vanquis Bank continue to support customers the mobile app since it launched when they are experiencing financial difficulty by offering in June 2017. appropriate and affordable solutions to allow the customer to repay their balance in an efficient manner.
Approximately 18k customers per month now makeacommitment to resolve their arrears through the mobile app.
This constitutes more than 10% ofactionsincluding: i reducing its cash interest rate ofcollections activity.
In December, new capabilities to be in line with the purchase rate: ii implementing tomessage customers in the app to prompt repayment voluntary controls allowing changes to repayment were rolled out, this will further support our digital datesand alerting customers when promotional migration through 2019. periods are expiring or they are nearing their credit limit: iii the introduction of credit line increase consents: Enhancements to the suite of forbearance tools were and iv early interventions have been implemented rolled out in the second half.
This included reduced so that customers in potential financial difficulty are interest rates on short-term forbearance, and lower being contacted quickly.
In addition, in response to the payments required for those already benefiting from definition of persistent debt, Vanquis Bank increased payment arrangements.
This is expected to support its minimum due payments by around 0.5% in the third more customers who find themselves in short term quarter of the year and will shortly roll-out the use of difficulties to recover, avoiding default.
recommended payments which we expect to be typically between 1.0% and 1.5% higher than the minimum due payment.
Together with the implementation of other communication strategies across the customer base, these measures should reduce the risks that customers meet the definition of being in persistent debt and lose access to the benefits of owning a Vanquis Bank credit card.
39 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Consumer Credit Division The Consumer Credit Division is the Groups longest running business, stretchingback to the Companys foundation in 1880.
TheProvident home credit business continues to fill an important need for consumers in the non-standard market, providing access tocredit for those who might otherwise be financially excluded.
Develop tailored products Consumer Credit Division tomeetcustomers needs 560k The Provident home credit business continues to fill customers animportant need for consumers in the underserved 2017: 780k credit market, providing access to credit for those who might otherwise be financially excluded.
Consumers on low incomes and tight budgets requireaffordable credit in order to manage the 87% peaksand troughs in their household budgets or oneof customers interviewed off items of expenditure which may arise.
They value were satisfied with the the simple, flexible and transparent nature of the service they have been provided with in 2018. home credit product with its fixed repayments and no This has increased by additional fees or charges, even if payments are missed.
Customers value these features as well as the face-toface relationship.
The regular contact withcustomers and thorough affordability checking for each loan issued further reinforces Providents responsible lending approach.
In 2018, the focus in the home credit business has beenon rolling out and embedding a new operating Chris Gillespie model in the UK, incorporating enhanced management CCD Managing Director oversight and controls over field activity and customer outcomes whilst in Satsuma, the emphasis has been Thehome credit businesscontinues to serve ongenerating controlled customer growth.
itscustomers with short-term cash loans provided in Although home credit and Satsuma have not the home by a Customer Experience Manager CEM.
introducednew product lines in 2018, CCD has Satsuma has been established more recently and developed clear plans to extend and improve its provides a customer proposition for those customers products and propositions from 2019 onwards.
who wish to transact online However, some key Firstly, as well as continuing to increase the distribution features of the Home credit proposition are retained of the core Satsuma small-sum, short-term loan such asafixed amount to repay with no hidden fees product, weintend to undertake a trial of larger, longer oneitheraweekly or monthly basis, duration personal loans at rates below 100% APR, 2018 has been a year of turnaround for CCD after expanding the addressable market and leveraging the theevents of 2017 which focussed on stabilisation Satsuma platform.
Secondly, we are looking to extend andauthorisation of the business.
In addition, the our home credit product offering, leveraging the keyareas where CCD have developed their business capabilities inhome credit and Satsuma.
The product model are as follows: extension will continue to be relationship managed in the home by a CEM, but payments will be collected remotely.
We anticipate that this will allow us to attract new and former customers who do not wish to have aweekly collections visit by a CEM and are ofsuitablecredit quality.
40 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Our customer proposition continued Consumer Credit Division continued Home credit customer, London I have been using Provident for a while and have found it very helpful around Christmas and birthday times when the household budget isstretched.
I have found it easy to discuss getting credit with my CEM and the finance easy to understand with no hidden charges.
I have also found the customer service really helpful.
I have recommended it tofamily members as they give credit to people who not many willlend to.
Growth has been experienced in Satsuma through Attract target customers key partner relationships, enabled through bespoke, Although the competitive landscape in the home credit performance-based decisioning.
Incremental customer market remains largely unchanged, there is evidence journey and experience improvements for new and of some industry consolidation materialising as a result existing Satsuma customers have been delivered by ofmore exacting regulation under the FCA.
specialists which focus on each route to market who are able to assess the frequency of change required The field acquisition channel in Home Credit has been dependent on external and internal requirements.
reinvigorated in the UK following FCA authorisation, aligned to an enhanced management framework Assess affordability and credit worthiness toensure oversight and good customer outcomes.
There has been focus on increasing efficiency of direct CCD continually evolves its assessment of mail activity in Home Credit, including development of creditworthiness and affordability in both home credit targeting models, frequent testing of the creative material and Satsuma, including the use of new data sources, and leveraging of internal data to reach new populations.
checks and controls to assess whether the information In late 2018, the foundations for customer acquisition in received is accurate.
During 2018, data from across the home credit have been built and incremental marketing Group was integrated into our decisioning processes, activity tested including localpromotional activity.
ensuring that we make best use of information known within the Group in Satsumas lending decisions.
The business has optimised the investment in customer acquisition in Satsuma in 2018, which involves ensuring In home credit in the UK, we have provided capability the business attracts the right customers at an to CEMs to collect and store photographic evidence appropriate cost based on constant evaluation of the of customers incomes, so that this can be evidenced performance of customers attracted through each and used in the creditworthiness and affordability ofthedifferent B2C channels and B2B partners.
Satsuma has benefited from internal expertise in driving In Satsuma, a new business scorecard has been continued SEO activity across a range of high-volume, core redeveloped for deployment in 2019 and, as Satsuma key word search terms driven by regular, relevant content has continued to mature in 2018, adjustments to updates and ongoing site optimisation.
This approach is scorecard cut-offs for both new business and further also being used for home credit.
Satsuma has also driven lending have delivered incremental improvements ongoing improvement inthe management of the Pay Per tocredit quality.
Click PPC channel, supported by profitability tracking atacampaign level.
41 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report referral volumes were experienced and throughout Lend responsibly 2018 we have increased our resource to ensure that 2.5m The focus in 2018 for home credit in the UK, has been potentially vulnerable customers are handled in on rolling out and embedding the new operating model atimely manner, including having strict service levels times which has included the implementation of additional e. g. contacting customers within 24 hours of a referral.
The Satsuma app has controls such as voice recording technology which is Analysing referral reasons and continuously training been launched 2.5m used by the field when interacting with customers and times by our customer colleagues has enabled a slight reduction in resource wanting to check their is reviewed for compliance and quality.
The recording in the latter part of 2018, whilst improving the service balance or catch up of sales transactions is mandatory.
The relaunched offered to our customers.
collections and recoveries policy is underpinned 2018 started with a challenging level of complaints byrevised standard operating procedures.
particularly following the disruption in 2017 that We have required external support to be sought to handle Collect repayments due worked with our complaint volumes and enable the existing volume regulators to adapt The roll out of the new operating model in home ofcomplaints to be addressed.
As 2018 has progressed, our operating credit in the UK, including the creation of a new field we have been developing our internal capacity and models in the oversight role, ensures that colleagues are provided capability to deal with complaint volumes.
At the with the right amount of support and that the principles interests of our endof 2018 we have achieved our target to handle underpinning the approach to collections activity customers.
allcomplaints with our own employed complaint are being consistently followed.
The principles were handlers and our service levels are all well within Eleanor Thornhill delivered in 2018 via atraining programme specifically therecognised market standards.
CCD Finance Director for CEMs to ensure that they are able to have productive conversations withthe customer to ensure positive customer outcomes are achieved.
A new version of Satsumas mobile app has made it easier for customers to see when their next payment is due and enables them to catch-up missed payments via the app to clear arrears.
Customer research has provided clarity on what customers want regarding repayment functionality, enabling further improvements to be planned for 2019.
The Satsuma app has been downloaded by 84,000 customers and launched over2.5m times.
Manage arrears and customer difficulties In the first half of 2018 collections was the responsibility of the home credit UK field team with little support provided centrally for non-paying customers.
The central collections function has, in the second half of the year, introduced a number of initiatives representing email, SMS and letter campaigns that support CEM activity onboth non-paying and part-paying accounts.
A post field collections strategy has been introduced to continue to have dialogue with customers who have declined to interact with home credit field colleagues, which includes both an internal contact strategy and a third party placement.
It is too early to evaluate the impact of the post field strategies although we anticipate that this will ultimately improve our overall collection rate.
Collections will continue to be a focus area in 2019, ensuring that we provide as many options as possible tocontact and interact with customers.
126,000 devices In 2018 the business has reviewed processes for handling vulnerable customers to ensure there is Since launch in March 2017 the app amechanism in place that treats vulnerable customers has been downloaded by 84,000 fairly.
A centralised unit was provided to evaluate potential signs of vulnerability and training across the customers on 126,000 devices.
business was centred on a policy of ensuring that staff recognised the triggers and could refer the customers centrally for a full evaluation.
Inevitably, high initial 42 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Our customer proposition continued Moneybarn Moneybarn provides car finance to non-standard customers in the UK.
By assessing every customers personal history, needs and situation, the company is able to make responsible lending decisions and provide non-standard customers access to good quality vehicles.
The product range has been expanded in the year toinclude Light Commercial Vehicles LCV, motorbikes and touring caravans to serve customer demand withoutany significant increase in risk appetite.
The business has also moved to fixed rate APRs for eachcredit tier which means that customers have comfort from certainty of rate and monthly instalment atthe start of the application process.
Attract target customers Moneybarn has made significant service enhancements to the application and digital onboarding process through the inclusion of a pre-qualification team, improving the customer journey whilst maintaining risk and regulatory rigour.
This also improves the offering forour distribution partners compared to competitors inour market.
62k The business has continued to expand the number customers Shamus Hodgson ofdistribution partners which we work with, maintaining 2017: 50k Moneybarn Managing Director our position as lender of choice to those consumers whomay be unable to obtain mainstream credit.
The profile of a Moneybarn customer is very similar Management information has become more detailed to a Vanquis Bank customer.
They typically have a thin tohave strategic conversations with our key introducers.
or impaired credit history and find it difficult to access This enables them to better understand the customer 4.7 5 credit from prime lenders.
They have an average age base and maximise to enable them to better meet Feefo score of 4.7 out ofapproximately 40, are employed or self-employed demand and customer preferences.
This is consistent and have an income level around the national average with the prior year and Enhanced management information has also facilitated of25,000.
demonstrates customers the introduction of a re-solicitation programme to retain are very satisfied with The key areas where Moneybarn have developed high quality customers who currently settle early and the service provided theirbusiness model in 2018 are as follows: byMoneybarn.
The Experian Financial Strategy Segmentation tool Develop tailored products has been integrated into the business to enhance tomeetcustomers needs theunderstanding to the customer profile and enable Moneybarn promotes financial inclusion by providing key word focus for SEO campaigns.
The customer vehicle finance to those consumers who may be unable experience can be improved by better understanding to obtain mainstream credit, generally enabling them their needs and by tailoring which offers are available toget to work and earn a living.
Responsible lending is reinforced through  which do not involve the saleofancillary products such as PPI or GAP insurance, or hidden feesor charges.
43 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Moneybarn customer Janet, Chichester After paying expensive monthly lease payments for a number of years and then not owning the car at the end of the lease, I decided to look for another option.
My son who works in the motor industry recommended Moneybarn although I thought it would be complicated to arrange.
I was pleasantly surprised with the simple process which allowed me to snap upmy dream car!
Assess affordability and credit worthiness Collect repayments due The business has continued to develop the credit risk Through the development of the analytical support function who can analyse the broad data held to drive provided by the credit risk function, collections operational processes from acquisition throughout processes have been developed in 2018.
customer outcomes by optimising the way in which we interact with customers at different stages of Following the FCAs review of credit worthiness financial difficulty.
in consumer credit which concluded in July 2018, Moneybarn has continued to enhance its affordability All pre-termination fees and charges previously charged model.
This is a project which has been continuing have been eliminated during the year to enable the fortwo years and included an automated affordability business to support customers and remove a barrier programme launched in October.
This has also led tohaving effective conversations with them.
toan improvement in the level of service delivered A customer portal has been implemented in 2018, tocustomers, brokers and dealers.
providing the customer with flexibility over how they maywish to make payments.
Lend responsibly Manage arrears and customer difficulties To ensure that the Moneybarn lends responsibly is through providing straightforward products.
As with the other divisions of the Group, Moneybarn A programme of credit tightening initiatives has been hasfocussed on identifying and helping to resolve introduced to manage and control delinquency levels customers in financial difficulty in the year.
within the businesss credit risk appetite.
The business has continued to invest in resource In 2018, this has included additional policies when and technology in customer operations through dealing with higher risk customers, removal of Tier 3B 2018.
Significant investment in this area has led which served Moneybarns highest risk customers and toincreased customer contact rates, higher levels the introduction of a new credit scorecard.
of performing payment plans, and a moderation Management has continued to develop the end-to-end inarrearsand terminations.
credit risk performance management and monitoring A new collections system will be implemented in providing insight into drivers of portfolio performance 2019and we have chosen to the most suitable supplier.
This supports early identification of adverse portfolio This will represent a significant change in the businesses trends to enable the offer to be adjusted where required.
capabilities in managing customers in arrears allowing internal processes to be more efficient and continuing tomaximise positive customer outcomes as the businesscontinues to grow.
