137 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Directors report Last year I reported that the Group would enhance its governance structure, improve effective decision making and address its control environment.
During 2018 the Group has made good progress in these areas, strengthening our risk management and governance framework: clarifying roles and responsibilities across the Group and improving oversight of our Divisions: and appointing three new nonexecutive directors and a new Chairman.
2019 will see theGroup continuing to work to enhance its governance and its partnership withitsregulators and otherstakeholders, so that we can operate with .
Kenneth J Mullen General Counsel and Company Secretary It is on this positive note that, after more than 11 years as Group Counsel and Company Secretary, I have decided to retire from the Group with effect from 31 March 2019.
The Group has announced the appointment of Charley Davies, who will take over the role of Group General Counsel and Company Secretary on 1 April 2019.
Charley joins the Group from Cabot Credit Management where she was General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Charley brings a wealth of experience in the financial services sector and has significant legal experience over a range of areas including corporate, commercial, risk management, regulatory and government and she will be a great addition to the Groups Executive Committee.
138 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Directors report continued Introduction Appointment and replacement of directors In accordance with section 414C 11 of the Companies Act 2006 Rules about the appointment and replacement of directors are set the Act, the directors present their report for the year ended out in the Companys articles of association Articles.
The following provisions, which the directors are with the recommendations of the Code, all directors, will offer required to report on in the Directors Report, have been included themselves for appointment or reappointment, as appropriate, at inthe Strategic Report: the 2019 AGM.
This is with the exception of John Straw who will step down from the Board as a director with effect from 20 May 2019. future business developments throughout the Strategic Report, inparticular on pages 24 to 43 : Articles important events since the balance sheet date throughout The directors powers are conferred on them by UK legislation theStrategic Report: and by the Articles.
Changes to the Articles must be approved by Viability Statement page 71 : shareholders passing a special resolution and must comply with greenhouse gas emissions page 89 : and the provisions of the Act and the FCAs Disclosure Guidance and risk management pages 44 to 54.
Both the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been Directors indemnities prepared and presented in accordance with, and in reliance upon, applicable company law.
The liabilities of the directors in connection The Articles permit the Company to indemnify directors of the with both the Directors Report and the Strategic Report shall be Company or of any associated company in accordance with section subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by company law.
Other information to be disclosed in the Directors Report is given The Company may fund expenditure incurred by directors in inthis section.
If such funding is by means of a loan, the director must repay the loan to the Company, if they Directors are convicted in any criminal proceedings or judgment is given The membership of the Board and biographical details of the against them in any civil proceedings.
The Company may indemnify directors at the year-end are given on pages 94 to 97 and are any director of the Company or of any associated company against incorporated into this report by reference.
All directors, except as set out below, served throughout 2018 However, the Company may not provide an indemnity against: i any and up to the date of signing of the Annual Report and Financial liability incurred by the director to the Company or to any associated Statements 2018.
The following individuals stepped down from company: ii any liability incurred by the director to pay a criminal theBoard on the following dates: or regulatory penalty: iii any liability incurred by the director in defending criminal proceedings in which they are convicted: iv any David Sear 26 January 2018 liability incurred by the director in defending any civil proceedings Stuart Sinclair 21 September 2018 brought by the Company or an associated company in which Andrew Fisher 3 December 2018 judgment is given against them: or v in connection with certain Rob Anderson 11 December 2018 court applications under the Act.
No indemnity was provided and nopayments pursuant to these provisions were made in 2018 With effect from the beginning of the 2018 financial year there have oratany time up to the date of this report.
been the following additions to the Board: There were no other qualifying indemnities in place during The following individuals were appointed to the Board on the this period.
following dates: The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance ElizabethChambers 31 July 2018 which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against Paul Hewitt 31 July 2018 its directors.
Angela Knight 31 July 2018 Information required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4R Patrick Snowball 21 September 2018 Simon Thomas 3 December 2018 Information required under LR 9.8.
4R 4, 5, 6, 12 and 13 is set out in the directors remuneration report on pages 144 to 166.
Further commentary about the Boards composition, Board changes and Board tenure can be found on page 114.
During the year, no director had a material interest in any contract ofsignificance to which the Company or a subsidiary undertaking wasa party.
139 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Share capital Substantial shareholdings The Companys issued ordinary share capital comprises a single class In accordance with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency of ordinary share.
The rights attached to the ordinary shares are set Rules DTR 5 the Company, as at 8 March 2019 being the latest out in the Articles.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general practicable date prior to publication of this report, had been notified meetings of the Company.
that the following persons hold directly or indirectly 3 per cent.
or more of the voting rights of the Company.
During the year, 105,051,096 ordinary shares in the Company with an aggregate nominal value of 21,774,227, were issued as follows: Woodford Investment Management Ltd 24.70% Invesco Ltd 21.43% 35,000 shares in relation to the Provident Financial Long Term Schroders Plc 14.63% Incentive Scheme 2015 LTIS at a price of 6.8460p: and Marathon Asset Management LLP 5.55% 17,192 shares in relation to the Provident Financial Savings-Related BlackRock Inc 4.96% Share Option Scheme 2013 and the Provident Financial Employee Coltrane Asset Management LP 3.58% Savings-Related Share Option Scheme 2003 at prices ranging The Vanguard Group Inc 3.58% between 484p and 772p: and Standard Life Aberdeen 3.48% 104,998,904 new ordinary shares of 20 8 11p were admitted nil paid on the London Stock Exchange in relation to the Rights Issue Interests as at 31 December 2018 were as follows: at a price of 315p per share.
No Provident Financial Performance Share Plan 2013 PSP awards Woodford Investment Management Ltd 25.62% were made during 2018.
Invesco Ltd 21.81% Schroders plc 12.38% Conflicts of interest Marathon Asset Management LLP UK 5.57% BlackRock Inc. 5.53% The Act and the Articles require the Board to consider any potential Standard Life Aberdeen 3.47% conflicts of interest of its members.
The Vanguard Group Inc 3.39% The Board operates formal procedures regarding conflicts of interest and all members of the Board have completed conflict of interest All interests disclosed to the Company in accordance with DTR 5 forms which are reviewed annually.
All directors have an ongoing that have occurred since 8 March 2019 can be found on the Groups duty to notify the Company of any changes and to ensure that website: www.
com appropriate authorisation is sought where required.
The Board excluding the director concerned considers and, if Directors interests in shares appropriate, authorises each directors reported actual and potential The beneficial interests of the directors in the issued share capital conflict of interest, taking into consideration what is in the best ofthe Company were as follows: interests of the Company and whether the directors ability to act inaccordance with his or her duties is affected.
Number of shares Records and Board minutes of all authorisations granted by the 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Board and the scope of any approvals given are held and maintained Patrick Snowball by the Company Secretary.
Malcolm Le May 204,498 The Board considers these procedures to be working effectively.
Simon Thomas Rights of ordinary shares Andrea Blance John Straw All of the Companys issued ordinary shares are fully paid up and Angela Knight rank equally in all respects and there are no special rights with ElizabethChambers regard to control of the Company.
The rights attached to them, Paul Hewitt inaddition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Articles.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary 1 These interests include conditional share awards granted under the LTIS, awards under the PSP and shares purchased under the SIP as detailed on pages 151 to 157 of the annual shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them, except: report on remuneration.
1. where the Company has exercised its right to suspend their voting No director had any non-beneficial interests at 31 December 2018 rights or to prohibit their transfer following the omission by their orat any time up to 8 March 2019. holder or any person interested in them to provide the Company with information requested by it in accordance with Part 22 of the There were no changes in the beneficial or non-beneficial interests Act: or ofthe directors between 1 January and 8 March 2019 except fortheautomatic monthly purchases under the SIP, details of which 2. where their holder is precluded from exercising voting rights by can be found on the Groups website: www.
the FCAs Listing Rules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
Dividend waiver Information on dividend waivers currently in place can be found onpages 152 and 153.
140 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Directors report continued In 2018, the EBT subscribed for the issue of 35,000 new shares Powers of the directors in order to satisfy the awards made under the LTIS and none in Subject to the Articles, UK legislation and any directions given by relation to the PSP.
Previously lapsed shares were used to satisfy special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by theremaining awards under the LTIS.
The directors currently have powers both in relation to As at 31 December 2018, the EBT held the non-beneficial interest the issuing and buying back of the Companys shares, which were in 2,853,722 shares in the Company 2017: 2,174,534.
The EBT granted by shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
The Board is seeking mayexercise or refrain from exercising any voting rights in its renewal of these powers at the 2019 AGM.
absolute discretion and is not obliged to exercise such voting rightsin a manner requested by the beneficiaries.
All employee share schemes The current schemes for employees resident in the UK are the Provident Financial Employee Benefit Trust Provident Financial plc Employee Savings-Related Share Option the PF Trust Scheme 2003, the Provident Financial Savings-Related Share Option The PF Trust, a discretionary trust for the benefit of executive Scheme 2013 and the Provident Financial Share Incentive Plan SIP.
directors and employees, was established in 2003 and operated in The current scheme for employees resident in the Republic of conjunction with the PSP.
The trustee, Provident Financial Trustees Ireland is the Provident Financial Irish Savings-Related Share Option Performance Share Plan Limited, is a subsidiary of the Company.
The PF Trust has not been operated with the PSP since 2012, when Share schemes are a long-established and successful part of the previous PSP expired.
As at 31 December 2018, the PF Trust had the total reward package offered by the Company, encouraging no interest in any shares in the Company 2017: nil.
and supporting employee share ownership.
The Companys four schemes aim to encourage employees involvement and interest Provident BAYE Trust in the financial performance and success of the Group through share ownership.
The Provident BAYE Trust the BAYE Trust is a discretionary trust which was established in 2013 to operate in conjunction with the Around 1,718 employees were participating in the Companys save SIP.
The trustee, YBS Trustees, is not a subsidiary of the Company.
asyou earn schemes as at 31 December 2018 2017: 1,466.
The BAYE Trust is funded by loans from the Company which are then The Companys SIP offers employees the opportunity to further used to acquire ordinary shares via market purchase to satisfy the invest in the Company and to benefit from the Companys offer Matching Awards for participants of the SIP.
to match that investment on the basis of one matching share for For the purposes of the financial statements, the BAYE Trust is everyfour partnership shares purchased.
consolidated into the Company and Group.
Participants in the SIP Around 483 employees were participating in the SIP as at can direct the trustee on how to exercise its voting rights in respect 31 December 2018 2017: 318. of the shares it holds on behalf of the participant.
As at 31 December 2018, the BAYE Trust held the non-beneficial interest in 134,417 Executive share incentive schemes shares 2017: 54,089 shares.
Awards are also outstanding under the LTIS and the PSP and the Remuneration Committee did not grant any options during Profit and dividends the year under the LTIS or PSP.
Further information is set out The profit, before taxation, amortisation of acquisition intangibles onpages151to 153. and exceptional items, amounts to 153.5m 2017: 109.1m.
The directors have declared dividends as follows: Provident Financial plc 2007 Employee Benefit Ordinary shares p per share Trust the EBT 2018 Nil no dividend declared Interim dividend The EBT, a discretionary trust for the benefit of executive directors 2017: Nil dividend withdrawn and employees, was established in 2007.
The trustee, SG Kleinwort 2018 10 pence Proposed final dividend 2017: Nil no dividend declared Hambros Trust CI Limited, is not a subsidiary of the Company.
2018 10 pence The EBT operates in conjunction with the LTIS and the PSP and either Total ordinary dividend 2017: Nil dividend cancelled not declared purchases shares in the market or subscribes for the issue of new shares.
The EBT is funded by loans from the Company which are then The final dividend will be paid on 21 June 2019 to shareholders on used to acquire, either via market purchase or subscription, ordinary the register on 24 May 2019. shares to satisfy awards granted under the LTIS and awards granted under the PSP.
For the purpose of the financial statements, the EBT Employee involvement is consolidated into the Company and Group.
As a consequence, The Group is committed to employee involvement across the Group.
the loans are eliminated and the cost of the shares acquired is Further details are provided on pages 101 and 104. deducted from equity as set out in note 25 on page 215 of the financial statements.
141 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance in the future to meet the liabilities of the scheme.
The fide-risking Training investment strategy is kept under close review by both the trustees The Group is fully committed to continual personal and professional and the Company.
development, encouraging employees at all levels to study for The Company has put Pension Trustee Indemnity Insurance in place relevant educational qualifications.
to cover all of the Groups pension schemes where individuals act In particular, the Group has initiated a series of talent and as trustees.
The trustees are also protected by an indemnity within development initiatives as part of its investment in the career each schemes rules and this insurance effectively protects the progression of its employees.
Group against the cost of potential claims impacting on the solvency The Group is also fully committed to making full use of the of the pension schemes.
Apprenticeship Levy in 2019 and has plans in place to grow both its The Group also operates a Group Personal Pension Plan Graduate entry and Apprenticeship training programmes.
The Group for employees who joined the Group from 1 January 2003. is authorised by the Solicitors Regulation Authority and the Institute Employees in this plan have access to dedicated websites which of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales to issue training provide information on their funds and general information about contracts to employees wishing to qualify as solicitors or chartered the plan.
In 2011, the Company established an Unfunded Unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme UURBS, for the benefit of those Equal opportunities and diversity policy employees who are affected by the HMRC annual allowance and The Group is committed to employment policies, which follow best lifetime allowance which applies to members of registered pension practice, based on equal opportunities for all employees, irrespective schemes.
The UURBS offers an alternative to a cash payment in lieu of gender, pregnancy, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national of a pension benefit.
origin, disability, sexual orientation, age, marital or civil partner In October 2013, the Group auto-enrolled all eligible staff into a new status, gender reassignment or religion or belief.
The Group gives full scheme designed for auto-enrolment.
and fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled The Group also operates two defined contribution pension schemes persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
for employees in the Republic of Ireland.
Appropriate arrangements are made for the continued employment and training, career development and promotion of disabled persons Health and safety employed by the Group including making reasonable adjustments where required.
If members of staff become disabled, every effort The Group is committed to achieving high standards of health is made by the Group to ensure their continued employment, either and safety in relation to all of its employees, those affected by its in the same or an alternative position, with appropriate retraining business activities and those attending its premises.
Each Division being given if necessary.
In 2017, the Group signed up to the has its own health and safety agenda, policy standards and National Equality Standard, and the initial report identified some key mandatory training in place to help colleagues work safely at opportunities.
Details of our diversity policy are set out on page 122. all times.
The CCD division has the particular risk of personal safety whilst Pensions out collecting from customers.
We pride ourselves in having the right systems in place: and CCD carries out an extensive training The Group operates four pension schemes in the UK.
programme and conducts safety weeks for employees in spring and Employee involvement in the Group defined benefit pension scheme autumn each year to reinforce our strong safety culture.
However, is achieved by the appointment of member-nominated trustees the tragic events in CCD last year with the murder of Tina Cantello by and by regular newsletters and communications from the trustees a customer has meant we must redouble our efforts on safety and to members.
In addition, there is a website dedicated to pension the Company is looking at what further safety enhancements can matters.
The trustees manage the assets of the defined benefit be made.
pension scheme which are held under trust separately from the assets of the Group.
Each trustee is encouraged to undertake Antibribery and corruption training and regular training sessions on current issues are carried out at meetings of the trustees by the trustees advisors.
The training The Group policy schedule is based on The Pension Regulators Trustee Knowledge and Understanding requirements and the sessions are tailored The Group has a policy on Anti-bribery and Corruption which reflects to current issues, emerging issues or to address any skills gaps.
the requirements of the Bribery Act 2010 the Policy.
The Policy sets The trustees have a business plan and, at the start of each year, out the Groups zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption review performance against the plan and objectives from the and its commitment to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity previous year.
In addition, they agree objectives and a budget for in all its business dealings and relationships, wherever it operates, the current year.
The trustees have a risk register and an associated and implementing and enforcing effective management systems action plan and a conflicts of interest policy, both of which are tocounter bribery, corruption and other financial crimes.
The Policy applies to all employees, self-employed agents, As at the year end there were three trustees nominated by members contractors and directors in relation to the business activities and three trustees appointed by the Company.
undertaken by, or on behalf of the Group.
It also applies to any third party which is undertaking business for or on behalf of the Group, The trustees have implemented a fide-risking investment strategy who must comply with the Policy or maintain equivalent standards which has been agreed with the Company.
The objective of the and safeguards to prevent bribery and corruption.
strategy is to reduce the risk that the assets would be insufficient 142 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Directors report continued Under the Policy, all employees, self-employed agents, contractors, Overseas branches directors, and relevant third parties of the Group and its Divisions The Group has an overseas branch in the Republic of Ireland.
must comply with the following minimum requirements: They must not directly or indirectly engage in bribery or corruption Important events since the end of the financial year in any form.
31 December 2018 They also must not accept, solicit, agree to receive, promise, offer or give a bribe, facilitation payment, kickback or other The Company became the subject of an unsolicited takeover improper payment.
bid from Non-Standard Finance plc on Friday 22 February 2019.
The takeover process is ongoing as at the date of this report and we The Policy also states that if an employee, self-employed agent, will continue to keep our stakeholders informed as things develop.
contractor, director or a relevant third party of the Group or its There have been no other important events since the end of the Divisions becomes aware of a breach of the above minimum financial year.
You can read more about the unsolicited takeover requirements they must immediately comply with applicable bidon page 7 and on our website.
protocols and procedures to inform an appropriate person within the Group who must as soon as is reasonably practicable report Corporate governance statement theincident to the Deputy Company Secretary.
The Groups Corporate Governance Report is set out on pages 90 Compliance to 143.
The Group has complied with the provisions of the Code The Group Risk Committee and the Audit Committees oversee throughout 2018 with the exception of the following: compliance and work together to review the systems and controls Principle A.
2 Clear Division of Responsibilities for the prevention of bribery.
Compliance is also monitored by the Divisional Boards.
2.1 The roles of chairman and chief executive should not be exercised by the same individual.
The Related policies division of responsibilities between the chairman and chief The Group also has a Corporate Hospitality policy which requires executive should be clearly established, set out in writing and Divisional review, approval and documentation of any gifts or agreed by the board.
corporate hospitality which is accepted, offered or provided.
As reported last year, due to exceptional circumstances during The Audit Committee oversees the Corporate Hospitality policy.
2017, an executive Chairman was in post from the 23 August 2017 Should any Group employee have any concerns relating to to 1 February 2018, and as such the Group was not compliant with anti-bribery and corruption or corporate hospitality then this requirement for part of 2018.
Malcolm Le May was subsequently anonymous concerns can be raised through the Groups appointed as Chief Executive Officer on 1 February 2018, and Stuart external third party helpline facility as detailed in the Corporate Sinclair was appointed Interim non-executive Chairman on the same Whistleblowing policy.
Whistleblowing arrangements are overseen day and so the Group became compliant with this Principle with bythe Board.
Training Financial instruments The Group provides Anti-Bribery and Corruption and Whistleblowing Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of training to all of its employees.
the Group and the exposure of the Group to credit risk, liquidity risk, Environmental management cash flow risk, price risk, interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk are included on pages 179 to 183 of the financial statements.
The Group is committed to minimising its impact on the environment and acting to address specific environmental issues such as climate Significant agreements change.
The Groups Environmental Management System EMS There are no agreements between any Group company and any of helps to identify, assess and address key environmental risks its employees or any director of any Group company which provide and impacts: set and achieve environmental targets: and ensure for compensation to be paid to an employee or a director on compliance with environmental rules, regulations and policy termination of employment or for loss of office as a consequence requirements.
The EMS at the Groups Bradford head office has been ofa takeover of the Company.
certified to the international environmental management standard ISO 14001:2015 since 2011 and in 2018 we extended the scope of Political donations the ISO 14001:2015 certified EMS to include all of Vanquis Banks operations in Chatham and London.
Details relating to the Groups The Group did not make any political donations nor incur any approach to environmental management and our direct and indirect political expenditure during the year.
greenhouse gas GHG emissions, which we are required to disclose in order to meet the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors Reports Regulations 2013, are set out in the Strategic Report section of this document on page 89.
The GHG data has been subjected to external assurance by the management consultancy, Corporate Citizenship.
143 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance The Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 will be published Directors responsibilities in relation on the Groups website in addition to the normal paper version.
 The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Groups website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ the independent auditors report on pages 225 to 233 is made from legislation in other jurisdictions.
to distinguish for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the external auditor in relation to the Responsibility statement financial statements.
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, Each of the directors listed below, confirms that, to the best of thedirectors remuneration report and the financial statements their knowledge, the Group financial statements which have been inaccordance with applicable laws and regulations.
prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements profit of the Group, the Company and the undertakings included for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required inthe consolidation taken as a whole, and that the Strategic Report to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with contained in this Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by includes a fair review of the development and performance of the theEuropean Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have business and the position of the Company and Group, and the alsochosen to prepare the parent company financial statements undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, and under IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and must not approve the adescription of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
financialstatements unless they are satisfied that they give a true andfair viewof the state of affairs of the Group and Company and Patrick Snowball Chairman ofthe profit or loss of the Group and Company for that period.
Malcolm Le May Chief Executive Officer In preparing these financial statements, International Accounting Simon Thomas Chief Financial Officer Standard 1 requires that directors: Andrea Blance Senior independent director properly select and apply accounting policies: John Straw Non-executive director present information, including accounting policies, in a Angela Knight Non-executive director manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and ElizabethChambers Non-executive director understandable information: Paul Hewitt Non-executive director provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users tounderstand Disclosure of information to auditor the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and In accordance with section 418 of the Act, each person who make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue isadirector as at the date of this report confirms that: asagoing concern.
so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information The directors have also considered and accepted the review ofwhich the Companys external auditor is unaware: and undertaken and the report provided by the Audit Committee, as they have taken all steps that ought to have been taken as a set out on pages 125 to 131 of this report, and are satisfied that the director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018, taken as a whole, information and to establish that the Companys external auditor is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the necessary isaware of that information.
information for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Auditor The directors are also required by the FCAs Disclosure Guidance and Deloitte LLP, the external auditor for the Company, was first Transparency Rules DTR to include a management report containing appointed in 2012 and a resolution proposing their reappointment a fair review of the business of the Group and the Company and will be proposed at the 2019 AGM.
adescription of the principal risks, emerging risks and uncertainties facing the Group and Company.
2019 AGM The Directors Report and the Strategic Report constitute the The 2019 AGM will be held at 12:00pm on Tuesday 21 May 2019 at management report for the purposes of DTR 4.1.
the offices of Clifford Chance, 10 Upper Bank Street, Canary Wharf, The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records London, E145JJ.
The Notice of AGM, together with an explanation that are sufficient to: of the items of business, is contained in the circular to shareholders show and explain the Companys transactions: dated 26 March 2019. disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position Approved by the Board on 12 March 2019 and signed by order of the Company and Group: and ofthe Board.
enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Act and as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Kenneth J Mullen They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the General Counsel and Company Secretary Company and the Group and taking reasonable steps for the 13 March 2019 prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
144 Provident F inancial plc Annual report and Fin ancial Statements 2018 Directors remu neration report Directors remuneration report Remuneration has an important part to play in realigning our culture and ensuring best practice.
Annual statement by the Chairman of the remuneration committee 145 Annual report on remuneration 148 Directors remuneration policy 161
