01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  Key to Committee membership Chair Chair Audit Audit Board of Directors N&G Nomination & Governance Rem Remuneration Risk Risk Chairman Relevant skills and experience Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc, including as Paul will continue to draw on his extensive senior independent director, audit committee experience in leadership roles and his knowledge chairman and remuneration committee of the Groups core businesses, international chairman.
He was a non-executive director and markets and industry sectors, and his technical audit committee chairman of KazMunaiGas knowledge, to provide effective leadership Exploration & Production until the end of during a period of change for the Group.
September 2012 and chairman of Henderson Diversified Income Limited until July 2017.
Paul has held a number of senior leadership roles.
Notable appointments include serving Paul initially joined the Board in October 2010 as as chairman of the Association of Investment the Senior Independent Director and member of Companies 1991 to 1993, acting as founding the Audit and Remuneration Committees, roles CEO of Threadneedle Asset Management he held until his appointment as Chairman in Limited 1994 to 1999, global CEO of Rothschild July 2012.
On becoming Chairman, Paul was Asset Management 1999 to 2002, directorships also appointed Chair of the Nomination & of Eagle Star and Allied Dunbar, holding the Governance Committee, having been a member Paul Manduca offices of European CEO of Deutsche Asset of the Committee since January 2011.
Chairman Management 2002 to 2005, chairman of Appointment: October 2010 Other appointments Bridgewell Group plc and a director of Henderson Age: 67 RateSetter Retail Money Market Limited Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc.
chairman N&G Other previous appointments include the Templeton Emerging Markets Investment chairmanship of Aon UK Limited and JPM Trust TEMIT chairman European Smaller Companies Investment Securities Institute Trust Plc.
From September 2005 until March TheCityUK Advisory Council chairman 2011, Paul was a non-executive director of Chief Executive Relevant skills and experience During his leadership of Jackson, Mike was Mike continues to develop the operational responsible for the development of Jacksons management of the Group on behalf of the market-leading range of retirement solutions.
Board, implementing Board decisions and He was also part of the Jackson teams that leading the Executive Directors and senior purchased and successfully integrated a savings executives in the management of all aspects institute and two life companies.
of the day-to-day business of the Group.
Mike joined the Board in 2011 and was Mike has more than three decades experience appointed Group Chief Executive in June 2015. in insurance and retirement services, having Other appointments started his career at the US brokerage house International Advisory Panel of the Dean Witter, before going on to become Monetary Authority of Singapore a managing director at Smith Barney Shearson.
San Diego University Advisory Board Mike joined the Prudential Group in 1995 and became Chief Operating Officer and Michael Wells Vice-Chairman of Jackson in 2003.
In 2011, he Group Chief Executive was appointed President and Chief Executive Appointment: January 2011 Officer of Jackson, and joined the Board Age: 58 of Prudential.
Board changes Non-executive Directors Executive Directors the title of Chief Executive Officer Mrs Wicker-Miurin was appointed as a Mr Turner joined the Board as an Executive of Jackson Holdings LLC.
Non-executive Director and a member of the Director and Group Chief Risk Officer with Mr Falcon will step down as an Executive Remuneration Committee with effect from effect from 1 March 2018.
Director of the Board at the conclusion of 3 September 2018.
Ms Richards stepped down as Chief Executive the 2019 Annual General Meeting, as will Ms Schroeder joined the Risk Committee of M&G and as Executive Director of the Mr Foley and Mr Nicandrou.
These changes with effect from 1 March 2018.
Company with effect from 10 August 2018. are being made as part of our progress towards demerger and are more fully Mr Watjen joined the Risk Committee with Mr Stowe stepped down as Chairman and described on page 88.
Each of Mr Falcon, effect from 1 November 2018.
Chief Executive Officer of Prudentials Mr Foley and Mr Nicandrou will maintain their North American Business Unit and as an As announced on 28 February, Lord Turner roles as chief executives of their respective Executive Director of the Company with will step down from the Board with effect business units and members of the Group effect from 31 December 2018.
He was from the conclusion of the 2019 Annual Executive Committee.
succeeded by Michael Falcon who joined General Meeting.
the Board from 7 January 2019 and holds www.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 89 Board of Directors continued Executive Directors Mark FitzPatrick CA James Turner FCA Michael Falcon Chief Financial Officer Group Chief Risk Officer Chief Executive Officer of Jackson Holdings LLC Appointment: July 2017 Appointment: March 2018 Age: 50 Age: 49 Appointment: January 2019 Age: 56 Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Mark has a strong background across financial Having held senior positions at Prudential for Michael has extensive experience in senior services, insurance and investment management, a number of years, James has a wide-ranging positions across a range of financial services encompassing wide geographical experience understanding of the business and draws on institutions in the US and Asia.
relevant to the Groups key markets.
previous experience across internal audit, Michael holds a degree in Finance from Indiana finance and compliance as well as technical Mark previously worked at Deloitte for 26 years, University and began his career in commercial knowledge.
building his industry focus on insurance and and investment banking at Chase Manhattan investment management globally.
During this James has led internal audit teams in UBS in Bank in 1985.
Between 1989 and 2000, time, Mark was managing partner for Clients both the UK and Switzerland.
Prior to joining Michael worked at Sara Lee Corporation and Markets, a member of the executive Prudential, James was the deputy head of now Hanesbrands, Inc in a variety of senior committee and a member of the board of compliance for Barclays plc.
He also held a financial, strategic and general management Deloitte UK.
He was a vice chairman of Deloitte number of senior internal audit roles across the roles, based in Chicago, Paris and Winstonfor four years, leading the CFO Programme and Barclays group, leading teams that covered the Salem, North Carolina.
developing the CFO Transition labs.
Mark UK, the US, Western Europe, Africa and Asia Between 2000 and 2008 Michael worked at previously led the Insurance & Investment retail and commercial banking activities.
Merrill Lynch, serving as head of the retirement Management audit practice and the insurance James joined Prudential in November 2010 as group and other roles, including head of strategy industry practice.
the Director of Group-wide Internal Audit and and finance for the US Private Client business.
Mark joined the Board as an Executive Director was appointed Director of Group Finance in Michael later served as a consultant and and Chief Financial Officer in July 2017.
September 2015, with responsibility for delivery strategic adviser to companies in the retirement, of the Groups internal and external financial equity awards, wealth management and asset reporting, business planning, performance management industries until joining J. P. Morgan monitoring and capital and liquidity planning.
Michael has served He also led the development of the Groups as a trustee and executive committee member of Solvency II internal model.
EBRI the Employee Benefit Research Institute and was founding chairman of the Advisory James joined the Board as an Executive Director Board of EBRIs Center for Retirement Income and Group Chief Risk Officer in March 2018.
Other appointments Before joining Prudential, Michael was based West Bromwich Building Society in Hong Kong as chief executive officer of Asia non-executive director Pacific for J. P. Morgan Asset Management, a role he held since 2015, and was head of Asia Pacific funds from 2014.
He joined J. P. Morgan Asset Management in New York as head of retirement in 2010, responsible for investment management and plan service businesses in the defined contribution, individual retirement and taxable savings market.
Michael joined the Board in January 2019 as an Executive Director, succeeding Barry Stowe, and holds the title of Chief Executive Officer of Jackson Holdings LLC Jackson, which includes Jacksons US subsidiaries and affiliates formerly the North American Business Unit.
90 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  John Foley Nicolaos Nicandrou ACA Chief Executive of M&GPrudential Chief Executive of Prudential Corporation Asia Appointment: January 2016 Age: 62 Appointment: October 2009 Age: 53 Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience John has wide-ranging experience of different Nic has a finance background and having built senior roles in financial services, both at up deep knowledge of the Group, moved to Prudential and in his earlier career, making him the position of Chief Executive of Prudential well placed to lead M&GPrudential and deliver Corporation Asia in July 2017.
Nic is responsible on its long-term strategic aims.
for Prudential Corporation Asias life insurance and asset management business across John spent over 20 years at Hill Samuel & Co, 14 markets in the region.
where he worked in every division of the bank, culminating in senior roles in risk, capital markets Nic started his career at  and treasury of the combined TSB and Hill PwC.
Before joining Prudential, he worked at Samuel Bank.
Before joining Prudential, John Aviva, where he held a number of senior finance spent three years as general manager, global roles, including Norwich Union Life finance capital markets at National Australia Bank.
director and board member, Aviva group financial control director, Aviva group financial John joined Prudential as Deputy Group management and reporting director and Treasurer in 2000 and became Managing CGNU group financial reporting director.
Director of Prudential Capital and Group Treasurer in 2001.
During his career at Nic joined the Board in October 2009 as an Prudential, John has held the offices of Chief Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer.
Executive of Prudential Capital, Group Chief Other appointments Risk Officer, Group Investment Director and CITIC-Prudential Life Insurance Company Chief Executive of Prudential UK & Europe.
Limited chairman a Prudential plc joint John first joined the Board in 2011 as Group venture Chief Risk Officer and was reappointed in January 2016, having stepped down during his time as Group Investment Director.
In 2017, Johns role was expanded from Chief Executive of Prudential UK & Europe to Chief Executive of M&GPrudential, the Groups combined UK asset management and savings and retirement solutions business.
In 2018 he took on the additional responsibility of acting as Chief Executive of the key regulated entities of M&G and Prudential UK.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 91 Board of Directors continued Non-executive Directors The Hon.
Philip Remnant CBE FCA Sir Howard Davies David Law ACA Senior Independent Director Appointment: October 2010 Appointment: September 2015 Appointment: January 2013 Age: 68 Age: 58 Age: 64 Audit N&G Rem Audit N&G Risk Audit N&G Risk Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Philip contributes experience across a number Sir Howard has a wealth of experience in the David has experience across the Groups key of sectors and in particular listed company financial services industry, across the Civil international markets including the UK, Europe, experience and the financial services industry, Service, consultancy, asset management, North America and Asia, and across a number including asset management, in the UK regulatory and academia.
He also contributes of industry sectors.
He contributes extensive and Europe.
his detailed knowledge of the Groups key technical knowledge of audit, accounting and international markets including the UK, Europe, financial reporting essential to his role as Philip was a senior advisor at Credit Suisse and North America and Asia as well as international Chair of the Audit Committee.
a vice chairman of Credit Suisse First Boston regulatory experience.
CSFB Europe and head of the UK Investment David was the global leader of Banking Department.
He was twice seconded Sir Howard was previously chairman of the  PwC insurance to the role of director general of the Takeover Phoenix Group and an independent director practice, a partner in PwCs UK firm, and Panel.
Philip also served on the board of of Morgan Stanley Inc. worked as the lead audit partner for multiNorthern Rock plc and as chairman of the national insurance companies until his Sir Howard joined the Board in October 2010 Shareholder Executive.
Until July 2018, he retirement in 2015.
David has also been as a Non-executive Director and Chair of the also served on the board of UK Financial responsible for PwCs insurance and investment Risk Committee.
He joined the Audit Committee Investments Limited.
management assurance practice in London and in November 2010 and the Nomination & the firms Scottish assurance division.
Philip joined the Board in January 2013 as Governance Committee in July 2012. a Non-executive Director, as Senior Independent David joined the Board in September 2015 as Other appointments Director and as a member of each of the Audit a Non-executive Director and member of the Royal Bank of Scotland chairman Committee, the Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee.
David was appointed Chair China Banking Regulatory Commission the Nomination & Governance Committee.
of the Audit Committee and a member of the international advisory board He also chaired the M&G Group Limited board Risk Committee and of the Nomination & China Securities Regulatory Commission from April 2016 until October 2018.
Governance Committee in May 2017. international advisory board chairman Other appointments Institut dtudes Politiques Sciences Po Other appointments until July 2019 Severn Trent plc Millennium LLC regulatory advisory board L&F Holdings Limited CEO and its City of London Investment Trust chairman subsidiaries the professional indemnity Takeover Panel deputy chairman captive insurance group that serves the PwC network and its member firms 92 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  Key to Committee membership Chair Chair Audit Audit N&G Nomination & Governance Rem Remuneration Risk Risk Kaikhushru Nargolwala FCA Anthony Nightingale CMG SBS JP Alice Schroeder Appointment: January 2012 Appointment: June 2013 Appointment: June 2013 Age: 68 Age: 71 Age: 62 Rem Risk N&G Rem Audit Risk Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Kai has experience across some of the Groups Anthony has long executive experience of Alice has experience across the insurance, asset key international markets, particularly Hong listed companies and, in particular, extensive management, technology and financial services Kong and the wider Asian market.
In addition to knowledge of Asian markets.
his experience with listed groups, he contributes Anthony spent his career in Asia, where he Alice began her career as a qualified accountant knowledge of the financial services sector.
joined the Jardine Matheson Group in 1969, at Ernst & Young.
She joined the Financial Kai spent 19 years at Bank of America and was holding a number of senior positions before Accounting Standards Board as a manager in based in Hong Kong in roles as group executive joining the board of Jardine Matheson Holdings 1991, overseeing the issuance of several vice president and head of the Asia Wholesale in 1994.
He was managing director of the significant insurance accounting standards.
He spent Jardine Matheson Group from 2006 to 2012.
From 1993, she led teams of analysts specialising 10 years working for Standard Chartered PLC His position on the Hong Kong-APEC trade in property-casualty insurance as a managing in Singapore as group executive director policy study group ended in 2018 and he director at CIBS Oppenheimer, PaineWebber responsible for Asia Governance and Risk resigned as a member of the UK-ASEAN now UBS and Morgan Stanley.
Kai was chief executive Business Council in 2019. an independent board member of the Cetera officer of the Asia Pacific Region of Credit Suisse Anthony joined the Board in June 2013 as a Financial Group and held the office of CEO AG during 2008 to 2010 and now serves as Non-executive Director and member of the and chair of Showfer Media LLC formerly director and chairman of their remuneration Remuneration Committee.
He became Chair of WebTuner.
She was also a director of Bank committee.
the Remuneration Committee and a member of of America Merrill Lynch International until Kai has served on a number of other boards, the Nomination & Governance Committee in December 2018. including Singapore Telecommunications and May 2015.
Alice joined the Board in June 2013 as a Tate and Lyle plc.
Non-executive Director and member of the Other appointments Kai joined the Board in January 2012 as a Audit Committee.
She became a member Jardine Matheson Holdings and other Non-executive Director and member of the of the Risk Committee in March 2018.
Jardine Matheson group companies Remuneration and Risk Committees.
Schindler Holding Limited Other appointments Shui On Land Limited Other appointments Quorum Health Corporation Vitasoy International Holdings Limited Prudential Corporation Asia Limited Natus Medical Incorporated The Innovation and Strategic Development Prudential plc subsidiary chairman Council in Hong Kong Clifford Capital Pte.
Ltd chair The APEC Vision Group Credit Suisse Group AG Duke-NUS Medical School chairman PSA International Pte Ltd www.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 93 Key to Committee membership Board of Directors continued Chair Chair Audit Audit N&G Nomination & Governance Rem Remuneration Risk Risk Non-executive Directors continued Lord Turner FRS Thomas Watjen Fields Wicker-Miurin OBE Appointment: September 2015 Appointment: July 2017 Appointment: September 2018 Age: 63 Age: 64 Age: 60 Audit Risk Rem Risk Rem Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Lord Turner has extensive knowledge and Tom has experience across the insurance, asset Fields has extensive international boardroom experience of the UK regulatory regime.
management and financial services industries as experience, combining knowledge of the well as experience with listed companies in the Groups key geographic markets with Lord Turner began his career with McKinsey & Co, UK and the US.
experience across the global financial services advising companies across a range of industries.
Tom started his career at Aetna Life and He served as director-general of the Casualty before joining confining & Company, Fields started her career at Philadelphia National Confederation of British Industry, vice-chairman an investment and asset management provider, Bank in 1982 before joining Strategic Planning of Merrill Lynch Europe, chairman of the where he became a partner in the consulting Associates now Oliver Wyman as a senior Pensions Commission and as a non-executive and private capital areas.
He joined Morgan partner in 1989.
She became chief financial director of Standard Chartered Bank.
Stanley in 1987, and became a managing officer and director of strategy at the London Lord Turner was chairman of the UKs Financial director in its insurance practice.
Stock Exchange in 1994, leader of the global Services Authority, a member of the markets practice of AT Kearney in 1998 and In 1994 he was appointed executive vice international Financial Stability Board and a managing director of Vesta Capital Advisors president and chief financial officer of Provident non-executive director of the Bank of England.
She was appointed to Nasdaqs Companies Inc. Technology Advisory Council in 2000 and was Lord Turner joined the Board in September 2015 He was a key member of the team associated a member of the panel of experts advising the as a Non-executive Director and member of the with Providents merger with Unum in 1999 and European Parliament on financial markets Risk Committee.
He became a member of the was appointed president and chief executive harmonisation for four years from 2002.
She Audit Committee in May 2017. officer of the renamed Unum Group in 2003, became a non-executive director and chair a role he held until May 2017. of the audit committee of Savills plc in 2002 Other appointments and a non-executive director and chair of the Chubb Europe chairman Tom joined the Board in July 2017 as a investment committee of the Royal London Energy Transition Commission chairman Non-executive Director and member of the Group in 2003.
Envision Limited advisory board Remuneration Committee.
He became House of Lords crossbench member a member of the Risk Committee in Fields joined the Board in September 2018 as from 2005 November 2018. a Non-executive Director and member of the Senior Fellow of the Institute for New Remuneration Committee.
Economic Thinking Other appointments London School of Economics and SunTrust Banks, Inc Other appointments Cass Business School visiting professor BNP Paribas OakNorth Bank advisor SCOR SE Department for Digital, Culture, Media & Sport Leaders Quest Partner 94 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
