01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  Committee reports The principal Board Committees are the Nomination & Governance, Audit, Risk and Remuneration Committees.
These Committees form a key element of the Group governance framework, providing effective independent oversight of the Groups activities by the Non-executive Directors.
Each Committee Chair provides an update to the Board on the matters covered at each Committee meeting, supported by a short written summary.
Nomination & Governance The new structure of the Board will include Committee report Mr Wells, Mr FitzPatrick and Mr Turner as Executive Directors.
We took the decision Dear Shareholder that our business unit chief executives This report highlights some of the key areas would step down from their Board roles of focus considered by the Committee although they will continue to attend during 2018. relevant parts of Board meetings.
We are Ongoing succession planning making that change to our Board from the Annual General Meeting this year, and The Committees main role is ensuring that the Board retains an appropriate balance accordingly Mr Falcon, Mr Nicandrou and Mr Foley will not stand for election or of skills to support the strategic objectives of the Group and maintains a rigorous and re-election in May 2019. transparent approach to the appointment Since the announcement of our intention of Directors.
to demerge M&GPrudential, the Committee In 2018 we welcomed two Directors to has had to oversee some elements of establishing the M&GPrudential board.
Mr Turner was appointed as an Executive Director and Group Chief Risk Committee interviewed and recommended, with the input of the M&GPrudential chief Officer in March, an internal appointment Paul Manduca to succeed Penny James.
executive, the appointment of Mike Evans Chair of the Nomination & to the M&GPrudential board, and details A new Non-executive Director, Governance Committee were announced on 1 October.
The Mrs Wicker-Miurin, was appointed in Committee has assisted Mike Evans in the September following an extensive search.
search for suitable non-executives to join Full biographical details for both Mr Turner Committee members the M&GPrudential board.
and Mrs Wicker-Miurin can be found on Paul Manduca Chair pages 90 and 94.
The Committee also considered succession Howard Davies planning in respect of my role as Chairman David Law Following the year end, we also welcomed of the Board.
A separate part of this section Anthony Nightingale Mr Falcon to the Board in January 2019 provides an update from Philip Remnant, Philip Remnant following Mr Stowes retirement as our Senior Independent Director on Chairman and Chief Executive of our Regular attendees this matter.
Group Chief Executive Diversity Group Human Resources Director We view succession as ongoing Although improving gender diversity at Group General Counsel and our planning for both Executive and Board level has received a great deal of Company Secretary Non-executive roles includes emergency the Committees attention, this remains cover as well as longer-term options.
Number of meetings in 2018: a challenge and one which the Committee Three.
Gender diversity is an Demerger A significant part of our succession planning important factor in identifying candidates for Board level succession and there is this year was focused on determining the best mix of skills for the Board for post more work to be done across building our internal pipeline, ensuring external demerger.
recruitment is producing a diverse pool and appointing at Board level.
The Committees terms of reference were updated to formalise its role in developing a diverse pipeline and expanding its role in reviewing and monitoring diversity initiatives across the Group as a whole.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 109 Committee reports continued Committee governance As Chair of the Committee, I have Following the publication of the revised responsibility for ensuring the Committee UK Corporate Governance Code in operates effectively.
In order to enable July 2018 the Committee reviewed and the Committee to provide constructive recommended a number of amendments challenge to management, I encourage to its terms of reference in order to align open debate and contributions from all them with the new Code and evolving Committee members.
As part of the Boards effectiveness review, The Committee also conducted its usual described in more detail on pages 99 and reviews of governance arrangements of the 100, the Committee was found to be Groups Material Subsidiaries, including operating effectively.
the review of performance of each Material Subsidiary board, their terms of reference and the review of the ongoing appointments of the independent non-executive directors and chairs of those boards.
How the Committee spent its time during 2018 Feb Jun Oct Year end matters, re-election and tenure Review external positions, conflicts of interests and independence, time commitment, tenure and terms of appointment l Review performance of Chairman and Non-executive Directors l Review relevant disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts l Recommend election of Directors by shareholders l Succession planning, diversity and appointments Chairman l l Non-executive Directors l l l Group Chief Executive l Executive Directors l Group Executive Committee composition l Governance Membership review of principal Board Committees l l Committee terms of reference l Demerger governance arrangements l Group governance framework l Material Subsidiary governance Subsidiary board composition, non-executive succession planning and appointments l l Terms of reference for Material Subsidiary boards, chairs and committees l Material Subsidiary governance manual l Material Subsidiary board, chair and director evaluations l Appointment of M&GPrudential chair not a Material Subsidiary l 110 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  Report from Philip Remnant, Senior Independent Director Succession planning for the role of Chairman to lead the Group through the Chairman of the Board, on which I lead, transaction and to remain in role for some is considered by the Committee on a period of time thereafter to ensure regular basis.
We review the necessary continuing strong governance in the skills and experience required for the Prudential Group post-demerger.
It is effective leadership of the Board of an currently intended that Mr Manduca international financial services group.
would stand down as Chairman in May 2021, subject to annual re-election up to This year, we also had to consider two that date.
major changes: the revised UK Code which, under the comply or explain We are therefore proposing that principle, sets out that the tenure of Mr Manduca stand for election as the chairman of a listed company Chairman at our forthcoming 2019 should be no more than nine years Annual General Meeting.
from first appointment to the board, Before taking this decision, we consulted Philip Remnant and our demerger.
with a number of our investors to Senior Independent Director Mr Manducas appointment to the obtain their views and take them Board was in October 2010, meaning into account in our decision-making.
the Code would prescribe his retirement Shareholders responded positively to in October 2019. the specific engagement on this topic and were supportive of Mr Manducas At a time of substantial change for the extended tenure.
Group, the Board considers that it would be disruptive for Mr Manduca to stand The process for identifying candidates down during the demerger process.
to succeed Mr Manduca will commence The Board believes that shareholders will in 2020, I will lead this process, assisted benefit from a committed and engaged by the Committee.
Key matters considered during the year Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Succession planning Board composition Throughout the year, the Committee kept succession plans for all Executive and Non-executive Board roles under review.
Succession plans are supported by the year end Board evaluation and individual performance evaluations which help inform the Committees recommendations.
The Committee takes account of the size, structure and composition of the Board and its Committees, including existing knowledge, experience and diversity.
In doing so, the Committee considers the Groups strategic needs and anticipates future needs, skills and experience.
The Committee is involved from the start when a vacancy or a gap in the Boards skills is identified.
Led by the Chairman, and working with the Group Chief Executive and Human Resources Director, a role specification is prepared.
This will take into account feedback from the Committee and the Groups Diversity and Inclusion Policy.
Once the specification is agreed, specialist talent agencies are typically engaged to create a shortlist of candidates which is reviewed by the Committee and other stakeholders.
Interviews with individuals then take place with selected Committee members and feedback is provided to all members.
In this manner, a preferred candidate is selected and the Committee then recommends the individual to the Board for appointment subject to regulatory approval where required.
Contemporaneously with this process, due diligence checks are undertaken on the candidate and Prudential liaises with the relevant regulatory authorities for any approvals needed.
The Committee is kept updated on this process as necessary.
This year, the Committee has considered Board composition and succession planning in the context of the decision to demerge M&GPrudential from the Prudential Group, and took the decision in February 2019 to recommend that the current chief executives of the business units would step down at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board was in unanimous agreement that under the post-demerger structure, effective oversight of the business units can be maintained without the business unit chief executives being plc Board members.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 111 Committee reports continued Key matters considered during the year continued Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Non-executive Directors During the year, the Committee finalised the appointment of Mrs Wicker-Miurin as a Non-executive Director.
The Committee was supported in the search for candidates by the Miles Partnership.
The number of Non-executive Directors required on the Board is considered on a regular basis, and this year particularly in the context of the smaller Group post-demerger.
The Committee uses a regularly refreshed skills map for Non-executive succession planning.
The skills map identifies skills and experience by sector, geography and technical skills, which are desirable for the Board as a whole, taking account the Groups strategic direction.
Full biographical details of each Non-executive Director, including a summary of the skills and experience attributable to them which have been identified as important to the Groups long-term sustainable success, are set out on pages 92 to 94.
Executive Directors and The Committee carried out its annual review of the succession plans in place for the Group Chief senior executives Executive, other Executive Directors and Group Executive Committee GEC roles.
The Committee directed the development and renewal of these plans through the Group HR Director, supported by Egon Zehnder in the case of the Group Chief Executive plan and by Talent Intelligence for the other Executive Director roles and GEC members.
In 2017, Talent Intelligence prepared long-lists and short-lists with a focus on gender and ethnic diversity requirements.
The Committee has oversight of senior executive level succession planning and the talent pipeline.
The Committee discussed these plans closely with the Group Chief Executive to identify business requirements and plan for future succession needs and gave feedback on the planning process.
The Company announced on 12 October 2018 that Mr Stowe would retire as Chairman and Chief Executive of the North American Business Unit with effect from 31 December 2018.
Mr Stowe was succeeded in this role by Mr Falcon, who joined the Board on 7 January 2019.
Mr Falcons appointment was considered in June 2018 following a comprehensive search, led by Korn Ferry, with support from Spencer Stuart.
The Committee considered candidate profiles and skills and conducted interviews before agreeing to recommend Mr Falcons appointment to the Board.
Full biographical details for Mr Falcon can be found on page 90.
Use of search consultancies The Miles Partnership does not have any additional connection with Prudential.
In addition to acting as search consultant for certain executive hires, Egon Zehnder also provides support for senior development assessments.
Talent Intelligence also provides additional succession planning support to the Group below GEC level.
Election of Directors As part of its ongoing work on Board succession planning, the Committee considered the ongoing appointment of the Chairman, Committee Chairs and Non-executive Directors, taking into account time commitment and the general balance of skills, diversity, experience and knowledge on the Board and assessing length of service in their roles.
Particular attention has been paid to the recommendation to re-elect Mr Nargolwala and Sir Howard Davies at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2019 due to their length of service.
In Mr Davies case, election at the 2019 Annual General Meeting will take him through the Code-prescribed nine years from date of appointment.
The Board does not consider that Mr Davies independence will be impacted by his tenure extending for six months beyond the nine-year anniversary.
When making recommendations for Directors to stand for election at the Annual General Meeting, the Committee considers individual Directors contribution to Prudentials long-term success as well as their commitment to the role and other external positions or directorships which may impact their independence or availability.
Having reviewed the performance of the Non-executive Directors in office at the time, and having received feedback from the Group Chief Executive on the performance of the Executive Directors, the Committee concluded that each Director continued to perform effectively and was able to devote sufficient time to fulfil their duties.
Following review of the outcomes of the Board evaluation process, the Group considers that the Non-executive Directors continued to exhibit appropriate behaviours, contributed effectively to decision-making and exercised sound independent judgement in holding management to account.
112 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  Key matters considered during the year continued Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Election of Directors continued The diversity of the Board including skills and experience, and the contribution made by each Director is set out in the individual biographies of Directors on pages 89 to 94.
The Committee recommended to the Board those Directors standing for election at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Policy The Group has a Diversity and Inclusion Policy that aims to provide equal opportunities for all who apply and who perform work for our organisation, including the Executive and Non-executive Directors, irrespective of sex, race, age, ethnic origin, educational, social and cultural background, marital status, pregnancy and maternity, civil partnership status, any gender reassignment, religion or belief, sexual orientation, disability, or part time fixed term work.
The Committee keeps this under review across all its recruitment planning.
Board and senior management Given the global reach of the Groups operations, its business strategy and long-term focus, the Board makes every effort to ensure it is able to recruit Directors from different backgrounds, with diverse experience, perspective and skills.
This diversity not only contributes towards Board effectiveness but is essential for successfully delivering the strategy of an international group.
The Board is committed to recruiting the best available talent and appointing the most suitable candidate for each role, while at the same time aiming for, appropriate diversity on the Board.
In December 2018 the Board approved changes to the Committees terms of reference to formalise its responsibility for overseeing the development of a diverse pipeline for Board and other senior executives.
This will include ensuring that plans are based on merit against objective criteria and promote diversity across gender, social and ethnic background and cognitive and personal strengths.
In the case of Board appointments, the Committee will consider relevant results of the annual Board effectiveness evaluation and ensure suggested enhancements to the Board are addressed.
The Board considers that its diversity of experience, skill set and professional background has increased as a result of Board level succession in 2018.
Group-wide In December 2018 the Board approved changes to the Committees terms of reference to include responsibility for periodically reviewing any objectives for the implementation of diversity for the Group as a whole and monitoring the impact of diversity initiatives.
In 2016 the Board decided to sign the HM Treasury Women in Finance Charter.
In 2018 the Group achieved its commitment to have 27 per cent women in senior management roles, a year earlier than the target date of the end of 2019.
The Group continues to work towards achieving at least 30 per cent of women in senior management by the end of 2021.
The business units also engaged in a number of targeted activities in support of the Groups Diversity and Inclusion Policy, including awareness training of unconscious bias.
Updates on activities relating to the diversity across the Group are provided to the Board periodically.
The Groups activities in this respect are described in our corporate responsibility review on pages 70 to 86.
Governance Review of principal Committee The Committee regularly reviews the membership of all principal Committees and makes membership recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
Recommendations on Committee membership are taken after consultation with the Chair of the relevant Committee.
In March, the Committee made a recommendation that Ms Schroeder join the Risk Committee, and in October, that Mr Watjen join the Risk Committee.
These appointments refreshed experience, provided succession options and increased diversity on the Committee.
Independence criteria The Committee considered the independence of the Non-executive Directors against relevant requirements as outlined on page 105, taking into account the amended Code which requires nine-year tenure to run from the time of appointment to the board rather than first election by shareholders.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 113 Committee reports continued Key matters considered during the year continued Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Conflicts of interest The Board considered in October and December 2018 the new Code provision formalising the need for boards to identify and manage conflicts of interest.
The Board has delegated authority to the Committee to consider, and authorise where necessary, any actual or potential conflicts of interest.
Prior to proposing Directors for re-election, the Committee considered the external appointments of all Directors and reviewed existing conflict authorisations, reaffirming or updating any terms or conditions attached to authorisations where required.
In addition, the Committee considered the external positions of those Directors appointed during the year, noted changes in the external positions of existing Directors and considered whether these gave rise to any conflicts.
The Board considers that the procedures set out above for dealing with conflicts of interest operate effectively.
Subsidiary governance Material Subsidiaries During the year under review, the Committee carried out various duties related to the Material Subsidiaries: Succession planning arrangements for non-executive directors: Evaluating the performance of the Material Subsidiary boards, chairs and directors: and Reviewing Material Subsidiary governance arrangements, including principles for attendance at committee meetings, and the terms of reference for the Material Subsidiary boards and chairs.
M&GPrudential On 1 October 2018, the Company announced the appointment of Mike Evans as chair of M&GPrudential with immediate effect.
The Committee considered and recommended the appointment of Mr Evans as chair of the M&GPrudential board.
The Committee continues to be involved in supporting Mr Evans in M&GPrudential board appointments which are ongoing.
114 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  Audit Committee report Demerger activities In 2018 the Committee considered a Dear Shareholder number of key areas under its remit in As Chair of the Audit Committee, the context of the demerger process I am pleased to present this report on including the progress in integrating the Committees activities during 2018. the finance functions of M&G and The Committee provides the Board with Prudential UK & Europe into a single assurance as to the integrity of the Groups M&GPrudential team with an appropriate financial reporting and, together with control environment and the capabilities, the Risk Committee, monitors the processes and systems to support both the effectiveness of the second and third lines demerger activity and the future ambitions of defence, which are an integral part of of the M&GPrudential business.
With regard to the Groups financial Internal audit reporting, the Committees work is During 2018 the Committee continued focused on ensuring appropriate financial to receive regular briefings from the accounting policies are adopted and Group-wide Internal Audit GwIA implemented and on assessing key Director.
GwIA undertook a programme of judgements and disclosures.
The risk-based audits covering matters across introduction of financial accounting the business units in addition to assurance David Law standard IFRS 17, which is now anticipated work on significant change programmes.
Chair of the Audit Committee to come into effect in 2022, will be a Delivery of the internal audit plan and the significant challenge and change and as independent assurance provided by GwIA a consequence the Committee received represent important components of the Committee members updates during 2018 on the Groups Committees oversight of the Groups David Law Chair progress towards its implementation.
The Howard Davies effectiveness of GwIA was assessed during Philip Remnant External auditor the year, together with a review of progress Alice Schroeder An important part of the Committees against suggested enhancements Lord Turner work consists of overseeing the Groups identified by the external review relationship with KPMG LLP KPMG, undertaken by Deloitte in 2017.
I meet Regular attendees including safeguarding independence, regularly with the GwIA Director to discuss Chairman of the Board approving non-audit fees and satisfying the work done and matters arising and the Group Chief Executive itself that it is in the best interests of Committee also asked that management Chief Financial Officer shareholders to recommend the responsible for rectifying some of the Group Chief Risk Officer reappointment of KPMG.
Following the issues identified to attend the Committee Director of Group Finance publication of the FRCs Audit Quality to ensure that appropriate action was being Director of Group Financial Inspection report for KPMG in June 2018, taken.
The Committee also approved the Accounting & Reporting I and the Group Finance Director met with 2019 internal audit plan which takes Group Regulatory and Government KPMGs leadership and the Committee account of the business and organisational Relations Director discussed the actions their firm is taking changes arising from the planned Group General Counsel and to improve quality.
We also reviewed the demerger.
The work highlighted GwIAs Company Secretary assessment of the audit of Prudential and role in supporting the demerger and the Director of Group Compliance introduced changes to enhance our auditor creation of two appropriately sized, Director of Group-wide effectiveness monitoring process.
resourced and experienced independent Internal Audit internal audit functions.
External Audit Partner It remains the Committees current view that, without exceptional circumstances, Number of meetings in 2018: change to the current auditor should not Nine.
In addition, a joint meeting was occur during a period of significant change held with the Risk Committee for Prudential.
It is therefore the Committees intention to appoint a new auditor for the 2023 financial year-end, after the first year of implementation of the new insurance accounting standard.
A plan to identify KPMGs successor to ensure a smooth transition has been developed.
Further explanation of the Committees approach is set out in this report.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 115 Committee reports continued Compliance Committee governance As Chair of the Committee, I have The Committee received updates on The Committee works closely with the Risk responsibility for ensuring the Committee matters arising from the annual Compliance Committee to make sure both Committees operates effectively.
In advance of each Plan the Plan throughout 2018.
The Plan are updated and aligned on matters of Committee meeting, I speak to the chairs of focused on a number of areas to help common interest.
Where responsibilities our Material Subsidiary audit committees strengthen the compliance framework, are perceived to overlap between the two and report to the full Board after each which is intended to aid the Group in Committees, Sir Howard and I agree the Committee meeting on the main matters meeting regulatory obligations, including most appropriate Committee to consider discussed.
We have also held private monitoring compliance with key elements the matter.
In October 2018 the two sessions as a Committee to discuss of the compliance framework such as Committees held a joint session on cyber performance and also with the Groups conflicts of interest, anti-money laundering security, including updates on the Resilience Director to discuss and anti-bribery and corruption policies.
Group-wide cyber security strategy and whistleblowing cases and their resolution The Committee also approved the 2019 information security programme, more and had private discussions with GwIA Compliance Plan in the context of the details of which are set out in the Risk and KPMG.
An annual review of our proposed demerger, and is monitoring Committee report on pages 124 and 125. effectiveness was carried out as part of the relevant aspects of the proposed transition Board evaluation, described in more detail of Prudentials lead regulator from the on page 100.
The Committee was found to Prudential Regulatory Authority to the be functioning effectively.
Hong Kong Insurance Authority IA.
How the Committee spent its time during 2018 1 1 Feb Mar May Jul Aug Oct Dec Financial reporting and external auditor Periodic financial reporting including: Full and half-yearly report and accounts l l l l l l l Key accounting judgements and disclosures, including tax Solvency II results and governance processes Associated audit reports Audit planning, fees, independence, effectiveness and reappointment l l l l l Environmental, social and governance reporting l Internal control framework Internal control framework including effectiveness l l l l Internal audit Status updates and effectiveness l l l l l Internal audit plan l l Compliance Status updates l l l l l Compliance plan l l Financial crime and whistleblowing Financial crime prevention and whistleblowing regular updates l l l l l Governance and reporting Material Subsidiaries updates l l l l l Internal governance framework including effectiveness l l l l l Business unit audit committee effectiveness and terms of reference l l Committee terms of reference and effectiveness l l Note 1 Two meetings were held in each of March and October 2018.
116 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  Key matters considered during the year Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Financial reporting and tax Overview One of the Committees key responsibilities is to monitor the integrity of the financial statements and any other periodic financial reporting.
During the last year, items reviewed by the Committee included the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, the 2017 Solvency and Financial Condition Report and associated Pillar 3 returns submitted to the Groups regulator, the 2017 Environmental, Social and Governance Report, the 2017 Tax Strategy Report, the 2018 Half Year Report and Accounts, and the key accounting judgements for the 2018 Annual Report.
In reviewing these and other items, the Committee received reports from management and, as appropriate, reports from internal and external assurance providers, which in some cases were provided at the explicit request of the Committee.
When considering financial reporting the Committee assesses compliance with relevant accounting standards, regulations and governance codes.
During 2018, the Group adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers and, as described in note A2, this had no material effect on the Groups financial results.
The Committee also reviewed the potential impact of accounting standards that are effective in the future, including IFRS 16 Leases and IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts.
The approach to adopting these standards is further discussed in note A2.
The Committee requested regular updates from management on the progress against plans for implementing IFRS 17 given its particular significance.
The following sections set out the key assumptions, judgements and other matters considered as part of their review of the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts.
Key assumptions and judgements The Committee reviewed the key assumptions and judgements including those made in valuing the Groups investments, insurance liabilities and deferred acquisition costs under IFRS, together with reports on the operation of internal controls to derive these amounts.
It also reviewed the assumptions underpinning the Groups European Embedded Value EEV metrics.
Assumption setting The measurement of insurance liabilities and EEV are based on estimates of future cash flows, including those to and from policyholders, over a long period of time.
These estimates can, depending on the type of business, be highly judgemental.
The Committee considered changes to assumptions and other estimates used to derive IFRS insurance liabilities and the Groups EEV.
Peer benchmarking was considered where available.
The key assumptions reviewed were: Persistency, mortality, morbidity including in relation to medical inflation and expense assumptions within the Asia life businesses: Policyholder behaviour assumptions including mortality affecting the measurement of Jackson guaranteed liabilities see note C4.2 b of the IFRS financial statements and note 14 to the EEV basis results : and Mortality, expense and credit risk assumptions for the UK annuity business.
Mortality assumptions continued to be an area of focus given ongoing analysis of historic experience, see note C4.1 d to the IFRS financial statements.
The Committee was satisfied that the assumptions adopted by management were appropriate.
Further information on the effects of material changes to insurance assets and liabilities is included in note B3 to the IFRS financial statements and note 14 of the EEV basis results.
Goodwill and other intangible assets including deferred acquisition costs DAC The Committee received information to enable it to review the more material intangible asset balances.
This included the recoverability and amortisation of the DAC balance in the US and whether there had been any indication of impairment of the Groups distribution rights assets.
The Committee was satisfied that there was no impairment of the Groups intangibles at 31 December 2018.
Further information is contained in note C5 of the IFRS financial statements.
Investments The Committee received information on the carrying value of investments in the Groups balance sheet including on those assets which are harder to value and data on the application of the Groups Independent Price Verification policy.
This data showed that the majority of the Groups assets were marked to market using two independent prices, reducing the level of judgement applied in investment valuation.
Further information on the valuation of assets is contained in note C3 of the IFRS financial statements.
The Committee satisfied itself that overall investments were valued appropriately.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 117 Committee reports continued Key matters considered during the year continued Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Other financial reporting matters Provisions and tax reporting The Committee regularly reviews the Groups provisions, including the level of provisioning for regulatory and litigation matters and provisions for certain open tax items including tax matters in litigation.
The Committee was satisfied that the level of provisioning adopted by management was appropriate.
See note C11 of the IFRS financial statements.
Going concern and viability statements The Committee considered various analyses from management regarding Group and subsidiary capital and liquidity prior to recommending to the Board that it could conclude that the financial statements should continue to be prepared on the going-concern basis see page 128, and that the disclosures on the Groups longer-term viability see page 68 were both reasonable and appropriate.
The Committee considered information on the risks to the Groups liquidity and capital position as well as the impact of the proposed demerger and the scenarios that could arise as part of the UKs intended withdrawal from the EU.
Alternative performance measures The Committee reviewed the alternative performance measures contained in the Groups Strategic Report.
It considered the consistency with the prior year and the prominence as compared to IFRS measures of performance.
Fair, balanced and understandable requirement The Committee carried out a formal review of whether the Annual Report and Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In particular, they considered whether the report gave a full picture of the Groups performance in the year with important messages appropriately highlighted, the level of consistency between financial statements and narrative sections and whether performance measures were clearly explained.
After completion of its detailed review, the Committee was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Groups Annual Report and Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable.
FRC review of 2017 Annual Report and Accounts As an outcome of the FRCs regular oversight role on company reporting through its review of the Groups 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, a small number of disclosure improvements have been made in the 2018 financial statements of which the most significant is to demonstrate better the linkage between movement in insurance and investment contract balances reported in the income statement and the notes see note C4.1 a iii.
The FRC notes that its review was based on the Groups 2017 Annual Report and Accounts only and does not benefit from detailed knowledge of the Groups business or an understanding of the underlying transactions.
Parent company financial statements The Committee reviewed the parent company profit and loss account and balance sheet, which included recognition of a pension surplus asset, see note 7 of the Parent Company financial statements.
External audit Review of effectiveness, non-audit services and auditor reappointment External audit effectiveness The Groups external auditor is KPMG LLP KPMG and oversight of the relationship with them is one of the Committees key responsibilities.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the audit throughout the year taking into account: The detailed audit strategy for the year and coverage of the highlighted risks: Group materiality and how that is applied to the individual business units: Insight around the key accounting judgements, including benchmarking, and the way KPMG applied constructive challenge and professional scepticism in dealing with management.
The Committee formally met with the Group Lead Partner without management present on three occasions over the last year: The outcome of managements internal evaluation of the auditor as discussed below: and Other external evaluations of KPMG, with a focus on the FRCs Annual Quality Review.
118 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  Key matters considered during the year continued Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter External audit effectiveness Internal evaluation of KPMG continued This was conducted using a questionnaire that was circulated to the Committee members, Material Subsidiary audit committee members, the Chief Financial Officer and the Groups senior financial leadership for completion.
The survey asked 24 questions over four categories team performance, process, communication and audit execution in relation to the 2017 audit.
The degree of challenge and robustness of approach to the audit were key components of the evaluation.
KPMG were given the opportunity to respond to the findings in the report.
As a result of the report KPMG proposed enhancements to the audit and team and progress against these changes were reported to the Committee in December.
FRCs Annual Audit Quality Review of KPMG During June 2018, the FRC published the principal findings arising from the 2017 18 inspection of KPMG carried out by its Audit Quality Review team.
The FRC noted that there had been a deterioration in quality at KPMG and it was placing the firm under increased scrutiny.
The audit of Prudential plc had not been reviewed by the FRC as part of the 2017 18 inspection.
As a result of the FRCs findings the Committee discussed the findings and the firms response and questioned KPMG on how those enhancements would be applied to the Prudential plc audit.
It noted the good practice identified by the FRC in respect of the audit of insurance liabilities and the seriousness with which KPMG were addressing the FRCs findings.
Overall, it was satisfied that the audit of Prudential plc remained effective.
However, in light of the findings it requested that KPMG provide continuing updates on progress on delivering the enhancements discussed and the items raised as part of the internal evaluation of audit effectiveness.
It also challenged management to further enhance its internal process to review its effectiveness of the 2018 audit.
Auditor independence The Committee has responsibility for monitoring auditor independence and objectivity and and objectivity is supported in doing so by the Groups Auditor Independence Policy the Policy.
The Policy is updated annually and approved by the Committee.
It sets out the circumstances in which the external auditor may be permitted to undertake non-audit services and is based on four key principles which specify that the auditor should not: Audit its own firms work: Act as management or employees for the Group: Have a mutual or conflicting interest with the Group: or Be put in a position of being an advocate for the Group.
The Policy has two permissible service types: those that require specific approval by the Committee on an engagement basis and those that are pre-approved by the Committee with an annual monetary limit capped at no more than 5 per cent of the Group audit fee in the proposed year and capped at 50,000 individually.
In accordance with the Policy, the Committee approved these permissible services, classified as either audit or non-audit services, and monitored the usage of the annual limits on a quarterly basis.
All non-audit services undertaken by KPMG were agreed prior to the commencement of work and were confirmed as permissible for the external auditor to undertake in accordance with the Policy which complies with the rules and regulations of the UK Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standard 2016, the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC and the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board PCAOB.
In keeping with professional ethical standards, KPMG also confirmed their independence to the Committee and set out the supporting evidence for their conclusion in a report that was considered by the Committee prior to publication of the financial results.
While as yet to be formalised as rules, the Kingman review, the Competitions and Market Authority review of the audit market and the Brydon review will shape the future of audit and the audit regulator with a view to enhancing audit quality and independence.
The Committee will continue to monitor developments to ensure the Groups policies and processes around audit effectiveness and independence evolve in line with market practice.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 119 Committee reports continued Key matters considered during the year continued Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Fees paid to the auditor The fees paid to KPMG for the year ended 31 December 2018 amounted to 18.3 million 2017: 17.3 million of which 2.3 million 2017: 2.6 million was payable in respect of non-audit services.
Non-audit services accounted for 13 per cent of total fees payable 2017: 15 per cent.
A breakdown of the fees paid to KPMG can be found in note B2.4 to the financial statements.
Of the 2.3 million of non-audit services, 1.1 million was in respect of assurance services.
These services covered assurance over the Groups Solvency II external disclosures, assurance reports on internal controls of certain Group companies that are made available for third parties and comfort letter procedures to support debt raising in the year.
The remaining 1.2 million principally related to work performed as part of planning for the proposed demerger.
In all these cases, the audit firm was considered the most appropriate to carry out the work, given its knowledge of the Group and the synergies that arise from running these engagements alongside its main audit.
All non-audit services were pre-approved by the Committee and were in line with the Policy discussed above.
Reappointment Based on the outcome of the effectiveness evaluation and all other considerations, the Committee concluded that there was nothing in the performance of the auditor which would require a change.
The Committee therefore recommended that KPMG be reappointed as the auditor.
A resolution to this effect will be proposed to shareholders at the 2019 Annual General Meeting.
Audit tender The Committee acknowledges the provisions contained in the UK Code in respect of audit tendering, along with European rules on mandatory audit rotation and audit tendering.
In conformance with these requirements, the Company will be required to change audit firm no later than for the 2023 financial year end.
The external audit was last put out to competitive retender in 1999 when the present auditor, KPMG, was appointed.
Since 2005, the Committee has annually considered the need to retender the external audit service.
The Committees Chairman and the Groups Finance Director currently recuse themselves from these discussions.
The Group is undergoing a period of unprecedented change with both the demerger of M&GPrudential from Prudential plc being considered and the new insurance accounting standard IFRS 17 requiring implementation in 2022.
The Committee currently believes any change of auditor should be scheduled to limit operational disruption during such a period of change given the significant volume of work to be delivered by the Groups finance teams in relation to the demerger and preparing to implement the new insurance accounting standard in 2022.
The Committee considered its strategy on audit tendering in February 2019, concluding that with the change in implementation date for IFRS 17 that the previously proposed timeline for appointing a new auditor should also be extended by one year to the 2023 year end.
In conducting this review, the Committee concluded that it would be appropriate to commence a competitive tender for the 2023 audit in the first half of 2020.
This would permit the current auditors to complete the first year of IFRS 17 adoption and reduce the self-review threat to any of the audit firms conducting advisory services on implementation of finance systems for the new accounting standard who are invited to tender for the audit.
The suggested timeline should also enable the Committee to take into account any proposals arising from the current reviews of the auditing profession.
The timing remains subject to the Committees normal annual review of auditor performance and recommendation to shareholders.
The Company has complied throughout the 2018 financial year with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 issued by the Competition and Markets Authority.
A plan to identify successor firms to ensure that there is sufficient time for an orderly transition and to safeguard independence was considered and agreed by the Committee.
In line with the FRC Ethical Standard, the rules and regulations of the SEC and the standards of the PCAOB, a new lead audit partner, Philip Smart, was appointed in respect of the 2017 financial year.
Mr Smart is expected to be in place for a five-year term until the completion of the 2021 reporting cycle.
A new lead audit partner would be required for the 2022 audit and an appropriate transition plan developed.
120 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  Key matters considered during the year continued Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Second line oversight Compliance, financial crime prevention, whistleblowing Regular reporting from Regular updates were provided to the Committee by the Group Regulatory and Government Affairs the Compliance function Director and the Group Compliance Director.
The reports kept the Committee apprised of key compliance activities, issues and controls, including progress against the 2018 Compliance Plan, the outcome of compliance monitoring activities across the Group and the effectiveness of business units compliance activities.
Compliance Plan and focus Key activities identified for the first half of 2019 include: regulatory engagement, including managing for 2019 the transition of our lead regulator from the UKs Prudential Regulatory Authority to the Hong Kong IA, supporting delivery of the demerger activities in key areas and providing ongoing advice, guidance and oversight to business units covering key risks such as conflicts of interest and financial crime.
The Committee intends to review updates to the 2019 Group Compliance Plan around the mid-year point.
Group Compliance will also continue to drive forward capabilities within the team and wider compliance community, carrying out activities to maintain oversight of the top risks identified.
Financial crime prevention The Committee received the Money Laundering Reporting Officers report which assessed the operation and effectiveness of the Groups systems and controls in relation to managing financial crime risks.
As part of its responsibility for the oversight of financial crime prevention, the Committee received updates on cyber security as part of a joint meeting held with the Risk Committee in October 2018, anti-bribery and corruption, anti-money laundering and sanctions activities undertaken during the year.
Whistleblowing The Group continues to operate a Group-wide whistleblowing programme Speak Out, hosted by an independent third party Navex.
The Speak Out programme receives ad hoc reports from a wide variety of channels, including a web portal, hotline, email and letters.
Reports are captured, confidentially recorded by Navex, and flagged for investigation by the appropriate team.
Under the Senior Managers Certification Regime SMCR, the role of the Whistleblowing Champion continues to be carried out by the Chair of the Prudential Assurance Company PAC Audit Committee, an independent non-executive director of PAC.
The Committee is responsible for oversight of the effectiveness of the Groups whistleblowing arrangements.
The Committee receives regular reports on the most serious cases and other significant matters raised through the programme and the action taken to address them.
The Committee is also briefed on emerging Speak Out trends and themes.
The Committee may, and has, requested further review of particular areas of interest.
The Committee reviewed the Groups Speak Out programme arrangements during the year, satisfying itself that they continue to comply with regulatory and governance requirements.
The Committee also noted the consistency of approach adopted across subsidiary committees.
This was facilitated through greater visibility of regional significant issues addressed by subsidiary audit committees and their outcomes.
The Speak Out process has been further enhanced this year by focusing on post-reporting management action and, where relevant, sharing of lessons learnt.
The Chair and Committee spent time privately with the Group Resilience Director, to ensure that investigations were adequately resourced and appropriately managed, that there had been no retaliation against anyone making a report and that investigations were not improperly influenced.
The Committee was also updated on arrangements for promoting Group-wide awareness of the Speak Out policy including computer-based training tailored for each business unit and a refresh of Speak Out communications across the Group.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 121 Committee reports continued Key matters considered during the year continued Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Third line oversight Internal audit Regular reporting The Committee received regular updates from Group-wide Internal Audit GwIA on audits conducted and managements progress in addressing audit findings within agreed timelines.
Any delays in implementing remediation actions were escalated to the Committee and given particular scrutiny.
The independent assurance provided by GwIA formed a key part of the Committees deliberations on the Groups overall control environment.
During 2018, the areas reviewed included: change management and transformation, financial controls, outsourcing and third-party supply, customer outcomes, cyber risk, compliance and regulatory and second line of defence.
The Director of GwIA reports functionally to the Committee Chair and for management purposes to the Group Chief Executive, and also has direct access to the Chairman of the Board.
In addition to formal Committee meetings, the Committee meets with the Director of GwIA in private to discuss matters relating to, for example, the effectiveness of the internal audit function, significant audit findings and the risk and control culture of the organisation.
The Committee Chair also meets with GwIAs Quality Assurance Director to discuss the outcome of the quality reviews of GwIAs work and actions arising.
Annual plan and focus for 2019 The Committee approved the half-year update of the 2018 plan.
It also considered and approved the Internal Audit Plan, resource and budget for 2019.
The 2019 Internal Audit Plan was formulated based on a bottom-up risk assessment of audit needs mapped against various metrics combined with top-down challenge.
The plan was then mapped against a series of risk and control parameters, including the top risks identified by the Risk Committee, to verify that it is appropriately balanced between financial, business change, regulatory and operational risk drivers and provides appropriate coverage of key risk areas and audit themes within a risk-based cycle of coverage.
Key areas of focus for 2019 include: strategic change initiatives, customer outcomes, cyber security, financial risk and financial controls, outsourcing and digitisation.
Effectiveness The Committee is responsible for approval of the GwIA charter, audit plan, resources, and for monitoring the effectiveness of the function.
The Committee assesses the effectiveness of GwIA through a combination of External Quality Assessment EQA reviews, required every five years, and an annual internal effectiveness review, performed by the GwIA Quality Assurance Director.
A 2018 Internal Effectiveness review, performed by the GwIA Quality Assurance Director, was conducted in accordance with the professional practice standards of the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors CIIA and assessed continued conformance with the CIIA guidance for Effective Internal Audit in the Financial Services the Code.
The review concluded that GwIA continued to comply with the requirements of internal audit policies, procedures and practices, and standards in all material respects relating to audit planning and execution, and continued to be aligned with its mandated objectives and maintained general conformance with the CIIA Code.
During 2018, GwIA also progressed those areas that were identified by the 2017 EQA as opportunities for enhancement to existing practice.
In response to the demerger announcement, the function commenced its preparations for creating two appropriately skilled and sized, independent internal audit functions, where previously there was a single function.
Having considered the findings of the internal effectiveness review performed by the Quality Assurance Director, the Committee concluded that GwIA had continued to operate in compliance with the requirements of GwIA policies, procedures and practice standards in all material respects and remained aligned to mandated objectives during 2018.
122 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  Key matters considered during the year continued Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Internal control Internal control and risk The Committee is responsible for reporting and making recommendations to the Board on the management systems effectiveness of Group-wide internal control and risk management systems.
The Committee considered the outcome of the annual review of the systems of internal control and risk management as discussed on pages 107 and 108.
The review identified a number of areas for improvement, particularly in respect of the general IT control environment, and the necessary actions that have been or are being taken.
The Audit Committees at group and subsidiary level collectively monitor outstanding actions regularly and ensure sufficient resource and focus is in place to resolve them within a reasonable time frame.
The Board confirmed that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which has been in place throughout the period and up to the date of this report and confirms that the system remains effective.
An update to the organisational structure and governance model for cyber security management, to further strengthen the Groups information security capabilities, was presented at a joint meeting of the Risk and Audit Committees in October 2018.
Governance Group governance framework The Group Governance Manual sets out the policies and procedures by which the Group operates within its framework of internal governance, taking into account relevant statutory and regulatory matters.
It is a platform for mandating specific ways of working across the Group and each business unit attests annually to compliance with: Mandatory requirements set out in Group-wide policies, including matters which must be reported to the Group functions: and Matters requiring prior approval from those parties with delegated authority.
The Committee reviewed the results of the Group Governance Manual annual content review and the results of the year end certification of compliance with Group Governance Manual requirements for the year ended 31 December 2018. www.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 123 Committee reports continued Risk Committee report  statements,  Dear Shareholder  , Iam   .
Howard Davies  , Chair of the Risk Committee bytheGroup.
Duringtheyear, the Committee members   HowardDavies Chair ofourbusinesses.
KaiNargolwala positions,  AliceSchroeder fromMarch2018  , andthe LordTurner fromtheCRO, whoisadvisedbythe  TomWatjen fromNovember2018  GERC.
 Inaddition,  Regular attendees   ChairmanoftheBoard   GroupChiefExecutive .
  CompanySecretary exposures,  Transformation activity and DirectorofGroup-wide , andintoourAsia demerger of M&GPrudential InternalAudit  During2018,  , persistency     , chiefrisk  changeinitiatives, includingthemerger  Singaporebusinesses.
InMarch2018, priortothe  Number of meetings in 2018: , the G-SII regime, whichincludedthe Five.
TheCommittee Risk appetite and principal risks      124 Prudential plc AnnualReport2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  GDPR, which came into force in May in respect of the model.
The Committee Where responsibilities are perceived to 2018.
In October 2018 a joint session with considered the Group results of field overlap between the two Committees, the Audit Committee on cyber security testing of the Insurance Capital Standards Mr Law and I agree the most appropriate included an update on the Group-wide ICS in October 2018.
Committee to consider the matter.
cyber security strategy and information Following the announcement in August As Chair of the Committee, I have security programme and was aimed at 2018 that the Hong Kong IA would become responsibility for ensuring the Committee enhancing the knowledge of Nonthe Groups regulator after the demerger operates effectively.
In order to enable executive Directors as well as providing of M&GPrudential, updates on the the Committee to provide constructive an update on the progress of the Groups discussions with the Hong Kong IA on challenge to management, I encourage approach to cyber security.
the future regulatory relationship were open debate and contributions from all provided as part of the CROs regular Committee members.
I report to the Board Regulatory matters reporting to the Committee.
in full after each meeting on the main The Committee reviewed the methodology matters discussed.
An annual review of our and annual calibration of the Solvency II Committee governance effectiveness was carried out as part of the internal model, and we also oversaw the We work closely with the Audit Committee Board evaluation, described in more detail submission of the Groups Major Model to ensure both Committees are updated on page 100.
The Committee was found to Change application in December 2018 and aligned on matters of common interest.
How the Committee spent its time during 2018 Feb May Jul Oct Dec Markets and Group risk updates Group risk update l l l l l Material Subsidiaries l l l l l Risk management Group top risk identification l l Top risk discussions l l l l l Business unit specific risk matters l l l l l Risk assessment of Business Plan l Risk function effectiveness l Risk culture l Risk oversight of remuneration l l l Transformation l l l l l Information security and privacy l l l l l Regulatory matters Regulatory matters l l l l l Risk framework Solvency II internal model development and changes l l l l Group risk appetite review l Risk limit updates l l Risk policy framework refresh l l Risk-related compliance policies l l l Group-wide Internal Audit update l l l l l Governance and reporting Full and half year risk disclosures l l Global Systemically Important Insurer l Liquidity Risk Management Plan, Systemic Risk Management Plan and Recovery Plan l Solvency II reporting and governance processes l Own Risk and Solvency Assessment l Year-end E-cap results l Group Regulatory and Compliance report l l l l l Committee terms of reference l l www.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 125 Committee reports continued Key matters considered during the year Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Business Plan As part of its role in overseeing and advising the Board on future risk exposures and strategic risks, the Committee reviewed Group Risks assessment of the Groups Business Plan which covered a range of both financial and non-financial considerations including those associated with the demerger of M&GPrudential from the Group.
As part of the Group Risks review of the annual Group Business Plan, Group Approved Limits were reviewed, updated and approved by the Committee.
Risk appetite The Committee is responsible for recommending the Groups overall risk appetite and tolerance to the Board.
The Committee approved the Group Risk Appetite Statement, which sets aggregate risk limits in respect of capital requirements, earnings volatility and liquidity as well as maintaining the existing tolerance levels associated with each of these limits.
Risk framework Annually, business units must assess and certify their compliance with the Group Risk Framework and management and risk policies as part of the annual Group Governance Manual certification.
The certification process for risk policies is facilitated by Group Risk and subject to oversight by the Committee.
In 2018, the Group Risk Framework and risk policies were subject to their annual review, with changes being approved by the Committee.
The Committee conducted its annual review of Risk effectiveness in February.
It also approved the Group Risk Mandate, which formally sets out the purpose and responsibilities of the Group Risk function, and how it works with other functions and maintains oversight of business unit risk functions and their effectiveness in managing the key risks to the Group.
In December 2018, the Committee considered an update on activities supporting a positive risk culture across Prudential, including the developments and improvements implemented across the business units over the year.
The Committee considered the results of a number of deep dive reviews undertaken during 2018.
These focused on risks embedded within the existing portfolio of products in our US, Asia and UK businesses, as well as the risks arising from, and to, the demerger.
Transformation activity and In March 2018, the Group announced the planned demerger of M&GPrudential from the rest of demerger of M&GPrudential the Group, further contributing to the portfolio of key strategic change activity across the Group.
The Committee was provided with updates on this activity throughout the year, and considered the results of risk opinions, guidance and assurance on the demerger.
Analyses of the key financial risks to the execution of the demerger under various stress scenarios were considered.
Risk recommendations and observations were provided to the Committee on the key merger and transformation programmes currently ongoing at M&GPrudential.
Hong Kong Insurance In August 2018, it was announced that the Hong Kong IA would become the Group-wide supervisor Authority IA for Prudential plc after the demerger of M&GPrudential.
Key updates on the discussions with the Hong Kong IA on the future regulatory relationship were provided to the Committee as part of the CROs regular reporting.
Information security In July 2018, the Committee was provided with an update on the key deliverables relating to the and privacy Groups cyber resilience and throughout 2018 the Committee received regular updates on Groupwide information security metrics providing a view of security posture across our businesses.
An update to the organisational structure and governance model for cyber security management, to further strengthen the Groups information security capability, was presented at a joint meeting of the Risk and Audit Committees in October.
In November 2018, Prudential participated in the annual FTSE 350 Cyber Governance Health Check survey, insights from which inform government policy on cyber security and contribute to guidance and support provided to industry and boards.
In the key area of data privacy, the Committee received updates throughout the year on progress on Group-wide implementation activity to ensure compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation.
126 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  Key matters considered during the year continued Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Jackson oversight The Committee received regular updates on the Jackson business throughout 2018, including updates on financial risk oversight over the business.
The Committee approved updates to key risk limits used in its monitoring of the financial risks to the Jackson business, in particular those over interest rate risk.
Additionally, the Committee considered the results of in-depth reviews performed on the Jackson fixed annuity business and hedging programme.
Group principal risks The Committee evaluated the Groups principal risks, considering recommendations for promoting additional risks and changes in the scope of existing risks.
The Committee received regular reporting on the principal risks and mitigating actions over the course of the year within the Group CROs regular report to the Committee.
These reports also provided the Committee with regulatory updates: developments under Solvency II and the Groups internal model: the implications of the developing global capital standards including the engagement with the Hong Kong IA on the development of an industry group capital and risk management framework: and developments and the deliverables required as a result of the Groups designation as a Global Systemically Important Insurer.
Solvency II reporting The Committee considered the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment report based on the outcomes of the Groups Business Plan and the full year 2017 risk and solvency positions prior to its approval by the Board.
The report was also considered in light of the results of the Groups regular stress testing.
The Committee reviewed the methodology and annual calibration of the Solvency II internal model.
The 2018 Major Model Change application was closely overseen by the Committee throughout the year and we approved the model changes as part of the submission of the application to the regulator.
Global Systemically The Financial Stability Board FSB confirmed in November 2017 that the 2016 Global Systematically Important Insurer G-SII Important Insurer designation would continue to apply to the Group.
As a result, in 2018 the Committee was required to consider and approve updated deliverables associated with the designation.
These included the Systemic Risk Management Plan, Recovery Plan and Liquidity Risk Management Plan.
Stress testing Stress and scenario testing is a key risk measurement and management tool for the Group.
The Reverse Stress Test exercise was carried out which confirmed the Groups position as remaining resilient to certain business failure scenarios.
The report related to the Groups year end 2017 position and was submitted to the PRA.
The Committee also considered the results of the 2018 European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority EIOPA Stress Tests, which were submitted to the PRA and EIOPA.
Remuneration The Committee has a formal role in the provision of advice to the Remuneration Committee on risk management considerations in respect of executive remuneration.
The Committee considered reviews on the risk management considerations associated with annual incentive plans during the year and reports on remuneration-related matters.
Compliance and The Committee received regular reporting on key compliance risks and mitigation activity, and audit reporting reviewed and approved updates to a number of regulatory compliance risk-related policies including those around anti-bribery and corruption, conflicts of interest and personal account dealing.
The Committee also received updates from Group-wide Internal Audit throughout the year.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 127
