19 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Our market We specialise in helping the 20% of UK adults at any one time who arelooking for something that mainstream lenders dont offer.
There are c. 10-12m adults at any one time who are looking for something different.
c. 10-12m Adults c. 41-43m Adults There are c. 41-43m adults at any one time who are served by mainstream credit providers based on their good credit file and history, along with their more straightforward personaland financial situations.
Why our market exists Around 20% of adults are not well served by mainstream credit providers because: Life events Low incomes They are dealing with significant life events They are simply managing the realities of divorce, loss of a job, long-term illness everyday life on low incomes their incomes and other challenges which have meant are low and they are sometimes reliant on state they have fallen behind with their financial support which creates challenges in managing commitments and resulted in their credit file their finances and consistently meeting their being impaired, and or: everyday financial commitments, and or: c. 20% of UK adults New to credit Tailored product and service They are new to credit in the UK they have They choose something different from the little or no credit history on which lenders mainstream they value the more tailored canbase a lending decision, and or: and varied product and service proposition offered and trust the brands and providers more than those available to them elsewhere.
20 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Our market continued Our customers The customers we specialise in serving have many similarities middle aged, with online lending attracting a younger audience, to mainstream credit customers.
However, there are important whilst the face-to-face approach also appeals to older borrowers.
differences which require a tailored approach and a wider range All Moneybarn, Vanquis Bank and Satsuma customers are required of suitable and sustainable credit solutions to best serve their more to have a bank account, whilst nearly 90% of Provident customers varied needs and circumstances.
These needs and circumstances also have at least one.
also tend to change more over time, requiring a more flexible Our customers increasingly prefer to engage and interact with approach from lenders.
lenders electronically, and expect seamless interactions as a Our 2.4m customers come from all across the UK and Ireland result.
This trend, along with increasing data availability and and typically have low to average incomes, generated from a range improved methods of analysis give us the opportunity to better of types of employment and state support.
Our customers mostly use knowledge and insight in serving our customers, while carefully rent their homes, which include social housing, with relatively few balancing the valued human element of our offers leveraging new having a mortgage or owning outright.
Most of our customers are technology available.
2.4m PFG customers 440,000 117,000 1.8m 62,000 Customers Customers Customers Customers Unsecured loans Revolving credit Secured loans Employment Part time casual not working Full part time Full time Income Below national average 10,00015,000 Around national average 20,00030,000 Housing Rented accommodation social housing Rented accommodation Age 25-54 years 25-35 years 35-45 years 21 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Our specialised approach Our customers circumstances and needs tend to be more varied The 20% of adults who we specialise in serving are also changing and change more over time as a result of: i unpredictable life all the time, with around 1.5-2m moving into or out of the events: ii the unexpected expenses of everyday life: iii being new mainstream credit market each year.
to credit: and iv their own product and service preferences.
The nature of our customer base, the needs we serve, the products Our customers tend to have different needs and expectations and we offer and the price points required to address the inherent costs different levels of access to products and price points through their and risks mean that our sector has always been subject to closer more varied credit journeys.
regulatory and challenge: Our market is therefore more challenging to serve and more fluid The sector is highly regulated, primarily by the PRA, FCA and in its make up: CBI, with the potential for future regulatory requirements to increase, as recently demonstrated in the areas of affordability There are a wider range of ways our customers search for and find and persistent debt.
the credit they need, involving a more diverse range of channels and partners for lenders to access and manage.
There remains an ongoing potential for further direct political intervention such as the requirement placed on the FCA to cap Serving our customers requires a wider range of tailored products, the price of payday loans.
solutions and approaches to meet their needs than are typically offered by mainstream lenders serving customers with more Most customers of financial services providers are supported uniform and stable situations.
by a robust and unbiased Financial Ombudsman Service FOS to adjudicate on complaints.
However, each case referred to the Assessing affordability and creditworthiness in our market FOS comes at a cost to the lender regardless of the merits of requires greater effort, specialised skills and experience given the case or the outcome.
Some claims management companies thegreater range of customer circumstances.
may also pursue speculative and unfounded claims on behalf Managing our ongoing customer relationships also requires of their clients.
more varied and higher levels of contact and more options As a specialist, we are better placed to address the needs of our for forbearance.
customers and deal with the inherent challenges the sector poses.
Our products Over 70bn is lent each year in our market across a wide range We have the opportunity to better serve our customers developing of specialised products at price points tailored to the range of needs through their credit journeys by expanding our offer to other customers served.
The three main categories of products are product types and price risk points which we do not currently secured loans, where the car or house purchased, or item pawned address.
A comprehensive, more joined-up set of products and provides the security: revolving credit accounts including credit offers, including helping those we are unable to lend to and cards: and unsecured loans of various forms including home currentlydecline, would allow us to improve our ability to offer collected credit and online lending.
theright solution at the right time to more customers, and help themtobuildtheir financial fitness.
We have offers spanning all three product types aimed at the higher risk, mid-risk and nearer-prime customer situations.
Main product type Unsecured loans Revolving credit Secured loans Prime mainstream APR 20% Personal Credit and store cards, 1st & 2nd loans and retail retail credit accounts charge mortgages point-of-sale finance Motor finance Guarantor loans High-Cost Short-Term Credit HCSTC Overdrafts and lines of credit APR 100% Pawn broking Home credit Decline unable to lend Reducing credit risk and APR 22 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Our market continued Our market position We are the leading provider of credit to those not well served analysis.
There may also be opportunities in more established by mainstream lenders in the UK and Ireland.
We have built and sectors likehome credit due to consolidation or the increasing maintain leading positions in the products we offer across three burden ofregulatory compliance for smaller players or those areas of the credit market: unsecured, revolving and secured.
yettoimplement key business model changes.
Most of our competitors are also specialists but are more narrowly Our customers choose us because our specialisation and history has focused, although some in the credit card sector in particular allowed us to: i build the capabilities and knowledge to design and also serve wider needs.
We are building our position in the newer deliver attractive and appropriate offers, and ii serve them in an area of online lending and direct repayment instalment loans, understanding way that reflects the realities of their everyday lives.
addressing the opportunities presented by developing customer needs and preferences, along with new technologies and data See our customer profiles throughout the Annual Report and customer interviews on our website www.
com Market context and position Unsecured loans Revolving credit Secured loans Market sector Home credit HCSTC Credit cards Motor finance PFG Brand Market size Medium Medium Large Medium Market trends Short-term decline Stable overall Continued growth Continued growth PFG position Strong, #1 Building, top 4 Strong, #1 Strong, #1 3 national competitors, Few competitors 4 main competitors, Some competitors hundreds of small profitable, move from PFG only specialist: exiteddue to risk Competition localplayers, PFG payday into others have mixed appetiteor funding transition impact instalmentloans portfolios business model issues Morses and NewDay, Barclays Key competitors Enova Advantage Non-Standard Finance andCapital One 23 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Biancas day The credit card from Vanquis Bank gave me flexibility at a time when no one else would help me with money.
Bianca Vanquis Bank customer, London Due to being sick, awaiting surgery and unable to work, I wasnt able to build up a good credit rating and was refused credit frommany lenders.
The credit card from Vanquis Bank gave me flexibility at a time when no one else would help me with money.
The online application process was really simple, and the credit has been invaluable for payingforcourses for future work and learning to drive!
