24 PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 Q&A with Alex Kanellis Finding solutions and reacting quickly toopportunities is fundamental to the waywedo business What are your views on the businesss performance this year?
The results are clearly disappointing and are not reflective of the hard work that has been put in by our staff over recent years.
The situation in Nigeria has been the worst we have known for a long time with peak season simply not occurring as expected in the second half of the year.
However, emerging markets by definition go through cycles, and given that Nigeria has a population of circa 200 million and a strong foreign exchange reserve position, we remain confident that the categories in which we operate there will return to growth.
Our brand positions in Nigeria remain strong and we are in a unique position to have No.
2 shares across four categories of Personal Care, Home Care, Electricals and Food & Nutrition.
This is an unrivalled position compared to other companies who tend to operate inNigeria with a narrower focus.
PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 25 financial year and then with profitability How will the brand portfolio be How important have CANDO being reduced throughout the 2018 strengthened to better weather andGood4Business been in financial year.
Having successfully grown current trading conditions?
our European and Asian businesses Our focus will be to accelerate the pace Our CANDO values have served us over the last decade, this has ensured of our new product launches and to wellin the last year.
Having successfully that cash flows remain healthy even ensure that these launches have more completed the implementation of SAP when trading conditions are tough.
scale as well as being margin accretive.
across the Group, which completed on At the same time, the Groups major This means that whilst all brands and 1 June 2017, our staff then had to recapital investment programme to products will still be renovated on an energise to tackle the very challenging upgrade factories and IT systems and ongoing basis, new launches will be trading conditions that quickly emerged infrastructure has been completed, required to deliver higher revenue and for the new financial year, particularly thereby reducing ongoing capital margin targets than before.
This will in the UK and Nigeria.
Whilst each day expenditure outlay.
Consequently, have the added benefit of reducing brought a new challenge, our staff evenafter a tough year, the balance complexity both in supply chain and followed the principles of our CANDO sheet remains strong with net debt insupport functions, thereby allowing values and pressed ahead to realise atonly 1.5x EBITDA.
us to bring these launches to market the best possible outcome in the even quicker.
We will also partner more macroeconomic situation that persisted.
Has the Groups appetite for with third parties via co-branding and acquisitions and joint ventures on-pack promotion to improve consumer Of course there were many successes changed?
engagement and to stand out on shelf throughout the year, which have helped oronline.
make us stronger for the future.
During The Groups immediate focus is to grow this period, we never strayed from our the current portfolio of brands, which Good4Business principles and stayed all have significant potential to move Will the current economic true to doing business in the right way.
into adjacent categories and in some conditions impact the Groups This will always be the case as it is the cases into new geographies.
core principle of sustainable long-term still consider acquisitions of brands We believe the investments made over growth.
that can enhance our portfolio and the last decade in our factories and also that are differentiated and have good in our SAP system are serving us well potential for growth, however we will How important is balance sheet for these challenging times.
Having be extremely selective and not overpay strength to the Group?
our larger factory operations in our key for these assets.
In the meantime, our The strength of the Groups balance markets of the UK, Indonesia and Nigeria preference is to look at other growth sheet remains extremely important.
The gives us certainty of local supply and opportunities that can utilise the Groups philosophy has been that the inherent provides a natural hedge against volatile existing brand portfolio and distribution nature of the risks facing the Group from exchange rates and customs duties.
its emerging market presence means investments made in our factories mean that the balance sheet must be strong we have good production capacity for to see the Group through challenging many years to come.
In recent years that philosophy that Group capital expenditure will be has been tested with Nigeria unable to lower for the next few years, freeing up source US Dollars throughout the 2017 cashflow that we can divert to support other sources of growth.
