02 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Board of Directors Name and Appointed PZC years Committee Other position to the Board ofservice memberships Skills & experiences appointments 2014 4 years Chair of Caroline Silver joined the PZ Cussons Managing Director Caroline Nomination Board as a Non-executive Director in Moelis & Company Silver Committee 2014, becoming Senior Independent NonNon-executive Director in 2016 and Chair in 2017.
She has executive Good4Business Director ofBUPA Plc worked within the investment banking Chair Committee sector for over 30 years and is Partner and Trustee of the Victoria Managing Director at Moelis & Company.
& Albert Museum She is a chartered accountant and has previously held senior corporate finance and M&A positions at Morgan Stanley and Merrill Lynch.
She has a wealth of international experience especially within African markets.
2016 2 years Chair of John Nicolson joined the PZ Cussons Non-executive John Good4Business Board as Non-executive Director on 1 Chairman of A G Barr Nicolson Committee May 2016.
John has significant experience Plc Senior of global consumer goods businesses for Independent Audit & Risk Non-executive both developed and emerging markets, Director Committee Director ofStocks having held senior positions in the FMCG Spirits Group Plc sector, including being Regional President and Executive Committee member Member of the of Heineken NV and Executive Board Advisory Board at Director for international markets at Edinburgh University Scottish & Newcastle.
Business School 2016 2 years Chair of Audit & Jez Maiden joined the PZ Cussons Group Finance Jez Maiden Risk Committee Board as a Non-executive Director on Director ofCroda Non- 1 November 2016.
He currently holds International Plc executive Remuneration the post of Group Finance Director at Director Committee Croda International Plc, the FTSE 100 global speciality chemicals company.
He has previously held similar positions at National Express Group Plc, Northern Foods Plc and British Vita Plc and was, until 2015, Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Audit Committee of Synthomer Plc.
Non-executive Helen 2012 6 years Chair of Helen Owers joined the PZ Cussons Remuneration Board as a Non-executive Director in Director ofInforma Owers Plc Committee 2012.
Prior to this she held senior roles Nonwithin Thomson Reuters, including Chief executive Nomination Non-executive Development Officer with responsibility Director Committee Director of Eden for the companys expansion in Project International rapidly developing economies and the implementation of the companys digital strategy, and President of Global Businesses for Thomson Reuters Legal, responsible for building new businesses in emerging markets.
She also has extensive experience working as a consultant for Gemini Consulting, developing and implementing corporate and operational strategies for consumer products clients.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 03 Name and Appointed PZC years Committee Other position to the Board ofservice memberships Skills & experiences appointments 1 May 2018 2 months Remuneration Dariusz Kucz joined the PZ Cussons Board Chief Top Line Officer Dariusz Committee as Non-executive Director on 1 May of Haribo GmbH & Kucz 2018.
Dariusz is Chief Top Line Officer of Co. KG NonNomination Haribo, the international confectionery executive Committee company, leading its global commercial Director operations.
He has previously held senior leadership roles at Danone S. A. where he led the baby food business in Asia Pacific, and Wrigley, where he was Regional Vice President, Central and Eastern Europe.
1 May 2018 2 months Audit & Risk Tamara Minick-Scokalo joined the PZ Non-Executive Director Tamara Committee Cussons Board as Non-executive Director of Amer Sports Minickon 1 May 2018.
Tamara has held senior Scokalo Good4Business Non-Executive Director marketing and commercial positions NonCommittee of Date OHorizons at consumer businesses including P&G executive Plc, Coca-Cola Company, Cadbury Plc Non-Executive Director Director and Mondelez.
Until 2016, she was of Lets Go Crazy Regional President, Growth Markets for Holdings Ltd Pearson Plc, the FTSE 100 international Member of the publishing and education company, with Advisory Board of responsibility for emerging markets.
Mustad HoofCare 2003 25 years Executive Alex Kanellis joined PZ Cussons in 1993.
Alex Committee He was appointed Managing Director of Kanellis the Groups Thailand operations in 1998 Chief Good4Business and Managing Director of Indonesia Executive Committee in 2001.
He joined the Board in 2003 Officer as Regional Director of Asia before becoming Chief Executive Officer in June 2006.
Alex has a PhD in mechanical engineering.
2006 21 years Executive Brandon Leigh joined PZ Cussons in 1997 Trustee of the Halle Brandon Concerts Society Committee and held a number of senior finance Leigh roles within the Group before being Chief Good4Business appointed to the Board in 2006.
Previous Financial Committee to joining PZ Cussons, Brandon worked at Officer Deloitte & Touche where he qualified as a chartered accountant.
