16 PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 Our World Class Supply Chain Modern supply chain operations Agecroft, Manchester, UK Athens, Greece Our factory manufactures: Personal Care and Our factories Home Care including: manufacture: liquid hand wash, Food & Nutrition shower gel and dish including: wash products edible oils, vinegars, spreads and cheeses Pathum Thani, Thailand Our factories manufacture: Personal Care including: Nairobi, Kenya toilet soap Our factories manufacture: Personal Care including: Melbourne, Australia toilet soap Singapore Global Our factories procurement Nigeria manufacture: hub Food & Nutrition including: Ikorodu dairy products Our factories manufacture: Personal Care, Home Care and Tangerang, Food & Nutrition including: Jakarta, Indonesia liquid soap, detergents and edible oils Aba Our factories manufacture: Our factories Home Care and Personal Care including: manufacture: laundry soap and toilet soaps Personal Care including: Lagos liquid soap and Our factories manufacture: baby products Electricals including: refrigerators and freezers Distribution network: Multi-depot logistics footprint PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 17 Our flexible supply chain capabilities are the Managing regional challenges backbone of our international businesses, Within our African operations we encounter a number of regional reinforced by a modern factory footprint challenges including inconsistency andexcellent distribution networks.
of power and raw material supply.
To ensure the continuity of production, we run on-site electricity generators and, where possible, have introduced vertical integration for raw material and packaging supply.
Europe Our manufacturing processes In Kenya our production facility In the UK we operate an integrated focuses on Personal Care products We manufacture products throughout centre of excellence and state-of-the-art for the East Africa region.
We source our liquid manufacturing facility in Agecroft, products through a combination of our Greater Manchester, which mainly own factories, whilst also outsourcing Regional product distribution supplies our UK and Polish markets.
production to carefully selected third We tailor our regional product To maximise efficiencies, this facility party manufacturers.
"In this way we distribution to the needs of our local operates on a ""just-in-time basis""."
ensure that we maximise efficiencies and markets.
can flex our production output to meet Our in-house perfumery Seven Scent is our future shortto medium-term needs.
Our developed market distribution also located at Agecroft and focuses on process for consumers in Europe and fragrance innovation and manufacturing Our modern factory footprint spans: Asia is mainly through supermarkets for the majority of the Groups product and other retail chains, utilising third portfolio.
Our personal wash innovation Africa party logistics providers to dispatch facility is also housed on the Agecroft In Nigeria the Group operates three large products direct from our factories site and gives the Group an integrated factory sites serving our West Africa and third party manufacturers to centre of excellence for personal wash consumers.
represent one of our key strengths within the region and are significant For the emerging markets of Nigeria, In Greece our modern food production Group assets.
Ghana, Kenya and Indonesia, we facilities produce a range of edible oils, believe our supply chain footprint vinegars, spreads and cheeses.
Our largest site is at Ikorodu just outside and local regional know-how is Lagos.
This is where most of our Personal oneof the Groups greatest assets.
Asia Care and Home Care products are In these markets we have tailored Manufacturing activities at our Thailand manufactured.
It is also the home of our our logistics model to specific factory concentrate on bar soap Food & Nutrition operations.
An example of this is in production for both Europe and Asia factory facility is located at Aba in South Nigeria where there are very few markets.
Liquid products for all our Asian East Nigeria and is responsible for our supermarket chains and consumers Personal Care markets are produced in laundry and toilet soap manufacture.
"shop in a mix of open ""wet"" markets, our Jakarta factory in Indonesia."
individual traders and small stores.
Our third location is in Lagos next to In recent years, to successfully Global procurement the Groups Nigeria headquarters and serve the regions vast geography contains our white goods production Singapore is the headquarters of our and respond to the needs of the facility.
Also in Lagos is the centre of our global procurement operations and consumer and the market traders, multi-depot logistics footprint.
covers all categories and markets across we have developed a comprehensive the Group.
This means our factories or distribution centres dispatch direct to a network of approved Active Distributors, who then supply locally to smaller retailers and wet markets.
18 PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 Our World Class Supply Chain flexible, agile and world class Supported by new technology and processes, weare building a world class supply chain.
Wearedelivering increased business flexibility, greateragility to market and a first class distribution network.
In line with this consumer-centric commitment, Haier Haier Thermocool first to market Thermocool unveiled a new range of refrigerators, with energy-saving benefits in all freezers and air conditioners that is already capturing the attention of technology-savvy and cost-conscious its refrigerators, freezers and air Nigerian consumers.
The new energy-saving Haier conditioner sizes Thermocool refrigerators and freezers save up to 35% on annual energy consumption and are Haier Thermocool is changing the game in the made with improved R600a refrigerants an Nigerian home appliances market with its recently environmentally friendly gas that poses no harm launched energy-saving refrigerators, freezers tothe ozone sphere while also reducing the carbon andair conditioners.
Haier Thermocool leads the pack in the home In the same vein, the new Haier Thermocool GenPAL appliances sector of the Nigerian market with over Inverter Air Conditioner saves up to 60% on energy 44 years of heritage second to none.
The brand consumption using variable speed compressor has distinguished itself from other brands with its technology.
It delivers 47% faster cooling consistency in the delivery of durable and quality performance than non-inverter models and has a low home appliances to Nigerian consumers.
These voltage function allowing it to work with voltage as qualities are further strengthened as the brand once low as 140V.
The Haier Thermocool GenPAL Inverter more demonstrates its commitment to walking miles Air Conditioner can work conveniently on any in consumers shoes to understand their pain points generator size and is available in various sizes.
and understand the particular needs of its customers through consumer-driven insights.
The persistent poor power supply and electrical outages as well as the issue of consistent rises in the cost of power have all combined to effectively limit the full utilisation of air conditioners and refrigerators in Nigeria.
Assuch, product innovations in areas of low energy consumption, lower running and maintenance costs have become great vehicles to demonstrate brand innovation and differentiation.
PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 19
