12 PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 Our Categories No.
2 leading market share positions We create consumer brands to remember and enjoy and operate in four main categories where our brands have a distinct strategic advantage and occupy No.
Personal Care Home Care In our Personal Care category we manufacture and sell bar Home Care soap, liquid hand wash, shower gel, skincare and haircare In our Home Care category we sell brands that fall into two products in each of our Africa, Asia and Europe geographies.
segments: Dish Care and Fabric Care.
The Groups Beauty division is included within this category Dish Care with brands such as St. Tropez, Sanctuary Spa and Being by Our Dish Care brand is called Morning Fresh and is sold in Sanctuary Spa.
It is also an example of where we utilise our liquid production synergies across Personal Care In this category we have a diverse portfolio split into and Dish Care.
international, regional and local brands.
An example of an international brand is Imperial Leather as this brand Fabric Care is marketed globally.
Cussons Baby is one of our regional brands and is available within Asia and Africa.
A local brand We have Fabric Care brands in both developed and example is Venus, which is only marketed in Nigeria.
The majority of the Groups Fabric Care brands of laundry soap and branded bulk and packaged In all of our operating markets we aim to take advantage washing powders are sold in our emerging markets, of the Groups supply chain and distribution synergies and, particularly in Nigeria.
Examples of our main African brands where possible, we market our brands across multiple are Canoe, Zip and Tempo.
In our developed Australian geographies.
We match the needs of our local, regional market we have two Fabric Care brands, Radiant and Duo.
and international consumers to our brand portfolio, helping to balance the demand through group sourcing, including common formulations, packaging, fragrances and the fulfilment capabilities of our supply chain.
PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 13 Electricals Africa only Nigeria is the home of our Electricals operations and where we are in partnership with Haier, the worlds largest producers of white goods.
Products are sold under the brand names of Haier Thermocool and Thermocool and they are designed specifically for the African market.
1 in Nigeria for refrigerators, freezers and washing machines.
To retail and market these products, we operate the largest electrical retail outlets in Nigeria through partnerships and also own Coolworld stores instore and online retail lines.
Our sales through Coolworld stores account for around 5% of total Electricals sales.
Food & Nutrition Our Food & Nutrition category is where we have seen Cooking ingredients themost expansion in recent years, adding to our brand We have two cooking ingredients businesses, located portfolio through acquisition.
The focus in this category in Nigeria and Greece.
Our largest cooking ingredients is on value-add nutritional or organic products and we operation is in Nigeria through our joint venture partnership have brands in three segments: dairy products, cooking with Wilmar International PZ Wilmar.
Here we sell cooking ingredients and baby food.
oil under the brands of Mamador and Devon Kings.
Dairy products Our food and cooking ingredients business in Greece Our largest dairy market is in Nigeria, served by our Nutricima operates under the Minerva brand and offers oils, spreads, business.
Here we sell powdered, evaporated and UHT vinegars and cheeses.
dairy-based products under the brands Nunu and Olympic.
Baby food Australia is the base for our other dairy business five:am, Our baby food brand Raffertys Garden was acquired in which we acquired in 2014.
The core product range was 2013 and is based in Australia.
Our products are made from originally organic yoghurt, however in the past year we have natural ingredients and sold in pouch format.
The brand extended the portfolio to include granolas and smoothies.
has successfully expanded its product range to include snacks and currently sells its product range in Australia, NewZealand and China.
14 PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 Our Categories winning through innovation We win by keeping our brands fresh and relevant forconsumers through a programme ofrenovation and innovation.
Launch of Original Source Foaming Shower Gel Mornings have got seriously foamy with the 2018 launch of new Original Source Foaming Shower Gel, promising our consumers a superior shower experience.
Taking our unique gel-foam technology, as seen in Imperial Leather Foamburst, Original Source Foaming Shower Gel delivers 10x More Foam than our regular shower gel, with 100% intense natural fragrances that pack a real punch.
Following a successful launch in Germany, the UK has established strong distribution across all major retailers with four intense, natural fragrance variants.
Morning Fresh achieves 40% market share Morning Fresh has continued to dominate as the category leader of manual dish wash in Australia, increasing market share for the third year running despite intense competition.
Our communications campaign, the launch of premium Morning Fresh Ultimate, together with consumers up-trading from standard formulations to better performing concentrates has resulted in strong sales growth.
After 38 years, Morning Fresh is still recognised as Australias most trusted washing-up liquid, winning a suite of consumer-voted awards in 2018 such as Choice, Canstar and Readers Digest.
PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 15 HPZ delivers a win for consumers, theenvironment and the business The Haier Thermocool brand has further developed its leadership position in the Electricals category by moving to more environmentally friendly refrigerant gases.
Significant capital investment in our Nigerian manufacturing facilities was completed in July 2017 and we have now moved our full range of fridge freezers to R600a.
This will bring benefits toconsumers as they enjoy an up to 35% reduction in running costs due to increased energy efficiency.
Our business has also benefited because the environmental and consumer benefits are now a key part of the selling proposition for the refrigerators and freezers in our Coolworld chain of stores.
Taken together, this is a win for consumers, the environment and the business.
Raffertys Garden strengthens leadershipinbaby food In Australia, Raffertys Garden continues to strengthen its leadership position in the baby food category through the continued partnership with parents, offering insightful products and support for every age or stage of their childs food journey.
In FY18 new range launches included My First, a range of single ingredients designed for starting solids: cereal converted into convenient formats: and, in an innovative first, no-added-sugar yoghurt for children 6 months plus with 60% less sugar.
In addition, the brand has continued our rapid expansion into New Zealand gaining market share, which now stands at circa 10%.
