08 PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 Our Geographies Trading history We have a long-standing trading history Our diverse in all our markets and this plays a significant part in why we trade in the geographies that we do.
In the Groups early days, our trade was focused solely globaloperations on Africa, in particular West Africa, where our roots are deeply entrenched today.
Within the African market we have operations in each of our four categories.
We operate in a carefully selected balance of geographies in Africa, Asia and Europe.
Our expansion into the diverse global balance of geographies in which we operate today started in the 1970s, Our largest markets are located in Nigeria, the UK, through strategic acquisition when the Group expanded into new markets that Indonesia and Australia.
included the UK, Australia and Kenya.
This geographical expansion continued throughout the 1980s and 1990s into markets such as Poland, Thailand and Indonesia.
Maximising geographical opportunities Our Groups business interests span the Revenue by developed economies of the UK and geography Australia, as well as two of the worlds largest emerging economies, Nigeria and Indonesia.
Operating in both developed and emerging global economies helps usto balance our risk profile.
Over the years, strategic acquisitions have reduced our dependence on the Nigerian market.
Careful rebalancing and expansion into new categories have 28% provided us with a greater proportion 36% of profit and cash flow from developed markets to balance the short-term volatility in emerging markets, which offer mediumand long-term growth 36% opportunities.
We have built an effective model that enables us to capitalise on brand expansion opportunities as they arise in neighbouring geographies without establishing a significant presence on the ground.
This model uses third party distributors and is working well for uswithin South East Asian markets forour Food & Nutrition products and also in the US and Canada for ourBeautyranges.
PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 09 Europe Revenue 275.0m 2017: 280.9m Read more on pages 32 to 33 Asia Revenue UK Poland 212.0m 2017: 222.7m Greece Read more on pages 30 to 31 Middle East Thailand Nigeria Ghana Kenya Indonesia Australia Africa Revenue New Zealand 275.6m 2017: 305.6m Read more on pages 28 to 29 10 PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 Our Geographies balancing localand global brand reach Our diverse geographies spanning developed and emerging economies provide significant consumer and market knowledge, balancing local and global reach and providing opportunities for our Group brands.
St. Tropez launches first-to-market 1Minute Tan Building on the success of its In-Shower franchise, which revolutionised the tanning category, St. Tropez has this year launched the worlds first 1 Minute Tan.
Gradual Tan 1 Minute Pre-Shower Mousse offers a natural-looking light sunkissed glow, while seamlessly fitting into consumers busy lifestyles.
Simply apply, wait just one minute and shower as normal for the quickest way to a golden glow.
The patent-pending luxurious foam formula encapsulates 100% natural tanning actives and Rapid Rinse technology, to quickly penetrate the skin and develop over time, even after showering and with regular everyday use, consumers are able to control their depth of tan to suit them.
PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 11 Mamador enters the Margarine andSpreads category As part of its Masterbrand development plan, Mamador has extended into the Margarine and Spreads category.
Consistent with Mamadors positioning of Food Enjoyment without worries, in the new category, Mamador provides Triple Benefits of Health cholesterol free, ayummybuttery taste and is easy to spread to make breakfast enjoyable.
Mamador will offer Classic and Low Fat Spread variants in two packsizes.
The mission forMamador is to make breakfast in Nigeria healthy every day.
Cussons Baby Sensicare, expert care for sensitive baby skin With an evidently growing number of babies born with sensitive and eczema-prone skin, Cussons Baby saw this as an opportunity to launch Cussons Baby Sensicare, a specialised premium range for sensitive skin.
The range was developed using extensive consumer and technical research and was launched in 2018.
With Derma-Soft complex, a combination of natural organic ingredients and ceramide, this product has been proven and approved by pediatricians and dermatologists.
The range includes Gentle Hair & Body Wash, 24h Daily Moisturising Lotion and Intensive Soothing Cream.
