06 P Z Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Report of the Directors continued As required by the Listing Rules, the Board confirms that Employment of disabled persons the Company entered into a written relationship agreement During the year the Group has maintained its policy with the Concert Party on 17 November 2014 containing the of providing equal opportunities for the appropriate Independence Provisions and a procurement obligation the employment, training and development of disabled persons.
The Board also confirms that, If any employees should become disabled during the course of during the period from 17 November 2014 to 31 May 2018 their employment our policy is to oversee the continuation of being the end of the financial year under review : their employment and to arrange training for these employees.
the Company complied with the Independence Provisions in the Relationship Agreement: Employee information so far as the Company is aware, the Independence Provisions The Group recognises the benefits of keeping employees in the Relationship Agreement were complied with by the informed of the progress of the business and of involving them Concert Party and its associates: and in their Companys performance.
The methods of achieving so far as the Company is aware, the procurement obligation such involvement are different in each company and country included in the Relationship Agreement was complied with and have been developed over the years by local management by the Concert Party.
working with local employees in ways that suit their particular needs and environment, with the active encouragement of the Political and charitable contributions parent organisation.
Charitable contributions in the UK during the year amounted Diversity and inclusion to 620,000 2017: 601,000.
No political contributions were made 2017: nil.
PZ Cussons is an extremely diverse organisation in terms of its ethnic and cultural make-up and this is something that we Research and development continue to promote.
We employ many different nationalities including Indian, Chinese, Polish, Indonesian, Singaporean, The Group maintains in-house facilities for research and Thai, Greek, Australian, Nigerian, Ghanaian, Kenyan, American development in the UK, Greece, Indonesia, Thailand, Nigeria and British.
We are clear that we want our leadership team and Australia.
In addition, research and development is to reflect the diversity of the markets in which we function subcontracted to approved external organisations.
Currently and for that reason we are focused on developing local talent allsuch expenditure is charged against profit in the year who understand different cultures.
We do not employ any in which it is incurred, as it does not meet the criteria for person below the local legal working age and we will not, capitalisation under IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
inanycircumstances, employ anyone below the age of 16.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Report Further details on the composition of our global workforce are Global greenhouse gas GHG emissions data for the year: set out in the table below: Scope 1 Scope 2 Total 2018 2017 2016 absolute absolute absolute No.
The figures for the period from 1 June 2016 to 31 May Men senior 2017 have been restated to correct an error in the prior calculations.
managers 147 65 167 66 174 67 Scope 1 Combustion of fuel to operate our factories, facilities and offices.
Women Group Scope 2 Electricity purchased to operate our factories, facilities and offices.
Board Directors 3 38 3 38 3 33 From 1 June 2017 to 31 May 2018 GHG emissions were recorded at 174kg of carbon dioxide per tonne of production.
Men Group Board Directors 5 62 5 62 6 67 Further details on the Groups environmental performance is Employees with contained within the Good4Business pages in the Strategic over 15 years service 1,297 31 1,289 29 1,277 25 Report.
Employees over 50 411 10 401 9 428 8 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 07 External Auditor Purchase of own shares Deloitte LLP has signified its willingness to continue in office Pursuant to shareholder approval given at the 2017 Annual as External Auditor to the Company and, in accordance with General Meeting, the Company is authorised to make market section 485 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution for its purchases of its own ordinary shares.
The Directors intend reappointment will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual to seek renewal of this authority at future Annual General General Meeting.
A statement on the independence of the Meetings including the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
No External Auditor isincluded in the Report of the Audit & Risk shares were purchased from 1 June 2017 to 24 July 2018 Committee onpage 30.
2017:nil other than the acquisitions undertaken by the ESOT see Note 26 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group Restrictions on the transfer of securities The Groups business activities, financial condition and results of operations could be affected by a variety of risks There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the or uncertainties.
These are summarised in the Principal Company except:  section on pages 38 and 39 of that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed theStrategic Report.
by laws and regulations for example, insider trading : and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Annual General Meeting Authority whereby certain employees of the Company The Companys 2018 Annual General Meeting will be held at require the approval of the Company to deal in the the Companys registered office, Manchester Business Park, Companys ordinary shares.
3500 Aviator Way, Manchester, M22 5TG at 10.30am on 26 September 2018.
The resolutions that will be proposed at Directors statement as to disclosure of information the 2018 Annual General Meeting are set out in the separate to the External Auditor Notice of Annual General Meeting, which accompanies these In the case of each of the persons who were Directors of the Governance and Financial Statements.
Company at the date when this report was approved: so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant Share capital audit information as defined by the Companies Act 2006 As at 31 May 2018, the Companys issued share capital ofwhich the Companys External Auditor is unaware: and consisted of 428,724,960 ordinary shares of 1p each.
each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as Director to make himself or herself Rights and obligations attaching to shares aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that Subject to applicable statutes and other shareholders rights, the Companys External Auditor is aware of that information.
shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide, or, if there is no This information is given and should be interpreted in such resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision, accordance with the provision of section 418 2 of the as the Board may decide.
Restrictions on voting By order of the Board of Directors Unless the Board decides otherwise, no member shall be S P Plant entitled to vote at any meeting in respect of any shares held Company Secretary by that member if any call or other sum that is then payable 24 July 2018 bythat member in respect of that share remains unpaid.
Powers of Directors Subject to the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, the Companies Acts and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers ofthe Company.
