PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 03 Chairs Statement Growing and maintaining market share Furthermore, for all markets, we Business performance We remain focused remain focused on innovation but Whilst the Group has delivered good on our innovation witha sharpened lens on fewer, bigger, profit growth in Asia and a creditable higher margin product launches that result in Europe, macro conditions in but with a sharpened will differentiate further our brands, as Nigeria have resulted in a sharp decline lens on fewer, bigger, well as a further reduction in overheads in Africa profits for the year and hence through optimising our operating model.
a disappointing result for the Group as higher margin product awhole.
launches Outlook Within Africa, and in particular Nigeria, The Groups balance sheet remains it is important to note that there strong and we will continue to evaluate has been no structural change in the growth opportunities utilising the landscape of the categories in which we Groups brand portfolio and distribution operate.
We remain proud of our brand capability.
portfolios across Personal Care, Home Care, Electricals and Food & Nutrition Whilst we expect another challenging and of our extensive manufacturing year ahead, the business is well placed and logistics capability, and many of our to return to growth and consequently brands have strengthened their No.
1 the Board has maintained the full year or No.
2 positions during the last year.
However, a sustained lack of liquidity at both consumer and trade level has Finally, I would like to take this resulted in a significant contraction opportunity to thank all of the Groups in the size of the market, resulting in employees for their hard work and lower volumes, prices and margins.
Their skill, resilience and the absence of an indication as to when commitment will be essential to our liquidity in Nigeria may improve ahead of future growth and success and is very the February 2019 general elections, we much appreciated by my fellow Directors are taking steps to optimise further our and me.
overall product portfolio and to reduce our cost base.
Caroline Silver Chair Within Asia, our businesses in Australia 24 July 2018 and Indonesia have made sound progress in the year, setting good foundations for growth in the years to come.
In Europe, good growth in the Groups Beauty division has helped to partially offset the more challenging trading conditions faced in the UK Washing andBathing division.
