y t i l i b a t n u o c c A D r 20 PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 Act authentically CANDO Focus Build to win capability Our Ambition To grow our business while staying Why true to our authentic family spirit.
we exist Focusing on our consumers and local Enhancing everyday life, markets better than anyone else so creating moments we can respond quickly.
of delight Because we want to leave a legacy Culture, people for the next generation that we can all be proud of.
Establish Challenge connections convention and values Over the past four years, we have been Deliver fast and smart transforming our organisation to work more effectively both globally and regionally in order topromote sustainable growth.
Alongside building leadership Moving to an integrated matrix capability, we have focused on organisation has required a shift in defining the key experiences skills, capabilities and behaviours.
and competencies needed to be Supporting this shift has been at the successful in a number of critical heart of our talent activities, from senior roles.
This has allowed us to early career development, through get even sharper in identifying the to in-function and leadership development actions that our future development.
leaders need to assume next-level roles.
In fact 75% of our senior Our competitive apprenticeship talent pool have had significant and internship programmes in the development opportunities UK have enabled us to leverage the within the last 3 years, helping diversity of talent that exists within usstrengthen our talent pipeline our markets, particularly within our forthe future.
Supply Chain and Beauty business.
Our graduate trainee programmes In addition to leadership in Nigeria and Indonesia are coveted development, we have continued due to the in-depth experience that tobuild sales capability in traditional is gained, attracting hundreds of and modern trade across commercial applicants every year.
These early career programmes have been teams in Africa and Asia, and will particularly successful in attracting shortly be launching a programme female talent.
This year all graduate focused on building channel and trainees in Indonesia were female, category sales development aswere 50% of trainees in Africa.
Act authentically Building the skills, capabilities and mindsets needed to successfully lead in our matrix organisation continues Most significantly, we have redefined Focus Build to win capability to be an area of focus, with over 95% the key differential behaviours that of our senior and mid-level leaders are needed by all employees to be How we attending our global leadership successful today and in the future.
behave curriculum, The PZ Way of Leading.
Aimed to help us thrive as a business and A year on, and changes are being in our individual roles and underpinning observed.
We will continue to our CANDO values, ournew PZC Establish Challenge build this capability by introducing Behaviour Model dictates our new ways connections convention ThePZWay of Leading Emerging of working that will enable us to achieve Leaders programme throughout our priorities and ambitions.
As such thenext financial year.
they are at the core of all of our people Deliver processes, from who we recruit to how fast and smart we develop and reward.
i v e H o e w v e e a w h u e e b l G g d a e o 4 w v b B a u w s e o i r n H w e s u s t a o h W N C e t w o r k i n g s s e n e n O y t i l i b a t n u o c c A D r PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 21 Act authentically Focus Build to win capability Our Ambition To grow our business while staying Why true to our authentic family spirit.
of delight Because we want to leave a legacy for the next generation that we can all be proud of.
Establish Challenge connections convention Deliver fast and smart Values and behaviours as enablers Living CANDO through how we behave employer and motivate people to is a critical enabler to delivering on our want to stay with us.
Over 31% of ambition and purpose and guides how our employee population has over we do business.
It is what sets us apart 15 years service with the business, from our competitors and helps us and following a period of significant create value for all.
change, our overall employee retention is still greater than 90%.
It is these enduring values that make Fordetails ondiversity and inclusion PZ Cussons the unique business it see page 6 of Report of the Directors is today.
It isalso these values that included in the Governance and attract people to PZ Cussons as an Financial Statements.
