22 PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 Good4Business Good4Business We believe passionately that business can be a force for positive change.
More than that, we believe that businesses have an active obligation to make a positive contribution to society and to minimise any negative impacts on the environment from their operations.
Our Good4Business G4B approach For us at PZ Cussons, this is not is at the heart of everything we do.
It something new or unusual it has provides four areas of focus what been a key part of our culture and of we call lenses through which we who we are ever since the business can assess our business and ensure was founded in Africa in the 1880s.
that we are driving sustainable value We have always aimed to make a and growth through our day-to-day positive impact on society through decision-making: the products that we sell, the way in which our products are designed, Business Governance & Ethics: manufactured and packaged and Environment: through the contributions we make Sourcing: and to the communities in which we Community & Charity operate.
G4B draws on the values and We do this because we know experience that have made that it is the right thing to do.
But PZCussons the company it is today.
also because we believe that it is Our core values and convictions will Good4Business.
By forging strong remain at the heart of our business links with our local communities and as the Group develops and grows mutually beneficial relationships in the future.
We are resolved to with our business partners, by continue to be a company that conducting our activities with our shareholders, customers and integrity and responsibility and by consumers, business partners, local helping to conserve the planets communities and our employees can precious natural resources, we be proud of.
are creating sustainable value for all our stakeholders, now and Read more on pages 40 to 43 into the future.
And by creating situations where everyone benefits the planet, our consumers, our shareholders and our employees we can be confident that this value will endure.
PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 23 Palm oil Securing a long-term sustainable supply of palm oil for our global operations is a priority for PZ Cussons.
During the year, we have undertaken a rigorous review of our approach to this issue and resolved that, by 2020, the palm oil used in our range of Personal Care, Home Care, Beauty and Food & Nutrition products will meet our No Deforestation No Peat No Exploitation NDPE commitment.
Partnering with the Forest Trust, we have developed a detailed action plan to achieve this and we will be working with our suppliers to play our part inthe reform of the palm oilindustry.
Plastic We are committed to conserving the planets precious natural resources, safeguarding the environment for future generations and limiting any negative impact on the lives of our consumers and communities.
Plastic pollution is one of the most important sustainability challenges confronting all of us and so we recently launched our PZC Plastic Promise.
This is focused on reducing plastic inourbusiness and driving positive change in society.
To focus our activities, we have set ourselves a 25 by 25 challenge, reducing the amount of plastic we use by 25% by 2025 and ensuring that any remaining plastic we use will be recyclable, reusable or compostable.
By 2025, 30% of our plastic packaging will come from recycled materials.
Health & Safety During the year we have continued our investment in Health & Safety programmes across all parts of our business.
Continuing our plan to certify all of the Groups manufacturing sites to the international OHSAS18001 safety standard by June 2019, our Nutricima and HPZ factories were certified during the year, with the result thatall of our sites in Africa have been nowbeen accredited.
Being and The Mix A high percentage of those in their late teens and early 20s experience mental health issues.
So, when we launched our new Being brand a range of products created for Generation Z, 18-25 year olds at the end of last year, we chose to partner with The Mix, a UK charity that provides support for young people across a wide range of issues affecting them.
Beinghas supported the great work that The Mix does throughfundraising events and by donating aproportion of the sales on sponsored products.
