42 PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 Governance Good4Business Transparency Traceability Our 2020 Action Plan Sourcing Nigeria Transformation Making progress We have developed robust procedures Sourcing Since 2014 we have reduced the to govern how suppliers are selected, Strengthening our commitments number of palm oil suppliers we buy our engagement with them and how on palm oil from, ensuring that our key direct we monitor and conduct audits.
Our Building on our 2014 PZ Palm Oil Promise, suppliers have made their own NDPE Global Technical Team uses the Supplier we published our 2020 strategy and commitments that align with ours.
Ethical Data Exchange SEDEX to drive action plan on palm oil in July 2018.
This InFY18, working with our suppliers, joint improvements and standardise how we sets out five strategic objectives to help venture partners and non-governmental work with suppliers.
In a programme us meet our No Deforestation No Peat organisation NGO partner TheForest of continuous improvement we screen No Exploitation NDPE commitment: Trust, we have: our supplier landscape to check SEDEX membership status and to monitor 1.
Reinforcing good governance to drive Traced 86% of our palm oil back to the ethical and environmental compliance NDPE compliance mill we have had full traceability back viathis industry platform.
to the refinery since 2016: and 2.
A chieving full traceability of our entire palm oil supply chain Disclosed all our key direct palm oil Health & Safety update suppliers and the mills from which 3.
Investing in transformation and they source and parent company During the year, we have continued our independent verification of the palm and location details for our biggest focus on Health & Safety as a critical oil industry supplier.
Taking a lead in developing Nigerias diverse geographies with differing levels palm oil sector We are now working collaboratively with of regulation and we are committed 5.
Taking an open and transparent our suppliers, NGOs and other brands to delivering globally consistent and approach to reporting on progress to address non-compliance in the wider excellent standards of Health & Safety supply chain and the regeneration of across all operations.
We seek to provide Our aim is that by 2020 100% of the palm previously cleared forests.
safe working environments for all our oil used in our Personal Care, Home Care, employees, contractors and visitors.
To Beauty and Food & Nutrition products that end, our operations meet local rules Working with suppliers will come from producers whose entire and regulations but also comply with We enjoy working with like-minded operations have been independently our robust Group-wide standards, which suppliers and contractors who are verified as compliant with NDPE invariably exceed local law.
diligent, responsible, honest and fair.
We expect them to mirror our high This year, we made further progress ethical standards and we scrutinise how Greenpeace has been a critical friend towards achieving international safety suppliers work when establishing or since the beginning of our NDPE journey certification for all our sites around continuing business relationships.
and continues to be a valuable source of the world.
Following the accreditation knowledge and guidance.
of our Nutricima and HPZ factories in Playing our part Change PZ Cussons uses less than 0.001% of from 11 12 Change the worlds supply of palm oil.
However, 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 2017 18 baseline year on year we hold ourselves accountable for Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 the palm oil we source and are fully LTI Absolute number 14 7 15 13 -20 2 committed to playing our part in the LTIFR frequency rate 0.17 0.12 0.29 0.27 -0.14 0.02 reform of the industry.
We do not AAIR believe that switching to an alternative Absolute number 158 109 49 ingredient would have a positive impact, AAIFR as alternatives, such as soy or vegetable frequency rate 3.05 2.26 0.79 oil, require more land to produce the Notes equivalent amount of oil.
The AAIR measure includes: All reportable incidents, Lost Time Incidents LTIs including all Health & Safety occurrences that result in one or more days absence from work excluding the day of the incident, LTIs per 200,000 hours worked and First Aid Cases FACs, being all Health & Safety occurrences including LTIs that result in the employee being given first aid.
FACs include cases where employees are treated for incidents that occur outside of the workplace, as any treatment given may enable us to reduce the number of employee days lost.
AAIR was measured for the first time in 2016 17.
