Corporate Governance DIRECTORS REPORT Statutory information contained elsewhere in the Share capital Annual Report As at 31 March 2018, the Company had an allotted and fully Information required to be part of this Directors report can be paid up share capital of 571,757,121 ordinary shares of 1p each found elsewhere in the Annual Report as indicated in the table with an aggregate nominal value of 5.7m and one Special below and is incorporated into this report by reference: Share with a nominal value of 1.
The ordinary share total includes 4,515,868 shares held exclusive of voting rights in Information Page treasury and 1,474,128 shares held by employee share trusts.
Corporate Governance Statement 42 Directors details 48 Details of the shares in issue during the financial year are shown in note 28 on page 121.
Directors interests in shares 72 Employees 32 Rights of ordinary shareholders Financial instruments: Information on the Groups financial risk 115 note 26 The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the management objectives and policies, and its exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk Companys Reports and Accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to exercise voting rights Greenhouse gas emissions 35 in person or by appointing a proxy, and to receive a dividend Likely future developments in the business of the Company or 2-39 its subsidiaries where declared or paid out of profits available for that purpose.
Results and dividends 36-39 Rights of special shareholder The Special Share is held by HM Government through the Management report Secretary of State for Defence the Special Shareholder and The Strategic report on pages 2 to 39 and the Directors report, it may only be held by and transferred to HM Government.
as detailed on pages 78 to 80, including information which has It confers certain rights to protect UK defence and security been incorporated into those sections by reference, comprise interests.
These include: the management report specified by rules 4.1.
8R of the FCAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency The promotion and reinforcement of the MOD compliance Rules DTRs.
principles which require QinetiQ to be an impartial, ethical and responsible contractor by avoiding conflicts of interest Research and development in its dealings with the MOD One of the Groups principal business streams is the provision The protection of defined strategic assets of the Group, of funded research and development R&D for customers.
such as certain testing facilities, by providing the Special The Group also invests in the commercialisation of promising Shareholder with an option to purchase those assets in technologies across all areas of business.
certain circumstances The right to require certain persons with a material interest In the financial year, the Group recorded 310.1m in QinetiQ to dispose of some or all of their ordinary shares 2017: 306.4m of total R&D-related expenditure, of which on the grounds of national security or conflict of interest 284.3m 2017: 272.8m was customer-funded work and A provisions whereby at least the Non-executive Chairman 25.8m 2017: 33.6m was internally funded.
Additionally, or Chief Executive Officer must be a British citizen.
1.8m 2017: 0.4m of late-stage development costs was capitalised and 1.5m 2017: 1.3m of capitalised development The Special Share carries no financial and economic value and costs was amortised in the year.
the Special Shareholder is not entitled to vote at a general meeting of the Company.
At any time the Special Shareholder Political donations may require QinetiQ to redeem the share at par and, if wound QinetiQ does not make political donations to parties as that up, the Special Shareholder would be entitled to be repaid at its term would be commonly recognised.
The legal definition of nominal value before other shareholders.
Any variation of the that term is, however, quite broad and may have the effect of rights attached to the Special Share requires the written covering a number of normal business activities that would approval of the MOD.
Further details can be found in note 28 not commonly be perceived to be political donations, such as on page 122. sponsorship of events.
Restrictions on the transfer of shares These may include legitimate interactions in making MPs and As detailed above, the Special Share confers to require certain others in the political world aware of key industry issues and persons with an interest in QinetiQs shares that exceed certain matters that affect QinetiQ, and that make an important prescribed thresholds to dispose of some or all of their ordinary contribution to their understanding of QinetiQ, the markets shares on the grounds of national security or conflict of interest.
in which it operates and the work of their constituents.
Employee share schemes Branches The QinetiQ Group plc Employee Benefit Trust the Trust holds The Company and its subsidiaries have established branches shares in connection with QinetiQs employee share schemes, in a number of different countries: their results are, however, excluding the Share Incentive Plan.
As at 31 March 2018, the not material to the Groups financial results.
Trust held 1,474,128 ordinary shares of 1p each the Trust Shares.
The Trustees of the Trust have agreed to waive their entitlement to dividends payable on the Trust Shares.
The Trust holds further ordinary shares in respect of deferred shares held on behalf of participants in the Companys Deferred Annual 78 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Bonus Plan.
Dividends received by the Trust in respect of the The Directors of QinetiQ Pension Scheme Trustee Limited, a deferred shares are paid direct to the Plan participants on Group company and the Trustee of the QinetiQ Pension Scheme receipt and are not retained in the Trust.
the Scheme, benefit from an indemnity contained in the rules of the Scheme.
The indemnity would be provided out of the Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited acts as Trustee in respect Scheme assets.
of all ordinary shares held by employees under the QinetiQ Group plc Share Incentive Plan the Plan.
Equiniti Share Plan Change of control significant agreements Trustees Limited will vote on all resolutions proposed at general The following significant agreements contain provisions meetings in accordance with voting instructions received from entitling the counterparties to require prior approval, exercise participants in the Plan.
termination, alteration or other similar rights in the event of a change of control of the Company, or if the Company ceases Corporate sponsored nominee to be a UK company: In circumstances where ordinary shares are held by the corporate sponsored nominee service, Equiniti Corporate The Combined Aerial Target Service contract is a 20-year Nominees Limited will vote on all resolutions proposed at contract awarded to QinetiQ by the MOD on 14 December general meetings in accordance with voting instructions 2006.
The terms of this contract require QinetiQ Limited received from shareholders using such corporate to remain a UK company which is incorporated under nominee service.
the laws of any part of the UK, or an overseas company registered in the UK, and that at least 50% of the Board Major shareholdings of Directors are UK nationals.
The terms also contain In accordance with DTR 5, the Company has been notified of change of control conditions and restricted share the following from holders representing 3% or more of the transfer conditions which require prior approval from issued ordinary share capital of the Company: HM Government if there is a material change in the ownership of QinetiQ Limiteds share capital, unless the # At 31 March 2018 At 16 May 2018 change relates to shares listed on a regulated market % of issued % of issued material is defined as being 10% or more of the share Name of shareholder share capital share capital capital.
In addition, there are restrictions on transfers of Schroders 11.94% 11.94% shares to persons from countries appearing on the Deutsche Bank, AG.
5.82% 5.82% restricted list as issued by HM Government Silchester International The Long Term Partnering Agreement LTPA is a 25-year Investors LLP 5.01% contract, which QinetiQ Limited signed on 28 February Investec 4.95% 4.95% 2003, to provide test, evaluation and training services to Standard Life the MOD.
This contract contains conditions under which Aberdeen plc 4.81% 4.81% the prior approval of HM Government is required if the Norges Bank 3.94% 3.94% contractor, QinetiQ Limited, ceases to be a subsidiary of BlackRock Inc. Below 5% Below 5% the QinetiQ Group, except where such change in control is permitted under the shareholders Agreement to which A s notified by the shareholder and based on the issued ordinary share capital at the time of the notification.
the MOD is a party # B eing a date not more than a month prior to the date of the Notice of AGM.
The Company is party to a multi-currency revolving credit Under DTR 5.1.
5 1 a, shares held indirectly by BlackRock, Inc. would be notifiable at 5%, 10% and each 1% change thereafter since it qualifies as an EEA approved facility with a US$100m tranche and a 166m tranche, fund manager and is therefore exempt from disclosing holdings at below 5%, provided by a consortium of banks, that expires on and 6% 9% inclusive.
Under the terms of the facility, in the event of a change of control of the Company, any lender Employees may give notice to cancel its commitment under the The Group is committed to the fair treatment of people with facility and require all outstanding amounts to be repaid.
disabilities in relation to applications, training, promotion and career development.
If an existing employee becomes disabled, The Directors contracts contain no provisions for the Company makes every effort to enable them to continue compensation for loss of office on a change of control their employment and career development, and to arrange of the Company.
Disclosures in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4 Directors conflicts of interest There are no matters requiring disclosure under the FCAs The Company requires Directors to disclose proposed outside Listing Rule 9.8.
4. business interests before they are entered into.
This enables prior assessment of any conflict, or potential conflict, of interest Articles of Association and any impact on time commitment.
An annual review of all Changes to the Articles must be submitted to shareholders external interests is carried out by the Board.
Save in respect of the rights attaching to the Special Share, the Company has not adopted any special rules Directors interests in contracts relating to the appointment and replacement of Directors or the At the date of this report, there is no contract or arrangement amendment of the Companys Articles of Association, other with the Company or any of its subsidiaries that is significant than as provided under UK corporate law.
in relation to the business of the Group as a whole in which a Director of the Company is materially interested.
Appointment and replacement of Directors According to the Articles of Association, all Directors are subject Indemnities to election by shareholders at the first AGM following their The Company has entered into indemnity deeds with all its appointment, and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no current Directors containing qualifying indemnity provisions, as more than three years.
In line with best practice reflected in defined in Section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, under which the Code, however, the Company requires each serving member the Company has agreed to indemnify each Director in respect of the Board to be put forward for election or re-election on an of certain liabilities, which may be attached to them as Directors annual basis at each AGM.
or as former Directors of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
All such indemnity provisions are in force as at the date of this Powers of the Directors: allotment purchase of own shares Directors Report.
At the Companys AGM held in July 2017, the shareholders passed resolutions which authorised the Directors to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal value of Corporate governance | Directors Report QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 79 Corporate Governance DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED 3,910,816 1,955,408 pursuant only to a rights issue, to The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting disapply pre-emption rights up to 5% of the issued ordinary records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys share capital and to purchase ordinary shares up to 10% of transactions and disclose reasonable accuracy at any time its the issued ordinary share capital.
The authorities will remain financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, valid until the 2018 AGM.
as regards to the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They have general responsibility for taking such Resolutions in respect of the allotment of relevant securities, steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the the disapplication of pre-exemption rights and the purchase assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and of own shares will be laid before the 2018 AGM.
Annual General Meeting The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity The Companys AGM will be held on Wednesday, 25 July 2018 of the corporate and financial information included on the at 11.00am, at the offices of Ashurst LLP, Broadwalk House, Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the 5 Appold Street, London EC2A 2AG.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Auditor PwC has expressed its willingness to continue in office as In its reporting to shareholders, the Board is satisfied that the auditor and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed Annual Reports and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, at the AGM.
balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and Statement of Directors Responsibilities performance, business model and strategy as required by The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report the Code.
and the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law The Directors, as at the date of this report, whose names and requires the Directors to prepare Group and Company financial functions are set out on pages 48 and 49, confirm that, to the statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are best of their knowledge: required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Accounting Standards The Company financial statements, which have been IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have prepared in accordance with the United Kingdom Generally elected to prepare the Company financial statements in Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice or UK GAAP.
Disclosure Framework, and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position Under company law the Directors must not approve the and profit of the Company financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a The Groups financial statements, which have been true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group In preparing each of the Group and Companys financial The management reporting comprising the Directors statements, the Directors are required to: report and the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and Select suitable accounting policies and then apply the position of the Group, together with a description them consistently of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent Scope of the reporting in this Annual Report For the Group financial statements, state whether they The Board has prepared a Strategic report which provides an have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted overview of the development and performance of the Groups by the EU and for the Company financial statements, state business in the year ended 31 March 2018. whether applicable UK Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101, have been followed, subject to any material For the purposes of DTR 4.1.
8 the Directors departures disclosed and explained in the Group and report confirms, that so far as they are aware, there is no Company financial statements relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is Prepare the financial statements on the going concern unaware, and that they have taken all steps that they ought basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group to have taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any and the Company will continue in business.
relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Jon Messent Company Secretary and Group General Counsel 24 May 2018 80 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
