Corporate Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS THE BOARD REPRESENTS THE INTERESTS OF QINETIQ AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS Committee membership key Audit Nominations Remuneration Risk & CSR Security Committee Chairman Mark Elliott, Steve Wadey, Non-executive Chief Executive Officer Chairman Appointed Chief Appointed NonExecutive Officer executive Chairman in April 2015. in March 2010: Non-executive Director between June 2009 and February 2010.
Board contribution: In addition to his long business experience, Mark brings Board contribution: Steve has a proven track record of driving growth, and to the Board 15 years of experience from board positions on FTSE listed in-depth experience of the defence and technology industries.
Marks extensive international Board and management experience extensive operational and corporate experience.
Steve is responsible for the is essential to his work as the Chairman of the Board of QinetiQ, where he is Groups executive management, and implementation of the strategy.
responsible for leading the Board and ensuring that it operates effectively in order to promote the long-term success of the Company.
Skills and experience: Steve is a Fellow of the Institution of Engineering and Technology, the Royal Aeronautical Society, and the Royal Academy of Skills and experience: Mark was a Non-executive Director of G4S plc, where Engineering.
He was previously Co-Chair of the UK Defence Growth Partnership, he was also appointed the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the a member of the Prime Ministers Business Advisory Group, Co-Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
He was a Non-executive Director of Reed Elsevier National Defence Industries Council Research and Development Group, and a NV, and Reed Elsevier Group plc, where he also became Chairman of the Non-executive Director of the UK MOD Research and Development Board.
Mark worked for IBM for over 30 years, occupying has held various roles with MBDA, most recently as Managing Director, MBDA a number of senior management positions, including General Manager of IBM UK, and Technical Director for the MBDA Group.
Before that, he held various roles EMEA, and a member of IBMs worldwide Management Council.
with Matra BAe Dynamics and British Aerospace.
Other appointments: Mark is Chairman of Kodak Alaris Holdings Limited.
Other appointments: Chair of the Defence Industry Liaison Board of the UK Department for International Trade, Defence & Security Organisation.
Admiral Sir James Ian Mason, Burnell-Nugent, Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed NonAppointed Nonexecutive Director executive Director in June 2014. in April 2010.
Board contribution: Sir James brings to the Board unique experience from the Board contribution: Ian has extensive experience in strategy, business transformation, defence industry, and of contracting with government departments.
As a result eCommerce and international business development.
His current and previous of his experience he serves as Chair of the Risk & CSR Committee and of the experience as a CEO and Non-executive Director enable him to provide the Board with Security Committee.
highly relevant business and Board experience.
His advice has been, and continues to be, particularly valuable for the Board and leadership team in the work of Skills and experience: During a 37 year career in the Royal Navy, which implementing the strategy and effecting the transformation of the Company.
culminated in his appointment as Commander-in-Chief Fleet, he commanded the aircraft carrier HMS Invincible and three other ships and submarines.
Skills and experience: Previously Ian was Group Chief Executive of Between operational duties, Sir James held several positions at the MOD and Electrocomponents plc.
He has also worked for the Boston Consulting Group gained cross-Whitehall experience while on secondment to HM Treasury.
and served as a Non-executive Director of the Sage Group plc.
Other appointments: Non-executive Chairman of Witt Limited.
Other appointments: Chief Executive Officer of Domestic & General Group.
48 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 David Smith, Susan Searle, Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director Appointed Chief Appointed NonFinancial Officer executive Director in March 2017. in March 2014.
Board contribution: David provides significant expertise to the Group from Board contribution: Susan brings to the Board extensive experience of investing in his extensive executive experience in blue-chip companies and work in the growing technology businesses, acquisitions, intellectual property and exploitation aerospace and defence, technology, and automotive sectors.
Susans experience from a variety of commercial, business development and operational roles, and from serving on a variety of private Skills and experience: David is an Associate of the Chartered Institute of company Boards, enables her to provide both challenge and beneficial advice.
Management Accountants and a member of its Advisory Panel.
David was previously the CFO of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc, having joined as CFO of its Skills and experience: Susan was a founder of Touchstone Innovations plc, Aerospace Division.
Prior to that, David was CFO of Edwards Group and CEO leading it as CEO to 2013.
She has served on a variety of private company of Jaguar Land Rover, having previously been its CFO.
He has also held a boards in engineering, healthcare and materials.
Susan was a Trustee of Fight variety of roles with the Ford Motor Company.
for Sight, and a member of the international advisory Board of PTT.
Previously, she held a variety of commercial and business development roles with Shell Other appointments: Non-executive Director of Motability Operations Group plc.
Chemicals, the Bank of Nova Scotia, Montech Australia, and Signet Group plc.
Other appointments: Senior Independent Non-executive Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee of both Benchmark Holdings plc and Horizon Discovery Group plc.
Chair of Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc and Mercia Technologies plc and Chair of its Nominations Committee.
Paul Murray, Lynn Brubaker, Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed NonAppointed Nonexecutive Director executive Director in October 2010. in January 2016.
Board contribution: Paul has a broad range of experience in finance and Board contribution: Lynns experience from senior Board positions from corporate governance from many industries, all of which leverage technology.
various US-based businesses, in particular the aerospace sector, makes her Having previously been a Group Finance Director of plc businesses and the a valuable member of the Board to support the Companys strategic goals, current Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee of Royal Mail Group plc, Paul has management of customer relations, and sales and marketing.
a deep understanding of governance, accounting, and regulatory issues.
Given his financial background at Board level, he serves as the Chair of the Audit Skills and experience: Lynn has held positions as Non-executive Director of Committee.
Force Protection, Inc. Seabury Group, Graham Partners, Cordiem, the Flight Safety Foundation as Chair, and as a member of the Management Advisory Skills and experience: Paul has held positions as Director of Knowledge Peers Council of the Federal Aviation Administration.
Lynn was Vice President and plc, and Independent Oil and Gas plc, Senior Independent Director of Taylor General Manager of Commercial Aerospace at Honeywell International, and Nelson Sofres plc, and Non-executive Director of Thomson SA and Tangent prior to that, she held a variety of roles in the commercial aerospace sector Communications plc.
He has also been Group Finance Director of Carlton working for Allied Signal, the McDonnell Douglas Corporation, Republic Airlines Communications plc and LASMO plc, and a Trustee of Pilotlight.
Other appointments: Non-executive Director and Chair of the Audit & Risk Other appointments: Non-executive Director of FARO Technologies Inc. Committee at Royal Mail Group plc.
Director of Ventive Ltd and Naked Energy Ltd. Hexcel Corp. and the Nordam Group.
Michael Harper, Jon Messent, Deputy Chairman and Company Secretary Senior Independent and Group General Non-executive Director Counsel Appointed Non-executive Appointed as Company Director in November Secretary and Group 2011.
Appointed Deputy General Counsel in Chairman and Senior January 2011.
Independent Nonexecutive Director in February 2012.
Board contribution: Michael has a wealth of operational and corporate Skills and experience: Jon joined QinetiQ from Chloride Group plc where experience.
Michaels extensive career as a business leader and Board he held a similar role.
He has a background in legal private practice as well member within, amongst others, engineering and aviation businesses, brings as general counsel and company secretarial experience in other highly valuable insight to the Board and its discussions, and in particular to his FTSE 250 companies.
role as the Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Skills and experience: Michael has served as Chairman of Ricardo plc, Vitec Group plc, and BBA Aviation plc, having previously been its CEO.
He was Senior Independent Director of Catlin Group Limited.
In addition, he was a Director of Williams plc and, at the time of its demerger, he became CEO of Kidde plc.
Other appointments: Michael is a Non-executive Director of the Aerospace Technology Institute.
Corporate governance | Board of Directors QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Board performance evaluation The Board has a rigorous evaluation process each year to assess how it, its Committees and individuals, including the Chairman, are performing.
The 2018 review was conducted internally, following the steps outlined as below: The effectiveness of the Completion by all members of tailored questionnaires Board is vital to the success which took into account the output from the 2017 performance evaluation process, the current dynamic of of the Group.
the Board and its current priorities Report produced summarising the results of the questionnaire and presented to the Chairman Report circulated to the Board, with a full discussion on the results and comments, and an action plan was agreed.
Progress against prior year review PRIORITIES FOR THE COMING YEAR: The key findings of the prior year review and progress against them were as follows: Succession planning focus on 1 skills necessary for implementing Key findings Action taken the strategy.
1 Succession planning, The Nominations Committee has continued to and ensuring the focus on succession planning during FY18 and appropriate mix on will continue to do so in FY19.
The revised the Board to support Skills Matrix and the recently updated Board Continuing to raise the bar on implementation of Diversity Policy will be instrumental when 2 strategic goals over ensuring the continued appropriate mix of operational effectiveness and the next 3 5 years.
supporting managements 2 A continued focus Strategy regularly discussed at the Boards on strategy, and its meetings, and one meeting a year is devoted implementation of the strategy.
Emphasis on ensuring there is a 3 Monitoring the The Board receives updates on the activity and balance between the achievement effectiveness of progress of the executive management team.
the executive In particular the transformation programme of operational performance and management team.
has supported the teams improvements in focus and delivery to the Board and the growth plans.
The Group HR Director reports on the executive management teams development programme.
Focusing on a balance between 4 Board materials This activity has been undertaken and is 3 further standardisation continuing.
advising, challenging and supporting of Board paper management.
Continued support for presentation format.
5 Appropriate attention The Secretary continuously updates the Board to governance matters, on governance.
During the year, the Board while ensuring focus focused on the numerous initiatives stemming principally on the from the Corporate Governance Reform issued Leverage the Boards collective business operations and by BEIS in August 2017.
Examples of this being 4 strategic development.
the relationship with investors and other experience to help further enhance stakeholders, and board diversity.
6 Defining, monitoring, The Group HR Director reported to the Board on and measuring defining, monitoring and measuring cultural cultural development.
development, and on the progress made during the year.
Ways of measuring progress with the People and culture focus on Companys cultural development strategy, 5 interventions, and appropriate actions going challenging, supporting and evolving forward, were agreed.
50 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Relations with shareholders and other stakeholders The following activity was noted at that review: The Company places considerable importance on communications with shareholders.
The Chairman proactively Executive risk review offers to attend meetings with key shareholders and their Risk owners reviewed and updated their risks prior to corporate governance teams and he met with a number of the review by the Executive Committee Companys major shareholders during the year of reporting.
The Executive Committee formal risk register reviews were conducted at four meetings during the year.
The Executive Directors have an ongoing dialogue and a programme of meetings with institutional investors, fund Board Committee risk review managers and analysts.
The Board is informed on a regular The Audit Committee reviewed in detail the financial risk basis about the views of key shareholders including register at two meetings during the year their concerns.
The Risk & CSR Committee reviewed the non-financial risk register at four meetings during the year, which included During the course of the year, the Chairman met with deep-dive reviews of specific risks.
shareholders to discuss corporate governance and Directors remuneration.
Further details of the shareholder engagement As a result of the presentation to the Board, the Board regarding the Remuneration Policy, adopted at the 2017 considered that the risk review activity undertaken during the AGM, can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report year was effective.
and on QinetiQs website, www.
Committee oversight of risk management The risk management process and the system of internal Investor roadshows were held in London and Edinburgh in the control necessary to manage risks are managed by the Audit UK and Boston in the US.
The Board members make Committee financial risks and the Risk & CSR Committee themselves available to meet shareholders as required, and non-financial risks.
The full Board attends these Committee routinely attend results presentations.
Telephone briefings for meetings, either as a Committee member or as a guest, so as analysts and investors took place in conjunction with these to receive at first-hand the findings of the Committees.
The presentations, of which live and post-event webcasts of key internal audit function independently reviews the risk presentations were provided.
All shareholders were invited to identification and control processes implemented by attend the Companys AGM on 19 July 2017 in London, at which management, and reports to the respective Committee.
the full Board was in attendance.
The Audit Committee and the Risk & CSR Committee also The Company sets itself the target of providing information that review the assurance process, ensuring that an appropriate mix is timely, clear and concise.
of techniques is used to obtain the level of assurance required by the Board.
The reports of both Committees can be found on All shareholders and potential shareholders are encouraged pages 55 to 58 and 60 to 61 respectively.
to visit the Investors section on the Companys website, www.
com, where all types of communication with Risk reporting is embedded in the management of the business shareholders can be found.
The site also provides contact through the Executive Committee and monthly Business details for any investor-related queries, by telephone and Performance Reviews and feeds into Group strategy at the by email.
Internal audit function The Company continues to look at ways of improving the The internal audit function, which is independent of the quality of its engagement with shareholders and to explore business and has a direct reporting line to the Audit Committee, with investors any additional practical means by which it can provides assurance to the Board and its Committees over the communicate effectively with shareholders and other effectiveness of the internal control environment.
As part of this, the Board welcomes recent programme of work undertaken by the internal audit function is initiatives on increased scrutiny on how companies are run and approved in advance by the Audit Committee.
It is prioritised the emphasis on the importance of considering the interests of according to risk, including those risks identified by the Group a broad stakeholder group in making business decisions.
through its risk management processes.
Additionally, regular discussions are held between the internal audit function and the The Boards engagement with the Groups employees is further external auditor regarding internal audit reports, risks, internal described in the section on Engaging Our People, which can be audit plans and the wider control environment.
Board statements relating to risk management Board oversight of risk management Board statements relating to the fair, balanced and The Board oversees the system of risk management and understandable assessment, principal risks, the effectiveness internal control by means of the Audit Committee and the Risk of the risk management and internal control process, and going & CSR Committee in conjunction with the risk management and concern statement, can be found on pages 53 and 54.
The assurance processes detailed in this section.
Matters of longer-term viability assessment can be found in the Strategic particular concern are escalated for presentation at Board report on page 27. meetings.
Examples of such escalation are consideration of the risk register, expression of risk, and risk reporting.
The Board Risk management and assurance activity routinely challenges management to ensure that the systems of Three lines of defence model internal control are constantly improving, to maintain their Risk management and assurance activity conforms to the three effectiveness.
The CEO presents to the Board on the system of lines of defence model as detailed on page 52.
The first line of internal control in operation during the year.
defence is performed by the businesses, through managing activities in accordance with established operating principles: At its meeting in March 2018, the Board reviewed the the second line of defence is performed by the oversight effectiveness of the system of internal control that was in functions, including the safety and governance team: and the operation during the year.
Details of specific risk review activity third line of defence is performed by the internal audit team, undertaken by the Executive Committee, the Audit Committee reporting to the Executive Committee, to the Boards Audit and the Risk & CSR Committee, together with the current risk Committee in respect of financial risks, and to the Boards Risk registers, were presented by the CEO.
& CSR Committee in respect of non-financial risks.
Corporate governance | Corporate governance statement QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Three lines of defence model Board Audit Committee Risk & CSR Committee Receive reports from the assurance functions.
Identification The reports of the Audit Committee and of the of the principal risks facing the Group and agreement of an Risk & CSR Committee.
acceptable level of risk page 51.
Senior Management and Executive Committee 1st line 2nd line 3rd line of defence of defence of defence Risk management Risk assurance Internal audit Managers identify and evaluate risks Oversight by management in the Reviews and evaluates risk Design and operation of internal controls business and oversight functions.
management activity and provides to mitigate risks.
Production of management controls assurance of the effectiveness of the Application of delegated authorities, and internal control processes.
control environment to manage risks policies, procedures and codes of Reports to the Board and the page 52. practice.
Management of external confidential Annual process of a hierarchical selfreporting process page 53. certification, reporting to assurance Reports to the Board and function page 52.
Anti-bribery and corruption measures page 34.
Risk assurance activity during the year Risk management and internal control: Risk assurance activity was ongoing during the year under Financial reporting process review.
The following areas were covered by the Executive The following elements provide assurance in respect Committee and key issues were reported to the Risk & of the financial reporting process and preparation of CSR Committee: consolidated accounts: Updates in respect of general risk governance from the The financial management and control framework Group Director, Safety and Governance The Companys finance function Reviews of business risk registers and moderation to form The internal control and risk management systems the Group Risk Register The internal audit function Quarterly reports from the internal audit function in The external audit function respect of the effective management of Group risks Oversight by the Audit Committee and the Board.
and the risk management process Review of the risk identification process The Company operates a financial management and control The output from the self-certification process and a review framework, comprising a system of targets, reporting external of the effectiveness of internal controls and internal and controls, that is embedded throughout the Regularly requiring risk owners to report their activity businesses and on which progress is reported to the Audit to the Risk & CSR Committee.
Committee and to the Board.
The finance function consists of different financial reporting teams who report to the CFO.
Self-certification process The Group Finance team comprises suitably qualified and An annual process of hierarchical self-certification on the experienced professionals, including accountants.
It is effectiveness of internal controls, which provides a documented responsible for the preparation of the half-year and annual and auditable trail of accountability for the operation of the reports and for internal financial reporting to senior system of internal control, is in operation.
This process is management and the Board.
To ensure a consistency of informed by a rigorous and structured self-assessment that approach and accuracy in financial reporting, the team provides addresses compliance with Group policy.
It provides for advice on accounting and financial reporting issues to QinetiQs successive assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels businesses and sets the Groups accounting policies which are of management and, finally, to the Board.
The self-certification contained in the Finance Accounting Manual.
The team liaises process is carried out at the full year and the half year.
52 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The internal control and risk management systems described In terms of the power to govern, the Proxy agreement vests on pages 51 to 54 apply to the Companys process of financial certain powers solely with the Proxy holders and certain powers reporting and the preparation of consolidated accounts.
For example, the Proxy holders cannot carry internal audit and external audit functions, and the reviews out any of the below without QinetiQs express approval: by the Audit Committee and the Board, provide a structured approach to the review and challenge of financial information Sell or dispose of, in any manner, capital assets or the and financial reporting.
business of FMI Pledge, mortgage or encumber assets of FMI for purposes Employee reporting and guidance: other than obtaining working capital or funds for capital Confidential reporting process improvements QinetiQ has in place a confidential reporting process which is Merge, consolidate, reorganise or dissolve FMI detailed on the Companys intranet.
If an individual does not File or make any petition under the federal bankruptcy feel that they can resolve any concerns with the Company laws or similar law or statute of any state or any directly, either through discussions with their line manager or foreign country.
directly with the Company Secretary or Group Internal Audit Manager, they can use an externally provided confidential Unlike minority interest holders with protective veto rights, internet and telephone reporting system, as noted in the QinetiQ can unilaterally require the above to be carried out and Corporate responsibility section on page 34.
All concerns are these are, therefore, considered to be significant participative passed by the external third party to the Group Internal Audit features.
In addition, QinetiQ can require the payment of Manager who ensures that they are held in strict confidence dividends, and the pay-down of parent company loans, and are properly investigated.
Reports on confidential reporting from FMI.
activity and the outcome of investigations are regularly reported to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviewed the The Company maintains its involvement in FMIs activities effectiveness of the Groups confidential reporting process through normal business interaction and liaison with the Chair during the year, as noted on page 57. of the Proxy Board.
QinetiQs CEO and or CFO attended four meetings of the Proxy Board during the year under review.
Anti-bribery and the prevention of corruption On occasion, the Proxy holders are invited to attend Board QinetiQ has internal procedures in place that are designed to meetings of the Company.
ensure compliance with the UK Bribery Act 2010, and other international regulations and best practice relating to the The President of FMI is a member of the Executive Committee.
prevention of corruption, which are applicable to its business.
FMI commercial and governance activity is included in the business update provided in the regular executive report to the Ethics Board.
This activity is subject always to the confines of the The Company provides employees with guidance to assist them Proxy regime to ensure that it meets the requirement that FMI in making informed ethical decisions on a day-to-day basis: must conduct its business affairs without external control or further details can be found in the Corporate responsibility influence, and the requirements necessary to protect the US section on page 34. national security interest.
Management and control of US subsidiaries Directors statement in respect of fair, balanced The US Global Products division, trading as QinetiQ North and understandable assessment America, which contributed approximately 70m to the Groups All of the Directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as revenue in 2018, operates under a Proxy arrangement, as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides detailed below, with the remainder of the US business operating the information necessary for shareholders to assess the outside the Proxy regime and therefore following the same Companys position and performance, business model and reporting lines and processes as the Groups other, nonstrategy.
In this context, the coordination and review of the regulated businesses.
Group-wide input into the Annual Report is a vital part of the control process upon which the Directors rely and is an exercise US Global Products division and the Proxy arrangement which spans a period wider than the timetable for compiling the QinetiQ North America is managed via Foster-Miller, Inc. FMI, Annual Report itself.
Critically, these processes include the a wholly-owned subsidiary of QinetiQ in the US.
It has been controls the business operates throughout the year to identify placed under a Proxy arrangement as it is required by the US key financial and operational issues.
Further details can be National Industrial Security Program to maintain facility security found in the report of the Audit Committee on page 56. clearances and to be insulated from foreign ownership, control or influence.
Under the Proxy arrangement, FMI and the US Board assessment of principal risks Department of Defence DoD are parties to a Proxy agreement The Board confirms that it has carried out a robust assessment that regulates the management and operation of FMI.
Pursuant of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that to this Proxy agreement, QinetiQ has appointed three US would threaten its business model, future performance, citizens who hold the requisite US security clearances as Proxy solvency or liquidity.
The way in which the Board understands holders to exercise the voting rights in FMI.
and manages risk is set out on pages 51 to 61 and details of principal risks and their management and mitigation can be In addition to their powers as Directors, the Proxy holders found on pages 22 to 27.
Board level oversight is carried out by have power under the Proxy arrangements to exercise all the Audit Committee and the Risk & CSR Committee.
At its prerogatives of share ownership of FMI.
The Proxy holders have meeting in March 2018, the CEO presented details of the risk a fiduciary duty, and agree, to perform their role in the best review activities that had taken place during the year.
interests of QinetiQ as shareholder including the legitimate economic interest, and in a manner consistent with the Board review of the effectiveness of risk management and national security interests of the USA.
QinetiQ Group plc does internal control processes not have any representation on the Board of FMI.
QinetiQ Group The Board confirms that it has conducted a review of the plc may not remove the Proxy holders other than for acts of effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal gross negligence or wilful misconduct or for breach of the Proxy control systems in operation during the year, as required by agreement and always only with the consent of the US the Code.
The Board considers that the risk review activities Defence Security Service.
undertaken during the year under review, as presented by the CEO at the Boards March meeting, amounted to an effective system being in place to ensure that all aspects of risk management and internal control had been considered for Corporate governance | Corporate governance statement QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED the year under review.
Details of the Companys principal risks and uncertainties and how they are managed and mitigated can be found in the Strategic report on pages 22 to 27.
Details of the Companys risk management and internal control systems are set out in this Corporate governance statement on pages 42 to 61, where the reports of the Audit Committee and Risk & CSR Committee in respect of the oversight of risk management can also be found.
Going concern The Groups activities, combined with the factors that are likely to affect its future development and performance, are set out on pages 20 to 31.
The CFOs review on pages 36 to 39 sets out details of the financial position of the Group, the cash flows, committed borrowing facilities, liquidity, and the Groups policies and processes for managing its capital and financial risks.
Note 26 on page 115 to the financial statements also provides details of the Groups hedging activities, financial instruments, and its exposure to liquidity and credit risk.
The Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through its available cash funds and its bank facilities.
The market conditions in which the Group operates have been, and are expected to continue to be, challenging as spending from the Groups key customers in its primary markets in the UK remains under pressure.
Despite these challenges, the Directors believe that the Group is well positioned to manage its overall business risks successfully.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Group therefore continues to adopt the going-concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
The Group is exposed to various risks and uncertainties, the principal ones being summarised in the Principal risks section on pages 22 to 26.
Crystallisation of such risks, to the extent not fully mitigated, would lead to a negative impact on the Groups financial results but none are deemed sufficiently material to prevent the Group from continuing as a going concern for the next 12 months.
54 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
