Strategic report MARKET THEMES KEY LONG-TERM TRENDS THAT AFFECT OUR MARKETS KEY THEMES Increasing complexity Partnering for innovation Value for money The nature and number of challenges our customers face, and the pace at which they evolve, have never been greater.
A growing number of state and non-state based Increasing complexity threats around the world make for a highly complex environment that our customers Growing global threats must plan, resource, test and train for.
We are witnessing a so-called fourth industrial from state and non-state revolution, where data analytics, machine learning, autonomous systems and organisations advancements in materials are fundamentally disrupting the way many markets Rapid data disruption operate.
The defence, security and critical infrastructure markets are acutely exposed Cyber risk threatening to this rapid change.
public and private sector In defence, our customers are required to make long-term planning decisions and resource accordingly.
Certain nations are choosing to exert their influence in the world through direct military action.
Others are rapidly developing their ability to strike well beyond their own borders with the potential for nuclear delivery.
Advancement in conventional capabilities is often run in parallel with offensive cyber capabilities, which can be achieved without the ethical or constitutional considerations most nations adhere to.
Given continued instability, terrorist groups are able to develop their own capabilities in the vacuum left by civil wars.
The proliferation of military equipment in unstable and unpoliced areas has allowed terrorists the room to train, plan and coordinate for large scale attacks both within the region and more broadly.
Porous borders facilitate the flow of information, people and weapons in support of such attacks.
At the same time, technology, particularly within encrypted communications, allows individuals to plan and orchestrate relatively low-complexity attacks, with devastating consequences.
These challenges are not exclusive to our defence customers.
The environment in which our critical infrastructure customers operate is also growing increasingly complex.
Well-publicised cyber-attacks during the course of FY18 highlight how all organisations are potentially vulnerable from state actors, organised crime or individuals.
How we are responding Our strategy and commitment to lead and modernise UK Defence Test & Evaluation T&E allows us to support our customers in their preparations against a range of increasingly complex threats.
This is complemented by the investment we are making, such as in our air ranges, ensuring we have the right capabilities to grow.
Our ability to understand, emulate threats, test and evaluate the resilience of systems against threat scenarios helps our customers assess risk and develop informed mitigation plans.
This understanding positions us well to support our customers in the development and delivery of critical training, a further growth area for QinetiQ.
Our ability to operate across all domains including air, sea, land, space and cyberspace is aligned with our customers need to operate effectively in these environments.
Our expertise in cyber security, and our understanding of innovation and the fourth industrial revolution, and how to evaluate and deploy the related technologies, helps our customers to contend with imminent threats and prepare for the future.
Our research, development, test and evaluation activity is conducted across the procurement life-cycle from concept development through to operations.
This provides us with the valuable insight necessary to support our customers in innovating to successfully achieve their missions.
14 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The pace of change within the threat environment means our customers need to leverage innovation effectively to respond.
Across the defence sector, government Partnering for innovation initiatives are under way in a number of nations including the UK, Australia and the Accelerating pace of US.
These initiatives recognise that innovation in commercial and academic fields has innovation through begun to outpace that within defence.
Governments are looking to partner effectively partnerships with organisations beyond their traditional supplier base to accelerate the pace of Appetite to exploit innovation in their own defence capabilities.
ideas coming from outside defence Through these initiatives, defence and critical infrastructure customers are seeking Rapidly integrate new new approaches to innovation across the Defence Enterprise in equipment technologies into procurement, support and operations, so that they can rapidly integrate new existing capabilities technologies into existing capabilities.
Many customers are keen to harness the innovation that comes from universities and SMEs, particularly as the defence sector is no longer the sole, or primary, incubator of new technology.
They are looking for assistance from organisations that understand their operational context and can collaborate to help them connect their supply chains and successfully exploit ideas coming from outside defence.
How we are responding QinetiQ is a company that was founded upon innovation: and research and development, and test and evaluation form the core of our business.
The breadth and depth of our peoples technology and domain expertise, and our investment in their continued development, enables QinetiQ to deliver valuable advice, innovative solutions and services.
Furthermore, as a predominantly service-based business, we are not encumbered by large product portfolios, supply chains or conflicts of interests.
Accordingly, QinetiQ is ideally placed to act as an innovation integrator, acting as a convening facilitator between government, academia and wider industry to rapidly develop and deploy innovative solutions.
Our strategy is to further develop our own R&D capabilities as well as creating valuable partnerships to deliver innovation effectively to our customers.
With finite resources, our customers are seeking ways to ensure they are able to deliver the capabilities needed to fulfil their obligations to protect.
The breadth of Value for money threats and the speed of their evolution mean that value for money has never been Customers have more important.
The evolution of threats means it becomes increasingly difficult to finite resources, but make longer-term plans for equipment procurement, and existing platforms require increasing requirements upgrades and or modifications to ensure they have the necessary capabilities.
In some regions, defence budgets are growing While defence budgets in some regions are increasing, ensuring value-for-money UK defence budgets remains a key priority.
In the UK, defence budgets remain under pressure and our under pressure customers are looking for support from the private sector to drive efficiencies.
Customers are looking to the private sector How we are responding to drive efficiencies Our strategy is to ensure that QinetiQ continues to offer value-for-money to its customers.
By modernising UK Test and Evaluation, we not only make our facilities more relevant for the threat environment, but increasingly more cost-effective to run.
Our understanding of system design and operation enables us to innovate with our customers and partners to generate efficiency savings across the procurement life-cycle.
Our International strategy creates opportunities for us to help deliver value to international customers, particularly in the Middle East, Australia and North America with best-in-class procurement and test and evaluation advice.
This advice helps our customers develop their own indigenous defence capabilities in a cost-effective manner.
Our strategic focus on innovation allows us to come up with solutions and products that enhance capabilities while remaining cost-effective.
Effective partnering with other industry players and academia allows us to develop innovative business models that save money while enhancing delivery capabilities.
Strategic report | Market Themes QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 15
