Strategic report STRATEGIC PROGRESS DELIVERING LONG-TERM, SUSTAINABLE GROWTH VISION The chosen partner around the world for mission-critical solutions, innovating for our customers advantage.
Delivery of the STRATEGY strategy will Our integrated strategy is built on three mutually reinforcing pillars supported by our values.
enable us to better UK support customers Lead and modernise the UK Defence Test & Evaluation enterprise, by working and deliver in partnership with Government and prime contractors.
long-term and International sustainable growth Build an international company that delivers additional value to our customers by developing our home countries, creating new home countries and exporting.
and returns to our shareholders.
Innovation Invest in and apply our inherent strengths for customers advantage in defence, security and critical infrastructure markets.
Objectives Improve customer focus and competitiveness Modernise and reinvigorate the LTPA for UK MOD Build agile, competitive test and evaluation services for industry Improve business winning approach through campaigns Grow our Cyber, Information & Training business Accelerate growth in our US and Australian businesses Establish key partnerships in the Middle East Win new export sales VALUES Integrity, Collaboration, Performance Strategy Our strategy was developed in anticipation of the market conditions we see today and is designed to reinforce our leading position in the UK T&E market, increase our international exposure and draw upon our ability to innovate.
The three components of the strategy, while presented distinctly, are interlinked and mutually reinforcing.
Delivery of the strategy will enable us to better support customers and deliver long-term, sustainable growth and returns to our shareholders.
As the trusted partner to UK defence, our UK credentials enable us to establish relationships with international customers.
Investing in modernising our UK T&E reinforces QinetiQs credentials and is a competitive advantage when bidding for international work.
UK Defence Test & Evaluation With our origins in UK Government, QinetiQ plays a unique role in UK defence.
Defining and supporting this set of capabilities is the LTPA.
It is our largest contract and underpins much of the defence test and evaluation capability in the UK.
Our strategy is to invest in and modernise this unique capability, enabling us to meet our customers growing demand for more complex and integrated testing and training.
This approach provides us with a strong foundation, securing UK customers and growing international users.
Being a leader in UK T&E is also critical to supporting our international ambitions.
Our ability to win work internationally is in part built upon our credibility within our UK home market.
Our work within UK T&E also enables us to grow into near adjacent markets such as cost-effective training.
8 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Highlights in the year included: We are investing in modernising our air ranges and test aircrew training facilities with new advanced tracking radar and aircraft, delivering significant operational and cost benefits.
The investment enabled us to sign contracts with the Swiss defence procurement agency and with the Royal Netherlands Air Force, the latter to train Dutch test pilots and flight test engineers until at least 2022.
The investment allows us to deliver larger and more complex training exercises, such as Formidable Shield.
Led by the US Navy, and incorporating forces from eight countries, over 18 months QinetiQ managed every aspect of the planning and delivery of the exercise to evaluate the ability to track and destroy long-range ballistic missiles.
OUR STRATEGIC PILLARS Working in partnership with the MOD and MBDA, the manufacturer of the Brimstone 2 missile, and using our facilities at MOD Aberporth, we provided the capability The three elements of the assurance required to ensure that the missile can be integrated safely onto Typhoon, strategy, while presented expanding the aircrafts capabilities and allowing for the timely retirement of Tornado.
distinctly, are interlinked With our partners Atkins and BMT, we have been invited by the UK MOD to and mutually reinforcing: negotiate the Engineering Delivery Partner EDP programme on a sole source basis.
This is a significant arrangement through which the MOD will procure its engineering services.
Discussions with the MOD are ongoing and we are UK actively embracing our customers challenges, innovating service delivery and business models, and building on the successful track record of our Strategic Modernise Enterprise approach.
Lead and modernise the UK defence Test & Evaluation Focus for FY19 enterprise.
Our focus areas for FY19 include repricing the remainder of the LTPA which was not part of the December 2016 amendment, covering the operation and management of 15 sites and facilities and representing approximately 100m in annual revenue.
We are confident of concluding constructive discussions with the MOD in FY19 and have put in place an arrangement for the interim period under existing LTPA contract terms.
We will also continue our investment into our air ranges and test aircrew training facilities, and invest in the digitisation of our capabilities to enable real-time data transfer and evaluation.
International We have made significant strides in becoming a truly international company.
Over the last International two years we have increased our international share of revenues from 21% to 27%.
Our international home countries of the US and Australia have performed well with Build the US achieving good order performance and Australia delivering record orders for Build an international company the third consecutive year.
Outside of our home countries, we have made good that delivers additional value to progress in the Middle East where there is a growing customer requirement for our customers.
capability integration to complement many years of platform acquisition.
Highlights in the year included: We achieved record orders in Australia in FY18 as we continued to transform the business to become a leading partner to defence support acquisition and sustainment programmes.
Building on our eight year partnership with the Australian Department of Defences Science and Technology Group, managing their scientific engineering services facility, we secured our second T&E facilities operations contract in the country.
In North America we maintained good momentum, winning significant orders for maritime systems.
In March, we were down-selected for the first phase of a Innovation significant program of record for robotics, with a total budget of approximately US$400m in the form of an indefinite delivery indefinite quantity contract over Invest seven years.
QinetiQ is one of two remaining bidders with a decision on the final Invest in and apply our stage expected towards the end of FY19.
inherent strengths for our The Middle East is a key growth region for QinetiQ as we support countries in the customers advantage.
region to develop their defence capabilities and ensure the security of critical national infrastructure.
We have established key partnerships with local companies and government agencies to accelerate the delivery of services and products within the region accordingly.
This approach allows us to move with greater pace and is well aligned with our customers objectives to develop indigenous capabilities and skills.
Since the implementation of the strategy, we have made two very successful acquisitions which enhance our overall offer and increase our international footprint.
We were pleased to announce in April 2018 our intention to acquire a third business which enhances our airborne training services and grows our international footprint further.
Good organic growth in Australia was complemented by better than expected revenue contribution from RubiKon, the integrated logistics support business we acquired in January 2017.
The acquisition strengthened our position in the market, enabling us to take on broader programmes of work for our customers and enhancing our technical expertise and domain knowledge.
The strategic rationale for our acquisition of QinetiQ Target System QTS in December 2016, was to complement our T&E offer through the addition of threat representation products and services, accelerate our international Strategic report | Strategic progress QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 9 Strategic report STRATEGIC PROGRESS CONTINUED expansion and to enhance our capabilities in unmanned systems.
During FY18 we have been extremely pleased with QTSs performance as part of QinetiQ, enhancing our ability to leverage their offering and meeting our profitability expectations in addition to enhancing the overall margins of the division.
In April 2018, we were pleased to announce the 70m acquisition of E. I. S. Aircraft Operations, a high-growth provider of airborne training services based in Germany, delivering threat representation and operational readiness for military customers.
The company generated 20.1m revenue and 5.4m Investment in test pilot training is EBITDA in the year to 31 December 2017 and further enhances our training attracting international customers and T&E capabilities as well as providing an entry into the German market and Our 85m investment in modernising the wider European defence market.
The acquisition is expected to complete the UKs provision of test aircrew training is attracting international towards the end of H1 2019, subject to legal and regulatory approvals.
The Royal Netherlands Air Force pilots will be the first to fly Focus for FY19 our new aircraft, purchased in 2017 Our focus in FY19 is to build on the momentum achieved in FY18, continuing to and delivered in early 2018. accelerate the growth in our home countries, deepening our new relationships in the This commitment from the Royal Middle East and leveraging the investment we have made in our export sales team Netherlands Air Force is an example to win more business.
In the US, we will continue to rigorously pursue significant of the benefits that investment in our opportunities in our robotics and maritime capabilities.
Once completed, we will core capabilities brings, in line with our strategy to modernise UK test leverage our recently announced acquisition of E. I. S. Aircraft Operations, to deliver aircrew training.
The introduction international revenue synergies and enhance our overall customer offer.
of multi-year agreements raises exciting new possibilities for our Innovation customers, such as tailored courses, bespoke equipment and activities, and We are a company which is founded upon innovation.
Our people, using their extensive long-term cost savings.
They provide technical and scientific expertise, innovate to overcome some of the most challenging extra certainty, which increases our problems our customers face.
A core part of our strategy to grow QinetiQ is to build on ability to plan for future opportunities this technical expertise with commercial innovation, and to apply this approach across and accommodate customer requirements, giving a huge boost all our activities and geographies, as a major source of competitive advantage.
to the schools commercial appeal.
Highlights in the year included: The new fleet comprises two Grob In FY17 we established business-winning campaigns supported by investment 120TP and two Pilatus PC-21 fixed wing aircraft, alongside four Airbus and strategic partnering to drive growth.
These are focused on T&E, engineering H125 helicopters.
These aircraft will services, training, mission assurance, information insight and experimentation.
be complemented by new modular In FY18 we were down-selected for five major campaign areas, including as courses, featuring modern working Engineering Delivery Partner EDP with the MOD, a framework through which environments, materials and teaching practices, including student-centred the UK MOD will procure its engineering services.
Our success on EDP was built on the innovative Strategic Enterprise model for the delivery of aircraft engineering services for the MOD that has now been in operation for more than two years.
In FY18, we successfully added the evaluation of a missile system to the programme, our first non-aircraft related work.
5 The space industry continues to grow rapidly, and QinetiQ is at the forefront Down-selected on 5 significant of some of the innovative technology that is critical to its success.
In FY18, we opportunities as the result of signed a 25m contract with the European Space Agency ESA to develop the our campaign led approach International Berthing and Docking Mechanism IBDM, which positions us to to business winning become the international standard for spacecraft berthing and docking globally.
We opened our Dragonworks facility, which will serve as a test bed for all technologies associated with high-energy lasers for military and commercial applications.
Based 25m on research we undertook and working in partnership with MBDA and Leonardo, Contract with European Space we are leading the next phase of disruptive directed energy weapon systems.
Agency to develop innovative docking mechanism Focus for FY19 Our focus in FY19 will be to build on the success to date of our campaign approach, converting down-selects into contract awards.
We will continue our internal research 6% and development investment focusing on major customer opportunities including the Revenue growth in FY18 digitisation of our T&E services.
10 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Q&A ANSWERS TO SOME OF OUR INVESTORS MOST FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS Q How do you manage a change in the SSRO rate?
A: The Single Source Regulations Office SSRO is intended to ensure the UK Government receives value for money when there is only a single source for a particular service or product.
Given our innate specialisms, and the critical nature of what we do, much of our work with the UK MOD falls into this category.
We are mitigating our exposure to future changes by putting more of the work we undertake onto longer-term contracts, which is a key part of our UK T&E strategy.
Approximately two-thirds of our SSRO regulated revenue is now on longer-term contracts.
Additionally, by putting contracts onto a longer-term basis we create greater visibility to support investment.
This investment helps us to better serve our customers, both in the UK and increasingly internationally, and is a key part of our growth strategy.
We expect the headwind to intensify in FY19, with an anticipated repricing of the remainder of the LTPA, and moderate in FY20 and beyond.
Q How are cost pressures at the MOD impacting QinetiQ?
A: Given our long term contracts we typically start the year with over two-thirds of our revenues under contract.
Where we felt some of the effects of pressures at the MOD was in our lower value, shorter cycle research work which attributed to lower orders in certain parts of EMEA Services during H1 2018, which was partially offset by stronger orders in H2 2018.
We believe that cost pressures at the MOD present a long-term opportunity for QinetiQ as we are well placed to support our major customer in helping them realise efficiencies.
Our active approach to helping address our customer challenges has created many larger opportunities on which we are actively bidding.
Q Why are you investing in core contracts like the LTPA?
A: We are investing in core contracts like the LTPA to support our strategy to drive growth through leading and modernising UK T&E.
The LTPA investment added over 1bn to our order book and secures approximately half our core LTPA revenues until 2028.
The investment acts as a platform for growth by creating more relevant and competitive T&E capabilities for the UK as well as international customers.
The investment is financially attractive as we earn a return on sales with additional adjustments for risk and capital servicing, as well as recovering our investment over the duration of the contract through depreciation included in the qualifying cost base.
Q Where are the growth opportunities within QinetiQ?
A: There are three main areas of growth opportunities for us.
By leading and modernising UK T&E we can grow our market share, win more work in adjacent sectors such as training, and attract a broader array of international customers.
Internationally, we see strong growth opportunities for our services and products in attractive markets such as Australia, North America and the Middle East.
We are well placed to help countries either develop their own indigenous defence capabilities, or modernise the capability that they have.
Our focus on innovation and the products we have within our overall portfolio also offer the potential for significant growth.
As a Company, we have been much more focused ensuring our innovation is applied in attractive commercial areas, and that we identify the best route to market, which is often in partnership with other organisations: see our Dragonworks case study as an example on page 88.
This enables us to commercialise our IP better than we have done historically.
Finally, our balance sheet enables us to take advantage of acquisition opportunities.
Our focus is on bolt-on acquisitions with complementary capabilities that enable us to accelerate our growth.
Overall, we believe we have an addressable market of over 8bn per annum to pursue across our businesses.
Strategic report | Q&A QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 11
