REPORT OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE Mark Elliott Dear Shareholder, Non-executive During the year under review, the Nominations Committee focused Chairman on diversity and succession planning.
The Committee has adopted a new Board Diversity Policy, of which further details are outlined in this report.
The key focus for the upcoming year will be succession planning and working towards reaching our diversity targets.
Mark Elliott Nominations Committee Chairman Main responsibilities The role of the Committee is to ensure that the composition of the Board and Committees comprise the optimum balance of skills, knowledge and experience, and to oversee succession planning for QinetiQs Gender Pay Gap data can be found on our website www.
the Board and senior management.
It considers diversity, including skills mix, international industry experience, gender and ethnic background, when seeking to appoint a new Director to the Board.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and when called by its Chair.
During the year under review, the Committee met on three occasions.
Effectiveness of the Committee The effectiveness of the Committee is monitored and assessed regularly by Mark Elliott, as the Chairman of the Committee and Chairman of the Board, and as part of the Board performance evaluation.
The overall outcome of the FY18 review of the Committee was positive, and in particular it was noted that the Committee benefitted during the year from the setting up of two formal meetings, and conducting ad hoc meetings as necessary.
Focus areas and activities Board Diversity Policy QinetiQ recognises the value of and welcomes the current discussions around diversity in the boardrooms of UK companies.
The Nominations Committee has this year adopted a new Board Diversity Policy, which can be found on https: www.
The Board continues to have regard to the Hampton-Alexander Review recommendations to improve gender diversity among FTSE Boards and leadership teams and the Parker Review on ethnic diversity on UK Boards.
The Board aspires to meet the voluntary targets as set out in those reports.
Progress against the Policy and future steps The Board currently comprises 22% women, which is a smaller Board appointments are number than the Board aspires towards.
The Board is made on merit, experience committed to progress against the target set in the Board Diversity Policy.
The Committee only engages executive search and performance and the firms that adhere to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Company is progressively Search Firms, which promotes best practice for corporate board searches, including diversity.
Such search firms are expected to committed to increasing identify and present to the Committee an appropriately diverse diversity in its widest sense, range of candidates, with relevant experience and knowledge, who can demonstrate independence of approach and thought.
at Board level, senior management, and for the Succession planning The Committee places high emphasis on ensuring that the Company as a whole.
Company has got appropriate plans in place for orderly succession Two out of the last three of appointments to the Board and to senior management.
The composition of the Board remains under review and succession appointments to the Board planning continues to be of the utmost importance for the were women.
Committee for the upcoming year.
Corporate governance | Report of the Nominations Committee QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 59
