Strategic report BUSINESS MODEL CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUE Unique expertise People and domain know-how Technical expertise Distinctive facilities and facilities Over Over QinetiQ is a company of scientists and engineers essential to sovereign, , 3000 1000 1 of 3 capability, both in the UK and scientists, engineers granted patents Our low speed wind tunnel is increasingly internationally.
and technicians one of just three in the world We combine the dedication and creativity of our people, our unique Approx.
Over science and engineering expertise, and our distinctive modernised facilities to equip customers with 16 90% 300 powerful solutions to their most pressing challenges.
of our people in the UK, patents pending Our ocean basin at Gosport, and 75% in the US have Hampshire is the largest Customers choose us to protect, national security clearance in Europe its the size of improve and advance their vital 16 Olympic swimming pools interests because of our... A sustainable Our unique position in the market How we generate revenue Our customers are predominantly in defence, We deliver advantage to our customers when and business model security, and critical infrastructure in our home where it really matters through the provision of markets of the UK, US and Australia, with a growing services and technology-based products often international and commercial presence.
Our customer relationships and domain know-how We operate two divisions: have been developed over many years of working EMEA Services generates revenue through the in partnership.
provision of advice and services, particularly test and evaluation.
The division is underpinned by As we are predominantly a services business, long-term contracts providing good visibility of valued for our independence, we occupy a unique revenue and cash flows.
position in the market and collaborate with prime Global Products delivers products and solutions contractors, service providers and a broad-based supported by research and development which supply chain that includes specialist firms.
is often funded by customers.
The division is technology-based and has shorter order cycles Sustaining our business model so can have a more variable revenue profile.
As a company whose reputation and achievements are centred on our people, our future success is How we deliver benefits to key stakeholders primarily dependent on our ability to recruit, Customers develop, engage and retain exceptional employees.
Deliver mission-critical solutions Responsive and agile with the ability to innovate Our business model is robust and sustainable at pace because our knowledge base is constantly Ensure value for money refreshed as we learn from experience, understand emerging customer requirements and invest in our Shareholders future.
This enables us to both sustain existing Inherent strong cash generation allows us to invest capabilities and create new ones to ensure we in our organic capabilities to deliver: respond to customer requirements and stay ahead Sustainable growth in revenue, operating profit of the competition.
and high quality earnings A progressive dividend We are investing in our facilities to ensure they remain relevant to support our customers against Employees current and future threats, ensuring longevity and Rewarding careers in highly skilled areas sustainability in our business model.
Utilise expertise across QinetiQ Our strong balance sheet sustains our ability to Within our two divisions, our business units are grow organically and inorganically.
aligned to customer domains and all deliver a combination of services and products.
12 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 How we create value We optimise for greater capability at lower cost, operating across the domains of air, land, maritime, cyber, and space, enabling faster transition from concept to capability, and providing assurance throughout the lifecycle of complex platforms, weapons and capability.
Our work helps our customers to achieve operational and competitive advantage, and by working closely with them to address their existing needs, we are able to understand future requirements for the next generation of capability.
Capability Generation & Assurance Research & Experimentation Test & Evaluation Training & Rehearsal What we deliver for our customers Capability Integration Threat Representation Operational Readiness Maximise and optimise capability output Provide effective threat and vulnerability Ensure strategic management of ranges of our complex systems assessments and facilities Enable information exploitation and multiLead in disruptive, cost-effective threat Support mission-critical operations and domain operations representation solutions complex exercises in real-world environments Support through-life capability generation Maximise use of simulation technologies Enable evidence-based decision-making and techniques in support of outcomes FY18 examples Strategic Enterprise page 28 Live targets page 29 Test aircrew training page 10 We have been working with the MOD to deliver We safely delivered trial aerial targets within This year, we signed a multi-year agreement efficiency savings for the RAF by ensuring 2km from HMS Argyll, surpassing the previous with the Royal Netherlands Air Force to train aircraft are safe to operate and continuously 5km minimum distance, providing a realistic test pilots on our new fleet of aircraft, upgraded to maintain warfighting edge, and threat against which the ships anti-missile complemented by modular courses deliver efficiencies.
delivered with a flexible, modern approach and environment.
Formidable Shield page 7 In November 2017, Formidable Shield brought together eight NATO countries to test integrated air and missile defence capabilities through a series of live firings and trials.
QinetiQ managed the command and control centre, as well as the logistics and safety for what was the most complex exercise of its type ever conducted in the UK.
Services & products e. g. advice, intelligence, information systems, protection, unmanned systems, space systems Technology e. g. advanced materials, sensing, communications, cyber, analytics, autonomy, directed energy Inherent strengths Academic & industrial partnerships, science & engineering expertise, domain knowledge, experience Strategic report | Business Model QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 13
