LONGER-TERM VIABILITY ASSESSMENT Assessing the prospects of the Group The Groups corporate planning processes involve the following individual processes covering differing time frames: 1.
An annual Integrated Strategic Business Plan ISBP process that looks at the financial outlook for the following five years.
This process commences with an assessment of the orders pipeline producing an Order Intake Scenario.
A review of the phased delivery profile and the cost base required to support this enables generation of base-case, high-case and low-case profit forecasts.
Capex and working capital requirements are also collected, reviewed, approved and a cash flow produced for the Plan period: 2.
An annual budget process that covers the first year of the five-year planning horizon in detail: 3.
A bi-annual forecast process to update the view of the first budget year the year which would be in progress : 4.
A rolling monthly latest best estimate process to assess significant changes to the budget forecast for the year in progress.
The corporate planning process is underpinned by assessing scenarios and risks that encompass a wide spectrum of potential outcomes, both favourable and adverse.
The downside risk scenarios are designed to explore the resilience of the Group to the potential impact of all the significant risks set out on pages 22 to 25, or a combination of those risks.
The scenarios are designed to be severe but plausible, and take full account of the availability and likely effectiveness of the mitigating actions that could be taken to avoid or reduce the impact or occurrence of the underlying risks, and that realistically would be open to them in the circumstances.
In considering the likely effectiveness of such actions, the conclusions of the Boards regular monitoring and review of risk and internal control systems, as discussed on page 60, is taken into account.
It is assumed that existing, undrawn bank facilities could be re-financed before they mature in FY20.
Alongside the annual review of risk scenarios applied to the strategic plan, performance is rigorously monitored to alert the Board and Executive Committee to the potential crystallisation of a key risk.
We consider that this stress-testing based assessment of the Groups prospects is reasonable in the circumstances of the inherent uncertainty involved.
The period over which we confirm longer-term viability The period over which the Directors consider it possible to form a reasonable expectation as to the Groups longer-term viability is the three-year period to 31 March 2021.
This is within the period covered by our strategic planning process and is subject to stress-testing and scenario planning around potential risks.
It has been selected because it presents the Board and readers of the Annual Report with a reasonable degree of confidence whilst still providing an appropriate longerterm outlook.
Confirmation of longer-term viability As noted on page 53, the Directors confirm that their assessment of the principal risks facing the Group was robust.
Based upon the robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and their stress-testing based assessment of the Groups prospects, all of which are described in this statement, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 March 2021.
Strategic report | Longer-term viability assessment QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 27
