Governance Board of Directors Chairman and Executive Directors A robust governance framework, overseen by a skilled and experienced Board isabsolutely critical.
Glyn Jones Paul Feeney Tim Tookey Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Appointed November 2016 Appointed August 2012 Appointed to the Board February 2017 and as Chief Financial Skills and experience: Glyn Jones Skills and experience: Paul Feeney is Officerfrom August 2017 until isanexperienced chairman and responsible for creating and developing non-executive director, having served as thevision and strategy of the Group.
13March 2019 chairman of Aldermore Group plc, Hermes Hisextensive knowledge of the asset Skills and experience: Tim Tookey has Fund Managers, BT Pension Scheme andwealth management industry derives over20 years experience working at board Management and Towry, a financial fromexperience gained in his roles as CEO level in financial services and has been planning and wealth advice business.
of NatWest Private Bank and of NatWest responsible for managing a large number Hehasalso served as Senior Independent Investments USA, Group Managing of significant business transformations and Director at DirectLineInsurance Group.
Director and Head of Distribution for strategic projects.
He began hiscareer at Glyn has significant UK and international Gartmore Investment Management and KPMG, specialising in audit and corporate financial services consultancy experience, Global Head of Distribution at BNY Mellon finance advisory work.
Tim has held having specialised in the sector while at Asset Management International.
positions as Finance Director UK and PwCs predecessor firm, Deloitte, Haskins Other appointments: Paul isamember Europe at Prudential plc, Group Finance &Sells, before moving on to run Standard Director of what is now Lloyds Banking ofthe FCA Practitioner Panel and Chartereds international private banking aNon-executive Trustee ofSense Group plc and CFO ofFriends Life Group.
served as CEO of Coutts Group and Tim is a member ofthe Institute Gartmore Investment Management.
ofChartered Accountants in England andWales.
Glyn is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Other appointments: Tim is a Non-executive Director of Nationwide Other appointments: Glynchaired Aspen Building Society, where he chairs the Insurance Holdings, a New York Listed BoardRisk Committee.
international speciality insurance business, from 2007 until February 2019.
Independent Non-executive Directors Board and Committee Membership key Committee Chair Board Audit Committee Board Corporate Ruth Markland Paul Matthews George Reid Governance and Senior Independent Director Appointed August 2018 Appointed February 2017 Nominations Committee Appointed June 2018 Skills and experience: Paul Matthews is Skills and experience: George Reid has ahighly experienced FTSE 100 plc board awealth of experience in finance having Skills and experience: Ruth Markland Board IT Committee director who has over four decades worth spent over 20 years in the accounting brings a wealth of FTSE 100 Board of knowledge of thesavings and pensions profession.
He served thefirst 12 years experience, having spent 12 years on industry.
Until he retired from full-time ofhis career at PwC, returning to the Board Remuneration theboard of Standard Chartered plc and executive roles, Paul worked at Standard accounting profession in 2006 with Ernst & Committee over 10 years on the board of Sage Group Life undertaking various roles between Young LLP latterly as managing partner and plc.
Inboth companies, Ruth served as 1989 and 2017, including as a Group head of financial services for Scotland and SeniorIndependent Director and Chair Board Risk Committee Executive Director, Chief Executive Officer UK regions, and serving as a member of the oftheRemuneration Committee.
Inher UK &Europe and Chairman of Standard UK Firms Financial Services Board.
Prior to various board roles, Ruth has had extensive Life Wealth.
Paul has been amember of the that, George spent seven years in various M ajor subsidiary board board committee experience including FCA Practitioner Panel, a Board Member senior executive roles at Standard Life.
audit, risk, remuneration, nominations membership Please ofthe Association of British Insurers and andfinancial crime riskcommittees.
George is a Fellow of the Institute refer to page 83 for more aMember of the Faculty of the Chartered ofChartered Accountants in England information Ruth headed the commercial practice of Insurance Institute.
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer in London Other appointments: Paul is currently for a number of years and then became the Other appointments: George isChairman anExecutive Mentor at Merryck &Co.
Managing Partner of the Asia business, of the Childrens Hospice Association based inHong Kong.
Other appointments: Ruth is a member ofthe Supervisory Board ofArcadis NV andan Independent Non-executive for Deloitte LLP.
40 Quilter Annual Report 2018 Independent Non-executive Directors Rosie Harris Suresh Kana Moira Kilcoyne Jon Little Appointed April 2017 Appointed August 2018 Appointed December 2016 Appointed May 2017 Skills and experience: Rosie Harris has Skills and experience: Dr Suresh Kana Skills and experience: Moira Kilcoyne Skills and experience: Jon Little hasover extensive knowledge and experience of isahighly experienced South African brings over 25 years of technology and 30 years experience in the investment riskmanagement within financial services.
businessman who has spent over three cyber security leadership andhas spent management business internationally.
She has served as Chief Operating Officer decades working in various roles at PwC, much ofher career working in senior Jon has worked at Fidelity, JPMorgan UK and Europe at Prudential plc, Group most recently as Chief Executive Officer technology roles inboth London and New Investment Management and held various Risk Director at Old Mutual plc andChief and territory Senior Partner of PwC Africa.
York, predominantly with Morgan Stanley senior executive roles at BNYMellon Risk Officer Insurance and Managing He has a wealth of South African business, and Merrill Lynch.
Moira recently retired latterly as Vice Chairman responsible Director for General Insurance at Lloyds public company and corporate governance from Morgan Stanley having held the forthe international asset management Banking Group plc.
From 2012 to 2015, experience and served as Chairman roleof Managing Director and Co-Chief business.
He has served as Chairman Rosie was the Group Chief Risk Officer ofImperial Holdings Limited until its Information Officer for global technology ofThe Dreyfus Corporation in New York atFriends Life plc and, following Avivas fide-merger in November 2018.
Suresh and dataat Morgan Stanley since 2013. and Insight Investment Management.
acquisition of Friends Life plc, was isaChartered Accountant and Fellow Jonhas also served on various asset Other appointments: Moira is a director appointed Chief Risk Officer for UKLife oftheInstitute of Directors.
management boards, including Newton, of Citrix Systems Inc where she is also atAvivaplc until her retirement in 2017.
Walter Scott, Pareto and Alcentra, and as Other appointments: Suresh isChairman amember of its Audit Committee.
Rosie is a member ofthe Institute of aNon-executive Director of Jupiter Fund of Murray & Robert Holdings Limited and Sheisalso a Trustee ofthe board Chartered Accountants inEngland Management plc.
an independent Non-executive Director ofManhattan College.
ofJSE Limited and a member of its Audit, Other appointments: Jon isafounder and Other appointments: Rosie is a Risk and SRO Committees.
He is Chairman managing partner at Northill Capital since Non-executive Director of Tokio Marine of the Financial Reporting Standards November 2010andisChairman of the Kilns Insurance and Syndicates businesses Council in South Africa, Deputy Chairof the OxfordBrookes Endowment Investment and chairs itsRisk Committee.
Integrated Reporting Committee of South Committee.
Africa and Trustee of the International Financial Reporting Standards Foundation.
He is also a Member of the Illovo Sugar Limited Advisory Panel and Chairman ofSouth Africas King Committee on Corporate Governance.
Company Secretary Appointed post year-end Cathy Turner Patrick Gonsalves Mark Satchel Appointed December 2016 Company Secretary Chief Financial Officer Designate Appointed January 2017 Appointed effective Skills and experience: Cathy Turner isan from13March2019 experienced non-executive director with Patrick Gonsalves is an experienced significant industry knowledge of HR and Company Secretary with broad experience Mark Satchel, who has been appointed remuneration matters, having served as across the financial services industry asChief Financial Officer with effect from group HR Director at Barclays plc where gained with Lloyds Bank, NatWest Bank 13 March 2019, has over 20 years financial shewas also a member of the group and, up until December 2016, as Deputy and business experience within the executive committee.
At various times, Secretary of Barclays plc.
Mark previously served as CFO herresponsibilities also included group ofthe business from2010 to August 2017 strategy and investor relations.
Her Patrick was appointed Company Secretary andasCorporate Finance Director for mostrecent executive role was as Chief of Old Mutual Wealth Management Limited the17-month period to March 2019.
Administration Officer at Lloyds Banking in January 2017 and is a Fellow of the Group plc where she was responsible Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Markjoined Old Mutual in the UK inJanuary foranumber of corporate functions.
2000 and held numerous leadership positions within the finance function and Other appointments: Cathy serves as a businesses at Old Mutual plc.
Mark played Non-executive Director and Chair of the a lead role in the acquisitions of Intrinsic Remuneration Committees at Countrywide and Quilter Cheviot and was instrumental andAldermore Group.
She is alsoa partner in implementing the Groups successful at the senior advisory organisation, business model.
Mark is qualified as a Manchester SquarePartners.
Chartered Accountant in South Africa, andworked for KPMG in both South Africa and Canada prior to moving tothe UK.
Governance | Board of Directors Quilter Annual Report 2018 41
