Other information Directors Report The Directors present their report for the financial year ended Profit and dividends 31 December 2018.
Statutory profit after tax for 2018 was 488 million 2017:157million.
Cautionary statement This Annual Report has been prepared for, and only for the members Subject to shareholder approval, the Directors have recommended of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
The Company, afinaldividend for the financial year ended 31 December 2018 its Directors, employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume of 3.3 pence per Ordinary Share which will be paid out of distributable responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown reserves.
Further information regarding the dividend, including key or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility dates, can be found at quilter.
On8August 2018 the Board or liability is expressly disclaimed.
By their nature, the statements declared a special interim dividend of 12.0 pence per share returning concerning the risks and uncertainties facing the Group in this Annual the surplus proceeds from the sale ofthe Single Strategy asset Report involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances management business.
The special interim dividend was paid on can cause results and developments to differ materially from those 21 September 2018 to shareholders onthe UK and South African anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge share registers on 24 August 2018. and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these The nominee companies of certain Quilter employee benefit trusts forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should EBTs holding shares in Quilter in connection with the operation of be construed as a profit forecast.
the Companys share plans have lodged dividend waivers on shares held by them that have not been allocated to employees.
Corporate governance statement The information that fulfils the requirements of the corporate Directors governance statement for the purposes of the FCAs Disclosure The names of the current Directors of the Company, along with their Guidance and Transparency Rules can be found in the Corporate biographical details, are set out on pages 40 and 41 and are Governance Report on pages 40 to 85 all of which forms part ofthis incorporated into this report by reference.
Changes to Directors Directors Report and in this Directors Report.
during the year are set out below: Effective date of Information included in the Strategic Report Name Role appointment resignation The Companys Strategic Report is on pages 1 to 37 and includes the Bruce Hemphill Non-executive Resigned 19 April 2018 following information that would otherwise be required to be Director disclosed in this Directors Report: Ingrid Johnson Non-executive Resigned 19 April 2018 Page Director Subject matter reference Suresh Kana Non-executive Appointed 8 August 2018 Important events since the financial year end 31 Director Likely future developments in the business 11 Paul Matthews Non-executive Appointed 8 August 2018 Engagement with employees 13 Director Engagement with suppliers, customers and others 14 Ruth Markland Non-executive Appointed 25 June 2018 Disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions 14 Director Mark Satchel Corporate Finance Resigned 19 April 2018 Director Financial instruments The information relating to financial instruments that fulfils the reporting requirements of Schedule 7 of The Large and MediumAs explained on page 7, Mr Satchel is to be re-appointed tothe Board sized Companies and Group Accounts and Reports Regulations with effect from 13 March 2019.
His role will be Chief Financial Officer.
Details of the Directors interests in the share capital of the Company are set out in the Directors remuneration report on page 85.
The powers given to the Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association and are subject to relevant legislation and, in certain circumstances, including in relation to the issuing or buying back by the Company of its shares, subject to authority being given tothe Directors by shareholders in general meeting.
The Articles ofAssociation also govern the appointment and replacement of Directors.
The Board has the power to appoint additional Directors orto fill a casual vacancy amongst Directors.
Any such Director only holds office until the next AGM and may offer himself herself for election.
The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that alldirectors should be subject to annual re-election and all Directors will stand for re-election at the 2019 AGM, with the exception of TimTookey.
198 Quilter Annual Report 2018 Re-registration and name change the Board may reasonably require to prove title of the intending On 27 March 2018, the Company re-registered as a public limited transferor or his right to transfer shares: and it is in respect of only company and changed its name from Old Mutual Wealth one class of shares.
If the Board refuses to register a transfer of a Management Limited to Quilter plc.
certificated share it shall, as soon as practicable and in any event within two months after the date on which the instrument was Articles of Association lodged, give to the transferee notice of the refusal together with The Articles of Association may be amended in accordance with the itsreasons for refusal.
The Board must provide the transferee with provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of a special resolution such further information about the reasons for the refusal as the of the Companys shareholders.
The Company adopted two new transferee may reasonably request.
Unless otherwise agreed by the setsof articles of association during the year in preparation for Board in any particular case, the maximum number of persons who theManaged Separation and Listing.
The information below sets may be entered on the register as joint holders of a share is four.
outthe provisions in the articles of association in force as at the dateof this report.
Variation of rights If at any time the share capital is divided into different classes Share capital and control of shares, the rights attached to any class unless otherwise provided The Company has Ordinary Shares in issue, representing 100% of the by the terms of issue may, whether or not the Company is being total issued share capital as at 31 December 2018 and as at 4 March wound up, be varied with the consent in writing of the holders 2019 the latest practicable date for inclusion in this report.
Details of of three-fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that class the movement in the Companys share capital during the year are set or with the sanction of a special resolution of the holders of the out in note 27 on page 155.
The rights attaching to the shares are set shares of that class.
out in the Articles of Association and are summarised below.
Exercisability of rights under an employee share scheme Voting rights of members Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs operate in connection with certain On a show of hands, every member or authorised corporate ofthe Groups employee share plans Plans.
The trustees of the representative present has one vote and every proxy present has Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs may exercise all rights attaching onevote except if the proxy has been duly appointed by more than tothe shares in accordance with their fiduciary duties other than one member and has been instructed by or exercises his discretion asspecifically restricted in the relevant Plan governing documents.
given by one or more of those members to vote for the resolution Thetrustees of the EBTs have informed the Company that their and has been instructed by or exercises his discretion given by one normal policy is to abstain from voting in respect of the Quilter shares or more other of those members to vote against it, in which case a held in trust.
The trustee of the Quilter Share Incentive Plan the SIP proxy has one vote for and one vote against the resolution.
On a poll, will vote in respect of the allocated shares but the trustee will not every member present in person or by proxy has one vote for every otherwise vote in respect of the unallocated shares held in the SIP Trust.
share of which he is a holder.
In the case of joint holders, the vote of the person whose name stands first in the register of members and Purchase of own shares who tenders a vote is accepted to the exclusion of any votes tendered At the Annual General Meeting held on 6 June 2018, shareholders by any other joint holders.
passed a special resolution in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 to authorise the Company to purchase in the market Unless the Board decides otherwise, a member shall not be entitled a maximum of 190,225,109 Ordinary Shares, representing 10% of to vote, either in person or by proxy, at any general meeting of the theCompanys issued Ordinary Share capital immediately following Company in respect of any share held by him unless all calls and Admission.
As at 4 March 2019, the latest practicable date for other sums presently payable by him in respect of that share have inclusion in this Report, no shares have been purchased under this been paid.
The Directors are seeking renewal of this authority at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, in accordance with relevant Transfers institutional guidelines, together with an authority relating to potential Save as described below, the Ordinary Shares are freely transferable.
purchase on the JSE, where the Company has a secondary listing, subject to the same overall limits.
A member may transfer all or any of his shares in any manner whichispermitted by any applicable statutory provision and is from The Directors are also seeking approval at the Annual General time totime approved by the Board.
The Company shall maintain Meeting to implement an Odd-lot Offer at any time within the arecordof uncertificated shares in accordance with the relevant next18months.
This will enable the Company to purchase, at a statutory provisions.
5%premium, the Ordinary Shares held by those shareholders who hold less than 100 Ordinary Shares in the Company and who do A member may transfer all or any of his certificated shares by an notchoose to retain their shareholding.
For more information on instrument of transfer in any usual form, or in such other form as theOdd-lot Offer please refer to the Notice of Meeting available at theBoard may approve.
The instrument of transfer shall be signed quilter.
byor on behalf of the transferor and, except in the case of a fully paidshare, by or on behalf of the transferee.
The Board may, in its Major shareholders absolute discretion, refuse to register any instrument of transfer Major shareholders do not have different voting rights from those ofany certificated share which is not fully paid up but not so as to of other shareholders.
Information provided to the Company by prevent dealings in listed shares from taking place on an open and substantial shareholders pursuant to the FCAs Disclosure Guidance proper basis or on which the Company has a lien.
The Board may and Transparency Rules is published via a Regulatory Information also refuse to register any instrument of transfer of a certificated Service and is available on the Companys website.
As at 31 December share unless it is left at the registered office, or such other place as 2018, the Company had been notified, in accordance with Rule 5 of the Board may decide, for registration, accompanied by the certificate the FCAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook, for the shares to be transferred and such other evidence if any as of the following holdings of voting rights in its Ordinary Share capital: Other information | Directors Report Quilter Annual Report 2018 199 Other information | Directors Report continued Number of % interest in Significant agreements change of control Voting Rights voting rights Nature of The Company is not party to any significant agreements that would attaching to attaching to holding Name of shareholder Quilter shares issued shares notified take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the BlackRock Inc. 95,584,243 5.02 Indirect Company following a takeover bid.
All the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control, as summarised Coronation Asset inthe Directors Remuneration Report on page 75.
Management Pty Limited 210,416,957 11.06 Direct The Company does not have agreements with any Director or Equiniti Trust employee that would provide for compensation for loss of office Jersey Limited 63,153,255 3.32 Direct oremployment that occurs as a result of a takeover bid.
Norges Bank 58,677,748 3.08 Direct Directors indemnities Prudential Portfolio Qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 Managers South Africa of the Companies Act 2006 were in force during the course of the PTY Ltd 96,885,134 5.09 Indirect financial year ended 31 December 2018 for the benefit of the then Public Investment Directors and, at the date of this report, are in force for the benefit Corporation of the ofthe Directors in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they Republic of South Africa 180,012,608 9.46 Direct may incur or have incurred in connection with their duties, powers The percentage of voting rights detailed above was calculated at the time and office.
In addition, the Company maintains Directors & Officers ofthe relevant disclosures made in accordance with Rule 5 of Disclosure Liability Insurance which gives appropriate cover for legal action Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook.
Total show includes 3,318,364 securities lending and 9,234,051 contracts fordifference to which voting rights are attached.
These shares are held by Equiniti Trust Jersey Limited in its capacity Branch and representative offices astrustee of the Quilter Employee Benefit Trust.
During 2018, the Group has operated branches or representative Total shown includes 2,009,876 shares on loan with a right to recall offices in Dubai, Ireland, Jersey, Hong Kong and Singapore.
towhichvoting rights are attached, Political donations As at 4 March 2019, the latest practicable date for inclusion in this Quilter does not make monetary donations or gifts in kind to political report, the following voting rights had been notified, in accordance parties, elected officials or election candidates.
Accordingly, no such with Rule 5 of the FCAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules political donations were made in 2018.
However, the Directors are sourcebook: seeking to renew the Companys and its subsidiaries authority to make political donations not exceeding 50,000 in aggregate at the Number of % interest in Voting Rights voting rights Nature of forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
This is for the purposes of attaching to attaching to holding ensuring that neither the Company nor its subsidiaries inadvertently Name of shareholder Quilter shares issued shares notified breach Part 14 of the Companies Act by virtue of the relevant Allan Gray Unit Trust definitions being widely defined.
Further information is available Management RF inthe Notice of Meeting.
Proprietary Limited 68,880,114 3.62 Direct BlackRock Inc. 95,584,243 5.02 Indirect Employment of disabled persons Coronation Asset Providing an environment where employees are safe and there is Management Pty equality of opportunity is a key element in enabling our people to Limited 228,279,037 12.00 Direct succeed and deliver the business strategy.
Using our diversity and our relationships to learn from one another enables us to create Equiniti Trust onebusiness that provides better opportunities for our people and Jersey Limited 63,153,255 3.32 Direct better outcomes for our customers.
We are committed to creating Norges Bank 74,597,881 3.92 Direct aninclusive culture which embraces diversity.
We promote equal Prudential Portfolio opportunities and ensure that no applicant or colleague is subject Managers South Africa toless favourable treatment on the grounds of gender, marital status, PTY Ltd 96,885,134 5.09 Indirect nationality, ethnicity, age, sexual orientation, responsibilities for dependents, physical or mental disability.
We select candidates for Public Investment interview based on their skills, qualifications, experience and potential.
Corporation of the Republic of South Africa 180,012,608 9.46 Direct Going concern The percentage of voting rights detailed above was calculated at the time The financial statements for the Group and the Company have been ofthe relevant disclosures made in accordance with Rule 5 of Disclosure prepared on a going concern basis.
Having made the appropriate Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook.
enquiries, the Board is satisfied that the Group and the Company Total show includes 3,318,364 securities lending and 9,234,051 contracts fordifference to which voting rights are attached.
have adequate resources to continue in operational business for at These shares are held by Equiniti Trust Jersey Limited in its capacity least 12 months from the date of approving the financial statements.
astrustee of the Quilter Employee Benefit Trust.
Total shown includes 1,059,783 shares on loan with a right to recall towhich Viability statement voting rights are attached.
In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Group Information provided to the Company under the Disclosure Guidance foraperiod longer than the 12 months required by the going and Transparency Rules is publicly available via the regulatory concernstatement.
information service and on the Companys website.
200 Quilter Annual Report 2018 Quilters Risk Appetite Framework supports the delivery of the Directors responsibility statements Quilters strategy and business plan with risk preferences and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report appetite playing a central role in informing decision making across andthe Parent Company and consolidated financial statements the Company.
inaccordance with applicable law and regulations.
Every year, the Board considers a three-year strategic plan and also The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken an Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA for the Group, as as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the required by UK regulators.
The plan makes certain key assumptions information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys and inrespect of the competitive markets and political environments in the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
which the Group operates, economic assumptions and the impact of key strategic initiatives including the delivery and implementation of Each of the Directors in office as at the date of this report, whose the new platform.
The one-year planning period has greater certainty, names are listed on pages 40 and 41, confirms that, to the best ofhis and is used to set detailed budgets across the Group.
Although three or her knowledge: years is regarded as an appropriate period for the assessment of the a the consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared Groups viability, the Directors also regularly consider other strategic in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards matters that may affect the longer-term prospects of the Group.
asendorsed by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the This Boards assessment included reviews of capital, liquidity, and Company and the Group: and assessment of principal risks over the three-year planning period.
b t he Strategic Report and Directors Report include a fair review Appropriate aspects of the strategic plan are stress-tested under ofthe development and performance of the business and theORSA and ICAAP reviews to understand and help set capital theposition of the Company and the Group, together with a andother requirements.
The stress tests considered include a broad description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
range of scenarios, including economic and market shocks, mass lapse events, new business growth scenarios and severe business Annual General Meeting AGM interruption.
In all severe but plausible adverse tests, sufficient capital The AGM of Quilter plc will be held in the Presentation Suite, and liquidity were available, demonstrating the Groups resilience Millennium Bridge House, 2 Lambeth Hill, London EC4V 4AJ on toadverse conditions.
Details of the business to be transacted at the AGM are included in the Quilter plc 2019 Notice Reverse stress tests, which are performed to identify events which ofAGM which can be found at quilter.
would make the current plan unviable, have also been performed.
The results of these tests indicate that the Group can reasonably On behalf of the Board expect to have sufficient capital and liquidity to be able to meet itsliabilities over the planning period.
The Board regularly monitors performance against a range of predefined key performance indicators and early warning thresholds, which will identify if developments fall outside the Groups risk appetite or expectations, allowing management action to be taken.
Patrick Gonsalves The Strategic Report, on pages 1 to 31, sets out the Groups Company Secretary financialperformance, business environment, outlook and financial 11 March 2019 management strategies.
In addition details on the Groups principal risks and risk management framework is set out on pages 32 to 37.
Conclusion on viability Considering the Groups current capital and trading position, its principal risks, and remaining three-year period of the strategic plan, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group can continue in operation, and meet their liabilities as they fall due for the period to 31 December 2021.
Disclosure of information to Auditor Each person who is a Director of the Company as at this date of approval of this report confirms that: a so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and b the Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to havetaken as a Director in order to make him herself aware ofany relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
Other information | Directors Report Quilter Annual Report 2018 201
