Our strategy We aim to be the leading UK wealth manager bycontinuing to focus on delivering good outcomes for our customers.
With the UK having one of the largest savings Quilters strategy will enable us torespond Key performance indicators KPIs gaps in Europe and pension reforms making tothese market needs by: For details of how we measure our individuals increasingly responsible for becoming the largest provider of insightful, strategic and operational performance, managing their financial futures, the need trusted financial advice: see pages 24 and 25. forfinancial advice, relevant investment providing outcome-based diversified solutions and modern platform technology investment solutions, focused on meeting isgrowing atpace.
the real needs of our customers: enabling easy and simple access to manage investments on one platform: and ensuring customers only pay for the services they take from us.
Our strategic priorities By focusing on our four strategic priorities, we aim to become the go to business for the affluent and mass affluent segments.
Optimisation 2018 achievements Focus in 2019 Phase 1 planning complete Mobilise Phase 1 initiatives Early savings achieved through cost Protect PTP-related areas 4 management Wealth Platforms 2018 achievements Focus in 2019 Strong underlying UK UK platform migration growth Platformgrowth Supporting advisers 3 PTP progress leading to soft launch andcustomers in early 2019 Advice and Wealth 2018 achievements Focus in 2019 Strong profit growth Growth in RFPs PCA embed Management growth Resilient integrated flows  2 Growth in IMs in Quilter Cheviot Delivering on 2018 achievements Focus in 2019 customer outcomes Stable asset retention Drive investment performance 1 Low levels of upheld complaints Launch full-service SIPP Strategic Report | Our strategy Quilter Annual Report 2018 19 Strategic Report | Our strategy continued 1.
Deliver on customer outcomes Our strategy is focused on ensuring good 2018 Performance Investment performance customer outcomes and strong investment Good customer outcomes are central to 2018 was a challenging year to deliver returns while delivering quality service to everything we do.
Delivering that starts with performance for investors.
In the first three ourcustomers.
In a period where Brexit and quarters of the year, most stock markets investment propositions and solutions other geopolitical issues were weighing on outside the US delivered lacklustre isakey part of delivering on this strategic investor sentiment, maintaining discipline performance.
to remain committed to a financial plan to performance during this period was driven build long-term savings and to generate by stock leadership from a narrow range sufficient pension provision for later life of tech-related companies.
In the latter KPIs can be daunting for customers.
In such part of the year, a number of these stocks Integrated net flows times Advisers demonstrate their value.
retrenched significantly which coincided with Other performance indicators Our advice-centric model means advisers a synchronised broad retrenchment across Investment performance were on hand to support and guide clients most major asset classes, particularly in the Levels of upheld complaints through periods of market volatility fourth quarter.
This made it difficult to and uncertainty.
achieve positive outcomes from Quilter 2018 performance Investors diversified investment solutions.
Client confidence in our proposition is Integrated flows demonstrated through the strength of our While we are conscious that these unusual integrated business model and is shown by market conditions meant that short-term our NCCF and the resilience of integrated performance in certain portfolios was 4.7bn flows.
The latter held up well during 2018 disappointing, our multi-asset solutions 2017: 5.2bn despite challenging market conditions.
While are aligned to our advice process.
We remain net retail flows in the UK market were down particularly pleased with the medium and Asset retention 85% year-on-year source: The Investment longer-term performance of our largest Association, our integrated flows were ranges, Cirilium and Wealth Select, as down just 10%.
Less flow was available the ability to deliver over a longer-term 91% but what flow there was touched more timeframe is how the products are 2017: 90% of parts of Quilter.
Asset retention excluding Quilter Life Quilter Cheviots overall performance Assurance improved one percentage point remained consistently good across all in 2018 to 91%, as a result of our strong time periods relative to ARC benchmarks product and proposition offering, and high to the end of September 2018 the most customer service standards.
Complaints recent quarter for which the detailed ARC See page 204 for alternative performance measure definitions.
remained low and levels of upheld complaints comparisons are available as a benchmark.
remained below the industry average.
Notably, performance remains top quartile on a 10 year horizon.
Since Quilters 2018 Awards Interim Results, the five year performance During the year we were pleased to continue in ARC Balance Asset and ARC Steady Growth to receive recognition for our customer categories declined from first to second service and investment propositions through quartile.
This was a function of a particularly a number of industry awards.
Among others, strong quarter dropping out of the five year we were delighted to receive three awards rolling period and being replaced by a at the Financial Adviser Service Awards, to quarter of more normal performance.
achieve Defaqtos 5 Diamond rating for seven Quilter Investor funds, and for Quilter Cheviot to win Best Wealth Manager Cautious Portfolio and Best International Clients Team at the Wealth Adviser Awards 2018.
Developing innovative investment solutions thatgive customers the confidence to invest for their future, is a key focus for Quilter Investors.
Hinesh Patel Portfolio Manager Quilter Investors 20 Quilter Annual Report 2018 2.
Advice and Wealth Management growth We will grow our Advice business by 2018 Performance Growth of RFPs addingadvisers through recruitment and We are growing our advice and wealth 60 1,621 acquisitions, embedding recently acquired management businesses through recruiting, 3 20 firms and supporting the Financial Adviser training and retaining advisers and School intake and graduates as well as investment managers.
37 supporting our advisers to improve their 1,561 individual productivity.
We will continue Advice: todevelop our national advice business In todays increasingly complex world, including through selective targeted itisdifficult for a one-or-two person acquisitions.
We will add to our discretionary independent financial adviser operation investment managers to support the growth tooffer whole-of-market advice.
Quilter of our investment and discretionary fund offers the support to allow advisers to focus 31 December 4 31 December 2017 years 2018 management businesses.
on what they do best: providing high quality advice and an appropriate level of choice totheir customers.
Essentially we remove Acquisition KPIs distractions and give to them the tools they Transfer independ ent to restricted NCCF Opening AuMA need.
This is an attractive proposition for Net organic recrui tment Integrated net flows recruiting and retaining advisers.
Adjusted profit before tax Restricted financial planners We are committed to enhancing the number We have continued to invest in growing the Investment managers and quality of financial advisers across number of managers in the Quilter Cheviot theindustry.
Our financial adviser school investment team, increasing the headcount 2018 performance isdesigned to train the financial advisers of to 168 by June 2018.
In September we were delighted sawa small number of resignations from a Growth in adjusted profit to announce, alongside its rebranding particular cohort of IMs, with the headcount toQuilter Financial Adviser School, the falling to 155 by year-end as a result.
Growing expansion of the schools offering.
As well our IM headcount is a key strategic objective 24% asnow giving students the opportunity to recruitment is ongoing, with a number 2017: 39% obtain their Advanced Diploma, Quilter will ofnew starters in the pipeline.
fully fund training programmes for anyone Stable Quilter Cheviot, Quilter Investors who wishes to become an RFP within the andQuilterFinancial Planning total AuM Quilter advice network.
The School aims to despitechallenging market environment substantially increase the number of people entering the advice profession andwe expect to retain an increasing proportion of those 41.2bn graduates within Quilter.
2017: 41.7bn During the year we added to our advice Growth in RFPs capabilities within PCA, completing 14 small bolt-on acquisitions.
A key part ofour strategy has been to integrate and embed 4% these newly acquired firms and tosupport 2017: 10% our advisers to improve their individual productivity.
Growth in investment managers Wealth Management: We are a leading provider of investment The Financial Adviser School: Gabrielas Story 5% solutions ina growing market with a robust The School has been the ideal training ground 2017: 4% and structured investment process, for the early stages of mycareer in financial webelieve Quilter Investors to be a very services.
It hasprovided me with support for scaleable business.
In 2018 we built out the my exams, training as well as shadowing a technology and employee infrastructure qualified adviser.
As a result Im delighted to supporting Quilter Investors and its have achieved myDipFA level 4 qualification, investment managers as it prepared to which is theindustry benchmark financial separate fromour Single Strategy asset adviser qualification, and Im looking ahead management business.
employees to the team in 2018 and expect towelcome a further c. 20people in 2019.
See page 204 for alternative performance measure definitions.
Strategic Report | Our strategy Quilter Annual Report 2018 21 Strategic Report | Our strategy continued 3.
Wealth Platforms growth Our principal objective for 2019 is to safely 2018 performance New UK Platform functionality deliver our UK Platform Transformation Wealth Solutions: Building on our key strengths and filling Programme with high quality support for We continue to implement the UK Platform proposition gaps.
customers and advisers throughout the Transformation Programme in our UK Current New migration process.
Core system completion platform platform wewill realise the benefits of the more in 2018 enabled thesoft launch phase of the General Investment modern platform with an enhanced programme to commence in early February Accounts proposition for advisers.
We will maintain the 2019 which continues to progress well.
ISA focus of Quilter Internationals geographic Personal pension footprint and ensure a high quality and For further details on the UK Platform Onshore bond valueof new business.
Lastly, we will seek Transformation Programmes progress tomanage the cost base of Quilter Life through its four key stages to completion, Discretionary fund management limited Assurance down inline with revenues as see the Chief Executive Officers statement, thebook runs off.
Cash account Investment trusts The new platform is intended to support KPIs Exchange-traded ourown and third-party advisers and NCCF Opening AuMA funds ETFs customers.
It will build on our key strengths, Integrated net flows Self-invested pension fill proposition gaps and allow us to continue Adjusted profit before tax plan SIPP toinnovate.
Itwill offer a wider product Junior ISAs andinvestment range to our customers as Adviser back office 2018 performance described in the diagram to the right, and integration limited willsignificantly improve the online customer Adjusted profit growth portal, providing greater accessibility and functionality.
International: Over the past two years Quilter International 3% For advisers, we will ensure we retain key has withdrawn from over 80 overseas 2017: 5% experience differentiators such as the ease markets, placed renewed emphasis on best of use of our online portals, the level of our practice, and targeted higher quality new AuA in Wealth Platforms technical support and quality of our service.
These changes have put the more We will also add and enhance the offering focused business in a stronger position for inareas important to advisers such as long-term success and positioned it wellfor 80.7bn improved back office integration to adviser regulatory change in theoverseas markets 2017: 84.8bn systems, enhanced discretionary fund inwhich it operates.
Thishas affected its management functionality andimproved performance in theshort term, with NCCF client data reporting.
Life Assurance: As disclosed at Listing, the institutional bookof business in Quilter Life Assurance is expected to run-off over the next one to two years.
The remaining retail book is expected to run-off at c. 15% net outflow per annum.
In2018, the business performed broadly inline with guidance.
UK Platform Transformation Programme delivery timeline Costs expected to be towards the upper end of 120 to 160 million guidance range.
System with Test and full adviser Soft launch Implement functionality complete Complete for Soft Launch Entered Early Summer 2019 Migration phases commence Ongoing for future phases early Autumn 2019 22 Quilter Annual Report 2018 4.
Optimisation We will focus on driving operational 2018 performance Optimisation focused on leveragethrough building enhanced scale Optimisation means making Quilter the addressable cost base m and delivering efficiency.
Our Optimisation bestversion of ourselves that we can be: to 555 programme willtake a phased, multi-year eliminate the inefficiencies in our operational 18 approach and will be measured against processes.
While our phased, multi-year approach to 300 theprogramme was detailed to shareholders and the analyst community at our Preliminary KPIs 312 2018 Results announcement in March 2019, Operating margin early Optimisation efficiencies were captured Adjusted profit before tax in 2018.
These early savings were largely Other performance indicators achieved through cost discipline, reducing Total Addressable 4 Achievement of target operating margin costs yearscosts the cost base by approximately 11 million Control of costs to deliver the during the year.
Total costs to deliver the programme programme are expected to be c. 75 million, Front oce & oper ations 7 million of which was incurred in 2018.
IT & Development Support functions Throughout 2019 we will mobilise the Other efficiency initiatives as planned, with the aim of delivering improvements in operational performance.
Examples of these initiatives include delayering and streamlining the business: automating more of the advice process to make case file checking less manual while improving our control environment: and implementing a new single general ledger system across the business, integrating the business onto one common system.
In phase one we will protect andring-fence business areas involved in theUK Platform Transformation Programme until completion of the project in order nottojeopardise the quality and safety ofitsdelivery.
For further details on Optimisation see theChief Executive Officers statement, page8to 11.
Strategic Report | Our strategy Quilter Annual Report 2018 23
