Governance Board IT Committee report Dear Shareholder, 2018 has been a busy and exciting year for Quilter and the Committeehas met and carried out its responsibilities during ayearof significant change, as we separated from Old Mutual plc andbecame a listed company.
During 2018, the Board IT Committee has been focused on ensuring that our Group IT strategy is effective for our business.
Attheheart ofour IT strategy is our desire to protect and serve ourcustomers.
Ata time of increasing demands placed on IT, withsophisticated cyber attacks on companies and genuine and widespread concerns about data privacy and IT security, our systemsneed to be resilient and anyenhancements sustainable andappropriate.
In my report below, you can find out more about what we have been doing Moira Kilcoyne tosupport ourgoal and how we have challenged, supported Chair of the Board IT Committee andadvised management on a range of IT, cyber security and data issues.
Wehave been extremely focused onensuring the resilience ofourcurrent IT systems whilst planning and preparing forour newbusiness investment platforms.
You can read more about The table below shows the Committee members and the ourapproach tothe important work the Committee is doing on attendance at Committee meetings during 2018: overseeing the planning and implementation for the new investment Scheduled platforms, both standalone and jointly with the Quilter Board, Committee Ad hoc BoardAudit Committee and Board Risk Committee, opposite.
Membership of the Committee meetings meetings Moira Kilcoyne 7 7 2 2 The detailed role of the Committee is set out in the Terms of Reference Rosie Harris 7 7 2 2 which are available at quilter.
com corporategovernance but the George Reid 7 7 2 2 role of the Committee can be summarised as to oversee: the Groups IT estate: and Committee activity the identification and management of any IT matters that pose asignificant risk to the Group, including Information and Data Strategic Change 35% Security.
Programmes Strategy 7% Over the year, the Committee has received reports from business Cyber, IT and Resilience 26% andIT leaders and I have spent time in our London Head Office Risk 24% andin Southampton, which is one of our main customer centres Managed Separation 8% andwhere the majority of our people focused on IT are based, discussing these critical issues with management.
I am heartened bythe diligence and professionalism of the IT professionals I have metand I am grateful to them for their efforts.
I am further grateful tomy fellow Committee members, Rosie Harris and George Reid, whochair the Board Risk Committee and Board Audit Committee respectively.
Their expertise and experience enables us to identify and analyse risks, provide guidance and challenge management effectively.
By holding Combined Committee meetings, the Chairman of the Board and other Non-executive Directors have been able toscrutinise this important topic efficiently.
You can see how the Committee is composed and members attendance in the adjacent tables.
You can also see more about how frequently we met, andwhat we focused our time on.
Moira Kilcoyne Chair of the Board IT Committee 62 Quilter Annual Report 2018 Report on key issues Governance in action UK Platform Transformation Programme Set out below are the key issues that the Committee has spent its The Committee has been extremely focused during the latter time on in 2018. half of 2018 on ensuring that Quilters new investment platform is delivered well.
That level of focus will only increase into 2019 Development of the IT Strategy as the programme moves into the delivery phase.
Given the In preparation for the Managed Separation of Quilter from Old Mutual strategic importance to Quilter of the programme, we have met plc, the Committee has overseen the development by management as a combined Committee to ensure that there is appropriate of an IT strategy appropriate for Quilter plc as a standalone listed oversight and the governance is efficient for management company with an increasingly integrated business model.
Reporting to the Quilter Board, the Board IT Committee has led the work in partnership with the Board We have received and questioned regular updates from management AuditCommittee and the Board Risk Committee to oversee on the maturity of the IT function as the functions target operating thedelivery of the UK Platform Transformation Programme.
model develops and have been supportive of the enhancements InMarch 2018 we also held a workshop with management to presented.
In particular, we have welcomed the investment in new work through in more detail the programme and ensure the talent and expertise in the function that ensures that we are building Committee were fully briefed on the key issues.
The Committee has had the opportunity to hear directly from senior business leaders on the risks and challenges There is an understandably high degree of scrutiny around the they are managing and how these risks are mitigated.
We have set programme from our investors and regulators and we maintain strategic priorities and challenged management to prioritise their an open dialogue with shareholders and regulators regarding activities appropriately under a centralised team for greater control progress.
We are working in partnership with FNZ to deliver the and efficiency.
programme and, given the importance of the project to Quilter, there has been senior engagement between our Board and We are driving simplification through the IT estate, and the Committee their CEO.
The Committee has received regular updates from has been pleased with progress on enhancing the resilience of our the programme team on the plan and the timetable.
We have existing investment platform.
We recognise that there is much more further considered lessons learnt from other investment to do as our legacy systems are complex and they are not as efficient platform migrations where appropriate.
Quilter is working in or cost effective as we would like them to be.
Management have partnership with Deloitte on the programme plan and testing beenopen in their commitment to invest in the Companys IT to ensure and the Committee has received direct input and support from that it is appropriate for a business of this scale and complexity, but them.
The Committee have heard, challenged and advised ittakes time and diligence to address historic issues.
astohow the business integration for the new system will be managed.
We have challenged management as to how they will Cyber, information management, IT security measure customer impact from these changes.
andresilience We recognise how important it is for our customers data to be maintained securely and, along with the Board Audit Committee andBoard Risk Committee, we have reviewed and questioned new and enhanced policies in relation to information management and IT Quilter Board security and have ensured the appropriate focus was given to their Overall oversight implementation.
We have challenged management to develop key of the Programme metrics to enable them to baseline performance across the Quilter wide IT estate with a view to increasing efficiency and ensuring Board IT Board Audit appropriate standards are implemented Quilter wide.
In line with Committee Committee theGroups approach to risk management, this base data will enable us to focus further the Committees attention in 2019.
Given the importance of this issue to the whole Quilter Board, in August we Board Risk received a briefing on cyber security from a leading external expert in Committee Detailed oversight on Consideration and this area.
When necessary we have asked management to implement the Programme plan assurance around enhancements more swiftly and we will continue to monitor the and implementation the operation and effectiveness of the solutions implemented during the year.
timetable robustness of the Companys financial Detailed review of the Overall reporting processes As a matter of routine we have received, analysed and queried go no-go criteria consideration of the impact of the Oversight for the regular updates from the risk and internal audit teams to hear their Programme on appropriateness of views and to ensure that any thematic issues and lessons learnt can Quilters overall the protections for be applied across all our businesses.
risk appetite and Client Assets risk profile Preparing for Managed Separation and Listing The Board IT Committee met jointly with the Board Audit and Board Risk Committee to consider and challenge the risk factors in relation to IT.
You can read more about this on page 47.
Committee effectiveness The performance of the Committee is being assessed as part of the Board evaluation process the Chairman describes on page 45 and Ilook forward to reporting on what actions we have taken as a result ofthat review in the next Annual Report.
Governance | Board IT Committee report Quilter Annual Report 2018 63
