Governance Executive management team The Board has delegated the day-to-day running of Quilter to Paul Feeney, as Chief Executive Officer.
Paul exercises these powers through the Quilter Executive Committee, the membership ofwhich comprises the Chief Executive Officers of each of Quilters businesses and key function heads.
The Executive Paul Feeney Tim Tookey Mark Satchel Committee meets regularly Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Chief Financial Officer toensure the effective implementation of the business Designate For full biography, see page 40.
For full biography, see page 40. strategy, our customer strategy, For full biography, see page 41. thefinancial performance of the business against our business planand the culture and risk management of our business.
Michelle Andrews Matt Burton Karin Cook Chief Marketing Officer Chief Internal Auditor Chief Operating Officer Michelle has over 25 years experience in Matt has over twenty five years ofinternal Karin, who joined Quilter inJanuary 2019, financial services, having joined the audit experience across financial services.
has over 27 years experience in financial business in 1997, initially to drive the Prior to joining Old Mutual Wealth services, with previous roles at Lloyds international strategy.
She has extensive inApril2016 he was a partner in Banking Group, Goldman Sachs, Morgan commercial experience, and has held key  now PwC Stanley and HSBC.
At HSBC she served roles across international distribution, UK Financial Services Practice, where he asGlobal ChiefOperating Officer for its and international product development wasresponsible for leading their Internal Private Bank.
Prior to that, Karin served and marketing.
Audit offering within theInsurance and asHSBCs Global Head of OTCDerivative Investment Management sector.
Hebegan Operations, which included overseeing and Michelle has a successful track record hiscareer with Deloitte and has held senior managing operational support of equity, inleading major change, most latterly roles at Credit Suisse, andDeutsche Bank.
interest rate, currency, credit andemerging inbrand and proposition.
builtsignificant strategic expertise Matt is a member of the Institute inmarketing as well as in customer ofChartered Accountants in England proposition development.
42 Quilter Annual Report 2018 Jane Goodland Paul Hucknall Peter Kenny Steven Levin Corporate Affairs Director Human Resources Director Chief Executive Officer, Chief Executive Officer, Old Mutual International UK Platform and Heritage Jane joined Quilter in August 2015 and has Paul has over 20 years experience working over 20 years experience in institutional in financial services and joined the Peter joined Old Mutual International in Steven has extensive experience in asset management, investment consulting business as Human Resources Director in August 2016 as Managing Director.
Peter developing and distributing financial and wealth management gained January 2018.
Prior to this, Paul was People has over 30years experience in financial products, as well as in asset management atWillisTowers Watson, HSBC and Janus Director, Centres of Excellence at Lloyds services, having previously held senior and investments, and has been in his Henderson.
AtWillis Towers Watson, Jane Banking Group, where he wasresponsible roles including chief operating officer and current role since October 2015.
Prior roles founded anew consulting business and for the design and delivery of the Groups managing director offundmanagement include Global Head of Distribution and research function focused on sustainable overall HR strategy.
Paul has held various and distribution companies.
Prior to that, Managing Director of Skandia International investment for institutional investors.
seniorroles working at board level Peter worked for Zurich International Life now Old Mutual International.
He also Janeis a Non-executive Director ofThe Tax inpublicly listed financial services where he held various positions, including served as Product & Proposition Director Incentivised Savings Association TISA companies such as Bank of America that of strategic alliances and client forOld Mutual in South Africa and globally andchairs an Old Mutual Wealth Pension andING.
She is a Trustee of the Quilter Actuary and a Chartered Financial Analyst.
Peter is Chair of the Manx Insurance Association.
Andy McGlone Paul Simpson Andy Thompson Iain Wright Chief Executive Officer, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Executive Officer, Intrinsic Chief Risk Officer QuilterCheviot Quilter Investors Andy, who was appointed Chief Executive Iain has over 20 years experience Officer of Intrinsic in December 2015, has infinancial markets and risk management Andy has over 20 years experience Paul has extensive experience in capital over 20 years experience in financial advice and became Chief Risk Officer in February ininvestment management having worked markets and was appointed Chief Executive and distribution.
Prior to this, he held various senior at Quilter Cheviot for his entire career, Officer of Quilter Investors in January 2018. adviser, Andy began his own successful risk and supervisory roles within Sun beginning at Quilter Goodison in 1994 as He began his career in risk management advice business in 2003, which was LifeFinancial, Prudential and the FSA.
He worked atDeutsche Bank and UBS before moving subsequently acquired byIntrinsic in Iaintrained as a Chartered Accountant with hisway up through the private client into investment management at fide Putron 2012, at which point Andy also joined Deloitte, and laterserved as Head of Equity department before becoming joint head Fund Management Ltd, where he later theBusiness.
Andy has built a successful and Debt Markets at the London Stock ofthe newly merged Quilter and Cheviot focused on statistical arbitrage.
Paul joined distribution business and led many Exchange.
Iain is a member of the Board London front offices inlate 2013.
Prior Old Mutual in2006 and was appointed acquisitions including those of Caerus ofthe Institute of Risk Management.
tobecoming Chief Executive Officer, Andy Head of Alternatives at Old Mutual Global andPositive Solutions.
Andy is a Investors OMGI in 2009 before being Chartered Fellow of the Chartered Institute made Investment Director inJanuary 2015. for Securities andInvestments.
Governance | Executive management team Quilter Annual Report 2018 43
