Strategic Report Risk review Quilter has a strong solvency and Effectiveness stems from nurturing liquidity position and is operating aculture where our people think and within its chosen risk appetite.
apply risk management in line with ourcorporate values.
appropriate tone from the top with clear management accountability for the risks we face.
This tone, reinforced by our code of conduct, influences the behaviour of our employees throughout the Group and drives a consistent consideration of risk as a natural part of decision making.
Our customers, advisers, shareholders and other stakeholders expect us to be resilient.
We perform stress and scenario analysis which helps us define our management responses to stresses and ensure we have sufficient financial strength to weather unexpected severe events.
Where risk exposures move or have the potential to move outside risk appetite, management takes proactive steps to ensure we continue to operatesafely.
Risk profile Iain Wright Chief Risk Officer Our strategy is a key driver of risks within the organisation.
Our external environment remains volatile, predominantly due to Brexit and market uncertainties.
As a result, the risk outlook for Quilter in 2019 and beyond remains challenging.
The outcome of Brexit and our The strength of the balance sheet is tested through stress current assessment is that the direct impacts are manageable given and scenario testing which shows that the solvency position our largely UK-based business model.
However, we are conscious that is resilient to severestress scenarios.
this position could change, resulting in significant second order impacts such as a general loss of investor confidence.
We consider risks that may impact our customers and risks to ourbusiness, brand and reputation as well as to There are a number of risks that arise from our strategic priorities or ourfinancial position.
that are inherent in our business model.
In our day-to-day business, we are exposed to market risks, such as equity risk, arising through market movement impacts on our assets under management and administration and hence our asset-based fees.
We also face conduct Overview and values risk including therisks arising from providing financial advice, and 2018 was a pivotal year for Quilter.
In 2017 and2018, leading up insurance liabilityrisk.
In delivering an integrated business approach toListing we developed our risk management framework and and enhancing ourcustomers value for money and experience, there capabilities in preparation for our new status as a standalone listed arepotential conflicts of interest which are identified and resolved.
We have continued to enhance our risk governance, The transformational change from delivering our strategic initiatives riskprocesses and risk infrastructure to ensure our management heightens our operational risk exposures and we continue to manage ofrisk, both existing and emerging challenges.
the risks relating to the volume and complexity of this change.
Thedelivery of the UK Platform Transformation Programme is a We operate principally in the UK, with some overseas operations, and keyobjective in 2019 and our IT and business resilience will continue have businesses spanning advice, investment platform, discretionary to be developed and tested to ensure a smooth launch.
We are fund management, multi-asset management and life assurance.
alsoactively tracking other continually evolving risks including Assuch we face a range of diverse risks, including risks specific to cyberthreats, regulatory change, third party risk, talent development ourbusinesses, industry risks, and a number of external threats.
Taking risk is an integral part of doing business, but this is done Principal risks and uncertainties carefully and within a risk appetite and framework agreed with the The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal Board.
We endeavour to only take risks we understand, have the risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its expertise to manage and where we assess that potential benefits business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
Our risk management framework sets out the principal risks and uncertainties are described in the table on the approach we take to the identification, measurement, assessment, following pages.
These are consistent with those set out in our Listing management, monitoring and reporting of risks.
Our Board sets risk Prospectus.
The relationship between these risks and our strategic appetite and regularly reviews performance against appetite.
priorities set out on pages 19 to 23 is also referenced.
The Board requires management to put in place actions to mitigate these risks, Having a good risk management framework is not adequate by and controls to maintain risk exposures within acceptable levels itself:its operation depends on a culture where our people act in defined by Quilters risk appetite.
Regular monitoring and reporting accordance with our corporate values.
We do this by ensuring an ofrisks enables continuous review and challenge of risks and actions.
32 Quilter Annual Report 2018 Principal risks and uncertainties The principal risks and uncertainties that could impact the Group are summarised below.
As a UK-based financial services firm, the implications and economic impact of several scenarios of the UK leaving the EU in relation to financial services will influence the degree to which these risks act upon Quilter, particularly with regards to strategy, market, legal and regulatory, and third party risks, including potential disruption to Quilters business operations and supply chain.
In addition, recent quarters have seen reduced levels of investor confidence andthis could deteriorate further, potentially materially further, under various scenarios related to the UK leaving the EU.
A Group-wide Brexit programme is in place to actively monitor these risks and a number of actions are already in place to mitigate any implications to our business and customers including for example, establishing a regulated asset management company in Ireland.
Strategic risks The risk that the strategy is unsound due to poor decision making, incorrect information or assumptions, or that the activities supporting thedelivery of the strategy are inadequate or poorly designed.
Strategy Linked to strategic priorities 1, 2, 3, 4 If Quilters strategy does not yield the anticipated benefits, for example, through inaccurate prediction of the type of products and the level ofadvice required Key management actions byits target customer base or inability toprice such products and services Strategic and business planning process competitively, this may have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, Monitoring of key performance indicators financial condition, results of operations and prospects, and reputation.
Robust strategic initiative programme management Risk oversight and assurance activity Clear accountabilities Reputation and brand Linked to strategic priorities 1, 2, 3 Quilter is dependent on the strength ofitsreputation and its brands, which are vulnerable to adverse marketperception or negative publicity, and the Company Key management actions may facechallenges with regard to itsongoing rebranding initiative.
Employee engagement on responsible business, responsible investment and business code ofconductcompliance Understanding potential impacts on reputation through ourriskframework and policies Brand use policy and standards Crisis management plans and procedures Competitive pressure Linked to strategic priorities 1, 2, 3 Quilters business is conducted in a competitive environment and, ifQuilter is notsuccessful in anticipatingand responding tocompetitive change, adviser Key management actions orcustomer preferences or demographic trends in a timely and cost effective Differentiated service and product offerings manner, its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects Competitor activity monitoring could be materially adversely affected.
Disruptive technologies and non-traditional competition monitoring People and culture Linked to strategic priorities 1, 2, 3, 4 Quilter may fail to attract and retain talented advisers, investment managers, portfolio managers, senior management and other key employees.
This would Key management actions present a risk to the delivery of Quilters overall strategy, in particular during Risk adjusted remuneration thisperiod of significant change across the Group.
Additionally this could have Performance appraisals and monitoring amaterial adverse effect on Quilters business, financial and operational Culture and employee engagement surveys performance, prospects, and reputation.
Employee wellbeing initiatives Compliance with the code of conduct and humanresources policiesand standards Strategic Report | Risk review Quilter Annual Report 2018 33 Strategic Report | Risk review continued Market risks The risk of an adverse change in the level or volatility of market prices of assets, liabilities or financial instruments resulting in loss of earnings orreduced solvency.
Market risks Linked to strategic priorities 1, 2, 3 Quilters results may be materially adversely affected by conditions in global capital markets, the global economy generally and the UKeconomy in particular Key management actions that result in a decrease in the value of customer investment portfolios.
Financial risk limits Thevolatility and strength of debt and equity markets, the direction and pace Stress and scenario analysis and stress testing ofchange of interest ratesand inflation all affect the economic environment, Economic environment monitoring investor confidence, our reputation and, ultimately, the volume and profitability Financial risk policies and standards ofQuilters business.
Maintain strong balance sheet Business risks The risk that business initiatives supporting the delivery of the strategy are not implemented correctly or in full, or that the business performance fails to meet expectations across one or more key deliverables, resulting in an adverse impact to the achievement .
Conduct risk Linked to strategic priorities 1, 2, 3 Conduct risk is the risk that decisions and behaviours made by Quilter, its employees, its advisers and appointed representatives lead to customers Key management actions beingtreated unfairly or otherwise result in detrimental customer outcomes Business code of conduct and mandatory training anddamage to our reputation.
Conduct risk may arise where Quilter fails to Defined and measured customer outcomes design, implement oradhere to appropriate policies and procedures, offer Customer outcomes governance products, services or other propositions that do not meet the needs of customers Quilter policy suite compliance including responsible or failstoperform in accordance with its intended design, fails to communicate business conduct, financial crime and customer policies appropriately with customers, fails to deal with complaints effectively, sells or recommends unsuitable products orsolutions to customers, fails to provide themwith adequate information to make informed decisions or provide unsuitable investment for financial planning advice to customers, or fails to doanyof the foregoing on an ongoing basis after initial sales, amongst other things.
This risk may also arise as a result of employee mis conduct.
Conflicts of interest Linked to strategic priorities 1, 2, 3 Quilter faces significant potential and actual conflicts of interest, including those which result from Quilters advised distribution channel.
If the Group fails to Key management actions manage conflicts of interest between itsadvice channel and other businesses Conflicts of interest register and monitoring across theGroup, it could result in reputational damage, regulatory liabilityor Conflicts identification and management training customer restitution, which could have a material adverseimpact on Quilters Conflicts of interest policy compliance business, financial condition, resultsofoperations and prospects, and reputation.
Investment performance Linked to strategic priorities 1, 2 An important factor in Quilters ability to maintain and grow its customer base and its network of advisers is the investment performance of the customer assets that Key management actions Quilter manages.
Actualorperceived underperformance of customer assets that Investment strategy aremanaged by Quilter could have a material adverse effect on Quilters business, Investment risk policy and standards compliance financial condition, results of operations and prospects, andreputation.
Investment performance monitoring Insurance risks The risk of a reduction in Own Funds from adverse experience or change in assumptions relating to claims, policyholder behaviours, mortality, morbidity, longevity or expenses, resulting in an adverse impact to earnings or reduced solvency.
Insurance risks Linked to strategic priorities 1, 3 Quilter has exposure to mortality risk risk of higher than expected rate of death claims on life protection business and morbidity risk risk of higher than expected Key management actions rate of claims on critical illness protection business from its life assurance Underwriting standards and processes business, which issues policies that carry certain guaranteed benefits upon the Claims investigations and pricing reviews death, or defined illness, of the policyholder.
These risks could be aggravated by Reinsurance any potential failure in underwriting processes and controls designed to identify Budgeting and expense management sub-standard lives at the new business stage.
34 Quilter Annual Report 2018 Operational risks The risk of loss or unintended gain profit arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, or from personnel and systems, or from external events other than financial or business environment risks, resulting in an adverse impact to earnings or reduced solvency.
Adviser and customer proposition Linked to strategic priorities 1, 2, 4 Failure by Quilter to offer products, services and platforms that meet adviser andcustomer needs and which are considered suitable, or failure to fairly and Key management actions honestly communicate with advisers and customers, could result in advisers Ongoing adviser training ceasing to recommend Quilters products or services, or recommending fewer Customer communication programme ofQuilters products orservices, and declining persistency of Quilters products.
Suitability reviews Product and customer-related policies and standards The asset classes or investment strategies underlying the portfolios managed Product and proposition governance byQuilter may become less attractive to customers or their advisers, which couldreduce demand for Quilters products and have a material adverse impact on Quilters business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, andreputation.
Information technology Linked to strategic priorities 1, 2, 3, 4 Quilter uses computer systems to conduct its business, which involves managing and administering assets on behalf of customers in its wealth portfolios and on Key management actions itsplatforms.
Quilters business is highly dependent on its ability to access these IT estate enhancement programmes systems to perform necessary business functions and to provide adviser and Active systems monitoring customer support, administer products, make changes to existing policies, Resilience plans fileand pay claims, manage customers investment portfolios and produce IT policies and standards compliance financial statements and regulatory returns.
Failure to manage this risk could havea material adverse impact on Quilters business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, and reputation.
Data information and cyber threats Linked to strategic priorities 1, 2, 3, 4 Quilters business, by its nature, requires it to store, retrieve, evaluate and utilisecustomer and Company data and information, which is highly sensitive.
Key management actions Quilter is subject to the risk of IT security breaches from parties with criminal Cyber threat defences and monitoring Resilience ormalicious intent including cyber crime.
Should Quilters intrusion detection andcontinuityplans and anti-penetration software not anticipate, prevent or mitigate a network Data governance arrangements failureor disruption, orshould an incident occur to a system for which there Information security and data protection policy isnoduplication, it may have a material adverse effect on Quilters customers,  business, financial condition, results of operations andprospects, and reputation.
Third party risk Linked to strategic priorities 1, 2, 3, 4 Quilter outsources and procures certain functions and services to third partiesand may increase its use of outsourcing in the future.
IfQuilter does not Key management actions effectively develop and implement its outsourcing strategies and its internal Third party criticality assessments, due diligence capability to manage such strategies, third party providers do not perform andmonitoring asanticipated, or Quilter experiences technological or other problems with Resilience plans and exit planning atransition, it may not realise productivity improvements or cost efficiencies Third party risk management policy and standards andmay experience operational difficulties, increased costs and loss of business, including supplier management practices compliance and damage to its reputation.
Strategic Report | Risk review Quilter Annual Report 2018 35 Strategic Report | Risk review continued Legal and regulatory risks The risk of failing to comply with existing or new regulatory and legislative requirements including standards, principles and practices, oranincreased level of regulatory intervention resulting in sanctions or a capital add-on being imposed or a temporary restriction onourabilityto operate.
Legal and regulatory risk Linked to strategic priorities 1, 2, 3, 4 Quilters regulated businesses are subject to extensive regulation both in the UK by the Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA and theFinancial Conduct Key management actions Authority FCA and internationally, and Quilter faces risks associated with Compliance advice and assurance programme compliance with these regulations.
Quilters businesses are subject to the risk of Legislative and regulatory horizon scanning adverse changes in laws, regulations and regulatory requirements in the markets Training and staff awareness programme in which they operate.
Regulatory reform initiatives could also lead to increased Compliance policy and standards compliance compliance costs or other adverse consequences for firms within thefinancial services industry, including Quilter.
Failure to manage these risks could have a material adverse impact on Quilters business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, andreputation.
Financial crime Linked to strategic priorities 1, 2, 3 Quilter is required to comply with all applicable financial crime laws and regulations including anti-money laundering, anti-terrorism, sanctions, anti-fraud, Key management actions anti-bribery and corruption andinsider dealing in the jurisdictions in which it Mandatory staff training operates.
Where Quilter is unable to comply with applicable laws, regulations Numerous controls including due diligence, politically andexpectations, regulators and relevant law enforcement agencies havethe exposedpersons assessment, and sanctions screening ability and authority to impose significant fines and other penalties, including Financial crime policies and standards requiring acomplete review of business systems, day-to-day supervision by external consultants and ultimately the revocation ofregulatory authorisations and licences.
Failure to manage these risks could have a material adverse impact on Quiltersbusiness, financial condition, results of operations andprospects, andreputation.
Emerging risks and our regulatory landscape Quilter is a long-term business and as such we monitor risks which are less certain in terms of time, velocity and impact.
The identification of these risks contributes to our stress and scenario testing which feeds into our strategic planning process and informs our capital calculations.
The following are the emerging risks we feel are the most significant.
Key emerging risks Changes in tax policies affecting our products Developments in the nature of cyber threats fide-globalisation Disruptive technologies Stability of the UK Government UK pension reform Economic downturn International regulatory change Changes in the competitive environment Climate change Talent shortfall across financial services Case study of risk management in action Preparing for the General Data Protection Regulations GDPR In readiness for the go-live date on 25 May 2018, our existing regulations were placed into senior roles such as the Group Data systems and processes were such that we were at risk of not Protection Officer and Data Guardians.
Nine at risk deliverables achieving compliance with a small number of the requirements, were prioritised and risk assessed for impact on customers and potentiallyleading to a breach of our regulatory risk appetite.
A robust risk assessment process was co-ordinated with both risk owners and the risk oversight function, ensuring The Executive Committee reviewed the regulatory gaps and safe and timely decisions to meet the delivery timetable.
As a prioritised effort to ensure our customers were protected and result, the business was GDPR-ready when the regulations came regulatory requirements met.
Training for key staff was arranged into effect and our customers and employees data were and people with a good understanding of our business and the adequately protected.
36 Quilter Annual Report 2018 t n e m e r u s a e M n M o a i s e t s n e a c a t o c r g p i e g i n t i t m k n a e e e m c e n n n d o t p a i R I P s n i i s o c r k e l p e i d Our Enterprise Risk Management Framework Risk appetite Our risk appetite is the amount of risk we are willing to take on in thepursuit of our strategic priorities and is defined by the Board.
Culturally, it sets the tone regarding our attitude towards risk-taking.
Risk appetite also plays a central role in informing decision making across the Group: protecting and enhancing the return on capital invested.
This risk appetite approach is applied consistently across the Group.
To support the strategic decision making process we apply risk preferences which provide guidelines for striking the appropriate balance of risk and reward when setting our business strategy.
Strategic Risk Appetite Principles A set of Strategic Risk Appetite Principles has been set by the Board.
Strategy These principles, set out below, provide the top-of-the-house guidance on our attitude toward key areas of risk for the Group andsupport the ongoing management and oversight of risk.
Customer Liquidity The Group will ensure fair The Group will ensure that customer outcomes it has sufficient liquidity to meet its financial and funding obligations Capital Control environment The Group will hold or have The Group will at all access to sufficient capital to times operate a robust maintain own capital needs controlenvironment We continue to develop a well-defined, positive risk culture thatis understood across Quilter, as well as a risk and control framework with clear articulation of the responsibilities between thethree lines The Groups position against these principles is measured on a of defence.
These principles are communicated and applied to all employees through a series of more granular risk appetite statements Our Group is regulated by the PRA under Solvency II and by the and measures, policies and standards and key risk indicators.
FCAunder Capital Requirement Directive regulations.
To meet these regulations, we operate a consistent approach to risk management Policies supporting the system of internal control across Quilter.
As such, we have integrated the Own Risk and The Group Governance Manual GGM and policies form an integral Solvency Assessment ORSA and Internal Capital Adequacy part of our governance and risk management framework, ensuring Assessment Process ICAAP into our risk management framework.
anappropriate system of internal control.
Together they form the Quilters ORSA and ICAAP are comprehensive risk processes which basis of clear delegated authorities and accountabilities, ensuring set out how risks are managed and how risks might change over time, there is appropriate Board oversight and control of important as weroll out our strategy and in response to developing situations.
decisions, and efficient and effective management of day-to-day Weanalyse the capital required to protect the sustainability of the business.
The GGM and policies are approved and adopted by Group, and how those capital requirements might develop over theBoard.
Risk management culture The assessments include a range of stress and scenario testing Undoubtedly the most important element to risk management is covering a broad range of scenarios, including market shocks, new agood culture of risk informed decision making.
We believe that business growth scenarios and operational risk events.
These tests agood risk culture enables effective management of risk.
We link are in addition to the regulatory solvency capital requirements, which riskmanagement to performance and development, as well as allow for severe and extreme scenarios and stresses 1 in 200-year totheGroups remuneration and reward schemes.
Critical to our process is preparing management action transparent working environment which encourages our people plans should adverse events occur.
This helps us take comfort that toembrace risk management is critical to the achievement of our weare both well capitalised and prepared to take necessary action strategic priorities.
inorder to maintain our resilience to adverse conditions.
Viability statement The viability statement can be found in the Directors report onpage 200.
Iain Wright Chief Risk Officer Strategic Report | Risk review Quilter Annual Report 2018 37 c v c u d l o i n t a e a g u r g s k e A n i g s n s i k n n R s a i l e p s t s s r s i e s o n i p m s R u e B e R n t g n i r o t i n o M Governance Governance Board of Directors 40 An introduction to our Board of Executive management team 42 Directors, executive management Chairmans introduction on corporate governance 44 team, and our approach to corporate Our approach to governance 48 governance and remuneration.
Board Corporate Governance andNominations Committee report 52 Board Audit Committee report 54 Board Risk Committee report 60 Board IT Committee report 62 Remuneration report 64 Remuneration at a glance 67 Directors Remuneration Policy 69 Annual Report on Remuneration 78 Governance Quilter Annual Report 2018 39
