Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS tax fact file APPROACH TO TAX Rank is committed to acting responsibly in all areas, including taxation.
The Board is Total tax contribution keptinformed of future tax changes, including In the year 2017 18 Rank paid 228.3m 2016 17: potential impacts from taxconsultations.
239.0m to tax authorities and local governments From an accounting perspective, Rank takes a in irrecoverable VAT, gambling taxes, corporate tax, prudent approach to areas of dispute, providing employment taxes and local business rates.
Rank has forareas of uncertainty and not recognising provided employment to approximately 10,000 claimsunless they are certain to be received.
The Systems, processes and controls are in place to broader impact of Ranks operations, including taxes ensure that taxreturns are correctly prepared, paid by supplier companies, is harder to quantify accounted for andtaxes paid.
Senior Accounting but no less significant.
Officer documentation is reviewed and updated asappropriate on an annual basis as a minimum Tax strategy andthere are procedures in place to ensure that The taxation of betting and gaming is complex, adequate reviews are undertaken.
involving many different taxes and duties.
Ranks aim is to ensure that all taxes are correctly accounted Rank complies with all applicable laws, regulations for and that tax returns are submitted accurately, and disclosure requirements in relation to tax, ontime and that all tax liabilities are paid.
exercising professional care and judgement in relation to decisions reached.
Such decisions are Rank is committed to acting with honesty and fully documented and audited as appropriate.
Rank integrity in all matters with a strong emphasis on is committed to operating responsibly and considers corporate reputation, social responsibility and the reputational impact of transactions as well as maintaining good relationships with governments.
The Group does The Board reviews and approves the Groups tax not intend to enter into aggressive tax avoidance strategy annually, which is published on Ranks transactions and any tax planning will revolve website.
The group finance director is responsible around the commercial needs of the business.
forensuring that the Group complies with When undertaking commercial transactions, the thedocumented tax strategy, supported by Group will take advantage of tax reliefs, incentives appropriatelytrained and qualified staff.
Any and exemptions in accordance with the relevant significant decisions relating to tax are taken to taxlegislation.
theBoard for prior approval, including decisions on whether tolitigate and the approach to dealing with Tax payments by type of tax Tax contribution by territory total outgoings Gambling taxes UK 86.7% Taxation 28.7% Venues 103.4m Spain 10.0% Employees Gambling taxes excluding taxation 23.6% Belgium 2.8% digital 14.8m Suppliers 27.2% Gibraltar 0.5% Irrecoverable VAT 21.4m Depreciation Employment taxes 56.4m amortisation 5.8% Rates 18.1m Other 6.2% Corporate tax 14.4M Shareholders 8.5% www.
com | 47 Strategic report tax fact file continued Ranks tax risks are managed as part of the Groups From 1 April 2017 new rules were introduced overall comprehensive risk management restricting the amount of interest which can be methodology, that balances risk and opportunities treated as tax-deductible in the UK corporate to achieve strategic objectives.
Each risk is identified, interest restriction rules.
The rules restrict interest mitigated, monitored and reviewed based on its deductions above a certain ratio and include an specific facts and circumstances.
overall debt cap based on net interest expense of the worldwide Group.
Due to the nature of the Hong The tax team collaborates with colleagues across the Leong Company Malaysia Berhad HLCM group business at the start of projects to ensure that tax Ranks ultimate parent entity, which owns a costs and tax risks are taken into consideration as financial services business which operates outside part of any decision-making process.
the UK, Rank will be subject to a fide-minimis interest Where tax issues are particularly complex or allowance of 2m per annum, which must be shared uncertain, or if it is considered that HMRC may take between other UK subsidiaries of HLCM.
In 2017 18 a different view than that adopted by Rank, external this resulted in non-deductible interest costs of advice is taken by professional advisers or tax 1.0m, increasing Ranks tax liability by counsel as appropriate.
There are no inter-company transactions between Rank entities and the HLCM If the Group disagrees with a tax authority about the group and all of Ranks borrowings are from third correct treatment of a tax issue, the Group aims to party lenders in the UK.
Rank is in discussions with reach resolution as quickly as possible whilst also HMRC about the impact of the rules on Rank.
defending its position robustly with a view to protecting shareholder value and taking into Gambling taxes account the cost of defending audits or assessments United Kingdom in relation to the amounts of tax at stake.
Rank will consider litigation provided that the grounds of Changes to remote gaming duty in relation to appeal stand a good chance of success in litigation freeplays and non-cash prizes were effective for Rank and that there is sufficient tax at stake to warrant from October 2017.
These changes resulted in thecost of litigation.
additional Remote Gaming Duty of 2.5m in the year.
In May 2018 it was announced that the rate of Rank actively and positively participates in all Remote Gaming Duty will be increased to offset relevant tax consultations to help shape changes reduced tax revenues from proposed changes to the totax legislation or policy that are relevant to maximum stakes of Fixed Odds Betting Terminals thebusiness.
The intention is that the changes to FOBTs and Remote Gaming Duty will be revenue Tax rates and performance neutral from HMRCs perspective, although it is not The Groups effective corporation tax rate in yet clear what the new Remote Gaming Duty rate 2017 18 was 21.1% 2016 17: 21.1% based on a tax will be or the date of implementation.
This will be charge of 15.7m on adjusted profit before taxation.
subject to further consultation by HMRC.
Based on This is in line with the Groups anticipated effective current levels of online gaming, each 1% increase in tax rate of 20%-22% for the year.
Further details on Remote Gaming Duty would increase Ranks tax the taxation charge are provided in note 6 to the liability by approximately 1.1m.
During 2015 16 and 2016 17 Rank submitted In the year ended 30 June 2018 the Group had an repayment claims totalling 6.8m to protect its effective cash tax rate of 19.4% on adjusted profit position in relation to Gaming Duty on free bet 18.5% in the year ended 30 June 2017.
The cash vouchers or casino chips provided by the casino to tax rate is lower than the effective tax rate mainly as the player free of charge.
This follows a judgment at a result of the use of losses within the Group and the the Upper Tier Tribunal for another casino operator, timing of tax instalment payments.
which stated that these items should not be The effective corporation tax rate for 2018 19 is included in the calculation of gross gaming yield for expected to be 21%-23%, being 2%-4% above the Gaming Duty purposes.
HMRCs appeal was heard at UK statutory tax rate as a result of some overseas the Court of Appeal in March 2018.
These claims profits being taxed at higher rates, non-deductibility have not been recognised in the P&L and will be of interest payments and depreciation of assets that discussed further with HMRC when the Court of do not qualify for capital allowances.
The Group is expected to have a cash tax rate ofapproximately 20%-22% in the year ended 30June2019.
48 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS In 2015 16 the Group trialled an improvement to Belgium Ranks electronic roulette offering across the casino The Belgian government introduced a taxation and estate where live or automated wheels operated in licensing framework for online gaming companies one casino may be beamed to electronic roulette in 2011.
Companies may only apply for an online terminals located in another casino referred to as gaming licence in Belgium if they already hold a Rush Roulette.
This was driven by commercial land-based gaming licence.
Rank currently holds one factors which include improved customer service by digital licence that it allows a third-party operator to being able to offer dealer-operated tables 24 hours a use in exchange for a revenue share.
Online gaming day, consistency of play for customers, more optimal in Belgium is subject to remote gaming duty at a rate use of licensed gaming space across the casino estate of 11% and from 1 August 2016 has also been and labour cost savings through one dealer being subject to VAT at 21%.
This differs from land-based able to cover more than one casino.
Rush Roulette gaming, which remains exempt from VAT.
In March has proved popular with customers and has been 2018 the Belgian courts ruled to annul VAT on rolled out more widely during 2017 18.
Gaming Duty perspective, the bet is accepted and any winnings are paid out of the casino where the roulette wheel is located the banker casino.
Rank has received advice which indicates that income should be recognised in the banker casino and that duty is payable at the relevant rate for that casino.
Currently the Gaming Duty liability varies across the casino estate from 15% to 50% depending on the level of activity in the respective premises.
HMRC do not agree with Ranks tax analysis.
As at 30 June 2018, the amount under dispute was approximately 2.3m and has been fully provided for.
Rank considers that the current tax regime for gaming in Great Britain remains unduly complex resulting in an inconsistent tax treatment for some products offered to customers.
Legislation also doesnot fully reflect technological advances that aretaking place within the industry.
Gaming duty incasinos ranges from 15% to 50%, whereas similargames played online are subject to Remote Gaming Duty at 15%.
Rank promotes multi-channel gaming to its customers and is in favour of a simpler unified tax regime that encourages sustained growthand investment.
Spain In 2011, the Spanish government invited online operators to apply for remote gaming licences and introduced tax changes which levied gaming duty on a place-of-consumption basis.
Remote gaming duty was introduced at a rate of 25% of gross gambling revenue GGR.
This differs from the taxation of land-based businesses, which although taxed at similar rates of between 5% to 25%, are taxed on stakes received rather than revenue generated.
Spains national government has reduced remote gaming duty from 25% to 20% effective from 1 July 2018 for Rank.
com | 49 Strategic report tax fact file continued VAT As gambling is exempt from VAT in the UK, Rank pays significant amounts of irrecoverable VAT 20.0m for the UK in 2017 18 and 29.5m for the UK in 2016 17.
Rank has withdrawn appeals relating to prior periods and all VAT assessments in relation to partial exemption have been paid.
VAT returns are filed using the standard method for recovery of residual VAT based on a turnover basis.
This is in line with HMRC guidance.
This method will continue to be used until an alternative method can be agreed with HMRC, which more accurately reflects how input tax is used in the businesses.
Compound interest Rank has withdrawn its claims for compound interest following HMRCs success at the SupremeCourt.
VAT claims The following VAT recovery claims are outstanding: VAT m Status October 2002 to September 2005 25.2 Found in favour of HMRC at the Supreme Court in July 2015.
Remitted back to the First Tier Tribunal FTT to consider similarities between amusement machines and fixed odds betting terminals FOBTs.
In July 2018 the FTT found in favour of Rank.
HMRC may appeal the decision if permission is granted by the court.
April 2006 to January 2013 80.4 Rank is stood behind the litigation of another taxpayer.
This case was heard by FTT in November 2017, finding infavour of the taxpayer.
The issue is whether certain amusement machines were similar to FOBTs.
Depending on the final outcome of that litigation further litigation may be required.
June 1973 to September 1996 67.0 Bingo VAT claim found in favour of HMRC at FTT.
This issue is whether input VAT was correctly December 2002 to June 2004 offset against previous bingo VAT repayments.
March 2003 to June 2009 The Supreme Court decision in the amusement machines case for October 2002 to September 2005has not altered Ranks appraisal of its chancesof success in its remaining amusement machine claims.
Rank believes that it has a reasonable chanceof success in both of the amusement machine claimsabove, although as isthe case withany litigation, there is a risk that thecourts willtakeadifferent view.
50 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS UK tax regime Gaming duty Gross profits tax Mecca venues Category B3 gaming machines 20% Category C gaming machines 20% Category D gaming machines 5% Main stage bingo 10% Interval bingo 10% Grosvenor Casinos venues Casino games and poker 15% 0 to 2,423.5k tax on gaming win in a six-month period 20% 2,423.5k to 4,094k 30% 4,094k to 7,019.5k 40% 7,019.5k to 13,195k 50% over 13,195k Category B1 gaming machines 20% Digital meccabingo.
com 15% Sportsbook 15% Ranks online business is based offshore Alderney, Channel Islands and has been subject to UK remote gaming duty with effect from 1 December 2014.
Spanish tax regime Remote Licence Gaming annual Bingo duty Duty average Bingo tax set by region 5% to 25% Category B2 3 gaming machines 3,650 Multi-post electronics 10,600 enracha.
es 20% Calculated as a percentage of stake.
com | 51 Governance 54 Board of directors 56 Corporate governance 76 Directors remuneration report 95 Directors report 99 Directors responsibilities
