Strategic report Business model value creation the process Our inputs aim to be number one multi-channel operator in the uk Robust balance sheet Seamless and instant We have a strong balance journey across digital sheet supported by strong and retail cash generation.
Inspiring people We employ over 9,000 360-degree talented and dedicated player Single wallet individuals who have a desire protection for customers to create the best experience for our customers.
Extraordinary venues We have a portfolio of 149 venues that facilitate our customers to ensure they are Digital Retail entertained.
Strong relationships Our relationships with the communities we serve and with our suppliers form a vital part of our strategic plans to deliver a quality product and service to ourcustomers.
Cross-brand Ease of login convenience andregistration Underpinning everything More information we do is our commitment Operating responsibly tooperating responsibly Page 28 We understand that our success as a business is dependent upon societys view of our role in the communities we serve.
Rank is very much aware that, whilst the principal purpose of our businesses is to provide an exciting and entertaining experience for our customers, there is also a need to protect those few customers who may be most at risk of gambling-related harm.
16 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS Investing in key areas Creating value for of our business our stakeholders 1.
Creating a compelling Our customers multi-channel offer We create value for our Rank is one of the few gaming companies customers by providing which provides a multi-channel offer.
Our key them with market-leading assets include a 149-venue portfolio, entertainment, meeting membership-based models, loyalty and reward their expectations through programmes, and strong customer engagement.
Building digital capability and scale Our shareholders Rank has built strong positions in venue-based Through focused Operating profit before gaming which we will replicate across our investments to meet our exceptional items digital channels.
We will make investments to customers needs, enhance our digital capabilities, thereby we generate suitable returns capitalising on existing growth opportunities for our shareholders.
within the digital gambling market.
Developing our venues We provide our talented Employees Ranks casino and bingo venues continue to and dedicated individuals generate the majority of the Groups revenue with rewarding and and profits.
We will enhance the customer fulfilling careers, ensuring experience by constantly creating new concepts that their behaviour is and investing in our venues.
aligned with our 0.4m company values.
Investing in our brands Charitable funds raised andmarketing Our communities Rank possesses a number of well-known and We provide additional resonant brands which enjoy strong levels value to the communities ofcustomer affinity.
The continued we serve through our development of these brands is critical operating responsibly 228.3m forincreasing our revenues.
Generated for tax authorities and local governments 5.
Using technology to drive efficiency Governments and improve customer experience The value we create goes Numerous opportunities exist to harness back into the economies technological developments.
technological improvements will offer our customers more engaging experiences and enhance our competitive advantage.
Our STARS values ensure that we behave in the best possible way Service Ambition Teamwork Responsibility Solutions The Groups STARS values reflect the behaviours vital for our employees tosuccessfully deliver against Ranks strategic goals.
