Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS MARKET REVIEW Understanding our external environment UK economic Regulation Customers Technology Sustainability environment Higher inflation has Rank operates in highly Customers increasing Industry innovation Hard to attract squeezed real household regulated markets UK, demand for better and slower than other high-calibre people to incomes and this has Belgium and Spain, more engaging leisure sectors, resulting in work in the gambling inhibited consumer-led where focus is experiences customer expectations industry due to negative growth increasing on operating not being met public perception and Customers are moving responsibly intense media attention Brexit-related away from the Product innovation uncertainty is impacting The UK Gambling traditional out of the inhibited by the Potential restrictions on economic growth Commission UKGC home leisure licensing regime employees to work in continues to increase its experiences to in home the UK following Brexit Forecasters are pointing Mismatched product focus on ensuring may restrict an already to moderate growth in Customers increasing innovation drivers operators are satisfying limited labour base both UK GDP and demand for more between suppliers and the three licensing consumer spending event-led leisure operators Restricted labour base objectives experiences hinders Ranks efforts to A total of 13.9m of recruit the best people penalties have been to offer the best issued by the UKGC in customer experience the year on operators who have failed to meet one or more of the licensing objectives Our response Our response Our response Our response Our response Focus on delivering a Continued prioritisation Focused approach on Continue our dialogue Focus on improving relevant and engaging of Ranks responsible delivering the best retail with the UK regulators reward and recognition leisure experience to gambling strategy customer experience around new gaming for colleagues across all ourcustomers within the business concepts and product levels to improve Improved multiinnovation retention and attraction Continued focus on Open and honest channel offer to satisfy of talent good cost discipline to dialogue with the customer migration Closer working manage increasing regulators todigital relationships with our Investment in a operating costs product suppliers to comprehensive Develop regulators Further roll-out of new better address development and Ensure the Group is confidence in the bingo events to engage customerneeds educational plan for operating effectively business to allow greater with a different type colleagues to ensure and efficiently through operating freedoms ofcustomer talent is developed a transformation andretained programme www.
com | 21 Strategic report Market review continued Understanding our industry Rank operates 149 licensed venues through its Grosvenor Casinos, Mecca, Luda and Enracha brands.
Our retail estate has presence across the UK, Spain and Belgium.
Machine allocations retail Casinos 2005 ACT The wider casino market has been in Small decline in the last three years.
However, Maximum of 80 machines based on a new concepts like the Hippodrome maximum 2:1 machine-to-table ratio.
Casino, with its broader leisure-based offer which includes a strong Large entertainment and F&B offer, and Maximum of 150 machines based on a Aspers Stratford, offering over 150 slot maximum 5:1 machine-to-table ratio machines, have delivered growth.
Machine allocations During the year, Grosvenor Casinos has 1968 ACT underperformed compared to the rest ofthe market but has ended the year Seventy-six of Grosvenors licences are with improving trends for both London issued under the Gaming Act 1968 and the provinces.
Grosvenor has just one casino, which operates under a Grosvenors share of the UK retail Gambling Act 2005 2005 Act 1 casino market is approximately 37%.
As at 30 June 2018, Grosvenor operated 1968 Act licences allow a maximum of 52 casinos across Great Britain.
In 20 machines which can be any addition to operating licences, machine category B to D except B3A Grosvenor holds ten non-operating machines, or any number of category licences.
As of 30 June 2018, there are a C or D machines.
2 total of 198 licences issued to operators.
Machines can be any combination ofBto D machines.
Across our Grosvenor venues we have: 1,301 nil 97 B1 MACHINES B2 MACHINES B3 C D MACHINES For a 2005 Act casino, of which we have one in Luton, the number of machines varies depending on whether it is a large or small casino.
Based on customer visits as at May 2018, National Casino Forum.
22 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS 1 Gross gaming yield - Great britain m YEAR ENDED YEAR ENDED TH TH 30 SEPTEMBER 2017 30 SEPTEMBER 2016 MOVEMENT Arcades retail 423 413 2% Betting retail 3,289 3,406 -4% Bingo retail 681 682 0% Casinos retail 1,158 1,190 -3% Betting, bingo and casino digital 4,890 4,461 10% National lottery retail and digital 3,015 3,265 -8% Large society lotteries retail and digital 431 404 7% Across Mecca and luda we have: retail bingo The overall bingo market declined in the financial year, reflecting the reduction in core bingo customers and 2,164 customer visit frequency.
However, Mecca continued to B3 B4 machines perform well compared to the rest of the market, outperforming its national competitors.
Meccas share of the UK retail bingo market is 2,962 2 approximately 37%.
C D machines As at 30 June 2018, Mecca operated 85 out of the 348 bingo venues currently operating across Great Britain.
The Groups Luda venues also operate bingo licences and 13,366 currently there are three venues operating Walsall, Leeds Electronic bingo and Weston.
terminalS Mecca Max units Machine allocations A licensed bingo venue can offer B3, B4 and category C and D machines.
The number of B3 or B4 machines is restricted to 20% ofthe total number of gaming machines provided in thevenue.
The number of category C and D machines can be unlimited.
Digital Ranks digital business is operated through both Alderney and UK remote gambling licences.
Enracha and YoBingos digital operations operate through Spanish remote gambling licences.
The UK remote gaming sector continues to grow, with 4.9bn of Gross Gaming Yield GGY reported by the UK Gambling Commission for the 12 months to September 2017.
Ranks share of the UK remote gaming sector is 1 estimated to be approximately 2.5%.
Based on National Game ticket sales.
