Directors report Governance Board of Directors From left to right: Gavin Tipper, Mike Watters, Stephen Oakenfull, Adrian Horsburgh Donald Grant, Michael Farrow, Sue Ford, Robert Orr ElizabethPeace, Marc Wainer, Bernie Nackan GAVIN TIPPER MBA, CA, BCom, BAcc MIKE WATTERS MBA, BSc Eng.
Civil STEPHEN OAKENFULL CFA, BSc Hons  Chairman Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chief Executive Officer Age: 53 Age: 59 Age: 39 Appointed: August 2011 Appointed: December 2013 N R C I Appointed: December 2013 Committees: Committees: Key skills: Finance, Property, Europe, Key skills: Finance, UK listed companies, Key skills: Finance, Property, Europe, UK listed UK listed companies SouthAfrica listed companies companies, South Africa listed companies Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Over 18 years experience working Appointed as Chairman of RDI REIT P. L. C. Over 30 years experience in the investment incorporatefinance and real estate inJuly 2018 having served as independent banking and real estate industries Nonexecutive Director since 2011 Former COO of Redefine International Significant experience as a director of property FundManagers Over 20 years experience of companies and investment companies in the UK and listedin both the UK and South Africa South Africa Former analyst at DTZ Corporate Finance inLondon Former technical partner at KPMG Former director of Redefine Properties Limited, Sycom Property Fund and Hyprop Investments Former management consultant for Previously COO of the Coronation Limited in South Africa and Sapphire Retail Fund Turner & Townsend HoldingsGroup in the UK External appointments: None.
External appointments: Chairman of External appointments: Chairman of HypropInvestments Limited and AVI Limited.
76 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 ADRIAN HORSBURGH MRICS DONALD GRANT CA MICHAEL FARROW FCIS MSc Corporate Governance Property Director Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Non-executive Director Age: 56 Age: 44 Age: 64 Appointed: March 2014 Appointed: August 2015 Appointed: August 2011 C C R A N Committee: Committee: Committees: Key skills: Property, Europe, UK listed companies Key skills: Finance, UK listed companies Key skills: Finance, Property, Europe, UK listed companies Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Over 30 years experience in the investment Over ten years experience working in property market in all areas variousbanking and broking institutions Over 20 years experience of UK listed and private property companies and funds working Former Retail Investment Director and 11 years experience working in the property as a director and a company secretary International Director at Jones Lang LaSalle sector Former Group Company Secretary of Former Equity Partner and Trainee Surveyor External appointments: None.
CaterAllen, Jersey inthe investment department at King Sturge Founding director of Consortia Partnership External appointments: None.
Limited, a Jersey licensed trust company Former Chairman and Nonexecutive Director of Bellzone Mining plc External appointments: Chairman of STANLIB Funds Limited.
Nonexecutive Director of RedT Energy plc and Circle Property plc.
SUE FORD ACA BSc Hons ROBERT ORR MRICS, BSc Estate Management ELIZABETH PEACE BA Hons Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Age: 58 Age: 59 Age: 65 Appointed: December 2013 Appointed: April 2015 Appointed: November 2017 A N I R C A Committees: Committees: Committees: Key skills: Finance, UK listed companies Key skills: Property, Europe, UK listed companies Key skills: Property, UK listed companies Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Over 30 years experience working within Over 30 years experience of the German Over 40 years experience in both the various leading organisations overseeing andEuropean real estate markets publicand private sectors in the UK finance, strategy and governance matters Former Country Manager for Germany 13 years as Chief Executive Officer of the Co-founder and former finance director andformer European CEO at JLL British Property Federation, the body that for Metric Property Investment plc, now represents the interests of the commercial Founded the International Capital Group for JLL LondonMetric Property plc, an income focused, property industry in the UK External appointments: Chairman of Tritax diversified FTSE 250 REIT External appointments: Nonexecutive Eurobox PLC.
Nonexecutive Director and adviser External appointments: None.
Chairman of of various private companies and funds.
MARC WAINER BERNIE NACKAN BA Econ, SEP Key to committees: Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Age: 70 Age: 74 A Audit and Risk Committee Appointed: August 2011 Appointed: April 2014 C Corporate Social I Committee: Key skills: Many years of experience in Responsibility Committee management and on the Boards of multiple Key skills: Finance, Property, Europe, UK listed I Investment Committee listedcompanies companies, South Africa listed companies N Nominations Committee Skills and experience: Skills and experience: R Remuneration Committee Over 50 years experience in senior management Over 40 years experience in the property and on the Boards of finance, investment, life industry in South Africa Denotes chair of a committee insurance and real estate organisations in South Founder of Investec Property Group, Africa and internationally InvestecBanks property division Changes to the Board Former financial editor of the Rand Daily Mail, Founder of Redefine Properties Limited managing director of Sage Unit Trusts and 21 November 2017 External appointments: Chairman of Executive Director of Sage Group Elizabeth Peace wasappointed RedefineProperties Limited.
Non-executive Former member of the regulators Collective 24 July 2018 Director of EchoPolska Properties N. V. Investment Scheme Advisory Committee in Greg Clarke retired South Africa and Chairman of the Industrys Collective Investment Association for many years External appointments: Nonexecutive Director of Redefine Properties Limited and Rezco Asset Management Group.
RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 77
