Strategic report Market context Structural change Economy Occupational market in real estate is driving rapid change UK GDP growth remains low, however it has The role of real estate has changed materially proved more resilient and performed ahead and in a very short space of time.
Occupiers in occupational are viewing real estate as an increasingly of expectations given the uncertainty post the strategic part of their business, covering EU Referendum.
Webelieve everything from logistics and operations to political uncertainty, forecasts have recently attracting and retaining the best talent.
As been revised upwards, with GDP growth our diversified, an owner and investor in real estate, a client expected to rise to over 2.0 per cent in 2019. focused approach is now more important scalable portfolio Employment statistics remain strong with than ever.
A successful investment strategy the unemployment rate at 4.0 per cent in must consider the key factors driving occupier is well positioned August2018.
As a result, real wage growth demand and client satisfaction which now has started to emerge which would suggest covers a far broader set of requirements than to take advantage support in consumer demand.
In addition to owning good quality spending has been relatively healthy, however real estate, issues such as wellbeing, services, of opportunities as digital connectivity and amenities arenow the headline figures do not reflect the rise in high on the agenda.
online shopping and cost pressures within certain retailers businesses.
Outside of retail, occupational markets have performed ahead of expectations in the UK.
The outlook for interest rates remains Industrial and distribution assets, particularly onan upwards trajectory albeit long term in the South East, continued to see strong rates remain well below historic averages.
takeup supported by growth in online retail Theincrease in the UK base rate from and last mile distribution.
The London office 0.5 per cent to0.75 per cent was only the market has exceeded expectations.
Take up second increase in overa decade with some of space remained strong with support from economists expecting further rate rises.
large corporates and high levels of preletting activity absorbing new supply.
Media and tech related companies have accounted for the largest proportion of take up, highlighting the diversity of Londons occupier market and the reduction in reliance on financial services.
Vacancy rates across the City and West End markets are now well below 5 per cent.
26 Boundary Row, Waterloo, London Demand for serviced and flexible offices continues to rise.
This is being driven by a wholesale change in the way in which people work impacted by technology and urbanisation.
In addition, occupiers are demanding more, including flexibility of the terms on which they contract space and the level of service provision being made available.
The retail environment remains challenging as retailers continue to adapt and right size their physical store portfolios to align with the rapid change in consumer spending habits.
Food, convenience and service related retail is expected to remain resilient while discretionary spending on areas such as fashion is under pressure.
10 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 Investment and A combination of low Technology capital markets interest rates and an expectation of limited Investment activity has remained strong Developments in technology continue to be with total UK investment volumes reaching the driving force behind changes in cultural growth in capital values 44.5billion for the nine months to behaviour at home, at work and at leisure.
September2018, a 6 per cent increase on continues to centre investor Never has technology been more apparent the same period in 2017.
Likewise, Germany inour daily lives, with digital personal attention on income returns remains on track for a record year in terms of assistants in the home, smart techs overall investment volumes.
continuously improving functionality playing a huge role in leisure time and the constant A combination of low interest rates and an expectation of limited growth in capital demand for faster connectivity everywhere.
The highspeed evolution of technology is valueshas centred attention on income returns and sustainability of income.
With having a profound effect on life choices and Despite the challenges blurring the lines for place making.
yields for prime real estate at low levels, demand for alternatives such as residential, This is evident with the current shift faced, investment activity serviced offices and self-storage has risen in the office space sector with remote sharply as investors develop a greater remains strong in the UK working becoming more commonplace, understanding of operational risk.
driving increased demand for flexible and and Germany remains on RDIs own capital allocation has targeted co-workingspaces that enable occupiers to track for a record year in allocating capital to assets in locations and bepart of a community.
sectors with long term structural support and Online continues to shape the way retailers terms of overall investment occupier demand.
Investments and disposals are approaching bricks and mortar retail totalling 540.6 million were completed volumes.
using online channels to drive shoppers in the financial year and have provided to physical stores, and technological increased exposure to London and the South touchpoints in store environments to create East as well as reducing the Groups overall brand advocacy and maximise social media exposureto the retail sector.
44 per cent of the portfolio has been acquired Our communitycentric approach to our over the last three years with 82 per cent of assets, across the sectors, focuses on these acquisitions located in London and the space as service through understanding South East.
the emotional and functional needs of our occupiers, clients and customers whether that be the very best technical and IT products in our London Serviced Offices or working with retailers to deliver consistent messaging across digital channels within our shopping centre and retailparks portfolios.
Royal Mail, Camino Park, Crawley RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 11
