Group executive committee report Executive committee chairmans annual statement The executive committee's key role is day-to-day management of Rathbones.
The committee actively reviews and assesses business performance supported by a range of committees that operate across the group.
Committee meetings We formally meet each month.
These formal meetings are minuted and copies of the minutes are sent to committee members and to the board.
Ad hoc and informal meetings are held as required.
Non-committee members are regularly invited to attend part of a meeting to report on a particular aspect of our business and non-executive directors may also attend meetings.
Membership and attendance The committee has an agreed annual standing agenda to Meetings attended Director eligible to attend cover key areas in the year.
Prior to each meeting, I agree the agenda with the company secretary.
P L Howell chairman 12 12 R N K Baron 11 12 What we have done M T Bolsover 11 12 J A Butcher 10 12 Our main focus is on the implementation of the agreed strategy and on the day-to-day management of the group.
I D Darnley 12 12 We review and discuss the annual business plan and budget A T Morris 11 12 prior to its submission to the board for approval.
We discuss S Owen-Jones 11 12 the management and performance of the operating businesses R I Smeeton 11 12 including their results compared to the budget, risks and regulatory compliance and growth initiatives such as R P Stockton 12 12 possible acquisitions and new products and services.
M M Webb 10 12 Items of particular focus in 2018 were as follows: Implementation of planned enhancements to our Roles and responsibilities investment process The committee has been delegated the full powers of Implementation of the strategic initiatives relating the board subject to a list of matters which are reserved to Rathbone Financial Planning for decision by the board.
This list is reviewed annually Development of the intermediary distribution channel and approved by the board.
Implementation of an IT transformational programme Please see the chief executive's review on pages 11 to 13.
Implementation of regulatory changes relating to the Biographies for the executive comittee members are General Data Protection Regulation and MiFID II available on our website.
Review of investment processes and development of the client journey Review and assessment of the annual budget Integration of Speirs & Jeffrey Our people are our main asset and so HR matters and learning and development are important agenda items.
The maintenance of and improvement in our core IT and operations infrastructure are key to the continuing success of the business and are subject to close scrutiny.
The chief risk officer reports on the work of the risk and compliance teams and updates us on risk and internal control matters as well as on industry developments.
We receive updates from internal audit on their work schedule and discuss any significant issues they raise following their work.
The head of internal audit may attend any meeting.
We also have oversight of business units, banking matters, marketing, social and environmental matters, business continuity and investor relations.
76 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 Governance Overview of priorities for 2019 As well as considering the standing items of business, the committee will also focus on the following areas during 2019: Implementation of our IT transformation programme Integration of Speirs & Jeffrey Formulation of the next five-year strategic plan The firms cybersecurity strategy Employee engagement Talent development Diversity and succession planning Philip Howell Chairman of the executive committee 20 February 2019 Executive committee members Our current members and their responsibilities are below.
Philip Howell Paul Stockton Chief Executive Finance Director and Managing Director of Rathbone Investment Management Rupert Baron Mike Bolsover Andrew Butcher Ivo Darnley Head of Investment Head of Strategy and Chief Operating Officer Head of Specialist and Management in London Organisation Development Charity Business Andrew Morris Sarah Owen-Jones Richard Smeeton Mike Webb Head of Investment Chief Risk Officer Head of Investment Chief Executive Unit Trusts Management outside Management Special and Head of Group London Projects and Recruitment Marketing and Distribution rathbones.
