Directors report Governance Board delegation Board delegation To assist in the effectiveness of its operations, the Board delegates certainmatters to committees to review and make recommendations backto the Board.
Board control All committees must operate within terms of reference set by the Board which are available on the website.
Day-to-day operations are carried out by the executives, who must adhere to policies and delegated authorities set by the Board.
Nominations Committee Considers the composition, skills and succession planning of the Board.
Eight meetings included: Review Board and committee composition, skills and succession planning Search for new Chairman and new independent Nonexecutive Director Board evaluation Page 83 Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Ensures that the Groups financial Reviews remuneration of executives reporting and risk management is properly andsenior management in accordance monitored, controlled and reported.
Interacts with external and internal auditor.
Three meetings included: Four meetings included: Review of executive and senior management Audit retender, GDPR LTIPs, bonus and salaries Antifacilitation of Tax Evasion Policy Review of Remuneration Policy Review corporate reporting, Commitments made to adopt certain matters risk management and internal controls in the next Remuneration Policy Share buyback programme Page 94 Page 88 Investment Committee CSR Committee Executive Committee Operates in an informal manner.
Safeguards the interests and monitors The Executive Committee comprises Reviews all major acquisitions, disposals engagement with stakeholders.
thefour executives and meets informally and capital expenditure and makes on a weekly basis to discuss acquisitions Four meetings including: recommendations to the Board for and disposals, finance, asset management Stakeholder engagement finalconsideration.
GRESB submission activities and operational matters, EPRA sBPR reporting andtoconsider the status of any The Committee recommended: Health and safety potentialinside information.
Sale of the Leopard portfolio Monitoring EPCs Acquisition of IHL and London Serviced Office portfolios Senior management attend monthly to aid Page 56 Acquisitions of properties located in Kingston, communication across departments.
Bicester and Farnborough 82 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018
