Strategic report Income led business model Designed to deliver superior, sustainable and growing income.
Our resources Strategic priorities Income focused portfolio Continuously improving our diversified portfolios exposure to sectors demonstrating positive Our assets structuralchange, supporting security of income, Well located investments generating strong withopportunities to drive income growth.
Creating spaces and places Read more on page 16 forpeople and businesses to grow and prosper.
Efficient capital structure Focused on reducing leverage and further strengthening the balance sheet in support Our people of greateroperational flexibility and a more We recruit and develop high calibre dynamic competitivecost of capital.
and entrepreneurial people, who have a highperformance, results oriented approach.
Read more on page 17 Financial discipline Clear and measurable medium term targets, Our stakeholders focusedon growing income and strengthening We aim to build and foster professional the balancesheet.
Closely aligned to strategic relationships with all our stakeholders through objectivesand management remuneration.
Read more on page 18 Scalable business Greater scale to drive longer term benefits, includinggreater access to capital markets and liquidity, whilst limiting volatility.
Capital recycling to ensure we secure the right earnings enhancing opportunities for our shareholders.
Read more on page 19 Underpinned 1 2 by our culture Hands-on, lean Entrepreneurial spirit management team 12 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 Sustainable income Growing income How we create value The value we add Shareholders Sector leading income yield.
Employees Rewarding career development in a high performance, and enjoyable team environment.
Tenants Creating spaces that meet occupiers and clients requirements to help them prosper.
Suppliers We support the growth of high performance, service oriented businesses and provide the opportunity to develop long term relationships.
Communities We strive to support and improve the communities in which we operate.
3 4 5 6 Cultural focus on Efficient deal makers In-house expertise Strong relationships driving income andalignment with strategic partners RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 13 Superior income
