CASE STUDY Strategic report Income focused portfolio Strategy in action Driving income growth through reduced retailexposure and re investment into sectorsexperiencing structural support.
With the retail sector continuing to experience Alongside improving the portfolios quality, Deal rationale the impact of changing consumer behaviour, the disposal and subsequent acquisition was Differentiated serviced office the Group took the decision in December income accretive and provides exposure to an businessmodel 2017 to dispose of its German supermarket improved income growth outlook.
Owned model with a proven Together with our Hotels business, RDI sustainable track record The German retail portfolio comprised is now wellplaced to take advantage of 66assets, with an average lot size of the increasingtrend of real estate owners Established and experienced 3.1million, and limited near to medium term operator with aligned interests becoming service providers.
Taking advantage Uniquely designed and wholly of the extremely strong German investment London flexible office sector refurbished space market, the portfolio which generated London is the single largest and most The offering is defined by the annualised net rental income of 12.7 million, developed flexible office market globally.
premium service, whilst desk rates implying a 5.8per cent net initial yield, was Demand for flexible space in London is on the aretypically mid-market disposed of for 205million, a 20million rise and is supported by increased occupier 10.8per cent premium to book value.
Asset management and synergy demand for flexible, cost efficient space.
opportunities Proceeds were reinvested into four well The sector is more resilient in times of located London Serviced Offices, a sector Scalable platform economic uncertainty.
Since Brexit, London experiencing structural support and growth Right of first refusal on future job creation has slowed, however flexible opportunities given the changes in workforce developments offices share of take up has increased.
demands for flexibility and cost efficiency.
Simple integration of future Flexible workspace and coworking account Demand for alternative asset classes, such acquisitions and potential for for c. 7 per cent of Central London office stock.
as student accommodation, selfstorage, repurposing of existing RDI assets JLLexpects this share to increase to 30 per and serviced offices has risen sharply in Anticipated yield on equity of cent by 2030. recent years as investors develop a greater overnineper cent understanding of operational risk.
Experienced operational partner with aligned interest Workforce behavioural change One size does not fit all Cost efficient Technology supports mobility Allow for space to grow with Economical for both occupier requirements andlandlord Millennials will make up 75% ofworkforce by 2025 Businesses can be more agile and Avoids set up costs and need for manage risk more effectively capitalinvestment Demanding work-life balance Ability to outsource non-core More collaborative and creative work businessactivities environments Shorter leases licences Lease accounting changes Deeper potential customer base Traditional office leases continue From 2019 long leases will be reflected Broadening demand toshorten as liabilities on the balancesheet Corporates are increasingly taking Brexit uncertainty may drive demand upflexible space for shorter term commitment Creating a presence anywhere 16 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 CASE STUDY Efficient capital structure Strategy in action LTV reduction whilst minimising income dilution.
Setting a medium term target of reducing In addition, the Group has taken advantage UK non-bank Post the Groups loan to value to between 45 and of the 148 million revolving credit facility debt 28 Feb 2017 transaction 50per cent whilst minimising income dilution sourced as part of the Aegon UK portfolio such that income growth targets could be facility.
Thisallows surplus cash to be Debt 167.8m 146.1m maintained was an ambitious challenge, but applied, generating a return well in excess RDI has achieved a delicate balance.
Cost of debt 5.8% 5.5% ofmoney market deposits.
The facility carries a ratcheted margin linked to LTV which Over the past two years, we have worked LTV 71% 62% provides marginal interest rate reductions towards extending the Groups weighted atlowerLTVs.
average debt maturity, taking advantage of the Our share of 50% 100% low interest rate environment to secure lower, Wigan net longer term interest rates.
income The best rates are generally secured at lower levels of gearing, meaning capital can be Yield on equity: c. 10.0% deployed at attractive returns, minimising income dilution.
Here are two initiatives Euro debt Post completed in 2017 which have positively facility 28 Feb 2017 transaction contributed towards reducing gearing while minimising income dilution and demonstrates Debt 44.0m 38.4m our ability to reduce leverage efficiently.
Cost of debt 3.7% c. 2.7% LTV 65% 57% Yield on equity: c. 9.8% Meaningful reduction in leverage 55 53.4% 50 46.2% 45 Aug 2016 Feb 2017 Aug 2017 Feb 2018 Aug 2018 Medium term LTV target 45 50% RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 17 CASE STUDY Strategic report Financial discipline Strategy in action Driving down overheads: IHL acquisition.
The Group seeks to convert rental income In November 2017, an opportunity arose to Deal rationale into earnings, and ultimately shareholder take control of IHL, leverage off RDIs existing Delisting delivered considerable cost distributions, as efficiently as possible.
operational partners and delist the entity, savings realising considerable efficiency savings.
In October 2015 the Group participated Well located hotels weighted towards inthe establishment of International Hotel Through a scheme of arrangement, RDI Greater London and Edinburgh Properties Limited IHL.
IHL was listed as a completed a shareforshare exchange with Secure and growing income hotel owning and operating entity, asectorRDI IHLs minority shareholders and delisted had exposure to through its existing hotel the entity, saving the associated Board, Limited service and branded hotels investments and 25.3 per cent shareholding in management and listing costs.
Four Travelodge hotels with average its operational partner, RBH Hotels Group.
unexpired lease terms 20 years Since acquisition, the portfolio of nine hotels and 21.2 per cent of income with As a listed entity IHL built a portfolio of has increased in value by 14 per cent on uncapped CPI escalations nineUK hotels.
In June 2016 the UK voted to acquisition pricing.
leave the European Union which impacted Yield on equity in excess of ten per IHLs ability to source new investment and cent.
An implied NIY of 6.9 per cent raise capital to advance itsstrategy.
and minimal ongoing overhead costs.
Astrong earnings accretive opportunity which the Group capitalised on Travelodge, Travelodge, Holiday Inn Express, Belvedere Leatherhead Dunstable Travelodge, Travelodge, Holiday Inn Express, Perth Slough Edinburgh Hampton by Hilton, Holiday Inn Express, Holiday Inn Express, Holiday Inn Express, Southampton Gatwick Southampton Redditch 18 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 CASE STUDY Scalable business Strategy in action Recycling capital at a premium.
During the year, disposals totalling In line with this plan, and capitalising on These were either: 255.7million were achieved at an average the continued strength of both the UK and strategic disposals where, in our view, the premium to book value of 8.9 per cent.
German investment market, a number of income was not sufficiently sustainable: assets were disposed of during the year.
RDI actively manages income optimisation exgrowth, where in our view, we had with every asset carrying its own income led extracted maximum value: or business plan, where the assets income is opportunistic, where market forces and assessed as either sustainable or growing.
competitive pricing attributed a greater If it does not meet certain strict hurdles, value to the asset than we believed could itis identified as a recycling opportunity, be achieved through continued ownership.
Examples of this strategy in action during 2018 are set out below.
% of portfolio by gross annualised rental income Sustainable income Growing income Capital recycling on completion 17.8% 41.7% 37.2% 3.3% Incomeled Core secure Growth asset Mature income income management assets opportunities Asset management priorities for the next 12 months: Maintain income through: Optimise serviced income Complete and progress Recycle low growth assets andoperational margins development plans atapremium High occupancy and asset management Double digit uplifts Cost reductions initiatives on upcoming logistics rentreviews Strategic disposals Realising value following active Opportunistic disposals assetmanagement House of Fraser department store, Hull Regional offices German supermarket portfolio High street retail asset in Hull on a Disposal of six regional offices 205m disposal: a 10.8%premium 22year lease for59.8m: an 8.9%premium 12.7m net annualised rental income: Sold for 11.0m: a 12.8% discount 4.1m net annualised rental income: implied NIY of 5.8% onsales price tobook value implied NIY of 6.4% onsalesprice 66 assets with an average lot size Proactively removed covenant risk Maturing regional office of3.1m investmentmarket RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 19
