Speirs & Jeffrey acquisition Combining businesses with a cultural and strategic fit On 31 August 2018, Rathbones completed the acquisition of Speirs & Jeffrey.
Founded in 1906, Speirs & Jeffrey is one of the largest independent private client investment managers in Scotland with a total of 6.7 billion of funds under management and administration FUMA at the time of acquisition.
Like Rathbones, Speirs & Jeffrey has a long-standing heritage and client-centric philosophy, making the two businesses an excellent fit.
Building scale in an increasingly fragmented marketplace Together, we now manage 44.1bn in assets, making us one of the largest wealth managers in the UK.
Scale gives us additional reach and strength and enables greater financial and organisational capacity to invest in ourpeople, technology and processes, and to manage regulatory change.
An enhanced presence in Scotland Funds under management and Investment administration professionals Speirs & 6.4bn 38 Jeffrey Existing Rathbones 2.9bn 36 presence in Edinburgh, Glasgow and Aberdeen 6 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 Strategic report A reduced dependency Clear benefits on the London office for our stakeholders 1 Scotland Jersey London 24% 2% 51% Benefits our shareholders The increased scale firmly establishes our regional credentials andoffers earnings per share accretion, cost and revenue synergies.
London now accounts for c. 50% of FUMA from over 60% Benefits our clients 2 previously The increased operational capacity allows further investment in client-facing technology, central processes and research capability, which supports a better service forclients.
Northern Southern England England 9% 14% Benefits employees Glasgow is now the second-largest The ability to invest in front office systems allows Rathbones office with 6.8 billion employees to work with more effective and efficient of funds under management tools, improving team capacity.
Our Scottish offices now manage 9.3 billion 2017: 3.3 billion.
Jersey funds under management and administration excludes assets managed on a delegated basis 2.
Based on funds under management and administration rathbones.
