Strategic report Rebrand December 2017 The year in review Redefine International P. L. C. changes its Strategic capital recycling to drive nameto RDI REIT P. L. C. and launches a newbrand identity.
Entry into London Serviced Offices January 2018 Acquisition of four serviced office buildings in Central London at a c. 6 per cent net initial yield for 162million.
Office Space in Town was retained as an incentivised operating partner and aligned co-investor.
A sector benefiting from positive structural change and growth in occupier demand.
Disposal of German Retail Portfolio December 2017 Opportunistic disposal of 66 small lot size retail assets in Germany at a 10.8percent premium to book value, reducing the Groups retail exposure.
Proceeds reinvested in higher quality assets in the UK at lower leverage.
Mixed use acquisition with development potential December 2017 Acquisition of a mixed use site in Kingston with an attractive near term yield, close to local transport links.
Part of a wider strategic site with medium to long term development potential.
08 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 Acquisition of IHL November 2017 Control of the formerly listed hotel company IHL was acquired: nine hotels were added to the portfolio including Hampton by Hilton at Gatwick Airport, integrally linked to the North Terminal.
By year end the valuation was 14 percent higher thanacquisition pricing.
The Group now holds a74.1per cent interest.
Continued focus on reducing leverage Over 40 million of debt was repaid during the year, funded primarily from profits on opportunistic and mature asset disposals, reducing leverage from 50 per cent to 47percent, after taking into account twoacquisitions post year end.
Increased exposure todistribution September 2018 Immediately following the year end, the Group forward funded a 26 million development of two distribution warehouses in Bicester and acquired a 26.3 million multilet industrial estate in Farnborough, increasingexposure to the logistics sector.
Investor engagement June 2018 Investor day and property tour focused Appointment of on landlords becoming service providers: touring the newly acquired serviced office newChairman portfolio.
Our operational partners from July 2018 both the London Serviced Office and UK Hotels portfolio presented to investors on the evolving demands of occupiers and the The Board thanked Greg Clarke for his opportunities for sustainable income growth.
contribution over the years and welcomed Gavin Tipper to the position of Chairman of the Board.
RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 09
