Strategic report Viability statement In the context of the Groups principal risks and strategic priorities, the Directors have considered an appropriate time horizon to assess longer term viability.
In addition, the Groups threeyear business Assessment period Assumptions plan was stress tested using both specific and The Directors have considered a threeyear In reaching their opinion, the Directors cumulative scenarios to simulate a general time horizon in assessing longer term considered the Groups internal control deterioration in market conditions, including viability.
This is underpinned by an average environment together with the results of flexing the key assumptions stated above.
unexpired lease term and weighted average plausible but conservative scenarios.
Key Inparticular, specific consideration was given debt maturity comfortably exceeding three assumptions underlying the base case to the following: years.
In the view of the Directors, this time scenario were as follows: horizon strikes a balance between establishing a significant valuation decline of up to across the Groups portfolio, property viability and assessing the Groups longer 20per cent impacting the Groups UK retail valuations continue to remain broadly termprospects.
investments brought about by continued stable, with negative movements in negative sentiment and tenant failure, with The Groups strategy set by the Board is one segment likely to be offset by specific consideration given to the Groups reviewed annually and considers a threeyear positive movements in another, given top ten tenant exposures: and time horizon: therefore for the purposes of the diversified nature of the Groups this assessment the business prospects have investments: debt facilities were stress tested to been considered and its plans stress tested identify the tolerance level of covenants credit markets remain open and available over the same period.
to declining valuations across the entire to the Group to allow it to continue to portfolio and availability of cash to provide refinance existing debt facilities as they The Directors believe that focusing on the covenant cures.
mature, albeit at a likely higher cost of debt: Groups strategic priorities will support the solvency and strategic viability of the Group the Group continues to have a Conclusion inthe longer term.
diverse tenant base with no particular As a result of the work performed above concentration risk in any one covenant: and the various mitigating actions that are Consideration of key risks and lease expiries will result in a void period available to the Board in the unlikely event uncertainties facing the Group prior to reletting, with incentives likely to that the stress tests performed prove to be The nature of the Groups business and beextended: insufficient, the Directors are of the view the industry in which it operates exposes inflation continues at levels in line with that the Groups strategy provides a sound it to a variety of risks.
The principal risks Bank of England targets: and platform upon which to continue its business.
and uncertainties faced are outlined on The Directors therefore conclude that there Sterling remains stable relative to the Euro.
pages20to 21, whilst significant areas is a sufficiently reasonable expectation that of uncertainty are discussed on page 93. the Group can continue in operation and is TheBoard regularly reviews these disclosures capable of meeting its debts and obligations and assesses the appropriate controls and as they fall due over the next three years.
actions that can be taken to mitigate and manage the operations of the Group within an appropriate risk tolerance.
The Directors have further considered their impact within the context of the Groups viability and prospects, with emphasis this year being placed on the pace of change facing UK retail and the implications that could arise from the various corporate events and negative sentiment currently facing that sector.
22 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018
