Executive Committee Rakesh Kapoor Rupert Bondy Seth Cohen Mike Duijser Chief Executive Officer Senior Vice President Chief Information Officer Chief Supply Officer General Counsel & CompanySecretary Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Indian British British American American Company tenure Company tenure Company tenure Company tenure 31 years Two years One year Less than one year Experience Experience Experience Experience Joined Reckitt & Colman in Joined RB as SVP General Joined RB in September 2017 Joined RB in November 2018 1987.
Rakesh has held a number Counsel & Company Secretary as Group CIO and is responsible as Chief Supply Officer, and is of roles, including: Regional in January 2017, and is for leading the next phase of responsible for manufacturing Sales Manager, North India: responsible for company RBs transformation, including operations and the supply General Manager, Indian secretarial and legal compliance the integration of IFCN systems chain, further integration of Southern Region: and Regional matters across RB.
with RBs, upgrading and IFCN supply, enhancing our Marketing Director, South Asia.
deploying finance systems supply technology capabilities Rupert began his career as a In 1999, he was appointed and enhancing the Companys and driving our focus on safety, lawyer in private practice.
In Global Category Director, Pest technological capabilities.
1989 he joined US law firm Control.
Following the merger Morrison & Foerster, working Seth joined RB from PepsiCo Mike joined RB from Amazon, of Reckitt & Colman and in San Francisco and London, where he spent three and a where he spent three years as Benckiser, he assumed the role and from 1994 he worked for half years as SVP and Chief VP of Worldwide Engineering.
of Senior Vice President, Home Lovells in London.
In 1995 he Information Officer, Europe Prior to this, Mike spent Care.
He was appointed SVP, joined SmithKline Beecham and Sub-Saharan Africa.
Prior several years with Nestl.
His Regional Director, Northern as Senior Counsel for mergers to this Seth spent 12 years in last role with the company Europe in 2001 and in July and acquisitions and other a number of senior IS roles at was as Chief Technical Officer 2006 he was promoted to corporate matters.
When Pepsi, including leading Global for Nestl Germany.
SmithKline Beecham and Business Solutions and IT Rakesh was appointed GlaxoWellcome merged to form Transformation programmes.
GlaxoSmithKline, Rupert was appointed Senior Vice President Other Executive As part of RBs new strategy and General Counsel.
In 2008, Committee members forsustainable outperformance, Rupert became Group General who served in the year in January 2018 Rakesh was Counsel of BP plc, holding that also appointed President position until he joined RB.
Amedeo Fasano, Chief of RBs Health business, Supply Officer, joined the headquartered in Slough.
Company in 1997, and will retire in June 2019, following his handover which occurred at the end of 2018, to Mike Duijser, current Executive Committee member and Chief Supply Officer.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 62 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Rob fide Groot Adrian Hennah Gurveen Singh Adi Sehgal President, Hygiene Home Chief Financial Officer Chief Human Resources Chief Operating Officer, Officer Health Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Dutch British Indian Indian Company tenure Company tenure Company tenure Company tenure 30 years Five years 25 years 24 years Experience Experience Experience Experience Joined RB in 1988.
After Joined RB in January 2013 Joined RB in 1993 as HR Director Joined RB in 1994 as a international roles in marketing as Chief Financial Officer India and was promoted to the management trainee in India.
and sales he became General Designate, and was appointed role of Manpower Planning After various roles in sales and Manager, The Netherlands, then CFO in February 2013.
marketing he moved to his SVP, Regional Director, Eastern Following the merger of Reckitt first General Manager role in He previously spent six years Europe and was appointed & Colman and Benckiser, 2009.
He was appointed SVP at Smith & Nephew plc as CFO Global Category Officer, Gurveen returned to India as North Asia in 2012 and in 2015 and four years at Invensys, Surface, Dish and Home Care HR Director South Asia.
In he was promoted to Global the international engineering before being appointed EVP, 2007, she moved to Regional Category Officer Health.
Adrian also spent North America & Australia.
In HRD East Asia in Singapore Adi became EVP Infant & Child 18 years at GlaxoSmithKline January 2012 Rob became EVP and was promoted to Area Nutrition with responsibility for plc, one of the worlds largest of the ENA area, responsible HRD DVM in 2010 based in the leading the onboarding of MJN pharmaceutical companies, for North America, Europe, UK.
In 2012 she moved back into RB and the integration of holding a number of senior Russia, CIS and ANZ.
to Singapore to become Area the IFCN category into Health.
management and financial HRD LAPAC before moving to In January 2018 Rob was roles.
He previously worked at In January 2018, he was her role as Area HR Director appointed President of RBs PwC then Price Waterhouse appointed EVP Health DVM based in Dubai in 2015.
Hygiene Home business, for four years in both audit for Developing Markets headquartered in Amsterdam.
and consultancy and also for In January 2018 Gurveen and E-commerce.
Stadtsparkasse Koeln, the was appointed Chief Human Adi became Chief Operating German regional bank.
He is a Non-Executive Before joining RB Gurveen held In addition to his responsibilities Director of RELX plc.
various HR roles in the hotel and for Developing Markets and consumer goods industries.
E-commerce, Adi is responsible for the business operations across Europe and America.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 63
