Report of the Directors The Directors present their Annual Report and audited Financial Directors interests Statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018 A statement of Directors interests in the share capital of the to the Shareholders of the Company.
Directors Details of Executive Directors options to subscribe for shares in The Directors who held office during the year and those the Company are included on page 116 in the audited part of serving at the date of this report are: the Directors Remuneration Report.
During the year, none of the Directors had a material interest in Adrian Bellamy Stood down following conclusion of RBs AGM on 3 May 2018 any derivative or financial instrument relating to the Companys shares.
Details of the Directors remuneration and service Adrian Hennah agreements are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Andr Lacroix Resigned on 31 December 2018 Report on pages 93 to 117.
Andrew Bonfield Appointed on 1 July 2018 No Director has a material interest in any contract of Chris Sinclair significance as that term is defined by the FCA to which the Elane Stock Appointed on 1 September 2018 Company, or any of its subsidiary undertakings, is a party.
Judy Sprieser Stood down following conclusion of RBs AGM on 3 May 2018 Takeover directive Ken Hydon Stood down following conclusion of RBs AGM The Company is required to disclose certain additional on 3 May 2018 information required by s992 of the Companies Act 2006 Mary Harris CA 2006 which implemented the EU Takeover Directive.
The following sets out disclosures not covered elsewhere Mehmood Khan Appointed on 1 July 2018 in this Annual Report.
Nicandro Durante Pam Kirby The Boards power to appoint Directors is contained in the Companys Articles of Association the Articles.
The Articles Rakesh Kapoor stipulate an appointed Director must submit themselves for Warren Tucker election at the first AGM following their appointment.
In addition, all Directors are required to offer themselves for The biographical details of the current Directors are listed on re-election every three years.
However, in accordance with the pages 58 to 61. principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, Directors submit themselves annually and will resubmit We announced on 4 January 2019 that Warren Tucker will not themselves at the forthcoming AGM.
stand for re-election at the Companys 2020 AGM and will retire from the Board following the Companys 2020 AGM.
The Board is responsible for the management of the business of the Company and may exercise all the powers of the On 16 January 2019, we announced Rakesh Kapoor will retire Company subject to the provisions of the Companys Articles as CEO by the end of 2019.
The Board has initiated a formal and with regard to their statutory duties as Directors under process to appoint Rakeshs successor, considering both CA 2006. internal and external candidates.
The Articles contain specific provisions and restrictions regarding the Companys power to borrow money.
Powers relating to the alteration of share capital are also included in the Articles and Shareholders are asked to renew such authorities each year at the AGM.
A copy of the Articles is available from the Companys website at www.
com or can be obtained upon written request from the Company Secretary or from the UK Registrar of Companies.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 118 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles, the There are no restrictions on the voting rights attached to the Companys Articles may be amended by a special resolution of Companys ordinary shares or the transfer of securities other the Companys Shareholders.
than certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws, for example, insider trading law: in There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or accordance with the EU Market Abuse Regulation, certain terminate upon a change of control of the Company following employees require the approval of the Company to deal in a takeover, such as commercial contracts, bank agreements, the Companys ordinary shares.
property lease arrangements and employee share plans.
None of these are deemed to be significant in terms of their potential There are no restrictions on the voting rights attached to the impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
Companys ordinary shares or the transfer of securities in the Company except, in the case of transfers of securities: There are no significant agreements between the Company that certain restrictions may from time to time be and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover trading laws : and bid, except that provisions of the Companys share plans may cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest on pursuant to the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing a takeover.
Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the There is no information that the Company would be required Companys ordinary shares.
to disclose about persons with whom it has contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business of No person holds securities in the Company which carry special the Company.
voting rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders Dividend of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer In July 2018, the Directors resolved to pay an interim dividend of securities or on voting rights.
of 70.5 pence per ordinary share 2017: 66.6 pence, which was paid to Shareholders on 27 September 2018.
Allotment of shares In accordance with CA 2006, Directors may only allot shares or The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year of 100.2 grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares pence per share 2017: 97.7 pence which, together with the if authorised to do so by Shareholders at a general meeting.
interim dividend, makes a total for the year of 170.7 pence per share 2017: 164.3 pence.
The authority granted to the Directors at the 2018 AGM under s551 CA 2006 will expire at the conclusion of this years AGM.
The final dividend, if approved by the Shareholders, will be paid At the 2019 AGM, a resolution will be proposed to the on 23 May 2019 to Shareholders on the register at the close of Shareholders to renew the Directors authority to allot equity business on 23 April 2019. shares representing approximately one-third of the Companys issued share capital as at the latest practicable date prior to the Share capital publication of the Notice of AGM.
As at 31 December 2018, the Companys issued share capital consisted of 736,535,179 ordinary shares of 10 pence each, In accordance with the Investment Association Share Capital of which 707,501,818 were with voting rights and 29,033,361 Management Guidelines, Directors will once again seek ordinary shares were held in treasury.
Details of changes authority to allot further ordinary shares, in connection with to the ordinary shares issued and of options and awards a pre-emptive offer by way of a rights issue, up to a further granted during the year are set out in Notes 23 and 24 one-third of the Companys existing issued share capital on the to the Financial Statements.
The authorities sought would, if granted, expire at the earlier of six months after the Companys next accounting The Articles contain the rights and obligations attached to the reference date, or at the conclusion of the AGM of the Companys ordinary shares.
Company held in 2020, whichever is the sooner.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 119 Report of the Directors continued Under s561 CA 2006, Shareholders have a right of first refusal At the 2019 AGM, the Directors will seek to renew the in relation to certain issues of new shares.
A special resolution authority granted to them.
Such authority, if approved, will also be proposed to renew the Directors power to make will be limited to a maximum of 70 million ordinary shares, non-pre-emptive issues for cash up to a nominal amount representing less than 10% of the Companys issued ordinary representing less than 10% of the Companys issued share share capital excluding treasury shares calculated as at the capital as at the latest practicable date prior to the publication latest practicable date prior to publication of the Notice of of the Notice of AGM.
The resolution would also permit AGM, and sets the minimum and maximum prices which may Directors, within the same aggregate limit, to sell for cash, be paid.
shares that may be held by the Company in treasury.
The Companys present intention is to hold shares acquired In accordance with the Pre-Emption Groups Statement under such authority in treasury to satisfy outstanding awards ofPrinciples, the Investment Association Share Capital under employee share incentive plans.
Management Guidelines and the Pensions and Lifetime SavingsAssociations Corporate Governance Policy and Voting Employees Guidelines 2018, the Directors confirm their intention that, During 2018, the Group employed an average of 42,400 2017: other than in relation to a rights issue, no more than 5% of 40,400 employees worldwide, of whom 3,654 2017: 3,431 theissued ordinary share capital of the Company, exclusive of were employed in the UK.
treasury shares, will be issued for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis and no more than 7.5% of the share capital of the The Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunity Company, exclusive of treasury shares, will be allotted for cash in employment: no applicant or employee receives less under a non-pre-emptive basis over a rolling three-year period favourable treatment on the grounds of nationality, age, without prior consultation with Shareholders, in each case gender, religion, race, ethnicity or disability.
other than in connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment which is announced contemporaneously The Group recognises its responsibilities to disabled persons with the allotment or which has taken place in the preceding and endeavours to assist them to make their full contribution six-month period and is disclosed in the announcement of atwork.
Where employees become disabled, every practical theallotment.
effort is made to allow them to continue in their jobs or to provide retraining in suitable alternative work.
Since the 2017 AGM, the Company has in line with best practice recommendations split the s561 resolution into two It is essential to the continued improvement in efficiency and separate resolutions.
At this years AGM the resolution will productivity throughout the Group that each employee again be proposed as two separate resolutions.
The first understands the Groups strategies, policies and procedures.
resolution seeks authorisation for 5% of the issued ordinary share capital to be issued on an unrestricted basis, whilst the Open and regular communication with employees at all levels second resolution seeks authority for the additional 5% of the isan essential part of the management process.
A continuing issued ordinary share capital to be used for an acquisition or a programme of training and development reinforces the Groups specified capital investment.
This authority will maintain the commitment to employee development.
Companys flexibility in relation to future share issues, including issues required to finance business opportunities, should Regular departmental meetings are held where opinions of appropriate circumstances arise.
employees are sought on a variety of issues.
The Group operates multi-dimensional internal communications Authority to purchase own shares programmes which include the provision of a Group intranet Authority was granted to Directors at the 2018 AGM to and the publication of regular Group newsletters.
repurchase shares in the market and this authority remains valid until the conclusion of this years AGM.
There were no share repurchases during 2018.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 120 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Page Group incentive schemes reinforce financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the business.
Employees Acquisitions and disposals 192 typically have three to five performance objectives which are Awards under employee share schemes 186-190 directly linked to their job and their specific contribution to the Corporate Governance Statement including internal overall performance of the Group.
In addition, presentations control and risk management statements 68-75 and videos are given to employees around the Group on Directors interests in the share capital of publication of the Groups financial results.
the Company 117 The Board encourages employees to become Shareholders Statement of Directors Responsibilities, including disclosure of information to the Auditor 123 andto participate in the Groups employee share ownership schemes, should they so wish.
Savings-related share plans Disclosure of greenhouse gas GHG emissions 16 covering most of the world give employees the opportunity to Employment policy and employee involvement 120 acquire shares in the Company by means of regular savings.
Engagement with employees, suppliers, customers and others 12-23 Political donations Environmental, social and governance ESG matters 12-23 Authority is sought each year from Shareholders, on a precautionary basis, to approve political donations and incur Financial risk management and financial instruments 166-175 political expenditures in accordance with the requirements of Future developments in the business 1-57 Part 14 CA 2006 as the definitions in the Act are broad.
Post balance sheet events 192 No political donations or expenditure of the type requiring Research and development activities 12-23 disclosure under s366 and s367 of CA 2006 were made in Shareholder information 222-224 theyear ended 31 December 2018 nor are any contemplated.
Sustainability and corporate responsibility 12-23 Viability Statement 56-57 Independent Auditor The External Auditor, KPMG LLP KPMG, has indicated its Information on subsidiaries of the Company, including overseas willingness to continue in office and a resolution that KPMG branches, can be found in Note 11 Subsidiary Undertakings to be reappointed as External Auditor for the financial year the Parent Company Financial Statements, from page 203. ending 31 December 2019 will be proposed at the AGM on 9 May 2019.
There is no additional information requiring disclosure under Listing Rule 9.8.
Further disclosures Further information, including information fulfilling the further Substantial shareholdings disclosure requirements contained in CA 2006, Schedule 7 of As at 31 December 2018 and as at 18 March 2019, pursuant the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts to DTR5 of the FCAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency and Reports Regulations 2008, Part 3 of the Companies Rules, the Company had received the following notices of Miscellaneous Reporting Regulations 2018 and the FCAs substantial interests 3% or more in the total voting rights Listing Rules and Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of the Company: can be found in the following sections of the Annual Report Date of last TR-1 Nature of % of voting for the period ended 31 December 2018, which are Holder notification interest rights incorporated into the Report of the Directors by reference: Massachusetts Financial Services Company and 1 or its subsidiaries 16 January 2013 Indirect 5.00 1 Under a s. 793 CA 2006 request Massachusetts Financial Services Company confirmed on 26 February 2019 that its aggregate holding had increased to 112,576,564 shares and 4,179,816 American Depositary Receipts ADRs.
The voting percentage was not disclosed.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 121 Report of the Directors continued Corporate Governance Statement Annual General Meeting AGM In compliance with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency The forthcoming AGM of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc will be Rules 7.2.
1, the disclosures required by DTR 7.2.
7R held on 9 May 2019 at 11.15am at the London Heathrow and 7.2.
8A are set out in this Report of the Directors and in the Marriott Hotel, Bath Road, Hayes, Middlesex UB3 5AN.
Corporate Governance Statement on pages 68 to 75 which together with the Statement of Directors Responsibilities are A separate Notice of Meeting, setting out the resolutions to be incorporated by reference into this Report of the Directors.
proposed to Shareholders, is available at www.
The Board considers that each of the resolutions is in the best Application of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 interests of the Company and the Shareholders as a whole.
We report against the requirements of the UK Corporate The Directors unanimously recommend that Shareholders vote Governance Code the Code 2016 issued by the Financial in favour of all the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of Reporting Council FRC.
A revised code was published in July 2018, which will become By Order of the Board effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
Whilst reporting against the 2018 Code is not Rupert Bondy yet mandatory, the Board has and will continue to examine its Company Secretary current practices in relation to the requirements of the 2018 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc Code and some of the new provisions have already been 103-105 Bath Road adopted and are referred to in this Annual Report.
Slough, Berkshire SL1 3UH For the year in review, our high standards of compliance with Company registration number: 6270876 the 2016 Code remain, and details of how the Company has Legal Entity Identifier: 5493003JFSMOJG48V108 applied the 2016 Code principles and provisions can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 64 to 75.
18 March 2019 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 122 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018
