Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic objectives, targets and key performance indicators Our strategy, based around the principles of better business, better society and better environment, is designed to help us deliver on our purpose, to help people have healthier lives and happier homes.
better business better society better environment The better business element of The better society element of our The better environment element ourstrategy has four pillars, which strategy is about how we meet our ofour strategy sets out how we focus RBon faster-growing markets responsibilities in relation to our minimise our emissions, water use and categories, and enable us communities and our products.
and waste, while ensuring we source tooutperform.
Weare known for outperforming responsibly and innovate to produce in business and we also aim to more sustainable products.
outperform expectations in social impact investment.
Our future priorities Within this section we report on how we performed against our priorities in each area for 2018.
Moving forward we will concentrate on the following priorities.
Address the major Build a clear Drive strong gross Continue investing in value-creation reputation for safety, margins through the capabilities, e-commerce opportunity in the quality and regulatory right portfolio and resources, and our structurally advantaged, compliance SQRC category choice R&D and innovation fast-growing and and deliver margin pipeline while sustaining high-margin infant accretive innovations our top-of-class nutrition category operating margins Identify powerful Focus on lowIncrease the Prioritise our work social causes and penetration, highercontribution that in attracting the skills develop purpose-led growth categories innovation makes we need to achieve our innovations with superior while delivering better to our growth rates future growth objectives, product solutions product solutions in by leveraging the while continuing to premium categories combination of improve our inclusion to a growing base of our global leading and diversity middle-class consumers brands and local innovation hubs Achieve the highest Ensure our digital standards of and e-commerce governance and excellence continues oversight as a Board to be a key contributor by ensuring we are a to growth leader in sustainability and ethical behaviour Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 17 Strategic objectives, targets and key performance indicators continued better business Our focus areas and KPIs in 2018 Organisation and culture Key brands Our people are what make us outperform.
Respecting We invest heavily in our portfolio of market-leading them, keeping them safe and developing their skills brands.
They provide over 80% of our revenue and and careers are essential if we are to be successful.
We recognise and embrace the value that a diverse engaged and motivated workforce can bring.
Virtuous earnings model We focus on higher-margin initiatives and rigorous control Priority markets of our costs.
Through our virtuous earnings model, this These are the markets which have the highest absolute funds our investment in our brands, capabilities and growth potential for us and where we see the greatest development, and enables us to expand our revenue opportunity to win.
They are weighted towards andsustain our Operating Margin.
developing markets which have greater economic growth, growing middle classes and more scope to increase market penetration.
Organisation and culture Lost Work Day Accident Rate LWDAR 20% 2016 2015 0.080 2017 24% 2016 0.071 2018 25% 2017 0.121 2018 0.084 Definition: The percentage of women in senior management team roles at Definition: Number of incidents resulting in at least one lost day of work per 100,000 31 December.
Target: Continued decrease of LWDAR rate.
Our policies Anti-bribery and corruption Employee policies Our policy is that all RB companies, employees and contractors RBs Code of Conduct governs standards of conduct in must comply with the anti-bribery, anti-corruption and relation to our employees, as well as our stakeholders.
In competition laws of all countries in which they operate.
addition, RB has policies committing to equal opportunities Directors and managers must ensure that the employees and at work and to providing a safe and healthy working contractors they supervise are aware of and comply with this environment.
Health and safety performance is monitored policy.
All employees and contractors must certify annually that through our Group Occupational Health and Safety they have complied with our Code of Conduct and the Audit Management system, enabling us to investigate any incidents Committee reviews Internal Audit findings in relation to this.
and take any necessary action.
We have a Speak Up policy and process, allowing any employee or third party to confidentially report a violation of the Code of Conduct, local law or regulation, or unethical behaviour.
com responsibility policies-and-reports Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 18 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements What we How we said wed do... delivered it... Organisation and culture Complete the reorganisation into two new Our new, more focused and accountable operating structure is business units, including the full integration firmlyembedded within RB.
During 2018, we integrated MJN into ofMJN.
Continue to strengthen our cyber security and Focusing on the issues of disruption and breaching of privacy rights, our safety and compliance capabilities.
wehave implemented a robust and appropriate level of protection for ourbusiness model.
Continue to drive improvements in health and We continue to embed our health and safety culture through rigorous safety, including rolling out a health and safety auditing, support and training.
In 2018, we enhanced our training culture survey to all sites.
packages, held safety day initiatives, and conducted global health and safety e-learning for all employees.
Pilot a new system to give us a best practice We successfully developed and piloted a new Product Lifecycle process for managing the product life cycle.
Management system creating the backbone of product data from development through to manufacturing and interfacing systems.
Continue to embed DARE Develop, Attract, Our DARE programme made good progress in 2018.
Retain and Engage talented women and driveinitiatives to improve gender balance.
Key brands Continue to develop innovative solutions, RBs new Centre for Excellence in Hull is the largest single investment in whichtarget underserved consumer needs.
It will support the creation and testing of cuttingedge consumer health innovations and complement RBs other major R&D facilities around the world.
Prioritise investment towards the respective We reignited our innovation culture in 2018 with new product initiatives in Powerbrands of Health and Hygiene Home.
Priority markets Prioritise management and financial resource In 2010, RBs business was around 25% in developing markets and 75% towards our priority markets, with a particular indeveloped markets.
We now have a more balanced 40% vs 60% focus on China and the US, as these are key distribution.
IFCNs strong presence in developing markets, especially in IFCNmarkets.
China, has significantly enhanced this geographic footprint.
Address channel fragmentation and deliver In 2018 we made excellent progress in providing solutions across new innovative solutions to our consumers, in channels.
We have been particularly successful in using China as an whichever channel they choose to shop.
incubator for our e-commerce strategy.
Virtuous earnings model Our achievements in 2018: Gross Net Revenue: 3% growth pro-forma and LFL Margin Gross Margin: 60.6% reported Operating Margin: 26.7% adjusted Net Unique Fixed Cost Revenue Culture Operating Margin BEI Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 19 Strategic objectives, targets and key performance indicators continued better society Our focus areas and KPIs Purpose-led brands Social impact investment Improving health and hygiene through our product We recognise the role we must play in making a positive and brand educational programmes, and our corporate impact and transforming the health and lives of social investment.
Our social impact investment strategy focuses on four areas that have a Human rights direct connection with our business: sexual health and rights, malnutrition and stunting, health and hygiene, and Positively enhancing human rights and responsible the environment.
business practices across our value chain.
Stewardship Ensuring our products are safe, compliant and effective, and reducing their impacts on the environment.
Purpose-led brands Product innovation 2015 237m 2015 6.0% 2016 365m 2016 13.2% 2 2017 568m 2017 18.2% 3 2018 765m 2018 18.5% Definition: Total number of people informed through health and hygiene messaging Definition: Total Net Revenue from more sustainable products.
1 Target to 2025 : Inform 1 billion people through health and hygiene educational programmes and behaviour change communications.
1 Having met our 2020 target to reach 400 million people Social impact investment through brand programmes and educational campaigns in 2017, we are now aiming even higher with our ambition to 2015 6.5m impact the greatest possible number of people with health and hygiene messaging.
2016 8.0m 2 Re-calculation of 2017 Sustainable Net Revenue % previously 19.4%.
See Sustainable Innovation Insight www.
com 2017 10.5m responsibility insights for further details.
3 As a percentage of RB Net Revenue excluding our Infant and 2018 14.4m Child Nutrition IFCN category Net Revenue.
Definition: Direct contributions made as social impact investment.
See more Target to 2025: Reinvest 1% of profit in social impact investment.
com responsibility Our policies Consumer safety Human rights Our Consumer Safety Policy commits us to complying with Our Human Rights and Responsible Business Policy is based on relevant laws, assessing our products, packaging, labelling and the International Bill of Human Rights and the International ingredients, and evaluating consumer safety issues.
We apply Labour Organisations ILO Declaration on Fundamental consistent global standards, freely disclose consumer safety Principles and Rights at Work.
We also follow the UN Guiding information and check that our products comply with our Principles on Business and Human Rights and Organisation for Restricted Substances List RSL.
Economic Co-operation and Development OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 20 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements What we How we said wed do... delivered it... Purpose-led brands Continue to bring our purpose to life through Our brands target social impact through the products and partnerships ourbrands.
Vanish identified the environmental impact from clothes ending up in landfills.
Its love clothes for longer campaign encouraged people to think twice before discarding clothes.
Develop a new target for brand programme Our revised aim is to inform 1 billion people through health and hygiene reach, having achieved our 400million goal two educational programmes and behaviour change communications by 2025. years early.
Scale our methodology for measuring the impact Our social impact initiatives are tracked using the Goodera measurement of our programmes.
dashboard with assurance by Corporate Citizenship.
Human rights Complete the implementation of our new We finalised our online programme management platform for programme management platform.
Increase the scope and scale of our We conducted over 170 supply chain audits including manufacturing sites auditprogramme.
Engage with key suppliers to improve awareness We partnered with key suppliers in South Asia, the Middle East and Africa and understanding of our requirements and to strengthen awareness of human rights and improve performance.
Identify and explore areas requiring further focus, We are tackling systemic risks to human rights such as recruitment of such as supplier grievance mechanisms, ethical migrant labour where debt bondage can lead to modern slavery.
We are recruitment, impact measurement and additional developing supplier grievance mechanisms for workers and improved supplier categories.
measurement to better capture our social impacts.
Identify a strategic human rights partner to We are partnering with the Danish Institute for Human Rights to develop enhance the effectiveness of our human our human rights programme in 2019. rightsprogramme.
Product stewardship Complete the review of the remaining We reviewed more than 8,900 product formulations across RB.
formulations in our product portfolio.
Advance our ingredient management strategy We updated our RSL controls, strengthening operating procedures and through an updated RSL Restricted Substances knowledge management systems.
A mandatory, Company-wide RSL List policy and how we roll out ingredient e-learning module is building capabilities and compliance.
transparency across our global product portfolio.
Make progress towards our goal of having 100% We introduced programmes across our major brands to transparently ingredient transparency while continuing to work describe ingredients.
In 2018, RB joined the Chemical Footprint Project, towards publication of the RSL by 2020. benchmarking ourselves against peers on chemicals management.
Social impact investment Reshape our strategy following acquisition We now focus on areas that have a direct connection to our ofMJN.
business: sexual health and rights: malnutrition and stunting: health and hygiene, and the environment.
Product innovation Continue making our products more sustainable In 2018, we joined the UK Plastics Pact and the Ellen MacArthur and drive further increases in revenue from more Foundations New Plastics Economy.
These trailblazing, collaborative sustainable products.
initiatives are tackling greater recycling, reduced use of plastic and enabling a circular economy for plastics.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 21 Strategic objectives, targets and key performance indicators continued better environment Our focus areas and KPIs Greenhouse gas GHG emissions Water Reducing GHG emissions across our product life cycle, Reducing the water impacts of products and reducing through energy efficiency, renewable energy and water use in manufacturing, especially in water-scarce product innovation.
Waste Responsible sourcing Reducing manufacturing waste and ensuring zero Responsibly sourcing our natural raw materials.
manufacturing waste is sent to landfill.
1 3 GHG emissions per unit of production Water impact per dose of product 2015 14 % 2015 9 % 2016 22 % 2016 6 % 2017 31 % 2017 8 % 2018 35 % 2018 4% Definition: The percentage reduction in GHG emissions per unit of production, against Definition: Total water used during the products life cycle, from material sourcing to our 2012 baseline.
disposal or recycling, adjusted to reflect water scarcity at each stage, and divided by the number of product doses manufactured, against our 2012 baseline.
1 2 Carbon footprint per dose of product Sending zero waste to landfill 2015 1% 2015 89% 2016 0% 2016 97% 2017 2 % 2017 100% 2018 4 % 2018 93% Definition: The percentage reduction in our total carbon footprint per dose of product Definition: The percentage of our factories achieving zero waste to landfill, including manufactured, against our 2012 baseline.
both hazardous and non-hazardous waste.
1 1 Water use per unit of production Manufacturing waste per unit of production 2015 30 % 2015 15 % 2016 32 % 2016 20 % 2017 37 % 2017 21 % 2018 38 % 2018 26 % Definition: The percentage reduction in total water consumption per unit of Definition: The percentage reduction in manufacturing waste per unit of production, production, against our 2012 baseline.
Our policies Environmental policy Responsible sourcing policy This sets out our objectives for reducing our This commits us to ensuring that natural raw materials in our environmental impacts.
It requires us to comply with products are produced in a manner that meets or goes beyond relevant legislation, consider environmental issues in applicable laws and regulations, respects human rights, keydecisions, and engage with multiple stakeholders safeguards health and safety, protects the environment and forbetter environmental performance.
1 Excluding our Infant and Child Nutrition IFCN business See RB Insights www.
com responsibility insights and RB Reporting Criteria Basis for Preparation www.
com responsibility policies-and-reports for details.
2 2018 year end zero waste to landfill performance includes newly acquired Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB IFCNsites.
22 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 3 Further information can be found in our Water Resources Insight sheet.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements What we How we said wed do... delivered it... Greenhouse gas GHG emissions Identify further opportunities to reduce GHG Advanced energy management is reducing our GHG emissions, emissions across our sites, in particular by with investment in energy improvements for processes, equipment increasing our use of renewable energy and and facilities.
Our commitment to renewable energy is demonstrated by our investment in solar energy, for example, at our plants in Belle Mead, Cali and Mauripur, together with the Power Purchase Agreement we signed for our Mysore plant in the Indian state of Karnataka.
This delivers 75% less carbon emissions.
Sign up to RE100, a global initiative bringing We joined the global RE100 initiative.
Over 30% of our manufacturing together companies that are committed to using sites currently use energy from renewable sources.
Evaluate and revise new GHG emissions targets, In 2018 we committed to adopting Science Based Targets.
This champions including IFCN sites.
targets in line with climate science and boosts transition to a low-carbon economy to enable more resilient future growth.
2018 marked the eighth consecutive year of our participation in CDP formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Our 2018 score of Amaintained our above-sector average position and reflected our value chain and governance approach.
Water Further enhance the water efficiency of We are minimising our impact on water in our value chain and product our operations.
lifecycles where water is used with our products as well as within the products themselves.
We identified new ways to recycle and reuse water, with several sites now achieving zero liquid discharge.
For these, all waste water is purified and recycled.
Elsewhere we upgraded waste water discharge facilities at sites in India, China and Thailand.
Waste Further reduce waste and increase the reuse and We are committed to reducing the waste our sites generate and to recycling of waste.
improving the ways waste is treated, aiming for zero waste to landfill.
93% of our manufacturing sites are already achieving this goal through increased recycling and reprocessing.
Our programme to reduce the use of plastics is progressing well.
Our Sustainable Innovation Calculator measures both the amount and type ofpackaging used.
This helps reduce packaging weight, consider more sustainable materials and increase recyclability.
Responsible sourcing Further increase the scope and effectiveness We increased the proportion of our global palm oil supplies that are of our responsible sourcing programme in areas traceable to mills to 88%, excluding surfactants.
This includes palm such as palm oil and latex.
Integrate MJN into our responsible raw materials RB is now part of the Dairy Sustainability Framework which tracks delivery sourcing programme and ensure compliance of 11 farming sustainability topics with dairy suppliers and stakeholders.
programmes are in place for high-risk materials.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 23
