Board of Directors The Board consists of a balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors who together have collective accountability to RBs Shareholders.
Rakesh Kapoor Adrian Hennah Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer NOM 7 5 Chris Sinclair Nicandro Durante Chairman Senior Independent Director NOM REM CRS 3 REM NOM CRS 5 Mary Harris Non-Executive Director REM NOM 3 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 58 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Committees Chair REM Remuneration 10 Tenure in years NOM Nomination AUD Audit CRS CRSEC Andrew Bonfield Non-Executive Director AUD NOM 1 Mehmood Khan Elane Stock Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director CRS 1 REM 1 Pam Kirby Non-Executive Director CRS AUD NOM 3 Warren Tucker Non-Executive Director AUD 8 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 59 Board of Directors continued Rakesh Kapoor Nicandro Durante NOM 7 REM NOM CRS 5 Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent Director Nationality Nationality Indian British Brazilian Italian Skills and experience Skills and experience Rakesh joined RB in 1987 and held a number of regional and central Nicandro was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in December marketing roles with the Company.
In 2006 he was appointed EVP 2013 and became Senior Independent Director in January 2019.
He Category with responsibility for global category management, R&D, brings strong leadership skills and international business experience media, market research and strategic alliances.
He holds degrees in Finance, Economics and Business appointed CEO in 2011 and brings to the Board a wealth of business Administration.
experience and knowledge developed through his experience with He started his career working in finance in Brazil and joined British the Company.
American Tobacco plc BAT in 1981.
Whilst at BAT he has worked in Rakesh holds an MBA from XLRI, Jamshedpur and a Chemical the UK, Hong Kong and Brazil and has held a number of senior Engineering degree from the Birla Institute of Technology positions, including Regional Director for Africa and the Middle East.
He was appointed as Chief Operating Officer prior to being appointed as Chief Executive Officer of BAT in March 2011.
Rakesh will retire as CEO of the Company by the end of 2019.
In September 2018, Nicandro announced that he will retire as CEO of BAT with effect from 1 April 2019.
Chris Sinclair Current external appointments NOM REM CRS 3 Chairman Chief Executive Officer of BAT since March 2011.
Nationality American Mary Harris REM NOM 3 Non-Executive Director Skills and experience Chris joined RB as a Non-Executive Director in February 2015 and Nationality was appointed Chairman of the Board in May 2018.
British Chris has a wealth of experience in Chairman roles.
Chris is the Skills and experience former Chairman and CEO of Mattel, Inc.
Previously, he served asCEO for several private-equity backed companies, including Mary was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in February 2015.
Caribiner International and Quality Food Centers now part of She became the Chair of the Remuneration Committee in November theKroger Co..
Earlier in his career, he held various senior 2017.
Formerly a Partner at McKinsey & Company, Mary brings to management positions with PepsiCo, including Chairman and CEO the Board substantial experience in consumer and retail business in of Pepsi Cola Co. and Chairman of PepsiCo International Foods and China, South East Asia and Europe.
Beverages, which gave him the platform to showcase his strong Mary is a graduate of the University of Oxford MA Politics, global branding skills.
He is also a former Director of Foot Locker, Philosophy and Economics and Harvard Business School.
Inc. and Perdue Farms, Inc. Current external appointments Chris is a graduate of the University of Kansas and the Tuck Non-Executive Director of ITV plc.
Member of Supervisory Board of Schoolat Dartmouth College.
Adrian Hennah Andrew Bonfield 5 Chief Financial Officer AUD NOM 1 Non-Executive Director Nationality Nationality British British Skills and experience Skills and experience Adrian joined RB in January 2013 as Chief Financial Officer Andrew joined RB as a Non-Executive Director in July 2018 and Designate, before being appointed CFO in February 2013.
Adrian became Chair of the Audit Committee on 1 January 2019.
Andrew has valuable financial experience, having spent six years at Smith is a Chartered Accountant and brings significant financial expertise & Nephew plc as CFO and four years as CFO at Invensys plc.
He also spent 18 years at GlaxoSmithKline plc where he held a number of senior management and financial roles.
He started his In September 2018 he became Chief Financial Officer of Caterpillar career with PwC then Price Waterhouse working in audit and Inc, after serving as Chief Financial Officer of National Grid plc from consultancy and worked with Stadtsparkasse Koeln, the German 2010.
Prior to this he held the position of Chief Financial Officer at regional bank.
Cadbury plc and also served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at Bristol Myers Squibb.
Adrian has a degree in Law from Cambridge University and is a Sloan Fellow of the London Business School.
Current external appointments Chief Financial Officer of Caterpillar Inc since September 2018.
Current external appointments Non-Executive Director of RELX plc.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 60 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Mehmood Khan Elane Stock CRS 1 REM 1 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Nationality Nationality American British American Skills and experience Skills and experience Mehmood was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in July 2018.
Elane joined RB as a Non-Executive Director in September 2018 He is the Vice Chairman and Chief Scientific Officer, Global Research andbecame a member of the Remuneration Committee on and Development, at PepsiCo Inc.
He will retire from that position on 8 November2018.
1 April 2019 and take up a new role as CEO of Life Biosciences Inc. Elane was previously Group President at Kimberly-Clark International where she was responsible for business operations inEMEA, Mehmood previously held the position of President, Global Research Asia-Pacific and Latin America.
Prior to this, Elane was Global & Development Center at Takeda Pharmaceuticals Company.
He was President, Kimberly-Clark Professional with responsibility for the a faculty member at the Mayo Clinic and Mayo Medical School in division selling workplace hygiene and safety products.
Earlier in her Rochester, Minnesota, serving as Consultant Endocrinologist and career, Elane was a partner with McKinsey and Company in the US Director of the Diabetes, Endocrine and Nutritional Trials Unit in the and Ireland.
Elane holds a BA in Political Science from the University of Illinois He earned his medical degree from the University of Liverpool and an MBA, Finance from The Wharton School of the University Medical School and is a Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, ofPennsylvania.
London, and a Fellow of the American College of Endocrinology.
Current external appointments Current external appointments Independent Director of Yum!
Independent Director Vice Chairman and Chief Scientific Officer, Global Research and ofEquifax Inc. Development at PepsiCo.
Director of CorMedix Inc. Director of Indigo Agriculture Inc. Warren Tucker AUD 8 Non-Executive Director Pam Kirby CRS AUD NOM 3 Non-Executive Director Nationality Nationality British British Skills and experience Skills and experience Warren was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in February 2010.
He has extensive Board experience and financial expertise.
Pam joined RB as a Non-Executive Director in February 2015.
She Hewas Executive Director and Chief Finance Officer of Cobham plc was appointed as Chair of the CRSEC Committee in July 2016. from 2003 to 2013 and previously Non-Executive Chairman of Pam brings to the Board valuable knowledge of the healthcare Paypoint plc.
He has also held various senior finance positions at sector.
She served as Chairman of Scynexis Inc until June 2015.
She Cable & Wireless plc and British Airways plc.
was formerly CEO of Quintiles Transnational Corporation and held Warren is a Chartered Accountant and has an MBA from INSEAD.
senior positions in the international healthcare industry at AstraZeneca PLC and Hoffman-La Roche.
Current external appointments Non-Executive Director of Tate & Lyle plc, Thomas Cook She holds a first class BSc honours degree and a PhD in clinical Group PLC, Survitec Topco Limited and the UK Foreign & pharmacology from the University of London.
Current external appointments Non-Executive Director of DCC plc, Victrex plc and Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc.
Member of the Supervisory Board of AkzoNobel N. V. Other Directors who served in the year Adrian Bellamy, Chairman and Non-Executive Director, appointed to the Board in December 1999, and as Chairman inMay 2003.
Did not seek re-election at the 2018 AGM and stepped down as Chairman and Non-Executive Director of theCompany.
Ken Hydon, Non-Executive Director, appointed to the Board inDecember 2003, did not seek re-election at the 2018 AGM and stepped down as Non-Executive Director of the Company.
Committees Chair Judy Sprieser, Non-Executive Director, appointed to the Board REM Remuneration 10 Tenure in years in August 2003, did not seek re-election at the 2018 AGM and stepped down as Non-Executive Director of the Company.
NOM Nomination Andr Lacroix, Non-Executive Director, appointed to the Board AUD Audit in October 2008 and stepped down as Non-Executive Director of the Company on 31 December 2018.
CRS CRSEC Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 61
