S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIC IC RE REP POR ORT T GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 04 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 05 STRATEGIC REPORT 2020 KEY PERFORMANCE MEASURE Our Strategy OBJECTIVES INDICATORS 2018 2017 Developing To create long-term sustainable value for all our stakeholders by Thriving Communities developing thriving communities with high quality homes that We develop thriving communities by creating better EPS increasing EPS 85.3p 70.2p places to live.
There are three strands which support to 95p provide a better way to live.
this work: DPS of 32p 28p 17p DPS Nature for People increasing biodiversity on our developments and connecting communities with Revenue increasing nature on their doorstep: Revenue 1,920m 1,660m to c2.2bn Placemaking for Wellbeing our innovative Placemaking framework sets out eight design Sales Outlets 150 outlets 132 132 principles, which define how we achieve sustainable development on all our sites: and Monies Continued committed investment in local 184m 163m Homes for All building the right homes, in the to fund communities right places to create cohesive and thriving improvements communities.
to local Affordable 1,102 1,014 communities homes delivered Building Responsibly Ensuring our sites are safe places to work, live and ROCE of 25 % ROCE 28.5% 26.0% visit is central to our build operations.
As we continue to help deliver much-needed new homes, Land holding Maintain land 4.5 years 4.5 years we are also striving to constantly improve our years holdings at c4 years quality and customer service, whilst working to protect the environment.
The themes which Waste diverted 95% 96.8% 95.4% support this activity are: from landfill Working Safely and Considerately creating 90% or more healthy, safe and considerate working customer HBF 90% customer environments: 89.1% 88.9% recommend recommend rating rating Putting Customers First putting our customers first and striving for excellence in all Maintain an that we do: and Private appropriate balance reservation rate in availability of 0.67 0.68 Managing Resources creating homes of excluding PRS product in the right enduring quality and working to minimise our locations environmental impacts.
Valuing People Our aim is to inspire future industry talent and to Maintain level of Number of 343 328 support our colleagues at every stage of their trainees at 15% of an trainees career.
The two strands which support this work are: increasing workforce Valuing and Developing People & Partners by training and developing people to succeed: Accident Accident incident rate driving Redrow colleague and partner advocacy incident rate by site maintained at 0.35 0.30 and improving the wellbeing of Redrows people by site 0.3 or below and creating an inclusive workplace: and Inspiring the Next Generation to Build collaborating with partners to positively impact people and communities through education and engagement activities.
S STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION a l e s & M a r n k g e i t s i n e e G l g D p o o v & e e P r n g g a n n n i i u c n l e a n V a l P, d n a L C y l o b g i n s n i s n K d t P o l 06 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 07 STRATEGIC REPORT Our Business Model Our strategy is achieved by channelling our resources through INPUTS our strategic principles and ensuring these are embedded in our relationships with our primary stakeholders.
Land Holdings The quality and location of our land holdings is a vital component to enable us to deliver sustainable and profitable growth.
Our experienced land teams focus on the investment in and promotion of strategic land together with shorter term opportunities receptive to the value we can add through our master planning, placemaking and technical expertise.
Our People Our employees are at the heart of our business and our continued success and growth is achieved through the talent, hard work and dedication of our people.
Our Placemaking Skills We recognise that the setting of our homes is of equal importance to the quality and design of the individual homes themselves.
We aim to ensure our developments enhance the natural features of the landscape as well as connecting to and sharing amenities with local communities.
OUPUTS INPUTS Our Financial Resources Customers Creating long-term Appropriate financial resources are a key enabler to support the delivery of our strategy.
We ensure that our strategic Land Holdings Communities delivery is regularly and clearly communicated to our investors and our relationship banks.
Our People sustainable value Suppliers & Subcontractors Our Placemaking Skills Employees Our Financial Resources Shareholders OUTPUTS Customers Our customers are fundamental to our business and we take great care to research their needs, listen to their feedback and evolve our carefully designed new homes as lifestyles evolve.
Communities We adopt a collaborative approach, engaging with community stakeholders to ensure our developments become thriving communities, delivering better places to live.
Suppliers & Subcontractors We work closely with our experienced suppliers and subcontractors to maintain a strong and reliable supply chain delivering quality products and workmanship.
Employees Our employees are fundamental to our business: we invest in attracting and retaining talented people with a key focus on training and development to enable our people to build rewarding careers and deliver succession planning for the future.
Shareholders Our Shareholders are the primary providers of financial resources enabling us to create long-term sustainable value.
We aim to provide a balance between capital growth and dividend income to our Shareholders.
