STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 08 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 09 STRATEGIC REPORT Thriving Communities WOODFORD GARDEN VILLAGE, CHESHIRE Creating places for people to enjoy now and for years to come.
Woodford Garden Village is set to be one of the biggest developments in the North West over the next ten years: delivering over 900 new homes, as well as a host of brand new facilities all within easy reach of central Manchester.
Based at the historic former aerodrome at Woodford the community with attractive outdoor spaces that At Redrow we believe in building better places to live.
can be enjoyed all year round.
where iconic aircraft such as the Lancaster and Vulcan bombers were manufactured, phase one of Using traditional garden village principals we have this landmark development consists of 145 high Our passion for design, sustainability, innovation and people been able to design a thriving community that has quality homes in a range of sizes from two to five enhanced the surrounding environment.
Sensitive to its idyllic rural location, the ensures we bring this vision to life.
fit seamlessly with the local vernacular, the treedevelopment will feature significant acreage of lined avenues create a picturesque place to live and public open spaces: including traditional village the classic village green, parks and play areas Our extensive experience helps us to understand the wants vibrant city suburbs to form a whole new place for people to greens and promenades that will create a superb provide room to grow.
and needs of growing communities and we use this unique live and a place to feel proud of.
environment for years to come.
This major insight to ensure were always improving what we do.
development required significant planning and all This has not only opened up the space for all to We are incredibly passionate about what we do and we hope elements were carefully considered to ensure enjoy but it has encouraged those living here to our developments will inspire the next generation of Our distinctive high quality homes sit together, with fantastic Woodford retained its iconic history and provided lead a healthy and active lifestyle.
housebuilders and form new communities that provide people community facilities and within stunning natural settings or with a better way to live.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 10 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 11 STRATEGIC REPORT Thriving Communities continued EBBSFLEET GREEN, KENT PLASDWR, CARDIFF Ebbsfleet Green is more than a One of our most ambitious place to live: its a place for projects to date, this 2bn living.
This 100 acre site in Kent garden village will deliver has been developed into a 7,000 homes on over 350 sustainable community where hectares of land over the next everyone feels connected to 15-20 years.
the environment and each other.
Since its inception, every element of Ebbsfleet chance to enjoy a breath of fresh air.
One third of Our vision at Plasdwr is to create a world-class, invested millions of pounds in new bus lanes in and Green has been carefully considered, from looking the development has been left for public open sustainable community that blends the history of around Plasdwr and developed safe cycle routes and after the heritage of the site, to building new streets space and sports fields, enabling residents to the area with the best of modern living, all within a cycle superhighways.
This all combines to encourage that connect residents to the wider area.
stretch their legs and encouraging them to lead a stunning country park setting.
local residents to adopt sustainable transport habits healthy and active lifestyle.
The allotments and from the day they move in.
A key factor in our master plan has been developing The development has provided 920 new homes, orchards have also been designed with sustainable transport links.
Rapid growth throughout which all sit within an attractive setting thats linked sustainability and healthy living in mind.
Residents will also have access to a range of excellent the area has led to a lot of congestion within Cardiff by footpaths, cycleways and tree-lined avenues.
facilities on their doorstep including four primary and the surrounding area.
Our challenge has Theres something here for everyone, with three The village also has space for a community centre, a schools, a secondary school, a health centre, shops, involved helping to solve the citys housing distinct villages, a selection of starter, affordable primary school, shops, a new hotel and a pub.
leisure centres, pubs and restaurants.
This will not only problems whilst trying to avoid adding to the and family homes and a combination of properties Although all of this is within walking distance, provide people with places to go and things to do, it will transport problems.
To achieve this we have worked from our Heritage, Abode and Regent collections.
transport connections have been carefully planned also result in around 3,000 new jobs so residents can closely with The City of Cardiff Council to ensure including the bus route that runs through the work, rest and play without ever leaving the community.
The vibrant village hub is at the heart of the that Plasdwr complements the Local Transport Plan.
development linking residents to the wider area.
community, designed to bring people together and With our ability to see the problems of the present and We have supported extra bus services and new bus provide them with everything they need for All of this combines to create a special community develop solutions for the future, our vision of an stops throughout the development to ensure residents everyday life.
A picturesque village green sits at its that enriches the lives of all who live here.
innovative new garden village has truly been brought are within walking distance of affordable and reliable centre, with space for communal gatherings and a to life at Plasdwr.
We have also STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 12 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 13 STRATEGIC REPORT Thriving Communities continued COLINDALE GARDENS, NORTH LONDON AMINGTON GARDEN VILLAGE, TAMWORTH By opening up the site, Amington Garden Village transforming it into a new reflects Redrows commitment neighbourhood and to put the natural environment connecting it to the at the heart of its surrounding streets, Colindale developments as part of the Gardens is uniting the area as ethos of creating thriving a thriving community.
Colindale Gardens in North London, is a 48 acre site neighbourhood centre, a nursery, nine acres of Redevelopment of the 60 hectare, former golf Amington Garden Village is a prime example of formerly owned by the Metropolitan Police.
Within a public open space and community financial course site was a complex undertaking.
The 1,100 Redrows placemaking principles of creating decade more than 6,000 people will live at contributions.
11m will be invested in transport home scheme has potential for up to a decade of sustainable developments which are great places to Colindale Gardens.
In addition to the 2,900 new around the development including enhancements to production.
homes, across 24 blocks of apartments and Colindale tube station and bus routes in the local A landscape strategy was drawn up to outline how Amington Garden Village offers everything from two townhouses with a residents gym and concierge area.
25 hectares of land would be retained and bedroom properties to substantial five bedroom service, there will be a new neighbourhood centre enhanced as public open space for recreational use family homes.
The result is a community which is with commercial and retail space.
The design aims to retain home to first time buyers, families and rightsizers.
The scheme is designed around a network of existing good quality trees and hedgerows and will outside spaces including walkways, cycle paths, be enhanced by the addition of new trees, shrubs, large open green spaces and the central four acre hedgerows and wetland planting.
park effectively a modern village green for the A new community woodland which will include new community.
footways and cycleways will be created in the south Around 143m of community benefits are being west of the development of c8 hectares along with a provided as a result of the development.
These community orchard and an equipped play area.
include a primary school, a health centre, a new STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 14 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 15 STRATEGIC REPORT Our Markets PLANNING MORTGAGE APPROVALS HOUSING SUPPLY RESIDENTIAL TRANSACTIONS The Government finally published the National Planning Mortgage approvals remain one of the key indicators of NHBC new build starts totalled 134,500 in the year to Residential transactions in England and Wales fell by c2% Policy Framework NPPF at the end of July, after nearly the level of activity in the housing market.
This compares to 140,100 in the equivalent in the 2017 calendar year compared to 2016 but with still three years of consultation.
There are a number of the calendar year 2017 were broadly in line with 2016. period last year, a 4% decrease.
c1.1 million residential property transactions of 40,000 measures within it that should speed up the delivery of or above completed during 2017.
This reflected a weak Even with the base rate increases in November 2017 and This reduction primarily reflects a significant decrease in housing across the country, including a standard secondary market.
August 2018, mortgage rates remain at near historically new build starts in Inner London zones.
methodology for calculating housing need, a new low levels.
There were c48,000 Help To Buy equity loan housing delivery test, and requirements on councils to completions in the year to March 2018.
This was a 21% meet their housing needs, to produce local plans and Seasonally adjusted figures for January 2018 to June increase on the prior year to March 2017 39,800. keep them up to date.
In addition, regulations come into 2018 average 64,000 approvals per month, a 3% force at the beginning of October that provides planning reduction on the equivalent period in 2017. permission for the development of land may not be granted subject to a pre-commencement condition without the written agreement of the applicant to the terms of the condition.
This should help to reduce the number of unnecessary conditions being imposed on planning permissions enabling developers to get on site and deliver housing more quickly.
The number of applications granted in 2018 was down 2% on the previous year.
This was disappointing given the need for new homes and reverses the gently increasing trend seen over the past few years.
Chart 2 Chart 4 Chart 6 Mortgage approvals NHBC build starts, all sectors House Prices Nationwide calendar year No.
- 000 5 15 386 67 379 65 373 64 64 360 63 63 349 4 10 3 2 5 1 14 15 16 17 18 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun 0 0 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Source: Department for Communities and Source: Bank of England, CML 16 16 17 17 17 17 18 15 15 16 16 16 16 17 17 17 17 18 Local Government District Level applications STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 16 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 17 STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans Statement The gross development value of our total land CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK I am delighted to report that Redrow has once again delivered holdings now stands at 20bn giving Redrow an We have excellent products, especially the outstanding platform for continued growth.
Heritage Collection, and demand for our homes is another year of strong growth and record financial results.
Despite Brexit uncertainty and the PEOPLE exceptional summer weather, sales revenue in the As we continue to grow the business we continue to generation which resulted in the Group moving from first 9 weeks is in line with last year.
We expect to add to our workforce, creating a further 100 jobs in a net debt position of 73m at the end of the previous continue to grow our land holdings and increase the 2018.
We now directly employ 2,300 people 2017: financial year to a positive cash position of 63m at number of average outlets in the current year by 5% 2,200, with many thousands more supported the end of June 2018. to 130 2018: 124. indirectly through our subcontractors and suppliers.
Our Return on Capital Employed also improved from Redrow is committed to growing our output to help We have recruited 173 2017: 150 new apprentices, the countrys requirement to increase the number of 26.0% to 28.5% and Return on Equity from 27.7% to trainees and graduates in the last year making 343 new homes built.
We have a very strong forward 28.0%.
in total, an industry leading 15% of the workforce.
order book, first class land holdings, an excellent We have been awarded a Top 100 Apprentice In March 2017 we announced our intention to balance sheet and we are able to react quickly to Employer by the National Apprentice Awards for the increase our dividend payout ratio to 33% over the changing circumstances.
However, there is no doubt fifth consecutive year.
Due to our ongoing strong cash that clarity over Brexit and the future of Help to Buy would improve market sentiment.
Given that clarity, position the Board is proposing a final dividend of Our excellent growth record is due to the ongoing we will continue to deliver.
19p per share for 2018 2017: 11p, making 28p per commitment and hard work of the whole Redrow share for the full year an increase of 65% on the prior workforce together with our subcontractors and year.
This equates to a payout ratio of 33% 2017: suppliers, for which I thank them.
24%, achieving our target ahead of plan.
STEVE MORGAN STEVE MORGAN Chairman Chairman Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting, this will be paid on 13 November 3 September 2018 2018 to shareholders on the register as at close of I am delighted to report that Redrow has once again business on 21 September 2018. delivered another year of strong growth and record financial results, achieved by completing 5,913 new MARKET homes including our Croydon Joint Venture, an Despite the uncertainty surrounding Brexit, demand increase of 9% on the previous year.
for new homes continues to be robust, and overall house price inflation has moderated to a sustainable FINANCIAL RESULTS 2%.
We entered the current year with a strong order Group turnover rose by 16% to 1.92bn 2017: 1.66bn book of 1.14bn, an increase of 110m over the as a result of the increase in legal completions to previous year.
5,913 together combined with a 7% rise in average Mortgage availability is excellent, and with low selling price to 332,300 2017: 309,800.
The interest rates by historic levels, the mortgage market increase in average selling price was mainly due to remains very competitive.
the relatively faster growth of our southern businesses.
Help to Buy continues to support home buyers and the housing industry.
In the last financial year 1,794 Gross profit at 469m was 64m above the 2017 level of our private reservations were secured through and gross margin was in line with last year at 24.4%.
Help to Buy, a similar level to the previous year.
With firm control of costs, operating expenses only LAND AND PLANNING increased by 4m to 87m, resulting in operating During the year we added 7,455 plots to our current expenses reducing as a percentage of turnover from land holdings.
Of these, 2,727 were converted from 5% in 2017 to 4.5% in 2018. our strategic land.
As a result, net of completions Operating profit was 382m, up 19% 2017: 322m, and re-plans, our current land holdings increased by with an operating margin of 19.9% 2017: 19.4%.
Our strategic land holdings also increased by a net 4,300 plots to Pre-tax profits were 380m, up 21% 2017: 315m 30,700 2017: 26,400. including a 5m after tax contribution from our Growing the number of outlets in line with the Croydon Joint Venture.
Earnings per share increased increased land holdings remains a challenge as the by 22% to 85.3p 2017: 70.2p.
journey from outline planning permission to implementable planning permission remains as This excellent trading performance and tight control bureaucratic as ever.
of working capital enabled us to achieve strong cash THE FAIRWAYS, HERNE BAY, KENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 18 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 19 STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executives Review As well as building much-needed new homes we Our annual employee satisfaction survey that Another year of exceptional results.
achieved a record response, reassured us that make significant contributions to the infrastructure overall we are a highly respected employer with of the wider communities in which we work.
Last 95% of our people saying they are proud to work for year we estimate we committed 184m to fund local Redrow.
This said, we continue to look at ways to improvements including new schools, community improve the working environment and we have from Forward Land was again strong and accounted centres, medical and sporting facilities, footpaths recently launched a number of initiatives around for 2,727 of the plots acquired.
and cycleways and attractive areas of open space.
communication and health and wellbeing.
The average size of site acquired in the year was VALUING PEOPLE Training and developing the next generation of around 180 plots as we took advantage of being In response to our continued growth we created housebuilders remains high on our agenda.
15% of able to secure some larger opportunities.
These around 100 new jobs during the year: we now the workforce are trainees on structured training larger sites were generally acquired on more employ just under 2,300 people directly and many programmes and I am delighted that we retained favourable terms and relieve pressure on future more times this through our supply-chain.
our listing as a Top 100 Apprenticeship Employer.
They also allow us to make full use of our award winning product range to both create great places to live for everyone and to appeal to a wider market.
We have a reputation for designing individual homes that are attractive and meet the modern-day needs of our customers.
But of equal importance is their setting.
In recent years we have focused on ensuring our developments enhance and make the JOHN TUTTE most of natural features as well as connecting to Group Chief Executive and sharing amenities with local communities.
Developing thriving communities by valuing people CONTINUED GROWTH AND EXPANSION and building responsibly have become the key The Groups successful growth strategy continues pillars of our operational strategy.
Over the course to deliver exceptional results.
Legal completions of the last year these principles have been including JV increased by 9% to 5,913 in the year embedded into the business.
with revenue rising by 16% to 1.92bn and profit before tax up 21% to 380m 2017: 315m.
THRIVING COMMUNITIES Redrow 8 is a suite of placemaking design principles We have continued to expand our geographical we have adopted to ensure our developments coverage.
Our new East Midlands division made its include all the key requirements to create great first full year trading contribution and our Southern places.
It is consistent with Building for Life 12 which divisions continue to grow strongly as we target is a government-endorsed standard for wellincreasing our market share in this area of high designed homes and neighbourhoods.
Colindale Gardens, our flagship development in North London, also made a We recognise that the quality of the places we significant contribution delivering its first create can have a lasting impact upon the health completions.
and wellbeing of those who live in our homes.
We have recently joined the NHS Healthy Towns To underpin our future growth we have announced Network which is an initiative to improve the health the launch of a new division in Thames Valley and of those living on new housing developments.
We reorganised our Greater London operations into are also supporting the Wellcome Trust in their East and West divisions to focus on growth in the research project to explore how urban development capital.
We have also re-structured Harrow Estates can impact long-term health.
to draw on its wealth of experience to help manage We know our customers are increasingly more and support our group-wide forward land activities.
concerned about the environment in which they live.
INVESTING IN PLACES Nature for People is our way of increasing The land market remained attractive throughout the biodiversity.
We have a long-standing relationship year, we acquired 7,455 plots and, after taking into with the Bumblebee Conservation Trust and we account legal completions, land sales and replans, have recently established a new partnership with our owned and contracted land holdings with The Wildlife Trusts to help us develop a strategy to planning increased to 27,630 plots 2017: 26,100 achieve a net biodiversity gain across our plots representing 4.8 years of supply.
WOODFORD GARDEN VILLAGE, CHESHIRE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 20 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 21 STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executives Review continued We have a number of strategic partnerships with THE MARKET AND OUTLOOK colleges across the country and the first students The new homes market remained fairly stable will enrol this year on our dedicated housebuilding throughout the financial year despite a continuing degree which has been developed in conjunction weak secondary market that in particular affects with Liverpool John Moores University and Coleg sales chains in the upper-end of the price range.
The Group secured just under 4,500 private We are a Patron of the 5% Club which is a movement reservations in the year representing 1.7bn of of FTSE employer-members working to tackle revenue.
With the exception of Central London, critical skills challenges.
Its members represent the where we only have a handful of properties to sell, gold standard of training and skills development we continue to see encouraging levels of demand across all industries.
BUILDING RESPONSIBLY Outlet openings were as predicted weighted Our responsibility to work safely and considerately towards the second-half.
Although the Group is a top priority for the business.
opened 53 new outlets in the year, these were more than offset by closures that ran ahead of forecast During the year we restructured our Health, Safety including a few ongoing temporary closures due to and Environmental Management teams.
Resources planning and land drawdown delays.
We operated have been increased and reorganised into two from an average of 124 outlets in the year.
As our distinct areas of responsibility: compliance through larger sites come on-stream, we expect to open and regular site audits and development to improve close fewer outlets in financial year 2019.
As a overall health, safety and environmental consequence, we are forecasting a small increase in management.
the average number of outlets that will be operating throughout the year.
NextGeneration is an independent organisation which benchmarks the UKs top 25 housebuilders We live in challenging political and economic times.
During the year We can however draw comfort from knowing there we retained our Gold standard and moved-up into remains a strong demand for new homes supported third place in the rankings.
We are also Gold by both a competitive mortgage market and the members of the UK Green Building Council.
highly successful Help to Buy scheme.
Quality and customer service is also a high priority We are well-placed to meet the challenges ahead.
We are currently rolling out a tablet based Our focus on design means our homes are desirable quality control system to replace traditional and in sought-after places and we have entered the out-dated checklists.
This system will archive new financial year with a record order book.
We inspections and images and allow direct have some excellent new sites in the pipeline that communication with contractors to better manage will underpin current sales rates as they come standards and quality.
In the annual HBF customer satisfaction survey we I am confident given the talent, dedication and retained our four stars rating with a recommendation commitment of our team and wider workforce, we level of 89.1%.
With the improvements we are remain in a strong position to overcome any political making in this area of our business, our and economic stumbling-blocks to deliver excellent recommendation level is currently trending above results in 2019 and beyond.
We continue to explore opportunities to improve productivity through the use of more offsite JOHN TUTTE manufactured components.
On our Padcroft Group Chief Executive development in West Drayton we are using services 3 September 2018 pods and in two of our divisions we are trialling modular garages.
These innovations not only reduce reliance upon site based skilled workers but also give more certainty over costs.
During the year we estimate that build costs increased by around 4% with spikes in some material costs being offset by easing labour cost pressures.
COLINDALE GARDENS, NORTH LONDON STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 22 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 23 STRATEGIC REPORT Operating Review attractive shared surface community streets.
opportunity to encourage healthier behaviours, LAND, PLANNING & DESIGN Homes for All is another of the the eight principles: reduce ill health and encourage greater at our development at Wilton Hill, we are providing a independence and self-care.
Placemaking for wide range of house types together with 44 homes Wellbeing is an increasingly important part of our Using our planning and design skills to for former service personnel, the first time in the UK strategy.
Health and urban design is a complex that a development has been built to specifically issue so we have been supporting the UPSTREAM address the needs of veterans by supporting them research project, funded by the Wellcome Trust, to develop our quality land holdings into into independent living in an integrated way.
explore how those responsible for urban development can factor long-term health outcomes LAND into their decision-making.
thriving communities is fundamental to The Group acquired 7,455 plots with planning We have also become members of the newly permission during the year to add to our owned formed NHS Healthy Towns Network.
The purpose and contracted land holdings, which more than our strategy and continued success.
of the network is to explore how new housing replenished our 5,718 record legal completions.
developments can achieve better health outcomes.
After land sales and the impact of replans, we This follows on from the Healthy Towns Programme ended the year with 27,630 plots in our owned and PLACEMAKING where the NHS are working with ten demonstrator contracted land holdings, a 6% increase on the sites across England to shape the health of OWNED AND CONTRACTED Over the past 40 years or so we have completed preceding year closing position 2017: 26,100. communities.
We are currently building homes on LAND BY GEOGRAPHY PLOTS hundreds of new communities setting our high the Ebbsfleet development, Kent which was one of quality and distinctive homes within attractive Forward land again made a healthy contribution those ten developments.
When completed the landscaped spaces.
Creating great places to live comprising 37% of the 7,455 additions across 17 Ebbsfleet Green development will have a wealth of has become part of our culture and we are proud sites, backing up its c60% across 22 sites health, leisure and community facilities ranging from to develop communities that will leave a lasting contribution in 2017.
The Group was very successful a new park, including sports pitches and tennis legacy.
We continue to take an expanding and in the year in securing new forward land courts, community allotments, a local shop, 2018 leading role in the delivery of a new generation of opportunities and we increased our forward land community facilities and a community hall.
Garden Villages with self-contained communities holdings by 16% ending the year at 30,700 plots that include schools, amenities and homes set 2017: 26,400 plots.
Approximately 40% of our Our Herne Bay development, Kent is another within a network of streets and accessible green forward land holdings are allocated for housing in fantastic example of designing a development to spaces.
Our Woodford, Ledsham, Amington, Local Authority Plans.
encourage active and healthy lifestyles.
At the heart 2018 Ebbsfleet and Plasdwr Garden Villages are all of the development is a sports hub of around 15 Given the ongoing importance of forward land to under construction and the first families have now North 5,331 acres which includes multiple sport pitches and the business, Harrow Estates has been restructured taken up occupation.
These new communities tennis courts.
The site will include a doctors surgery, Central 7,848 during the year and has assumed responsibility for provide an exciting benchmark for the quality of health centre and also a residential care home.
overseeing and strengthening further the Groups South 10,356 new large-scale communities across the country.
Cycle routes and footpaths inter-connect the forward land holdings.
Greater London 4,095 development with the local area and the coast.
The Government has introduced a number of BRINGING BENEFITS TO THE LOCAL 27,630 initiatives to tackle the under supply of homes but in We are also working, as a business, to support local, COMMUNITY doing so, they have made it clear that the standard regional and national events that help to foster positive of design must not be compromised.
Government Last year our developments delivered significant behaviour change around living healthier lifestyles.
We has also reaffirmed its commitment to placemaking value to the wider community: building education were proud to be the main sponsor of three cycling FORWARD LAND BY CATEGORY PLOTS in the new draft NPPF which promotes early and facilities, community centres, transport infrastructure effective engagement throughout the planning and health centres.
In total we committed 184m to process with a focus on quality design.
At Redrow local communities through infrastructure and we are well-placed to respond positively to this new affordable homes and provided c93 hectares of SOCIAL HOUSING agenda and have recently finalised our own set of public open space.
At Badbury Park, Swindon for LEGAL COMPLETIONS NO.
Redrow 8 draws on our example, in addition to funding the construction of a 2018 many years of experience of delivering high quality school and community centre, we are also setting distinctive places.
We have distilled the key land aside for allotments.
On our Bloxham Vale 1,102 elements that make our much-loved communities so development in Banbury, in addition to creating play 1,014 successful to create a scorecard to benchmark the areas, allotments and public open space, we are quality of the places we design.
A Redrow 8 making significant investment in education allocating 834 2018 design manual will be launched this year which will c3m for primary and secondary school facilities.
Land owned without planning 2,973 634 communicate our placemaking approach to 571 Land contracted without planning 2,722 CREATING HEALTHY PLACES TO LIVE customers, local authorities and other stakeholders.
The principles contained in Redrow 8 will ensure Pressing health challenges such as obesity, mental Options with housing allocation 12,257 that all of our developments continue to meet high health issues, physical inactivity and the needs of Options with realistic prospect 12,748 placemaking standards.
One of these principles, an ageing population, are strongly influenced by our 30,700 Streets for Life, has been applied effectively at physical environment.
New housing developments, 14 15 16 17 18 Woodford Garden Village to design a network of if planned and designed correctly, can provide an
