STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 24 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 25 STRATEGIC REPORT Operating Review continued events: Bike Chester, Bike Oxford and Bike Bath which As we develop our new biodiversity net gain strategy, Group, working to develop and implement a roadmap and an ecology consultancy we designed and encouraged people in those areas to get on their we are collaborating with DEFRA and Natural for net gain in Greater Manchester.
implemented a detailed restoration scheme to bikes.
Over 3,000 cyclists took part in the three England, sharing our experiences and are discussing enable the infilling of the unsafe lagoon, the Already providing a lasting legacy, for example, is events, raising thousands of pounds for local charities.
partnering on several projects to establish the re-vegetation of the landscape and conversion to a Heathlands, a development on a former claypit at financial implications of biodiversity net gain for multi-pond nature reserve.
Long-term sustainability NATURE FOR PEOPLE Buckley, North Wales which won the Landscape developers and examining wider outcomes for of the nature reserve was secured through the Institutes 2017 Award for Science Management and people as well as nature.
We are also members of the financing of a warden and management plan.
Careful protection of species and habitats has Stewardship.
Working with North East Wales Wildlife Greater Manchester Biodiversity Net Gain Task always been a key part of our development activities.
We also know that enhancing existing and creating new natural spaces on our developments is good for wildlife and also provides valuable opportunities for people to enjoy and connect with nature.
Our new placemaking design principles have Nature for People at their heart, with a focus on designing communities with blue and green infrastructure, accessible natural spaces, use of native species and which strive to achieve biodiversity net gains.
During the year we were delighted to be awarded one of CIRIAs Big Biodiversity Challenge Awards for the creation of hedgehog highways at our Glenwood Park development, Barnstaple.
Several more of our developments have since followed suit and weve also delivered our Give a Hog a Home campaign across several divisions, creating hedgehog highways and donating hedgehog homes to schools and new home-owners to help this struggling, beloved species.
ACHIEVING GAINS FOR NATURE During the year, we commissioned consultants to undertake a pilot project examining how our current design approach is impacting biodiversity at several of our existing developments.
The project gave us good insight into the key considerations for achieving biodiversity net gain and will inform the development of our new biodiversity strategy, which is being developed in partnership with the Wildlife Trusts and the Bumblebee Conservation Trust.
The aim of the strategy will be to enrich biodiversity leaving nature in a better condition than when we found it - and connecting communities with nature.
We are proud to continue our longstanding partnership with the Bumblebee Conservation Trust, helping to provide habitats for these important pollinators and to raise awareness among customers and the communities in which we build.
For example, at our Saxon Brook development, Exeter we have created large areas of colourful wildflower meadow as well as providing beefriendly planting throughout the development.
The Trust has been providing training to the landscapers and the management company to ensure maintenance of these natural spaces results in a positive legacy for the future.
We are also working with the new community to create a new Bee Group to survey and advocate for bumblebees locally.
OAK LEIGH GARDENS, CLITHEROE, LANCASHIRE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 26 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 27 STRATEGIC REPORT Operating Review continued LAND, PLANNING & DESIGN STRATEGY IN ACTION: Developing with a community focus In 2015, Redrow acquired a significant 59 acre The CASE community trust will deliver some brownfield development site in Bedfordshire.
specific objectives, including the provision of a bespoke bus service.
Instead of a one off This former vehicle storage facility, which was contribution by a developer through the owned and operated by General Motors, had standard Section 106 mechanism, the CASE all of the components required to create an community trust will support projects like the inspired and ambitious development of new bus service in perpetuity, in turn helping to homes.
Great transport links through road and assist local authorities in their objectives, rail, proximity to an urban centre while delivering vital local services, and building maintaining a softer more rural feel, and an thriving communities.
aspirational setting all informed the decision that this was a great site for Redrow.
Redrow will also be constructing a state-ofthe-art community centre, which will be From the very start, the principle of ensuring a handed to the trust to run, with the intention lasting legacy to the community who had lived that this building will be at the heart of a and worked alongside the development was thriving community.
Redrow worked closely with key The income derived from these properties is in stakeholders such as Central Bedfordshire fact substantial, over a 20 year period the trust Council, General Motors, and the local will deliver: community to evolve the designs and add value through the principles of placemaking and 2.6m investment into bespoke bus urban design.
Redrow selected the Heritage services: Collection to use at Caddington, building on the 1m investment into the woodland and sites existing rural feel and providing a sense of landscaping: longevity to this important local site.
1.25m into on-site community One of the foundation stones of the development through youth work: Caddington Woods development was the 400,000 into grants to the local community trust, CASE Caddington And Ship community parish: End.
CASE is a registered charity created by the key stakeholders, specifically for the Full operation of a community centre: and Caddington Woods scheme.
This incredibly L eaving a sinking fund after 20 years of innovative concept harnesses rent values of 1m for continuously upgrading and the affordable homes to provide benefit to the improving the CASE community trust community.
46 of the affordable homes have properties, community centre, play area or will be permanently endowed by Redrow to and open space.
the trust, and the properties will then be These costs are net of all management costs.
rented to local authority tenants in the usual Discussions have already taken place with way.
The key difference with this scheme Central Bedfordshire Council to look at the however is that the revenue derived from this opportunity to expand schemes like this one will be invested back into the community across the county and beyond.
