Strategic report Delivering global solutions Across the world, manufacturers ina diverse range of industries rely on our products to manufacture highly accurate and reliable machinery, maximise process efficiency, significantly reduce the time taken to produce and inspect components, and carry outgroundbreaking research.
We consistently exceed the specifications of customers with Renishaws encoders.
We try to offer a best-in-class experience to our customers and attribute part of our continuing success to the technology advancements that companies like Renishaw offer.
William Land Chief Technology Officer Aerotech, USA Howard Salt, USA Developing encoders which hold the key to ultra-accurate motion control Aerotech supplies high-precision positioning tables, stages and systems used in a variety of high-performance applications including industrial robots, semiconductor equipment, medical component laser machining and micromachining.
A large portion of its business is custom designed motion systems requiring high precision and high throughput.
One major concern and big influence on measurement performance is the distance between the measuring feedback device and the point of measurement.
The compact Renishaw RLE laser interferometer encoder allows Aerotech to close the distance to the point of measurement, greatly minimising measurement uncertainty on precision machines www.
22 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 50% faster turbine blade inspection Checking critical dimensions of complex turbine and aero-engine blades can be difficult and time consuming, especially where 100% inspection is required.
After retrofitting existing CMMs with TM Renishaw PH20 5-axis probe head and MODUS software, inspection cycle times at Europea Microfusioni Aerospaziali have been reduced by up to 50% www.
Roberto Rivetti, Italy The relationship with Renishaw has been really good.
What we like most is the wide range of options and the ability to customise every component.
Luca Marchionni Chief Technology Officer PAL Robotics, Spain Francesco Tivegna, China Raman spectroscopy an advanced technique for gemstone analysis Counterfeiting has become increasingly common as demand for gemstones has risen.
It can be exceptionally challenging to identify the Victor Escobar, Spain authentic gems, even for the most experienced Integrating magnetic gemmologist.
As the technologies used for creating counterfeits increase in complexity, encoders to achieve balance so must the methods used to identify them.
For almost two decades The National Gemstone REEM-C is PAL Robotics full-size biped humanoid Testing Center NGTC, the authoritative robotics research platform which provides a gemstone testing facility in China, have been fully customisable basis for research into areas using Renishaws high-performance confocal such as navigation, machine vision, human-robot Raman microscopes to perform non-destructive interaction, artificial intelligence, grasping, walking identification and characterisation of gemstones, and speech recognition.
The robot has fully such as diamond and jade.
The spectrometers articulated joints capable of performing a range of can certify gem authenticity and determine complex movements.
Balance control is vital for whether gems are natural, synthetic or treated stable biped robot walking and outputs from RLS www.
magnetic encoders on each joint enable estimation of robot posture and generation of position, speed and acceleration references that every joint should follow.
The encoders provide a flexible position measurement solution and can meet stringent space and performance requirements www.
Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 23
