Governance Board of directors Committees A Audit Committee R Remuneration Committee N Nomination Committee Denotes Chair of committee N 1 | Sir David McMurtry 2 | John Deer 3 | William Lee 4 | Allen Roberts A R N R N 5 | Geoff McFarland 6 | Carol Chesney 7 | Kath Durrant until 31st July 2018 A R N A R N 8 | Sir David Grant 9 | John Jeans 10 | Mark Noble 46 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 1 | Sir David McMurtry CBE, RDI, FRS, FREng, CEng, FIMechE 7 | Kath Durrant stepping down from the Board 31st July 2018 Executive Chairman Independent Non-executive Director Formerly employed by Rolls-Royce plc, Bristol, for 17 years, holding the Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc in January 2015. positions of Deputy Chief Designer and Assistant Chief of Engine Design Currently Chief Human Resources Officer for CRH plc.
for all Rolls-Royce engines manufactured at Filton, Bristol.
Previously the Group HR Director at both Ferguson plc and Invented the original measuring probe in the early 1970s and co-founded Rolls-Royce plc.
Renishaw with John Deer in 1973.
Held a variety of senior positions at AstraZeneca plc, including Vice As an executive, responsible for Group technology.
President, HR and Communications for its research and development division.
2 | John Deer 8 | Sir David Grant CBE, PhD, FREng, FLSW, CEng, FIET Deputy Chairman Senior Independent Director Trained as a mechanical engineer and worked for Rolls-Royce plc, Bristol, for 14 years.
Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc in April 2012.
Co-founded Renishaw with Sir David McMurtry in 1973, serving as Currently non-executive director of both IQE plc and the Defence Managing Director from 1974 to 1989.
Science and Technology Laboratory, and Chair of the National Physical Primarily involved in the commercial direction of the Group, with particular Laboratory.
emphasis on marketing and the establishment of the Groups whollyChair of STEMNET from December 2011 until August 2016 when it owned subsidiaries.
Vice-Chancellor of Cardiff University from 2001 to 2012.
Previously held leadership positions at Dowty Group, GEC, the Royal Academy of Engineering and Innovate UK.
3 | William Lee Received a knighthood in the Queens Birthday Honours 2016 for his Chief Executive contributions to engineering, technology and education.
Joined the Renishaw graduate scheme in 1996.
Holds a degree in physics from the University of Oxford and an MBA from 9 | John Jeans CBE, CEng the University of Bath.
Independent Non-executive Director Became Director and General Manager for the Laser and Calibration Products Division in 2007 and subsequently Director and General Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc in April 2013.
Manager of the Machine Tool Products Division in 2014.
Currently chair of Edinburgh Molecular Imaging Ltd and the Scottish Appointed to the new role of Director of Group Sales and Marketing in governments Digital Health & Care Institute at the University of December 2015.
Appointed to the Executive Board in 2015 and to the Board as Group Non-executive director of Prometic Life Sciences Inc. and Prometic Sales and Marketing Director in August 2016.
Appointed Chief Executive, taking over from Sir David McMurtry, in Serves on several government bodies including the Ministerial Committee February 2018. on Medical Technologies.
Responsible for the product divisions, overseas sales subsidiaries and Leads Innovate UKs Knowledge Transfer Networks KTN Health Board.
Previously chair of Innovate UKs Stratified Medicine Steering Group, UK Biocentre Ltd and Imanova Ltd. 4 | Allen Roberts FCA Advisor to the Prime Minister at the Office of Life Sciences for a period of four years ending June 2018.
Group Finance Director Qualified as a chartered accountant in 1972 and is a Fellow of the Institute 10 | Mark Noble of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Joined Renishaw in 1979 and appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc in General Counsel & Company Secretary 1980.
Joined Renishaw on 8th January 2018 as General Counsel & Heads Group finance, business systems and Wotton Travel Ltd. Acting Company Secretary.
On 24th July 2018 appointed as Responsible for the metrology regulatory and quality assurance function.
Reports to the Board on corporate social responsibility matters.
Previously held a number of positions at National Grid plc including Deputy General Counsel and Head of Secretariat.
Prior to that in private practice at Eversheds and SGH Martineau.
5 | Geoff McFarland BEng, DEng, MInstP, FREng Group Engineering Director Joined Renishaw after working for Motorola in 1994 as part of the Edinburgh based R&D team.
Became the Director and General Manager Appointed after year end of the CMM Products Division in 1999.
Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc in 2002.
11 | Catherine Glickman Responsible for Group engineering and Group IP, patents, R&D and the Additive Manufacturing Products Division.
Independent Non-executive Director Member of the Institute of Physics, a visiting professor at the University of Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc on 1st August 2018.
Bath, and an honorary professor at Heriot-Watt University.
Currently non-executive director at Marstons plc where she is chair of Elected to the Royal Academy of Engineering in 2017. its remuneration committee, and TheWorks.
co. uk plc where she is chair Appointed non-executive director at Cambridge Mechatronics Ltd in of its remuneration committee and a member of its audit and nomination March 2018. committees.
Retired as Group HR Director at Genus plc in February 2018, having previously held the same title at Tesco plc.
6 | Carol Chesney FCA Led retail management development and customer service training Independent Non-executive Director at Tesco plc, during a period of significant expansion in the UK and Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc in October 2012. overseas.
Chartered accountant who worked at Arthur Andersen for seven years in Worked closely with the remuneration committees at Genus and Tesco, audit services.
developing reward structures that aligned leadership motivation with Group strategy.
Currently Company Secretary of Halma plc, having also been Group Financial Controller.
Previously held positions at Somerfield plc and The Boots Company plc.
Worked as Group Accountant at English China Clays plc where she was responsible for transactions.
Appointed non-executive director of Hunting plc in April 2018 and Biffaplc in July 2018.
Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 47
