14 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Business review Scientific, Technical & Medical Business overview Scientific, Technical & Medical provides information and analytics We help researchers make new discoveries, that help institutions and professionals progress science, advance collaborate with their colleagues and give them healthcare and improve performance.
the knowledge they need to findfunding.
We help Elsevier is headquartered in Amsterdam, with further principal governments and universities evaluate and operations in Boston, New York, Philadelphia, St. Louis and improve their research strategies.
We help Berkeley in North America, London, Oxford, Frankfurt, Munich, doctors and nurses improve the lives of patients, Madrid and Paris in Europe, Beijing, Chennai, Delhi, Singapore and providing insight to find the right clinical Tokyo in Asia Pacific and Rio fide Janeiro in South America.
7,900 employees and serves customers in around 180 countries.
Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2018 were 2,538m, compared with 2,473m in 2017 and 2,318m in 2016.
In 2018, 44% of revenue came from North America, 24% from Europe We enhance the quality of scientific research and the remaining 32% from the rest of the world.
Subscription output by organising the review, editing and sales generated 74% of revenue, transactional sales 24% and dissemination of 18% of the worlds advertising 2%.
scientific articles Elsevier serves the needs of scientific, technical and medical ScienceDirect, the worlds largest database markets by organising the review, editing and dissemination of dedicated to peer-reviewed primary scientific primary research, reference and professional education content.
and medical research, has 16m monthly Building on its heritage of high-quality publishing, Elsevier today unique visitors applies technology to authoritative information, providing tools Scopus is a leading abstract and citation that enable faster and more efficient ways of working, freeing up database of research literature, with over 73m users to focus on their goals.
records across 24,000 journals, sourced from Elseviers customers are scientists, academic institutions, more than 5,000 publishers research leaders and administrators, medical researchers, SciVal offers insights into the research doctors, nurses, allied health professionals and students, performance of over 10,000 research as well as hospitals, research institutions, health insurers, institutions managed healthcare organisations, research-intensive corporations and governments.
ClinicalKey, the flagship clinical reference platform, is accessed in over 90 countries and Elsevier services fall into four market categories: Primary territories, and by over 1,900 institutions in Research, Databases & Tools, Reference and Pharma Promotion.
North America alone Primary Research, accounts for around half of revenues.
Elsevier Elsevier journals have at some point featured serves the global scientific research community, publishing over articles by 183 of 184 science and economics 470,000 articles in 2018, 60% more than a decade ago.
2018 saw Nobel prize winners since 2000 continued strong growth both in article submissions and usage, with 1.8m articles submitted and 1bn articles downloaded by researchers.
In 2018, Elsevier published over 34,000 gold open access articles, a double-digit growth on the previous year, making it one of the largest open access publishers in the world.
Elseviers portfolio of 2,500 journals is managed by more than 20,000 editors and many are the foremost publications in their field.
They include flagship titles such as Cell and The Lancet family of journals.
In 2018, Elseviers article output accounted for 18% of global research output while garnering a 25% share of citations, demonstrating Elseviers commitment to delivering research quality significantly ahead of the industry average.
In 2018, Elsevier launched 9 new subscription and 45 full open access journals, including iScience and One Earth from Cell Press and the Lancets Eclinical Medicine.
Research content is distributed and accessed via ScienceDirect, the worlds largest database dedicated to peer-reviewed primary scientific and medical research, hosting over 16m pieces of content as well as 39,000 e-books.
In 2018, Elsevier acquired Aries Systems, a best-in-class publication solutions provider, used for manuscript submission, peer review, production tracking and e-commerce of journals, 2016 and 2017 restated for adoption of new accounting standards books and other publications.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Scientific, Technical & Medical 15 In Databases & Tools, Elsevier offers a suite of products for ClinicalKey is growing well and is accessed in over 90 academic and corporate researchers.
Significant products countries and territories, and by over 1,900 institutions in include Scopus, Reaxys and Knovel.
Scopus is the largest abstract North America alone.
and citation database of peer reviewed literature curated by In medical education, Elsevier serves students of medicine, independent external academic advisers, with over 73m records nursing and allied health professions in multiple formats across 24,000 journals, sourced from more than 5,000 publishers.
including electronic books and electronic solutions.
For example It allows researchers to track, analyse and visualise the worlds Sherpath, an adaptive teaching and learning solution for nursing research output with features such as CiteScore, providing and health education, now provides highly focused, personalised comprehensive, transparent and current insights into journal and adaptive learning paths at over 400 institutions, supporting impact.
Reaxys enables the shortest path to chemistry research more than 37,000 enrolments.
answers, supporting the early stages of drug development in the pharmaceutical industry, exploratory chemistry research in For healthcare professionals, Elseviers clinical solutions include academia, and product development in industries such as Interactive Patient Education and Care Planning.
Arezzo, an active chemicals and oil & gas.
Knovel is a decision support tool for clinical decision support engine integrated with clinical care engineers that helps them to select the right materials, a systems, matches evidence-based guidelines with patient and mission-critical use case in product development across disease information and dynamically evaluates best-practice chemicals, oil & gas and other engineering-focused industries.
Elsevier serves academic and government research In 2018, Elsevier acquired Via Oncology, which provides decision administrators through its Research Intelligence suite of support and best practices in cancer care management, bringing products.
Leveraging bibliometric data from Scopus and other additional technology and innovation to Elseviers strength in data types such as patent citations and usage data, SciVal is a clinical pathways.
decision tool that helps institutions to establish, execute and In commercial healthcare, consumer, provider and medical claims evaluate research strategies.
Pure is an enterprise research data is used to deliver leading identity, fraud, compliance and management solution that aggregates an organisations research health risk analytics solutions for payers, providers, pharmacies information from numerous sources into a single platform, and life sciences organisations.
enabling research networking and expertise discovery while reducing the administrative burden for faculty and staff.
In Reference, Elsevier is a global leader in providing authoritative and current professional reference content to scientific, technical Elseviers flagship clinical reference platform, ClinicalKey, and medical reference markets.
Flagship titles include Grays provides physicians, nurses and pharmacists with access to Anatomy, Nelsons Pediatrics and Netters Atlas of Human leading Elsevier and third-party reference and evidence-based Anatomy.
Reference content is delivered in both electronic and medical content, including over 490 clinical overviews that provide print formats, with print reference now accounting for less than quick clinical answers and summaries: over 4m images and 10% of Elsevier revenues.
51,000 medical and surgical videos in a single, fully integrated site.
Premier life sciences journal with the An innovative research management highest impact factor in biochemistry and social collaboration platform and molecular biology Combines leading reference and evidence based CiteScore metrics are a set of The worlds largest database dedicated to peer-reviewed primary scientific and medical content into its fully integrated clinical comprehensive, transparent, current and medical research insight engine specialised for doctors, nurses, free metrics to help measure the citation or pharmacists impact of journals This chemical compound and reaction Ready-to-use tools to analyse the world of A leader in scientific publication workflow synthesis database enables the shortest path research, and establish, execute and evaluate solutions used by journals, books and other to chemistry research answers, supporting the best strategies for research organisations publications for manuscript submission, peer drug discovery, chemical R&D and education review, production tracking and e-commerce A leading abstract and citation database of One of the worlds leading medical journals Designed to help improve patient outcomes, peer-reviewed literature featuring smart since 1823 Via Oncology provides clinical pathways tools to track, analyse and visualise research delivering personalised, evidence-based guidance at the point of care 16 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Business review Pharma Promotion offers customised commercial marketing In reference markets, Elseviers priorities are to expand content services to pharmaceutical and medical device companies, coverage and ensure consistent and seamless linking of content building on Elseviers trusted global content brands to connect assets across products.
and engage with doctors, nurses and other healthcare In every market, Elsevier is applying advanced machine learning professionals who are influential decision makers.
ML and natural language processing NLP techniques to help researchers, engineers and clinicians perform their work better.
Market opportunities For example, in research, ML and NLP techniques classify scientific Scientific, technical and medical information markets have good content and organise it thematically, enabling users to get faster long-term growth characteristics.
The importance of research access to relevant results and related scientific topics.
In parallel, and development to economic performance and competitive advanced information extraction and NLP techniques are applied positioning is well understood by governments, academic to extract the most important information for scientific concepts in institutions and corporations.
This is reflected in the long-term concise summaries.
Elsevier also applies advanced ML techniques growth in research and development spending and in the number that detect trending topics per domain, helping researchers make of researchers worldwide.
Growth in health markets is driven more informed decisions about their research.
Coupled with the by ageing populations in developed markets, rising prosperity automated profiling and extraction of funding body information in developing markets and the increasing focus on improving from scientific articles, this process supports the whole medical outcomes and efficiency.
Given that a significant researcher journey: from planning, to execution and funding.
proportion of scientific research and healthcare is funded directly or indirectly by governments, spending is influenced by Similarly, in health, Elsevier is developing clinical decision governmental budgetary considerations.
The commitment to support applications utilising cognitive technologies to map research and health provision does, however, remain high, patient and claims data sets, and large image and text content even in more difficult budgetary environments.
These applications embedded in technology platforms will enhance the delivery of the right content, in the right Strategic priorities care setting, to the right care providers.
This will help health Elseviers strategic priorities are to: continue to increase professionals perform their work better, make more accurate content volume and quality: expand content coverage, building diagnoses, ensure appropriate care delivery, and save more out integrated solutions and decision tools combining Elsevier, human lives.
third-party and customer data: increase content utility, using Smart Content to enable new e-solutions: combine content Business model, distribution channels and competition with analytics and technology, focused on measurably improved In Primary Research, science and medical research is principally productivity and outcomes for customers: and continue to drive disseminated on a paid subscription basis to the research facilities operational efficiency and effectiveness.
of academic institutions, governments and corporations and, in the case of medical and healthcare journals, to individual In the primary research market, Elsevier aims to deliver journal practitioners and medical society members.
and article quality above the industry average at below average cost, leveraging the scale of its platform.
We work directly with our While researchers may continue to prefer paid subscription as the customers to understand their objectives and help them reach primary distribution model, alternative payment models for the their research goals in a way that is satisfactory from a content, dissemination of research have evolved over the past twenty service and economic perspective.
Elsevier looks to enhance years.
Elsevier has long invested in all business models to serve quality by building on our premium brands and grow article researchers and research institutions.
Author pays open access volume through new journal launches, the expansion of open is one example, with over 1,900 of Elseviers journals now offering access journals and growth from emerging markets: and add the option of funding publication and distribution via a sponsored value to core platforms by implementing new capabilities such article fee.
In addition, Elsevier now publishes around 250 gold as advanced recommendations on ScienceDirect and social open access titles.
collaboration through reference manager and collaboration tool Mendeley.
REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET REVENUE BY TYPE Advertising 2,538m 2,538m 2,538m 2% Print 17% Transactional Rest of 24% world North 32% America 44% Electronic Subscription 83% 74% Europe 24% Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Scientific, Technical & Medical 17 For well over a decade, content has been provided free or at very Electronic products, such as ScienceDirect, Scopus and ClinicalKey, low cost in more than 100 countries and territories in the developing are generally sold direct to customers through a dedicated sales world through Research4Life, a United Nations partnership force that has offices around the world.
For some journals, advertising and promotional income sometimes facilitate the sales and administrative process for represents a small proportion of revenues, predominantly from remaining print sales.
Reference and educational content is sold pharmaceutical companies in healthcare titles.
directly to institutions and individuals and accessed on Elsevier platforms.
Sometimes it is still sold in printed book form through Next to journals, Elsevier has also invested in other solutions retailers, wholesalers or directly to end users.
to serve the needs of the research community.
SSRN is an open access online preprint community where researchers post Competition within science and medical reference content is early-stage research, prior to publication in academic journals.
generally on a title-by-title and product-by-product basis and Mendeley data enables researchers to make their research data is typically with learned societies and professional information publicly available by providing an open research data repository, providers, such as Springer Nature, Clarivate Analytics and while bepress helps academic libraries showcase and share Wolters Kluwer.
Decision tools face similar competition, as well their institutions research via institutional repositories for as from software companies and internal solutions developed greatest impact.
2018 financial performance 2018 2017 Underlying Portfolio Currency Total m m growth changes effects growth Revenue 2,538 2,473 2% 2% -1% 3% Adjusted operating profit 942 914 2% 0% 1% 3% Key business trends remained positive in 2018, with underlying Print book sales, which represent around 10% of divisional revenue growth in line with the prior year, and underlying revenues, reverted to historical levels of decline for the main profit growth matching revenue growth.
selling season, with return rates also at historical levels.
Print pharma promotion revenues, which represent less than 5% Underlying revenue growth was 2%.
The difference between of the divisional total, saw a slightly steeper decline than in the constant currency and underlying growth rates reflects the recent years.
impact of portfolio changes and the transfer of a small number of healthcare products from Risk & Business Analytics.
In 2018 we made three small acquisitions in support of our organic growth strategy, Via Oncology, Aries Systems and Underlying adjusted operating profit growth was 2% with Science-Metrix, and disposed of a minor pharma business underlying cost growth marginally below underlying revenue in Japan.
The reported margin increased by 0.1 percentage points, 2019 outlook with currency impacts largely offset by portfolio effects.
Our customer environment remains largely unchanged, and Electronic revenues saw continued good growth.
In primary we expect another year of modest underlying revenue growth, research we continued to enhance customer value by providing with underlying operating profit growth exceeding underlying broader content sets across our research offering, increasing revenue growth.
the sophistication of our analytics, and evolving our technology platforms.
Databases & tools continued to drive growth across market segments through enhanced functionality and content development.
REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m m Underlying growth 2% Underlying growth 2% 2,538 942 2,473 914 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 restated for adoption of new accounting standards IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16.
18 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Business review Via Oncology helping The Center for Cancer and Blood Disorders improve patient treatment The Center for Cancer and Blood Disorders in Fort Worth, Texas, treats more than 6,000 new cancer patients annually.
That equates to more than 300,000 patient visits every year.
It has over 25 specialist oncologists and 150 healthcare professionals across nine locations throughout North Texas.
Elseviers Via Oncology partnered with The Center Oncologists also are presented with all locally over ten years ago after oncologists at the clinic available clinical trials prior to starting a 25% identified a need to ensure that patients experience treatment pathway for new patients, ensuring clinical trials consistent, standardised treatment across their they are presented with all options for treatment.
participation rate for many locations and oncologists.
Since implementing Via Pathways, The Centers lung cancer patients Via Oncologys sophisticated online clinical pathway oncologists can review more data on their as a result of using system, Via Pathways, is an advanced clinical patients outcomes, demonstrating that the care Via Pathways, more decision support system that provides points of they deliver is consistent across their network.
than five times care recommendations for diagnostics and For example, The Centers capture rate, which higher than the treatment.
By using Via Pathways, oncologists measures how consistently doctors use Via national average can follow evidence-based care maps based upon Pathways and tracks all patient visits, has the most current medical evidence and reduce reached 89% across 34 disease pathways unwarranted care variability.
representing over 95% of cancer types.
The Center considers Via Oncology to be at the crux of its value-based care initiatives, enabling participation in studies of new care models.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Scientific, Technical & Medical 19 Oncology doctor and nurse About Via Oncology at The Center for Cancer and Blood Disorders Part of Elsevier, Via Oncology is a Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania-based business that provides decision support and best practices in cancer care management.
It helps cancer centres demonstrate the value of their care to patients, doctors and payers by developing and implementing clinical pathways in collaboration with its network of more than 1,500 US cancer care providers.
Via Oncologys evidence-based proprietary content, Via Pathways, is developed by leading oncologists and Via Pathways is a great tool that we forms the basis of clinical algorithms can use to standardize our therapies.
covering 95% of cancer types treated We can show that physicians are being in the US.
This content is deployed to congruent with standards of care and doctors and their staff at the point of care through the Via Portal, a patient-specific are taking into account the effectiveness, decision support tool that is integrated toxicity and cost, and making appropriate with electronic medical records and treatment choices.
That means were provides seamless measurements of providing the highest standard of care adherence to treatment.
Dr Ray Page, DO, PhD President of The Center for Cancer and Blood Disorders, Texas
