Strategic report Our markets Our products serve truly diverse markets across a wide We develop innovative products range of industries, customer types and geographic that significantly advance our regions.
From the manufacture of jet engines and wind turbines, through to dentistry and brain surgery, our customers operational performance products, and our people who service them, are making a real difference to the capabilities of our manufacturing from improving manufacturing and healthcare clients.
These benefits are extended to efficiencies and raising product the end-consumer of our clients products and services, whether using a smartphone, driving a car, riding a quality, to maximising research mountain bike or having a new dental crown fitted, many capabilities and improving the of these products rely on Renishaws technology and applications expertise.
In the past Sir David McMurtry, Executive Chairman, has said, We are confident that there are not many modern-day planes, trains or automobiles in the world that have not been touched in some way by Renishaw products.
On the page opposite we have listed our principal markets and the specific key drivers of growth within those markets for our products.
There are also more generic market growth drivers that are positive for our business: Global skills shortages increased investments in automation, robotics and user-friendly technology.
Rising energy costs increased demand for products that maximise output.
Focus on reducing emissions and waste increased Our products enable customers to maximise the potential demand for high-performance products with ever tighter of their capital equipment: the REVO-2 measuring system manufacturing tolerances and products that help minimise for CMMs allows a range of inspection applications on waste and rework.
a single machine, including dimensional and surface Global competitiveness increased focus on costs finish measurement.
demands increased speed of operation and reduced scrap rework.
Population growth and rising incomes increased consumption in our principal markets.
Life expectancy rising globally increased demand for healthcare products and continuing demand for consumer products.
We are also increasingly spreading risk through the diversification of our applications for product lines, our customer base and our routes to market.
Renishaws business has transitioned over recent years from primarily being a supplier of products to capital equipment manufacturers, to becoming much more focused on delivering a full solution directly to end-users.
The experience gained by dealing direct with the users of our products on a global basis and gaining a deeper understanding of their problems is helping to inform the development of new products and services.
Today, many of our product lines including measurement and automation, calibration, additive manufacturing and healthcare lines are primarily sold direct to the enduser.
This helps to build brand loyalty and open up new revenue opportunities including hardware and software upgrades, the cross-selling of complementary products andmaintenance contracts.
16 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Aerospace Consumer products Aircraft are highly complex structures and key assemblies The fast-paced nature of the consumer products market from engines and wings to control systems, control surfaces demands flexible manufacturing systems that can adapt to e. g. flaps and rudders and landing gear, rely on Renishaw shorter lifecycles, yet still meet the requirements for highproducts for process control and post-process inspection quality, high-volume components.
Consumer products during their manufacture.
Our products are applied and electronics continue to change at a rapid pace, with throughout the supply chain in many application areas, ever shorter lifecycles driven by fashion and functional including maintenance, repair and overhaul MRO and requirements.
Advances in technology, including more in materials research, where our additive manufacturing sophisticated hardware and sleeker physical designs, technologies are, for example, being used to produce require precision manufacturing systems with multiple lightweight components through lattice structures and process control techniques to produce the high standard part consolidation.
Key drivers include the requirement for of fit and finish required for products such as mobile 41,000 new aircraft by 2036 to meet growing global demand phones, computers and tablets.
The higher demand for flat for civil air transport source: 2017 Boeing Global Market panel displays in consumer products, from watches and Forecast, new fuel-efficient engines with more complex smartphones to digital cameras and hand-held gaming parts that require faster measurement, and the requirement systems, has also boosted our motion control products.
to improve fuel efficiency by minimising airframe weight.
Healthcare Agriculture Our technologies are being applied to an ever-increasing The majority of key components on high-end agricultural number of applications within healthcare, including equipment are subject to process control using Renishaw brain surgery, reconstructive surgery and dentistry.
products, whilst our encoders can be found on satellites Life expectancy is increasing in both developed and assisting with Smart Farming techniques.
The sector is developing markets leading to an increase of neurological being driven by increasing global demand for food products disorders which require fast and precise surgical therapies from developing nations, as well as increasing global to reduce waiting times.
There is also a drive for more demand for biofuels.
This is requiring greater investment economical treatments, more patient-specific treatments, in machinery for intensive farming capabilities and new more cosmetic dentistry with superior aesthetics and safer technology to bring greater efficiencies to deliver precision procedures with reduced human errors.
agriculture making use of satellites to monitor crop condition and direct machinery for optimal performance, Power generation including the distribution of seed, fertilisers and pesticides.
From fossil fuels to renewable energy, Renishaw products are at the heart of associated manufacturing processes Automotive and are used to control the production of key componentry We operate throughout the automotive supply chain.
including power transmission systems, bearings, generators The majority of key components on domestic and and pumps.
We are also helping drive renewables commercial vehicles are subject to process control using development by reducing component lead times and Renishaw products.
Key drivers include continuing helping to bring new components and technology to market investment in manufacturing capacity to meet growing faster.
Key drivers include the manufacture of components global demand, improved fuel efficiency requiring ever for wind turbines and solar panels, an increasing focus tighter tolerances on powertrain components, plus cost on maximising the efficiency of machinery used in power efficiencies and automated processes required throughout generation and increasing research into energy storage, the supply chain.
We are also benefiting from increasing especially in relation to electric vehicles.
demand for sensors and dashboard digital displays.
Resource exploration Construction Equipment for oil and gas exploration has to be From heavy earthmoving equipment to mineral analysis, manufactured to stringent safety requirements, requiring Renishaws products are used in a diverse range of accurate, cost-effective and traceable processes.
These include the Renishaw products give manufacturers this capability, manufacture of large high-value components such as whether using our calibration systems to check and verify chassis where scrap is too costly to accept, the production the dimensional accuracy of large, high-value CNC machine of power plants to deliver improved reliability and reduced tools, or using probe systems for setting operations and emissions, and materials identification of geological in-process verification.
Key market drivers The growth in the global population and increased include major infrastructure projects that increase the urbanisation is driving the long-term demand for fossil fuels demand for heavy equipment and skills shortages and therefore for the exploration of new sources or more within the sector that is requiring more automation within research into optimal extraction from existing sites.
Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 17
