OVERVIEW CIRCULAR ECONOMY TRANSFORMING TO A RAW MATERIALS SUPPLIER The markets in which we operate are These are: that will over time be applicable in other structurally set for long term growth, geographies as they adopt UN and EU targets stimulated by environmental need, ` Clear environmental need for sustainability.
The following sections explain customer demand and increasing the compelling basis for future structural regulation.
Renewi is uniquely placed ` Greater customer demand growth in more detail.
to meet the needs of the growing circular economy with our waste- ` Increasing regulation Environmental need to-product model.
We are working every day on creating a world Together, these drivers are setting the without waste.
This does not mean that there Three drivers to aid the development landscape for future manufacturing, creating will be no waste in the future.
Today we collect of the circular economy an urgent need both for producers to maximise and treat over 14 million tonnes of waste and The circular economy is a growing business the use of sustainable or secondary raw extract value from these materials.
We consider model in which the concept of waste is materials and for polluters to reduce their it our job to make sure that nothing gets wasted obsolete.
The waste produced by society is waste.
The Benelux, our core market, is one in this process.
seamlessly reconverted back into secondary of the most advanced areas in the world with raw materials so as to prevent contamination regard to setting the agenda for recycling, The major challenges of our generation are and preserve scarce virgin materials.
There are sustainability and developing a circular climate change, environmental pollution and three reinforcing drivers that are combining economy.
We believe that by positioning scarcity of raw materials, water and food.
powerfully and increasingly to build a new and ourselves to succeed in the Netherlands and There is a clear pull from societies around the vibrant circular economy.
Belgium, we will generate skills and capabilities world to address these challenges in order to preserve a prosperous and secure future.
In September 2015, the UN adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals SDGs to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure prosperity for all as part of a new sustainable development agenda with specific targets to be Increasing regulation achieved over the next 15 years.
At a more local level, we routinely and increasingly observe social trends over environmental issues such as plastics in Clear the ocean, as seen recently following David environmental Attenboroughs Blue Planet II series, and need in recent years by widespread support for initiatives such as The Ocean Cleanup project led by Boyan Slat, a Dutch entrepreneur.
Greater Renewi has sponsored the latter, through customer its current and legacy businesses, for the demand past few years.
Renewi works to prevent global contamination by taking in over 14 million tonnes of waste every year from companies and households, some of it contaminated or even hazardous.
com 20 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI ACTIVELY SUPPORTS ITS CUSTOMERS TO ACHIEVE THEIR RECYCLING TARGETS We recycle or recover 90% of this waste: around secondary raw materials.
Particular areas of focus drive towards a full circular economy through 65% of it becomes a secondary raw material at the moment include the cradle to cradle stretching recycling targets within the waste and the remainder is transformed into fuel to circular use of metals and plastics, the reuse framework directive across the EU, the produce green heat or energy.
By doing so, rather than destruction of some components out implementation of a landfill ban, the packaging Renewi directly works to meet the needs of five of discarded products, and the optimisation and directive and most recently the Circular of the UNs SDGs, including: effective use of out-of-date food.
` Responsible consumption and production: Overall, there is an increasing demand for the Our biggest market, the Netherlands, has a recycled, or secondary, products that Renewi stated goal to be a full circular economy by ` Sustainable cities and communities: creates from its operations.
In practice this means, for example, that construction ` Climate action: Renewi actively supports its customers to companies will need to use 50% secondary achieve their recycling targets, secure secondary raw materials from 2030, and government ` Affordable and clean energy: raw materials, and even to create a completely tenders already reward bidders who can circular solution in which their products are achieve this aim early.
The government is ` Clean water and sanitation.
collected, recycled and the raw materials also seeking to increase recycling rates more supplied back to the start of their manufacturing generally with a stated ambition to increase Its work indirectly further supports even more process.
Renewi is working with clients such as the household waste recycling rate from of these goals.
Miele, Philips, Akzo Nobel, Owens-Illinois and an around 50% today to around 75% as soon increasing number of others to help them give as 2020.
Legislation has also been tightened new life to their old materials.
Sustainability is at the core of what we do with measures such as taxes on incineration every day.
We turn waste back into valuable to stimulate recycling and divert waste from Regulatory push materials.
It is therefore unsurprising that incineration.
Landfilling waste has for a long Regulation will drive further structural growth Renewi is listed on the FTSE4Good Index time been strictly regulated in the Netherlands to recycling rates and the circular economy.
and has recently been able to refinance only waste that cannot be recycled or The Paris COP21 agreement on climate almost its entire borrowings as Green Loans incinerated can be landfilled.
change, the UNs Sustainable Development and Bonds.
Goals and the European Unions Circular In Belgium, there is also ever stricter Economy Package are all examples of how Customer demand environmental and recycling legislation.
leading policy makers are setting an agenda to Companies inevitably respond to societal trends The VLAREMA legislation that was introduced stimulate the markets in which we operate.
such as the demand for greater sustainability in Flanders in 2014, promoting separated because their customers and employees waste collection and recycling, is being Indeed the evolution of the recycling market demand it.
We see a growing number of major tightened.
OVAM, the Flemish regulator, is in Europe is mainly due to the implementation OEMs and consumer brands making new increasing pressure on waste companies and of EU or national directives and legislation.
We commitments to reduce their carbon footprint, waste producers to ensure effective source are now already experiencing an increasing increase their recycling rates and use more separation of waste so that it can be most effectively recycled.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 21 OVERVIEW | CIRCULAR ECONOMY CONTINUED UNDERPINNING LONG TERM STRUCTURAL GROWTH The three drivers of environmental need, customer demand and regulation are combining powerfully to drive structural growth in the segments of the market in which Renewi operates.
Specifically, we can expect to see: ` Increasing recycling rates within the waste market driving higher volume growth for our recycling activities than the overall waste trend: ` More stringent legislation on source separation over time helping larger and more sophisticated waste collectors who are better able to manage multiple waste input streams and offer one stop solutions to customers: ` Growth in the use of secondary raw materials in construction supporting the production of materials by Netherlands Commercial wood, paper and ATM soil as well as the new innovative products under the Forz product name developed by Mineralz: ` Growth in the use of secondary raw materials throughout Europe in packaging glass production and insulation products glass wool supporting volume growth in our Maltha business: ` More OEMs seeking partnerships to source stable and high quality metal and plastic secondary raw materials into their production processes, in the volumes companies such as Renewi process: ` Growth in available volumes of sludges, source segregated organics and out of date food materials for organic processing: and ` Increased investment and partnership opportunities in innovation to convert and reprocess waste to create more valuable secondary materials, such as waste-to-chemicals, organic waste-to-food etc.
com 22 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 WITH SUSTAINABILITY AT THE VERY CORE OF OUR BUSINESS, WE MAKE SUSTAINABILITY TANGIBLE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND FOR SOCIETY BY CREATING VALUE FROM WASTE Renewi connects the value chain deploy in selectively assessing and filtering the As an example of this network, Renewi In the circular economy we do not believe large number of innovation opportunities that was a founding partner of the Circular that it will be enough simply to be an efficient we identify or our partners bring to us.
We are Coalition, a group of around 30 large provider of waste collection and basic committed to innovating in sustainability, with companies in the Netherlands.
Nor do we believe in the a business model that is set up both to identify agreed to share knowledge and experience longer term in the investment of very large and select winning opportunities.
in a bid to accelerate the transition towards a amounts of our capital in incinerators that circular economy.
This has been done in the destroy the valuable resources hidden in waste.
The knowledge and experience that we have past year through a series of masterclasses We believe in turning waste into product, from our operations at both ends of the focusing on topics that include circular making us uniquely placed to meet the needs value chain can also be used during the early procurement, business modelling and of this growing market.
stages of the design of new products or to product design.
A small but very tangible optimise manufacturing processes.
We also outcome was the cooperation with Renewi, We have an unrivalled breadth of collection and have a unique network of relationships and KPN and KNSB to produce the medals for the treatment services in order to meet the needs partnerships with governments, regulators, Dutch speed skating championships from of the waste producers.
This gives us access to municipalities, companies and investors that precious metals mined by the recycling of old over 14 million tonnes of used materials from we believe will over time position Renewi as the mobile phones see page 50 for more details.
which to create the required products to meet partner of choice for sustainability initiatives.
Renewi is now developing a Circular Coalition the needs of buyers of secondary raw materials.
With sustainability at the very core of our 2.0 that will focus on pilot projects around business, we make sustainability tangible for specific material flows or with a specific We have unique insight into what is needed our customers and for society by creating value geographical area.
to connect the value chain, which we then from waste.
OUR GROWTH JOURNEY Our vision is to be the leading waste-toWAVE 3 product company.
This differentiates Renewi Strategic expansion as a company that does more than act as a collection service for waste generators to one that focuses on extracting value from waste, WAVE 2 rather than on its disposal through mass burn Improve margins incineration or landfill.
We have a clear growth journey ahead to deliver sustained growth and WAVE 1 attractive returns in three waves: Deliver integration Time 2020 Milestone ` Wave 1: Deliver integration ` Wave 2: Improve margins ` Wave 3: Strategic expansion including committed annual cost savings through our own self-help initiatives of by investing in innovation, broadening our of 40m in 2019 20. commercial effectiveness, continuous products and services and investing in the improvement and off-take management.
` Underpinning these actions is a further initiative on digitalisation, which is initially focused on driving efficiency through automation, robotics and digitalising interfaces with customers and suppliers.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 23 DIGITALISATION Value OVERVIEW | CIRCULAR ECONOMY CONTINUED INNOVATION PORTFOLIO The i of Renewi stands for Innovation and it is one of our core values maximise the opportunity.
Wave 3 of our core Innovation at Renewi is about improving change is supported by our iRenew change strategy is strategic expansion and innovation is how we do things and improving our range management programme that is being at the heart of this growth.
Our vision to be the deployed in areas undergoing the greatest leading waste-to-product company already degree of change.
We are building our portfolio of innovation differentiates us from our competitors.
By projects, even while we focus on integration.
converting waste into product we are at the Continuous improvement CI, or LEAN, is a way We have an innovation portfolio of more than leading edge of sustainability with a focus on of thinking as well as a well-recognised set of 100 potential opportunities, many of them extracting the maximum value from waste.
practical tools by which organisations become capital-light where we deploy our expertise We seek to go beyond simply recycling: we more efficient every day.
Our legacy Shanks and our access to waste to support other aim to produce high quality secondary raw business was already rolling out LEAN in its innovators or customers.
We are an enabler to materials with a better environmental main operating facilities before the merger.
A help partners bring new technologies to market footprint than virgin raw materials and at a system of such tools and processes will now using our large base of waste as an input and competitive price.
be rolled out across the whole of Renewi, our experience of how to bring the waste up to coordinated by Bas Blom, the Managing the required quality levels to operate in a stable Innovating our existing processes Director of our Monostreams Division.
All projects must ultimately meet our Innovation starts with our own operations in use of CI has already delivered improvements key filters of sustainable competitive advantage terms of being better every day.
We demand in certain facilities such as the bulky waste and target financial returns.
an open mindset of ourselves throughout our sorting line at Hemweg, Amsterdam.
The integration journey and in our general way opportunities remain significant and are a Innovation within Renewi often takes place of working.
We are seeking to take the best core part of Wave 2 of our strategy to improve within the divisions and close to our customers of both legacy companies as we build our margins.
It is coordinated by a small new Renewi operating model, and then to but experienced central team which both improve further.
This requires our people to Innovating new products and services supports these divisional projects and focuses let go of familiar ways of doing things, in order The emerging circular economy is a dynamic on some longer term and potentially more to move to one aligned and common way environment that will require agility and transformational projects.
This bold and open approach to a commitment to innovation in order to EXAMPLES IN OUR INNOVATION PORTFOLIO PRODUCT PARTNER SIZE STATUS Duivense Tegel Betonindustrie fide Hamer Large In production for one incinerator A sustainable tile made from residual household waste for paving and AVR and in negotiation with others Bio-plastics Paques and Delft University Early stage trials Large Pilot bioreactor to produce bio-plastics from organic waste of Technology r-ABS Plastics Philips Small In production Recycled plastic into new Senseo coffee machines Collect a cup Wepa paper mill Small In production Process to separate paper and cardboard from plastic in cups Purified Metals Company PMC PMC Small PMC facility due to open in 2020 Removing asbestos from steel Size: Expected EBIT per annum Small 0.5m, Medium 0.5-1m, Large 1m For investors: www.
com 24 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 For customers: www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 25
