20 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Business review Risk & Business Analytics Business overview Risk & Business Analytics provides customers with informationWe combine data and analytics with deep based analytics and decision tools that combine public and industry expertise to help customers make industry-specific content with advanced technology and better decisions and manage risk.
We deliver algorithms to assist them in evaluating and predicting risk and insight to insurance companies and help detect enhancing operational efficiency.
and prevent online fraud and money laundering.
Risk & Business Analytics, headquartered in Alpharetta, Georgia, We provide digital tools that help airlines and has principal operations in California, Florida, Illinois and Ohio farmers improve their operations.
in North America as well as London in Europe and Beijing in Asia Pacific.
It has about 8,700 employees and serves customers in more than 170 countries.
Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2018 were 2,117m, More than 80% of new US auto insurance compared with 2,073m in 2017 and 1,905m in 2016.
In 2018, 79% policies issued to consumers in 2017 benefited of revenue came from North America, 15% from Europe and the from our products remaining 6% from the rest of the world.
Subscription sales LexisNexis Risk Solutions performs over 100m generated 36% of revenues, transactional sales 63% and identity verification checks and over 100bn advertising 1%.
customer and transaction screening requests Risk & Business Analytics comprises the following market-facing annually, supporting industries such as industry sector groups: Insurance Solutions, Business Services, banking, fintech and e-commerce Data Services including banking, energy and chemicals, aviation, agriculture and human resources and Government Solutions.
LexisNexis Risk Solutions works with more than 75% of Fortune 500 companies, seven out Insurance Solutions, the largest segment, provides of ten of the worlds top banks and 95 out of the comprehensive data, analytics and decision tools for personal, top 100 personal lines insurance companies commercial and life insurance carriers in the US to improve critical aspects of their business.
Information solutions, including With insight into over 900m ThreatMetrix ID the most comprehensive US personal loss history database, anonymised user identities, ThreatMetrix C. L. U. E. help insurers assess risks and provide important inputs delivers the intelligence behind over 30bn to pricing and underwriting insurance policies.
Additional key annual authentication and trust decisions to products include LexisNexis Data Prefill, which provides differentiate legitimate customers from information on customers directly into the insurance work stream fraudsters in real time and LexisNexis Current Carrier, which identifies insurance Accuity has information on over 22,000 banks, coverage details and any lapses in coverage.
and hosts over 600,000 financial counterparty The focus is on delivering innovative decision tools through due diligence documents.
Over 95 of the worlds a single point of access within an insurers infrastructure.
largest 100 banks use its data LexisNexis Active Insights, our solution for active risk Cirium tracks 100,000 commercial flights every management, connects proprietary linking algorithms with vast day and more than 70m passenger itineraries a amounts of data to proactively inform insurers of key events year, while analysing 2.5bn travel segments per impacting their policyholders.
Insurance Solutions is advancing annum worth about $300bn.
Cirium holds data its strategy to drive more consistency and efficiency in claims on more than 100,000 commercial aircraft through its solution suite, Claims Compass, with Claims Datafill providing data and decisions at first notice of loss and throughout the claim life cycle.
Risk Classifier solution, which uses public and motor vehicle records and predictive modelling, is used by around a quarter of the top 50 life insurers to better understand risk and improve underwriting efficiency.
Insurance Solutions continues to make progress outside the US.
In the UK, contributory solutions including No Claims Discount module, which automates verification of claims history and Policy Insights, a predictor of motor claims loss, are delivered through the LexisNexis Informed Quotes platform to provide real-time data in the quoting process.
In China, Genilex is delivering key vehicle data to auto insurers and is looking to add more analytics solutions.
In India, our Intelligence Exchange contributory platform and Risk Insights solution are used by life insurers to predict, better assess and manage risk within the underwriting and claims management processes.
In Brazil, Insurance Solutions is delivering telematics solutions, data and analytics to help motor insurers in underwriting and working with health insurers to reduce claims costs and make faster, more focused decisions.
2016 and 2017 restated for adoption of new accounting standards IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Risk & Business Analytics 21 Business Services works with customers to solve key issues, Business Services continued to make progress in international such as financial exclusion and financial transparency.
Business markets outside the US, building scale in key geographies Services leverages technology, data, advanced linking and including the UK and Brazil.
analytics to help banks, telecommunications and e-commerce Data Services provides indispensable business information, data companies, retailers and other organisations to prevent fraud, and analytics solutions to professionals in many of the worlds manage identity risk, comply with financial crime regulations, biggest industries, including: Accuity, a provider of services and assess credit risk and collect debt.
solutions to the banking and corporate sectors focused on Customers rely on Business Services for identify verification, payment efficiency, Know Your Customer KYC, anti-money watch-list screening, due diligence, credit scoring and skip laundering AML and compliance: ICIS, an information and data tracing.
It leverages machine learning ML and artificial service in chemicals, energy and fertilisers: Cirium, a leading intelligence AI algorithms in its products to provide customers provider of data and analytics for the global commercial aviation with clarity, enabling faster decisions with a greater degree and travel industry: Proagrica, a provider of software, connectivity of confidence.
solutions, data, analytics and media streams for the global agriculture sector: XpertHR, an online service providing In 2018, Business Services added digital identity data to its physical regulatory guidance, best practices and tools for human resource identity dataset through the acquisition of ThreatMetrix.
As a result professionals: EG, which delivers a mix of high-quality data, of the transaction, customers gained access to solutions that decision tools and high-value news and information to the UKs provide a 360-degree view into an identity.
This perspective helps commercial real estate market: and Nextens, a provider of tools customers make decisions that thwart bad actors while enabling and services for tax professionals.
legitimate consumers to transact frequently in a frictionless environment.
The ThreatMetrix integration continues to hit its In 2018, Data Services completed the acquisitions of Safe Banking acquisition milestones, including: the creation of a combined Systems, a specialist provider of AML and KYC compliance go-to-market organisation that consists of global sales and solutions with a particular focus on account screening and SST marketing teams: the initiation of work to combine our physical Solutions, a leading provider of precision agriculture technologies and digital identity solutions into a holistic fraud prevention and tools in the US.
Data Services also continued to reshape its and identity management solution: and the undertaking of portfolio, exiting areas not core to its strategy, divesting Boerderij, development efforts to expand the Digital Identity Network into a Netherlands-based agriculture title, during the course of financial crime compliance and credit risk assessment for the year.
VerifyHCP World Compliance The VerifyHCP solution provides a proven Our leading-edge curated content related approach to help payers keep their provider to economic sanctions, financial crime directories current and improve compliance enforcement actions, politically exposed with US state and federal regulations persons PEPs, and adverse media enables customers to comprehensively and efficiently protect their enterprises from reputational, regulatory, legal and enforcement risks LexisNexis Active Insights Risk Defense Platform An active risk management solution that Innovative solutions for payments and compliance An innovative fraud prevention and identity provides timely alerts of recent changes professionals, from comprehensive data and management platform that seamlessly occurring in the household to help insurers software to manage risk and compliance, to delivers the broadest of solutions including the enhance customer relationships with flexible tools that optimise payments pathways latest in machine learning that adapts to everbetter service changing fraud schemes, simplifying efforts to detect and prevent risks associated with the merging of digital and physical identities Claims Compass Accurint Virtual Crime Center ThreatMetrix Digital Identity Network Data analytics suite with LexisNexis Claims Policing platform used for analytics, crime A network that provides insight into true Datafill and LexisNexis Police Records that analysis and investigations linking public digital identity, by analysing global shared improves the claims process from first notice records to national law enforcement data intelligence across more than 30bn annual of loss, triage, investigation and resolution for a complete picture across jurisdictions transactions to distinguish legitimate through recovery consumers versus fraudsters Data and analytics for the global commercial Global provider of news, price benchmarks, aviation and travel industry data and research to the energy, chemical and fertiliser industries 22 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Business review Government Solutions provides a variety of identity management, create growth opportunities.
The rise of fintech, alternative lending fraud detection and prevention, collections and investigation and digital economy companies is also creating opportunities.
solutions to US federal, state and local law enforcement and A number of factors support growth for compliance solutions in government agencies.
These solutions help verify beneficiaries banking and financial services markets, including cross-border for government programmes, solve criminal cases, support payments and trade finance levels.
In collections, demand is driven national security initiatives and identify fraud, waste and abuse mainly by the ongoing escalation of consumer debt and the prospect in government benefit programmes, as well as identity theft of recovering that debt.
solutions for tax agencies to help ensure legitimate taxpayers The increasing demand for our contributory solutions to combat receive refunds and business intelligence solutions allowing criminal activity, fraud and tax evasion is driving growth in government agencies to find additional fraud and property tax.
The level and timing of demand in this market is influenced by government funding and revenue considerations.
Market opportunities We operate in markets with strong long-term growth in demand Growth in the global energy and chemicals markets is led by for high-quality advanced analytics based on industry information increasing trade and demand for more sophisticated information and insight, including: insurance underwriting transactions: solutions.
Aviation information markets are being driven by increases insurance acquisition, retention and claims handling: healthcare, in air traffic and in the number of aircraft transactions.
Growth in tax and public benefits fraud: financial crime compliance: business agriculture markets is being driven by adoption of technology and risk: fraud and identity solutions: due diligence requirements data solutions plus increasing supply chain connectivity.
surrounding customer enrolment: security and privacy considerations: and data and advanced analytics for the banking, Strategic priorities energy and chemicals, aviation and human resources sectors.
Our strategic goal is to help businesses and governments achieve better outcomes with information and decision support in their In the insurance segment, growth is supported by increasing individual markets through better understanding of the risks and transactional activity in the auto, commercial and life insurance opportunities associated with individuals, other businesses, markets and the increasing adoption by insurance carriers of transactions and regulations.
By providing high quality industry more sophisticated data and analytics in the prospecting, data and decision tools, we assist customers in understanding their underwriting and claims evaluation processes, to assess risk, markets and managing risks efficiently and cost effectively.
To increase competitiveness and improve operating cost efficiency.
achieve this, we are focused on: delivering innovative new products: Transactional activity is driven by growth in insurance quoting and expanding the range of risk management solutions across adjacent policy switching, as consumers seek better policy terms.
markets: addressing international opportunities in selected This activity is stimulated by competition among insurance markets to meet local needs: further growing our data services companies, high levels of carrier advertising and rising levels of businesses: and continuing to strengthen our content, technology internet quoting and policy binding.
We continue to expand our and analytical capabilities.
services to make it easier for the consumer to transact with an Risk & Business Analytics has been developing AI and ML insurer throughout the insurance process.
We are developing techniques for a number of years to generate the actionable insights solutions that bridge insurers and automakers, utilising that help our customers to make accurate, better informed and connectivity as a means to leverage and monetise the data from more timely decisions.
The successful deployment of AI and ML Advanced Driver Assistance Systems ADAS and connected cars, techniques starts with a deep understanding of customer needs, and engage consumers with driving behaviour information, leverages the breadth and depth of our data sets, coupled with the collision detection and other insurance-related services.
expertise and domain knowledge to discern which AI ML algorithm Mounting fraud losses, continuing AML fines, high-profile to use, in what context, to solve our customers business problems anti-bribery and corruption cases, growth through consumer and effectively.
business credit expansion, and heightened regulatory scrutiny REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET REVENUE BY TYPE Rest of world Advertising Print 2,117m Face-to- 2,117m 2,117m 6% 1% 2% face 2% Subscription Europe 36% 15% North America Transactional 79% 63% Electronic 96% Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Risk & Business Analytics 23 Business model, distribution channels and competition Services and Government Solutions segments include the major Our products are mainly sold directly, typically on a subscription credit bureaus, which in many cases address different activities in or transactional basis.
Pricing is predominantly on a transactional these segments as well.
basis for insurance carriers and corporations, and primarily on Data Services competes with a number of information providers a subscription basis for government entities.
on a service and title-by-title basis including S&P Global Platts, In the insurance sector, our competitor Verisk sells data and Thomson Reuters and IHS Markit as well as number of niche and analytics solutions to insurance carriers but largely addresses privately owned competitors.
Principal competitors in the Business 2018 financial performance 2018 2017 Underlying Portfolio Currency Total m m growth changes effects growth Revenue 2,117 2,073 8% -3% -3% 2% Adjusted operating profit 776 760 8% -2% -4% 2% Underlying revenue growth was strong in 2018, in line with the across the financial and corporate sectors continued to drive prior year.
Underlying profit growth matched underlying growth, in a robust US and international market environment.
In Data Services, organic development of innovative new Underlying revenue growth was 8%.
The difference between products and expansion of the range of risk management the constant currency and underlying growth rates reflects solutions drove growth across market verticals.
In Government, portfolio changes and the transfer of a small number of which accounts for around 5% of divisional revenues, we healthcare products to Scientific Technical & Medical.
continued to drive customer value through the introduction of sophisticated analytics.
Underlying adjusted operating profit growth matched underlying revenue growth as we continued to pursue our strategy, with a Risk & Business Analytics acquired three data and analytics primary focus on organic development.
businesses that support our organic growth strategy in 2018, ThreatMetrix, SST and Safe Banking Systems, and disposed of a Insurance grew strongly.
We continued to drive growth through number of minor print and other assets.
the roll-out of enhanced analytics, the extension of data sets, and by further expansion in adjacent verticals, in US market 2019 outlook conditions that, over the year as a whole, were neutral to mildly The fundamental growth drivers of Risk & Business Analytics positive.
International initiatives continued to progress well.
remain strong, and we expect underlying operating profit growth to continue to broadly match underlying revenue growth.
In Business Services, further development of analytics that help our customers to detect and prevent fraud and to manage risk REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m m Underlying growth 8% Underlying growth 8% 776 2,117 760 2,073 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 restated for adoption of new accounting standards IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16.
24 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Business review Cirium managing the cost of disrupted flights Gant Travel Management is an innovative travel management company based in Bloomington, Indiana, with more than 80 years of experience.
It is expert in optimising the performance of the worlds largest travel and expense reporting platform.
Its people and technology help manage the expense and experience of corporate travel.
Labour strikes, natural disasters and extreme These services allow agents to reallocate travellers weather all cause flight disruption, which has a proactively with new travel plans when needed, 30% significant impact on traveller experience and reducing the average handling time for incoming reduction in time travel industry costs.
In 2017, 3.6m flights were calls and ultimately saving the traveller time and spent resolving a cancelled or delayed by over 30 minutes.
Every year, worry about flight changes.
travellers disrupted airlines lose approximately $35bn because of these By integrating Ciriums service, Gant reduced the flight using Ciriums irregular operations.
This cost jumps to more than amount of time needed to resolve a travellers services $60bn when considering the impact to travellers disrupted flight by a third.
It also contributed to a and the broader ecosystem.
reduction in the number of calls agents had to make When disruption happens, most airlines publish to airlines to solve problems by an average of 50%.
waivers to allow travellers to change their flight Having the right information at the right time means plans ahead of the disruption with no change fee.
that Gant could save costs and provide a superior Most waivers are handled manually on a reactive level of service for travellers affected by disruption.
There isnt a standardised format and travellers often arent alerted effectively or quickly enough.
Ciriums Travel Waiver Services automate the process of matching trips to waivers, making it easier and quicker for agents to find waiver details and understand if a travellers flight qualifies.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Risk & Business Analytics 25 Cirium holds data on more than 100,000 commercial aircraft including the Airbus A330 Cirium worked in concert with us About Cirium and the travel ecosystem suppliers to fix a broken process that we all Cirium brings together powerful data and analytics to keep the world in motion.
The results Delivering insight, built from decades of were innovation that saved us over experience in the sector, enabling travel 10% labor costs during key periods companies, aircraft manufacturers, of disruption.
This gave us a airports, airlines and financial institutions, significant advantage in staffing among others, to make logical and and directly benefited our traveller informed decisions which shape the future experience.
Cirium made our new of travel, growing revenues and enhancing process possible.
Patrick Linnihan President & CEO of Gant Travel Management 26 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Business review ThreatMetrix identifying and blocking fraud in real time Gumtree was founded in 2000 as a classified adverts site for travellers arriving in London.
From these modest beginnings, Gumtree.
com is now the UKs leading classifieds site, with 16.4m unique visitors and 12.6m replies to adverts each month.
Gumtree brings together an eclectic collection The ThreatMetrix Digital Identity Network of like-minded buyers, sellers and other users crowdsources intelligence from millions of daily 84% ranging from flat-sharers looking to fill a vacant consumer interactions including logins, payments, increased room to cars, clothes and vintage furniture sales.
and new account applications across thousands fraud detection The platform does not process any payment of global businesses.
Using this information, rate forecasted transactions and therefore relies on the safety, ThreatMetrix creates a unique digital identity for by using trustworthiness and authenticity of users.
each user by analysing the myriad connections ThreatMetrix's between devices, locations and anonymised data and analysis Historically fraudsters have seen a clear personal information.
opportunity to exploit the platform.
They sign up for accounts in order to make fake listings or dupe Behaviour that deviates from this trusted digital unsuspecting users into transferring money for an identity can be accurately identified in real time, item that never materialises.
Gumtree needed a alerting Gumtree to new users who may be using solution that could maintain the integrity of the stolen identity data, obfuscating their location or platform while keeping fraudsters out.
It attempting to sign up for multiple accounts from the harnessed intelligence from the ThreatMetrix same device.
Digital Identity Network to better identify high-risk users before they opened a Gumtree account.
O Ov ver erv vie iew w B Bu us sin ine es ss s rev reviie ew w F Fiin na an nc cial ial r re ev viie ew w G Go ov ver ern nan anc ce e F Fiin nan anc ciia all s st ta at tem emen ent ts s an and d o ot th her er iin nffo or rm ma at tio ion n RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Risk & Business Analytics 27 Gumtree was founded in London in 2000 The ThreatMetrix team has been really proactive in helping us improve our rules for detecting fraud, so About ThreatMetrix much so that we have seen a ThreatMetrix, a LexisNexis Risk significant increase in the fraud Solutions Company, empowers the global detection rate since we worked economy to grow profitably andsecurely together to improve the performance without compromise.
With deep insight into anonymised digital identities, ThreatMetrix ID delivers Fergus Campbell the intelligence behind 30bn annual Head of Communications, authentication and trust decisions, to Gumtree differentiate legitimate customers from fraudsters in real time.
