Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information International Sales and Marketing Board ISMB 1 | William Lee chair Chief Executive See page 47 for biography 2 | John Deer Deputy Chairman See page 47 for biography 3 | Allen Roberts FCA Group Finance Director See page 47 for biography 4 | Sean Hymas President and Representative Director, Renishaw KK 4 | Sean Hymas 5 | Rainer Lotz Joined Renishaw in 1989 following a years placement between 1987 and1988.
Over 25 years experience of international sales, channel management and business development.
Transferred to Renishaw KK in 2008 to further develop sales and new market sectors in Japan.
Appointed President of Renishaw KK and to the International Sales and Marketing Board in 2012.
5 | Rainer Lotz Managing Director, Renishaw D-A-CH Joined Renishaw in 2006.
Over 20 years experience in related positions.
Responsible for Renishaws operations in Germany, Austria and Switzerland.
Appointed as a member of the International Sales and Marketing Board in 2008.
6 | Clive Martell 7 | Jean-Marc Meffre 6 | Clive Martell Head of Global Additive Manufacturing Joined Renishaw in 2015.
Responsible for the strategy and direction of additive manufacturing.
Over 30 years experience in advanced engineering and international sales.
Progressed from graduate engineer to CEO of Delcam plc, and managed the transition from AIM listed company to a division of Autodesk.
Appointed as a member of the International Sales and Marketing Board in 2015.
Represents Renishaw on the steering group for the UK National Strategy for Additive Manufacturing.
7 | Jean-Marc Meffre Managing Director, Renishaw APAC & EMEA 8 | Rydian Pountney Joined Renishaw in 1988 as Managing Director of Renishaw France.
Holds a masters degree in Economics and Marketing.
In 1997, appointed Managing Director for all the operations in the Far East excluding Japan.
In April 2018, appointed President for the APAC and EMEA regions.
8 | Rhydian Pountney Managing Director, Renishaw UK & ROW Joined Renishaw in 1979.
Over 30 years experience in sales and marketing.
Responsible for sales in the UK and 11 overseas operations, including India and Russia.
UK Chair of the Technology Collaboration in Advanced Engineering working group of the UK-India joint economic and trade committee.
Further information on the ISMB can be found on page 50.
Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 49 Governance Directors corporate governance report continued There is an executive management committee known as A.
Leadership the Executive Board that is responsible for the executive The role of the Board management of the Groups businesses.
It is chaired by the The Board comprises four executive and four independent Chief Executive and includes the executive directors and non-executive directors in addition to the Executive senior managers as noted on page 48.
The directors holding office at the date of this usually meets for one day on a monthly basis and considers report, and short biographical details, are given on pages the performance and strategic direction of the metrology 46 to 47 Kath Durrant will be stepping down, effective from and healthcare businesses and other matters of general 31st July 2018.
Full biographical details are available at importance to the Group.
In addition, there is an executive www.
Will Lee was appointed by the Board sales and marketing committee known as the International as Chief Executive with effect from 1st February 2018, and Sales and Marketing Board which meets quarterly to along with all other directors, will be retiring and putting determine the Groups sales and marketing policies and themselves up for re-election at the AGM.
The Company strategies and review its sales and marketing activities.
maintains liability insurance for its directors and officers, as This committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and disclosed in the Other statutory and regulatory disclosures.
includes the Deputy Chairman, the Group Finance Director, the managing directors of the five largest sales regions and There is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved the Head of Global Additive Manufacturing.
These include the approval of annual and half-year results and trading statements, company A framework of delegated authorities is in place that and business acquisitions and disposals, major capital maps out the structure of delegation below the Board and expenditure, borrowings, material agreements, director and includes the matters reserved to the Executive Board and company secretary appointments and removals, patentthe level of authorities given to management below the related disputes and other material litigation, forecasts and Executive Board.
An executive risk committee meets regularly to review The Board meets as often as is necessary to discharge risks which may impact on the Groups business and to its duties effectively.
In the financial year ended 30th June implement mitigation actions.
The framework for managing 2018, the Board met for nine scheduled meetings and risk is set out on pages 32 to 33. the directors attendance record at board and committee meetings is set out at the end of this report.
In addition, the non-executive directors met a number of times without executive directors present.
A high-level summary of subject areas discussed during the year is set out on page 51.
The Board has three formally constituted committees the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Leadership framework Board Nomination Remuneration Executive Board Audit Committee Committee Committee International Sales and Marketing Board, executive risk committee, Brexit steering group, divisions and subsidiary undertakings 50 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Scheduled Board and committee meetings High-level summary of inthe period subjects discussed by the Board during the year: July 2017 August 2017 Strategy A A R R B Business strategy and organisation Reviewing potential acquisitions disposals R Review of investment in HiETA Technologies Ltd Products and technology Key business relationships September 2017 October 2017 Risk Groups risk analysis B B Patent litigation Tax risk register and updates Group quality Cyber security Brexit Governance November 2017 December 2017 Appointment of Chief Executive Legal updates R B Gender pay gap GDPR Board evaluation Committee terms of reference Controlling shareholder agreement Export control Whistleblowing policy January 2018 February 2018 Review of internal controls Government proposals on corporate A B N R B governance changes Finance Forecasts and targets Oversight of the preparation and management of the financial statements Dividend policy Trading statements March 2018 April 2018 Stakeholder engagement B N R AGM and other shareholder feedback Investor day HR Succession planning executive management structure Pensions May 2018 June 2018 Remuneration policy Salary reviews B N R B N Bonus Health and safety system and updates Key A Audit Committee 3 R Remuneration Committee 7 N Nomination Committee 4 B Board 9 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 51 Governance Directors corporate governance report continued Division of responsibilities the Chairman and Commitment Chief Executive The terms of appointment of the non-executive directors, Throughout the year, the Board considered that there which includes the expected time commitment and was a clear division of responsibilities at board level to requirement to discuss any changes to other significant ensure an appropriate balance of power and authority commitments with the Executive Chairman and Chief so that there is no one person with unfettered powers Executive in advance, are available for inspection at the of decision.
The Board and Executive Board meet AGM and the registered office upon written request.
on a sufficiently regular basis to make decisions of None of the executive directors hold a directorship in a significance to the Groups business segments and review FTSE 100 company.
Conflicts of interest Will Lee was appointed by the Board as Chief Executive The Board has a conflicts of interest policy, putting in with effect from 1st February 2018 in place of Sir David place procedures for the disclosure and review of any McMurtry.
Sir David McMurtry retained his Executive conflicts and potential conflicts, and authorisation by the Chairman role.
As a result of this appointment, the roles of Board if considered appropriate.
Authorisations granted Chairman and Chief Executive are no longer combined.
and the terms of such are reviewed on an annual basis.
Following Will Lees appointment as Chief Executive, the New disclosures are made where applicable.
Board has prepared and agreed written statements of the Development key responsibilities of the Chief Executive and the Executive Directors are offered the opportunity to attend formal Chairman.
These are available on the Companys website at training courses to update their knowledge of their duties www.
Guidance notes, papers and presentations on Sir David McMurtry has held the position of Executive changes to law and regulations are provided as appropriate.
Chairman of the Company since it listed in 1983.
There has Non-executive directors are invited to attend internal been a voting agreement in place between Sir David conferences, which provide information to the Group on McMurtry and John Deer since 1983, further details of which new product development and marketing initiatives, as well are set out in the Other statutory and regulatory disclosures as our investor days.
Business presentations are given at on page 72. board meetings to provide updates on, and opportunities to discuss, products and business strategies.
Non-executive directors Sir David Grant is the Senior Independent Director and is An induction pack is provided to new appointees to the available to discuss material concerns with shareholders Board, and the induction programme together with the should the normal channels of the Executive Chairman, the continuing development programme includes site visits and Chief Executive or the Group Finance Director fail to resolve briefings by senior managers, attendance at internal senior any concerns shareholders may have.
The independent management conferences and external trade shows, as well non-executive directors meet with the Executive Chairman as foreign subsidiary visits, as applicable.
without the other executive directors present, and the Information and support independent non-executive directors led by the Senior The Board receives appropriate documentation, Independent Director also meet without the executive management accounts, forecasts and commentaries directors or Executive Chairman present, in each case to thereon in advance of each board meeting to enable discuss performance, corporate governance, succession its members to review the financial performance of the planning and other matters.
Group, current trading and key business initiatives.
Effectiveness Regular financial updates are also provided between Composition of the Board meetings.
The General Counsel Company Secretary advises the Board on all governance matters.
All directors All the non-executive directors are considered by the Board have access to the General Counsel Company to be independent in character and judgement and there Secretary and to independent professional advice at the are no relationships or circumstances that are likely to affect Companys expense, where necessary, to discharge their a non-executive directors judgement.
The Board considers responsibilities as directors.
The appointment and removal that all the non-executive directors demonstrate commitment of the General Counsel Company Secretary is a matter to their roles and are able to dedicate sufficient time to their reserved for the Board.
Their skills and experience are summarised in their biographies on page 47.
Evaluation The Board, its committees and each director are subject to The Governance Code recommends that at least half an annual evaluation of their performance.
The format of the the board, excluding the chairman, should comprise evaluation varies each year.
The Board has complied with this requirement during the period.
For the financial year ending 30th June 2018, an Appointments to the Board internal evaluation process was undertaken.
The main recommendations from 2018 are a continuing Board focus A description of the structure and activities of the on key business initiatives, and succession, talent and Nomination Committee is set out in the Nomination diversity across the Group.
Committee report on page 55 where the Boards commitment to diversity is also affirmed.
52 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information In 2016, Equity Communications Limited undertook There are defined lines of responsibility and delegation of interviews with the directors, discussing a list of subjects authorities.
Established and centrally documented control agreed by the Board.
The next externally facilitated procedures also exist, including, for example, capital and evaluation will be in 2019, as required by the Governance other expenditure, information and technology security Code.
Equity Communications Limited has no other and legal and regulatory compliance.
These are applied connection with the Company.
Re-election The Group internal audit function provides independent and objective assurance that the control procedures are In accordance with the Governance Code all the directors appropriate and effectively applied.
The Group Audit with the exception of Kath Durrant will retire from the Board Manager attends Audit Committee meetings to present at the next AGM and will offer themselves up for re-election annual internal audit plans and the results of such internal or election as the case may be at the AGM.
Actions are monitored by the Audit Committee on an C. Accountability ongoing basis.
Audit Committee There is an established process for the review of business A description of the membership and activities of the Audit risks throughout the Group including an executive risk Committee is set out in the Audit Committee report on pages committee as explained on pages 32 to 33.
The Board ensures that there are effective internal controls Financial and business reporting over the financial reporting and consolidation processes.
The respective responsibilities of the directors and auditor Monthly accounts and forecasts are presented to the Board in connection with the financial statements are explained in for review.
The Group internal audit function undertakes Directors responsibilities on page 75 and the Independent a review of subsidiaries accounting processes and auditors report on pages 76 to 87. performance to provide assurance to the Board on the integrity of the information supplied by each company Fair, balanced and understandable forming part of the Groups consolidated results.
The directors consider that the Annual report, taken as a The Board undertakes an annual formal review of the whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and the information necessary for shareholders to assess an updated risk and controls analysis.
The review covers the Groups position and performance, business model all material controls, including financial, operational and and strategy.
compliance controls and risk management systems.
Going concern The Board has conducted a robust assessment of the The Groups strategy for delivering its objectives and principal risks facing the Group, including those that would business model, together with the factors likely to affect threaten its business model, future performance, solvency its future development and performance, are set out in the or liquidity.
The Board is satisfied that there is an ongoing Strategic report, where details of the financial and liquidity process for identifying, evaluating and managing the positions are also given.
In addition, note 20 to the Financial significant risks facing the Group, which has been in place statements includes the Groups objectives and policies during the year, is regularly reviewed and accords with for managing its capital, details of its financial instruments the FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and hedging activities and its exposures to credit risk and and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
confirms that necessary action has been or is being taken The Group has considerable financial resources at its to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified disposal and the directors have considered the current from its review.
As a consequence, the directors D. Remuneration believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Directors remuneration report explains how the Company applies the Governance Code principles After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable relating to remuneration and includes a description of the expectation that both the Company and the Group have membership and activities of the Remuneration Committee.
adequate resources to continue in operation for a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the Financial statements.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual report and accounts.
Risk management and internal control The Board is responsible for the Companys systems of risk management and internal control, and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Any system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 53 Governance Directors corporate governance report continued The Board notes that the shareholder vote on the re-election E. Relations with shareholders of Sir David McMurtry as a director of the Company at the Engagement with shareholders AGM in 2017 received 21.13% votes against the resolution.
Open webcasts of presentations on annual and half-year The Companys overall approach to engagement with results are held and recordings of the presentations and the shareholders, and the opportunities for interacting with the subsequent question and answer sessions made available Board are set out earlier in this section.
The Board takes the after the webcast on the Companys website.
Analysts and views of shareholders seriously and, both following the AGM brokers reports are circulated to the Board.
and subsequently, has considered and discussed the vote.
The Board holds open discussions with any shareholder Board and committee meeting attendance record who wishes to share views with the directors at the AGM or Shown against each directors name in the table below the annual investor day at which presentations on Group is the number of scheduled meetings of the Board and strategy, business segments and product lines are given by its committees at which the director was present, and, in members of the Board and senior management, as well as brackets, the number of meetings that the director was tours covering the Groups activities.
This year, 108 visitors eligible to attend during the year.
attended the Companys investor day, which included various Q&A sessions with the Board during the day as well Compliance statement as an opportunity to ask questions during tours, lunch and The Board considers that it has complied with the refreshment breaks.
requirements of the Governance Code throughout the year except in relation to the following matters an explanation The AGM relating to non-compliance is given in sections A and E of The AGM takes place at the Companys headquarters or the report above : one of the Companys other sites and formal notification is sent to the shareholders at least 20 working days before the the combined role of Chairman and Chief Executive meeting.
A business presentation is given and all directors provision A.
2.1 up to 1st February 2018 : and are available for questions during and after the meeting, an explanation of the actions the Board intends to take to including the chairs of the Audit, Remuneration and understand the reasons behind a significant vote against Nomination Committees.
Tours of the Companys facilities a resolution at a general meeting provision E. 2.2. are offered.
Board attendance record Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantially The table below sets out attendance at the scheduled separate issue, and all resolutions are taken on a poll.
meetings of the Board and committees during the year.
The Company reports on the number of votes lodged on each resolution, the balance for and against each resolution and the number of votes withheld.
This information is published via a Regulatory Information Service RIS and on the Companys website following the meeting.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Director Board Committee Committee Committee Sir David McMurtry 9 9 4 4 1 John Deer 8 9 Will Lee 9 9 Allen Roberts 9 9 Geoff McFarland 9 9 Carol Chesney 9 9 3 3 7 7 4 4 2 Kath Durrant 7 9 7 7 4 4 Sir David Grant 9 9 3 3 7 7 4 4 John Jeans 9 9 3 3 7 7 4 4 1 John Deer was absent for the Board meeting on 6th December 2017 due to illness.
2 Kath Durrant was absent for the Board meetings on 27th September 2017 due to unforeseen circumstances and 8th June 2018 due to a prior commitment.
Sir David Grant Senior Independent Director 26th July 2018 54 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018
