STRATEGIC REPORT EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE NEW TEAM, SAME PASSION BAUKJE DREIMULLER FRANCIS SCHRDER GEORGE SLADE PATRICK DEPREZ General Counsel HR Director IT Director Product Sales Director Appointed: Sep 2017 Appointed: July 2017 Appointed: April 2015 Appointed: Dec 2012 Baukje has extensive Francis has extensive HR George joined the legacy Patrick joined the legacy experience from leading leadership experience Shanks business as Van Gansewinkel VGG business in 1998 and was legal firms Simmons & from leading global IT Director in 2013 to the regional director for Simmons, Ashurst and organisations including focus on improving the West Belgium until 2002 Houthoff.
She joined FedEx International, TNT, Groups IT landscape and when he was appointed Renewi from Houthoff, TP Vision and Philips.
She developing technology as Group SHEQ and where she held the PETER DILNOT holds Masters degrees to support and grow the Technical Development position of senior lawyer Chief Executive Officer in Change Management business.
During this within the corporate from Vrije Universiteit time, he has led a number period he was responsible transaction M&A and in Psychological and of key projects across for leading several quality department.
In this Social Science from the the business including and safety improvement capacity, Baukje was University of Amsterdam.
Since 2006, very closely involved She has significant and the implementation Patrick has managed the with the VGG - Shanks integration experience of a Group-wide strategic waste outlet merger having lead much from the merger between collaboration platform.
portfolio for VGG and in of the deal-related legal FedEx and TNT.
He has previously held 2012 was appointed as activities.
Baukje holds a number of executive a member of the VGG Master degrees in both TOBY WOOLRYCH positions at IMI plc, Executive Committee.
Dutch Law and European Chief Financial Officer BGL Group, Cable and Before joining VGG, he & International Law from Wireless, Ericsson was the head of the the Radboud University and Level 3. waste division at B&P of Nijmegen.
Peter and Tobys Sobry NV for almost biographies can be 10 years.
Patrick has a found on page 81 degree in Environmental Management.
com 32 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 JONNY KAPPEN BAS BLOM JAMES PRIESTLEY OTTO fide BONT WIM GEENS Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Hazardous Waste Monostreams & Municipal Netherlands Belgium Commercial Group Continuous Commercial Improvement Director Appointed: July 2012 Appointed: Feb 2017 Appointed: Nov 2016 Appointed: May 2017 Appointed: Nov 2012 Jonny has been working Bas is an experienced James was appointed as Otto was appointed as Wim was appointed for Shanks since 2000 executive leader of Managing Director of the Managing Director for as Director Belgium, when Shanks took over regional and global Municipal Division and to Renewis Netherlands Luxembourg and France operations from Waste commercial Business to the Executive Committee Commercial Division, at VGG in May 2015.
He and as a member of the was appointed to the VGG He was later appointed business process rehas a wide range of Executive Committee, Executive Committee in Managing Director of the engineering projects, experience running and in May 2017.
Wim has Hazardous Waste Division including manufacturing improving businesses his appointment at been working for VGG in 2007.
Jonny started his operations and jointin Europe and America.
Renewi, Otto worked for since 2006.
He started career as a civil engineer ventures, strategic Prior to joining Shanks a number of blue-chip within operations and working for Reym in 1979 business development he was interim President companies including became Group Director as a field engineer and and M&A.
He worked 26 Americas for Britax Child United Technologies and Operations Real Estate he was promoted first years for General Electric Safety and before this the Plastics and Security Procurement in 2009. to Operations Director Plastics and its successor President Europe for RGIS, divisions of General Prior to his appointment in 1994 and then to after acquisition: SABIC an inventory services Electric.
Most recently, he at VGG, Wim was a Managing Director in 1997.
Innovative Plastics, a company owned by spent six years at United Director within Carrefour Jonny is also Chairman division of the large global Blackstone.
After starting Technologies in various NV, a French retail group.
of the Industrial Cleaning chemicals corporation.
his career at ICI he moved managerial positions Before that, Wim was Foundation a Benelux Bas holds an MSc in on to gain extensive culminating in his role as a Board member and Safety Foundation.
Aerospace Engineering management experience President of the Fire Executive Director in several Industries and and an MBA.
at Ford, British Airways & Security Field has an MBA and Masters and Tesco and consulting Continental Europe.
in commercial and with Alix Partners.
has a degree in Chemical Engineering and an MBA.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 33
