108 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Governance Directors Report The Directors present their report, together with the financial the Companys shareholders at its 2019 Annual General Meeting statements of the Group and RELX PLC the Company, for the year AGM.
Together with the interim dividend of 12.4p 2017: 11.7p per ended 31 December 2018.
The Company is incorporated as a ordinary share, paid in August 2018, the total ordinary dividends public limited company and is registered in England and Wales for the year will be 42.1p 2017: 39.4p.
Details of dividend cover and with registered number 77536.
Its registered office is 1-3 Strand, dividend policy are set out on page 58.
Corporate governance Corporate structure The Company has complied throughout the year with the provisions Following the simplification of the Groups corporate structure, of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code, which the Companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock is publicly available on the Financial Reporting Council website Exchange and Euronext Amsterdam.
It also has in place an www.
Details of how the main principles of the Code American Depositary Share programme, under which its have been applied and the Directors statement on internal control securities are traded on the New York Stock Exchange.
The are set out in the corporate governance review on pages 72 to 81, Company and its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are which are incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
together known as 'RELX' or the Group.
The 2018 Corporate Governance Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2018, applied to the Company with effect Financial statement presentation from 1 January 2019.
This Directors Report and the financial statements of the Group and Company should be read in conjunction with the other reports Greenhouse gas emissions set out on pages 2 to 107.
A review of the Groups performance The Company is required to state the annual quantity of emissions during the year is set out on pages 8 to 59, the principal risks facing in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent from Group operational the Group are set out on pages 60 to 63, and the Group statement activities.
Details of our emissions during the year ended on corporate responsibility is set out on pages 42 to 52.
31 December 2018 and the actions being taken to reduce them are set out in the Corporate Responsibility section of the In addition to the reported figures, adjusted figures are presented Strategic Report on pages 51 and 52, which are incorporated as additional performance measures used by management to into the Directors Report by reference.
Further details can assess the performance of the business.
These exclude the be found in our online Corporate Responsibility Report at Groups share of amortisation of acquired intangible assets, www.
acquisition-related costs, tax in joint ventures, disposal gains and losses and other non-operating items, related tax effects, and Directors movements in deferred taxation assets and liabilities related to The names of the Directors who served on the Board during the acquired intangible assets, and include the benefit year are set out on pages 66, 67, and 78, which are incorporated of tax amortisation where available on acquired goodwill and into this Directors Report by reference.
Share capital Company financial statements The Companys issued share capital comprises a single class The individual company financial statements of the Company of ordinary shares, all of which are listed on the London and are presented on page 170, and were prepared under Financial Amsterdam stock exchanges.
It also has securities, in the form Reporting Standard 101 FRS 101.
Distributable reserves as at of American Depositary Shares, traded on the New York Stock 31 December 2018 were 2,689m 2017: 1,518m, comprising Exchange.
All issued shares are fully paid up and carry no reserves less shares held in treasury.
Shareholders funds as at additional obligations or special rights.
right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
Strategic Report In a general meeting, subject to any rights and restrictions The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to present a fair attached to any shares, on a show of hands every member who is review of the Group during the financial year.
The Strategic Report present in person shall have one vote and every proxy present who which includes a review of the Groups business areas, a financial has been duly appointed by one or more members entitled to vote review, the principal risks facing the Group, any important events on the resolution has one vote although a proxy has one vote for affecting the Group since 31 December 2018, and the likely future and one vote against the resolution if: i the proxy has been duly developments in the Groups business, is set out on pages 2 to 63 appointed by more than one member entitled to vote on the which are incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
resolution: and ii the proxy has been instructed by one or more The Directors Report, inclusive of the Strategic Report of those members to vote for the resolution and by one or more incorporated therein, forms the management report for the other of those members to vote against it.
Subject to any rights or purposes of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and restrictions attached to any shares, on a vote on a resolution on Transparency Rule 4.1.
a poll every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he she is the holder.
Dividends Proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received by The Board is recommending a final dividend of 29.7p 2017: 27.7p the registrars not less than 48 hours before a general meeting.
per ordinary share to be paid on 4 June 2019 to shareholders There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on appearing on the Register at the close of business on 3 May 2019. the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general Payment of this final dividend remains subject to the approval of provisions of the Articles and prevailing legislation.
The Company Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Directors' Report 109 is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may report.
The authority to make market purchases will expire at the result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights 2019 AGM, at which a resolution to further extend the authority will attached to the shares.
At the 2018 AGM, shareholders passed a be submitted to shareholders.
resolution authorising the Directors to issue shares for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis up to a nominal value of 8.1m, Substantial share interests representing less than 5% of the Companys issued share capital, As at 31 December 2018, the Company had been notified by the and authorising the Directors to issue up to an additional 5% of following shareholders that they held an interest of 3% or more the issued share capital for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis in in voting rights of its issued share capital pursuant to Rule 5 of the connection with an acquisition or specified investment.
Since the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR : 2018 AGM, no shares have been issued under this authority.
The Notifications received as at 31 December 2018 % of voting rights shareholder authority also permitted the Directors to issue Black Rock Inc 10.89% shares in order to satisfy entitlements under employee share plans and details of such allotments are described below.
Invesco Limited 5.03% In addition to these authorities, at the general meeting of the Legal and General Group plc 3.40% Company held in June 2018, held for shareholders to approve The percentage interests stated above are as disclosed at the certain matters relating to the cross-border merger between date on which the interests were notified to the Company, and RELX PLC and RELX NV the Merger, the Directors were are based on voting rights prior to the corporate simplification.
unconditionally authorised to allot shares in the Company up to a Between 31 December 2018 and 20 February 2019, the Company nominal value of 136.3m only in connection with the Merger.
As did not receive any notifications under DTR 5. announced by the Company on 10 September 2018, following the completion of the Merger, 930,780,110 new RELX PLC shares were Employee Benefit Trust issued under this authority.
To the extent that they are unused, The trustee of the Employee Benefit Trust held an interest in each of the authorities to issue shares set out above will expire at 7,130,366 ordinary shares in the Company representing 0.3% of the 2019 AGM.
Resolutions authorising the Directors to: i issue the issued ordinary shares as at 31 December 2018.
The trustee shares for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis up to 5% of the issued may vote or abstain from voting any shares it holds in any way it share capital: and ii issue up to 5% of the issued share capital for sees fit.
cash on a non-pre-emptive basis in connection with an acquisition or specified investment, subject to certain conditions in Significant agreements change of control accordance with the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of There are a number of borrowing agreements including credit Principles, will be put forward for approval by shareholders facilities that, in the event of a change of control of RELX PLC at the Companys 2019 AGM.
and, in some cases, a consequential credit rating downgrade to During the year, 2,465,983 ordinary shares in the Company were sub-investment grade may, at the option of the lenders, require also issued in order to satisfy entitlements under employee share repayment and or cancellation as appropriate.
There are no plans as follows: 603,094 under a UK Sharesave option scheme at arrangements between the Company and its Directors or prices between 439.20p and 1251.20p per share: 362,401 under the employees providing for compensation for loss of office or former RELX NV Dutch Debenture Scheme in place prior to the employment that occurs specifically because of a takeover, merger at prices between EUR4.781 and EUR18.47, which is now merger or amalgamation with the exception of provisions in the satisfied by way of Company shares: and 1,500,488 under Companys share plans which could result in options or awards executive share option schemes at prices between 466.50p and vesting or becoming exercisable on a change of control.
The issued share capital as at 31 December 2018 is shown in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
Articles The Companys Articles of Association the 'Articles', which were Authority to purchase shares not amended during the year, may only be amended by a special At the 2018 AGM, shareholders passed a resolution authorising resolution of shareholders passed at a general meeting of the the purchase of up to 112.3m ordinary shares in the Company Company.
At the general meeting of shareholders held in representing less than 10% of the issued ordinary shares by connection with the corporate simplification on 27 June 2018, market purchase.
During the year, 26,945,234 ordinary shares shareholders approved the increase in the maximum aggregate with a nominal value of 1451 116p representing 1.4% of the ordinary amount of ordinary remuneration payable to Directors who do not shares in issue on 31 December 2018 were purchased under hold executive office for their services, as set out in Article 142 of this and the previous authority, for a total consideration of 425m, the Articles, from 500,000 to 2,000,000. including expenses, and subsequently transferred to be held in treasury.
This represents the RELX PLC proportion of the 700m Appointment and replacement of Directors deployed by the Group on share buybacks during the year.
The The appointment, re-appointment and replacement of Directors purpose of the share buyback is to reduce the capital of is governed by the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and related the Company.
Shareholders maintain their right to appoint and re-appoint Directors by way of an ordinary resolution in On 6 December 2018, the Company cancelled 45m ordinary shares accordance with the Articles.
The Directors may appoint held in treasury.
Therefore, as at 31 December 2018 there were additional or replacement Directors, who may only serve until the 42,023,020 ordinary shares held in treasury, representing 2.1% of following AGM of the Company, at which time they must retire and, the issued ordinary shares.
A further 5,960,856 ordinary shares if appropriate, seek election by the Companys shareholders.
were purchased between 2 January 2019 and the date of this A Director may be removed from office by the Company as 110 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Governance provided for by applicable law, in certain circumstances set out in Political donations the Articles, and at a general meeting of the Company by the The Group does not make donations to European Union EU passing of an ordinary resolution.
political organisations or incur EU political expenditure.
In the US, Group companies donated 58,763 2017: 62,791 to political The Articles provide for a Board of Directors consisting of not organisations.
In line with US law, these donations were not made fewer than two, but not more than 20 Directors, who manage the at federal level, but only to candidates and political parties at state business and affairs of the Company.
Powers of Directors Employee relations Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Articles The Group is committed to employee involvement and and any directions given by special resolutions, the business of the participation.
Where appropriate, major announcements are Company shall be managed by the Board which may exercise all communicated to employees through internal briefings.
the powers of the Company.
Information on performance, development, organisational changes and other matters of interest is communicated through Directors indemnity briefings and electronic bulletins.
In accordance with its Articles, the Company has granted Directors an indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, in respect The Company is an equal opportunity employer and does not of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
This indemnity was discriminate on the grounds of race, gender or other characteristics in place for Directors that served at any time during the 2018 in its recruitment or employment policies.
The Group seeks financial year, and also for each serving Director as at the date opinions from employees through a triennial survey.
The last of approval of this report.
The Company also purchased and employee survey was carried out in 2018.
Certain employees maintained throughout the year directors and officers liability throughout the Group are eligible to participate in the Groups insurance in respect of itself and its Directors.
Related party transactions Disabled persons Internal controls are in place to ensure that any related party RELX has a positive approach to diversity and inclusion.
Details of transactions involving Directors or their connected persons are the Groups Diversity and Inclusion policy are set out on page 47, carried out on an arms-length basis and are properly recorded which is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
The and disclosed where appropriate.
Group is committed to the full and fair treatment of people with disabilities in relation to job applications, training, promotion and Conflicts of interest career development.
Where existing employees become disabled, Under the Companies Act 2006, the Directors have a duty to our policy is to provide continuing employment, support and avoid situations in which they have, or could have, a direct or training wherever practicable.
indirect interest that conflicts with the interests of the Company.
The Board has established formal procedures for identifying, Disclosures required under UK Listing Rule 9.8.
4 assessing and reviewing any situations where a Director has an The information required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4 is set out on the interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests pages below: of the Company.
Information required Page The Nominations Committee considers any such conflict or 1 Interest capitalised by the Group n a potential conflict and makes a recommendation to the Board on whether to authorise it, as permitted under the Companys 2 Publication of unaudited financial information n a Articles.
In reaching its decision, the Board is required to act 4 Long-term incentive schemes n a in a way it considers would be most likely to promote the 5 Waiver of emoluments by a director n a success of the Company and may impose limits or conditions when giving its authorisation, if it thinks this is appropriate.
6 Waiver of future emoluments by a director n a Actual or potential conflicts of interest are reviewed annually 7 Non pro-rata allotments for cash issuer n a by the Nominations Committee.
8 Non pro-rata allotments for cash major subsidiaries n a No contract existed during the year in relation to the Companys 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary n a business in which any Director was materially interested.
10 Contracts of significance n a Financial Instruments 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder n a The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies, including hedging activities and exposure to risks, are described 12 Shareholder waiver of dividends 144 in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 150 13 Shareholder waiver of future dividends 144 to 155.
14 Agreements with controlling shareholders n a Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Directors' Report 111 Financial statements and accounting records the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors Report and performance of the business and the position of the Group, and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law together with a description of the principal risks and and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial Having taken into account all the matters considered by the Board statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors and brought to the attention of the Board during the year, the are required to prepare the consolidated financial statements in Directors are satisfied that the Annual Report and Financial accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and IFRS as adopted by the EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The understandable and provides the information necessary for Directors have elected to prepare the individual company financial shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, statements in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 business model and strategy.
Under company law the Neither the Company nor the Directors accept any liability to any Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied person in relation to the Annual Report except to the extent that that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the such liability could arise under English law.
Accordingly, any Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
liability to a person who has demonstrated reliance on any untrue In preparing the individual company financial statements, the or misleading statement or omission shall be determined in Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and accordance with Section 90A of the Financial Services and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting Markets Act 2000. estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework Disclosure of information to auditors has been followed, subject to any material departures being In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare Director in office at the date the Directors Report is approved, the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is confirms that: inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit in business.
information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and In preparing the Group financial statements, IAS1 requires that he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken Directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant information, including accounting policies, in a manner that audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable are aware of that information.
information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements of IFRS are insufficient to enable users Going concern to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events The Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial adopting the going concern basis of accounting is set out on page performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability 80, which is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Viability statement records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys The Directors statement regarding the long-term viability of transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Group is set out on page 82, which is incorporated into this the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure Directors Report by reference.
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Auditors Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention Resolutions for the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
auditors of the Company and to authorise the Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, to determine their remuneration will be Directors responsibility statement submitted to shareholders at the 2019 AGM.
Each of the Directors, whose names and roles can be found on pages 66 to 67, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: Annual General Meeting The 2019 Annual General Meeting will be held at 10.00am on the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance 25 April 2019 at Amba Hotel, Strand, London, WC2N 5HX.
with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and as adopted By order of the Board by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group: Henry Udow the individual company financial statements, prepared in Company Secretary accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced 20 February 2019 Disclosure Framework FRS 101, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Registered Office Company: and 1-3 Strand London WC2N 5JR 112 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information In this section 113 Independent auditors report 121 Consolidated financial statements 126 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 168 5 year summary
