68 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Governance RELX Business Leaders Senior Business Executives Kumsal Bayazit Mark Kelsey Chet Burchett Mike Walsh Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer Scientific, Technical Risk & Business Analytics Exhibitions Legal & Medical and Chairwoman, RELX Technology Forum Joined in 2004.
Appointed to current position in 2019. Business Information in 2010 to current position in 2015. to current position in 2011. and CEO Risk Solutions in 2012.
Previously President, Exhibitions Has held a number of senior Previously President of the Previously CEO of LexisNexis US Europe, Chief Strategy Officer, positions across the Group over Americas for Reed Exhibitions.
Legal Markets and Director RELX, and Executive Vice President the past 30 years.
Previously Chief Prior to that was President of Strategic Business Development of Global Strategy and Business Operating Officer and then Chief and Chief Executive Officer, Home Depot.
Prior to that was Development for LexisNexis.
Prior Executive Officer of Reed Business USA, for Burson-Marsteller, a practising attorney at Weil, to that worked with Bain & Information.
Studied at Liverpool a leading global public relations Gotshal and Manges in Washington Company in New York, Los Angeles, University and received his MBA agency.
Holds a degree from DC and served as a consultant Johannesburg and Sydney.
with The Boston Consulting Group.
an MBA from Harvard Business Holds a Juris Doctor degree School and is a Graduate of the from Harvard Law School and University of California at Berkeley.
is a graduate of Yale University.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | RELX Business Leaders 69 Corporate Executives Youngsuk YS Chi Gunjan Aggarwal Henry Udow Andrew Matuch Director of RELX Corporate Affairs Chief Human Resources Officer Chief Legal Officer and Chief Strategy Officer and Chairman Elsevier Company Secretary Joined in 2005.
Appointed to current Joined in 2017.
Appointed position in 2011. to current position at that time.
to current position at that time.
Previously was President and Previously head of Human Previously Chief Legal Officer and Previously was Executive Vice Chief Operating Officer of Random Resources for Ericssons global Company Secretary of Cadbury plc President Global Strategy and House, founding Chairman of media business in California and for having spent 23 years working with Business Development for Random House Asia and Chief Ericsson North America.
Prior to that worked LexisNexis Legal and Professional.
Operating Officer for Ingram Human Resources positions in at Shearman & Sterling in New York Prior to that was a partner at OC&C Book Group.
Holds an MBA from Asia, Europe and North America at and London.
Holds a Juris Doctor Strategy Consultants.
Holds an Columbia University and is a Unilever and Novartis.
Holds an degree from the University MBA from Harvard Business graduate of Princeton University.
MBA from Xavier School of of Michigan Law School and School and a bachelors degree Management, Jamshedpur, India, a bachelors degree from the from Williams College.
and is a graduate from JMI Institute University of Rochester.
