OVERVIEW INTEGRATION UPDATE INTEGRATION AND SYNERGY DELIVERY The integration of two similar sized entities is complex and has been approached with detailed planning, tight operational control and through deploying experienced resources The first key objective was to create a single new IT systems lie at the heart of the integration WE MADE VERY and unified management team.
We have reviewed and selected Executive Committee reflects a balance of core platforms around which we will build GOOD PROGRESS former Shanks, former VGG and new external our processes for the migration to one way hires.
These new leaders have brought fresh of working.
Many of the systems are now DURING 2017 18, perspectives from blue chip backgrounds such undergoing significant modification so they can DELIVERING 15M OF as GE, SABIC, UTC and Fedex TNT, while at the manage the breadth of activities and processes same time we have retained the deep corporate required in Renewi.
The outcome over the next SYNERGIES AGAINST and waste knowledge that is essential to driving two years will then form a platform for further profitability in the waste industry.
Our new sustained investment and improvement to A TARGET OF 12M Executive Committee was completed by the further reduce cost and improve performance.
end of August 2017, following which we were then able to sequentially design and populate The entire programme is managed by our organisation structures for the next layers of integration teams within each relevant management throughout the organisation.
This division led by a dedicated integration leader was done in two waves in each of the Belgian and supported by external experts.
The and Netherlands Commercial businesses and programme is managed and reviewed by in our Group Central Services, completing in the executive directors with support from a January 2018. small central Integration Management Office IMO.
We have created a detailed integration master plan to manage both divisional and At the same time as implementing our new functional integration activities, addressing management structures, we have designed interdependencies and ensuring milestones are a target operating model TOM, both for met.
Synergies are tracked from the moment the whole Group and most specifically for they are identified to the time of realisation.
the Commercial Division in Belgium and The synergy plans are, and will continue to be, the Netherlands where the two differently subject to audit both internally and externally structured businesses are merging into one way to ensure that we can be confident that the of working.
The new TOM has been designed resulting benefits are both real and sustainable.
to maintain excellent customer intimacy The central IMO also keeps close track of while creating robust and efficient operating current and forecast integration costs, whether platforms that reduce cost and enable future exceptional or capital in nature.
The design phase has been completed and we are currently implementing pilot studies and expect to migrate the majority of our activities during the second half of the current year.
com 16 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 We have rebranded over 120 sites and 1,500 trucks SYNERGY DELIVERY IN 2017 18 The savings are delivered in three main areas: Indirect savings include the benefit of a single AHEAD OF PLAN WITH FORECAST direct, indirect and scale savings: Board and senior management team 4m 40M SYNERGIES ON TRACK as well as other overhead reduction cost Direct savings include significant benefits programmes such as the closure of a small Our commitment to deliver 40m of cost from rerouting waste to optimise margins, as shared service centre in Zaventem, Belgium, synergies by 2019 20 underpins the initial value well as reduced costs from route optimisation which was integrated into the larger shared creation of the merger.
Some of these benefits service centre in Lommel, Belgium, saving an will only be secured following process and annualised 1.5m.
We made very good progress during 2017 18, IT migration.
During the year we exited a delivering 15m of synergies against a target large former VGG site in Utrecht, saving an We have over 420 identified synergy projects.
of 12m for much lower cost to date than annualised 0.7m, and a further three small Around 320 are quick win projects, for originally planned.
Encouragingly, the run sites in Hazardous Waste, saving 0.1m.
We example local initiatives to make better use rate of secured cost savings as at March 2018 also delivered savings of an annualised 0.3m of waste, and 220 69% of these have already was approximately 24m, underpinning our from reduced costs of outbound logistics of been completed.
We also have 60 mid-size confidence in delivering our 30m target for waste to incineration.
and 40 large-size initiatives, many of whose implementation is dependent upon the IT and 2018 19.
The balance of this years saving will be process migration.
achieved in the second half primarily through Scale savings include benefits in terms the process and IT migration projects which are of recyclate income, disposal costs and critical to the next phases of integration and procurement.
Procurement benefits of over cost reduction.
Our initiatives support our total 2.5m annualised have been delivered and 40m target, with further potential new projects this is expected to more than double by the being identified.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 17 | OVERVIEW INTEGRATION UPDATE CONTINUED INTEGRATION PROGRESS Top management team appointments made in Belgium Commercial Waste Division JUNE JULY SEPTEMBER 2017 2017 2017 Tooling for tracking synergies rolled Renewi celebrates first out birthday coinciding with launch of new Target Operating Models defined values Divisional Group management teams appointed Rebranding well Process and systems studies result in clear underway with over migration strategy for three merger-related 1,000 trucks and 100 divisions major sites rebranded First Renewi Leadership Conference Launch of one Renewi involving top 150 leaders Collaboration Platform FEBRUARY MARCH APRIL 2018 2018 2018 Launch of iRenew network to manage the people side of change All team appointments made in Site rationalisation Hazardous Waste five locations finalised in Hazardous Waste Feasibility study completed for IT migration Commercial Waste Netherlands Division For investors: www.
com 18 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Shared Service Centre SSC Belgium operations moved from Zaventem to Lommel with payroll transferring in January 2018 All team appointments made within Belgium Commercial Waste Division Legal names of legacy Shanks and Van Gansewinkel entities renamed to Renewi All team appointments made within Project and portfolio Netherlands Commercial methodology defined Waste Division High level integration masterplan prepared OCTOBER NOVEMBER JANUARY 2017 2017 2018 Migration of all roll-bin First pilot site migration services, allowing for roll in Commercial Waste route optimisation Belgium Division MAY OCTOBER NOVEMBER 2018 2018 2018 Over 1,500 trucks and Netherlands Commercial 120 sites rebranded Division SSC 468 integration in Amersfoort will be initiatives identified transferred to the 230 integration SSC in Lommel initiatives completed For customers: www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 19
