GOVERNANCE OTHER DISCLOSURES THE COMPANYS ARTICLES AGM.
Following their appointments exercise of powers by the directors include OF ASSOCIATION in September 2017 and April 2018, Luc the following: Sterckx and Jolande Sap will be standing for Many of the matters described below are election by shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares governed by the Companys Articles of In accordance with governance best practice, under the Companies Act 2006, the Act, Association as well as by current legislation and all remaining directors will be offering the directors of a company are, with certain regulations.
The Articles can be viewed on the themselves for re-election at the 2018 AGM.
exceptions, unable to allot any equity Company website at www.
com securities without express authorisation, APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT which may be contained in a companys STRATEGIC REPORT OF DIRECTORS Articles or given by its shareholders in a general meeting.
In addition, under the Act, The Overview and Strategic Report sections The Companys minimum requirement the Company may not allot shares for cash set out on pages 2 to 79 provide a fair review is to appoint at least two directors.
The otherwise than pursuant to an employee of the Groups business for the year ended appointment and replacement of directors share scheme without first making an offer 31 March 2018.
They also explain the objectives may be made as follows: to existing shareholders to allot such shares and strategy of the Group, its competition and to them on the same or more favourable the markets in which it operates, the principal The Companys members may, by ordinary terms in proportion to their respective risks and uncertainties it faces, the Groups resolution, appoint any person who is willing shareholdings, unless this requirement financial position, key performance indicators to act to be a director: is waived by a special resolution of the and likely future developments of the business.
The Company The Overview and Strategic Report were The Board may appoint any person who is received authority at the last AGM to allot approved by a duly authorised committee of willing to act to be a director.
Any director shares for cash on a non pre-emptive the Board on 24 May 2018 and signed on its so appointed shall hold office only until basis up to a maximum nominal amount behalf by the Company Secretary.
the next AGM and shall then be eligible of 3,999,129.
This authority lasts until for election: the earlier of the AGM in 2018 or DIRECTORS REPORT 30 September 2018: Each director shall retire from office at every The Directors Report comprises pages 80 to AGM but may be re-appointed by ordinary Repurchase of shares subject to 111.
The Directors Report was approved by resolution if eligible and willing: authorisation by shareholder resolution, a duly authorised committee of the Board on the Company may purchase all or any of 24 May 2018 and signed on its behalf by the The Company may, by special resolution, its own shares in accordance with the Act Company Secretary.
remove any director before the expiry of his and the Listing Rules.
Any shares that have or her period of office or may, by ordinary been bought back may be held as treasury OTHER INFORMATION resolution, remove a director where special shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled notice has been given and the necessary immediately upon completion of the Apart from the details of the Companys statutory procedures are complied with: and purchase, thereby reducing the amount Long Term Incentive Plans, as set out in the of the Companys issued share capital.
Directors Remuneration Report on pages A director must vacate their office if any The Company received authority at the 92 to 107, no further information requires of the circumstances in Article 100 of the last AGM to purchase up to 79,982,584 disclosure for the purposes of complying Articles of the Company arise.
This authority lasts with the Financial Conduct Authoritys until the earlier of the AGM in 2018 or Listing Rule 9.8.
POWERS OF DIRECTORS 30 September 2018: and DIRECTORS The business of the Company is managed Borrowing powers the directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the by the Board which may exercise all the Company to borrow money and to mortgage The composition of the Board at the date powers of the Company, whether relating or charge all or any part of the Companys of this Report, together with directors to the management of the business of the assets, provided that the aggregate biographical details, are shown on pages Company or not.
This power is subject to amount of borrowings of the Group 80 to 81.
All served on the Board throughout any limitations imposed on the Company by outstanding at any time does not exceed the financial year under review with the legislation.
It is also limited by the provisions the limit set out in the Articles, unless exception of Luc Sterckx and Jolande Sap.
of the Articles and by any directions given sanctioned by an ordinary resolution of Eric van Amerongen and Stephen Riley retired by special resolution of the members of the the Companys shareholders.
from the Board at the conclusion of the 2017 Company.
Specific provisions relevant to the For investors: www.
com 108 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES share already paid on 5 January 2018, will make has one vote for every share held by that a total dividend for the year of 3.05 pence per shareholder.
In the case of joint holders of As at the date of this Report, the Company has share 2017: 3.05 pence.
an ordinary share, the vote of the senior granted indemnities to the extent permitted who tenders a vote shall be accepted to by law, in respect of certain liabilities incurred GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY the exclusion of the votes of the other as a result of carrying out the role of a joint holders.
Seniority is determined by director of the Company.
The indemnities are After making enquiries, the directors have the order in which the names of the joint qualifying third party indemnity provisions formed the view, at the time of approving the holders appear in the Companys register of for the purposes of the Companies Act financial statements, that the Company and members in respect of the joint holding.
In respect of those liabilities for which Group have adequate resources to continue The deadline for appointing proxies to the directors may not be indemnified, the to operate and that the Groups business is a exercise voting rights at any general meeting Company maintained a Directors and Officers going concern.
For this reason the directors is set out in the notice convening the liability insurance policy throughout the continue to adopt the going concern basis in relevant meeting.
The Company is not financial year and has renewed that policy.
aware of any agreements between holders of its shares that may result in restrictions CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Taking account also of the Companys current on voting rights.
position and principal risks, the Board set The Board is fully committed to high standards out on page 79 how they have assessed the Return of capital in the event of the of corporate governance.
Details relating prospects of the Company and, in compliance liquidation of the Company, after payment to the Companys compliance with the UK with UK Corporate Governance Code provision of all liabilities and deductions taking Corporate Governance Code for the financial C. 2.2, confirm that they have a reasonable priority, the balance of assets available for year are given in the Corporate Governance expectation that the Company and the Group distribution will be distributed amongst and Directors Remuneration Reports on pages will be able to continue in operation and meet the holders of ordinary shares according to 82 to 107. its liabilities as they fall due over the three year the amounts paid up on the shares held by period ending 31 March 2021. them.
A liquidator may, with the sanction of CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY a special resolution of the shareholders and SHARE CAPITAL any other sanction required by law, divide Renewi plc is a leading international waste-toamong the shareholders in kind the whole or product company.
Information on Corporate The Companys share capital comprises any part of the Companys assets or vest the Social Responsibility CSR matters, including ordinary shares of 10 pence each par value.
Companys assets, but no shareholder may those on environment, social, community and As at 31 March 2018 and as at the date of this be compelled to accept any assets upon employment policies and health and safety are Report, there were 800,133,252 ordinary shares which there is any liability.
set out in the CSR section on pages 66 to 69, in issue.
During the year ended 31 March 2018 and in the People section on pages 60 to 65 of no ordinary shares were issued other than in SHARE RESTRICTIONS the Strategic Report.
These include disclosures respect of the exercise of options or awards on greenhouse gas emissions reporting as well under the Companys share schemes, details There are no limitations under the Companys as human rights and gender diversity policies.
of which are given in note 7.3 to the financial Articles of Association that restrict the rights Further details on the Companys approach statements.
of members to hold the Companys shares.
to carbon avoidance and the benefits of Certain restrictions may from time to time be sustainable waste management can also PRINCIPAL RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS imposed on the transfer of the Companys be found in the Group CSR Report and ATTACHING TO SHARES shares by laws and regulations such as insider CSR Policy, both of which will be available on trading laws.
In limited situations, as permitted the Companys website from July 2018. Dividend rights the Company may, by by the Articles, the Board may also decline to ordinary resolution, declare dividends but register a transfer.
The Company is not aware of RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS may not declare dividends in excess of the any agreements between holders of its shares amount recommended by the directors.
The that may result in restrictions on the transfer The Groups Consolidated Income Statement, directors may also pay interim dividends.
which appears on page 122 and note 2 to No dividend may be paid other than out of the financial statements, shows the profits available for distribution.
Payment EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES contribution to revenue and profits made or satisfaction of a dividend may be made CONTROL RIGHTS by the different segments of the Groups wholly or partly by distribution of assets, business.
The Groups loss for the year was including fully paid shares or debentures The Company operates a number of employee 47.6m 2017: loss of 61.4m.
The directors may share schemes.
Under some of those schemes, deduct from any dividend payable to a ordinary shares may be held by trustees on The directors recommend a final dividend of member all sums of money if any payable behalf of employees.
Employees are not 2.1 pence 2017: 2.1 pence per share be paid by such member to the Company in respect entitled to exercise directly any voting or on 27 July 2018 to ordinary shareholders on the of their ordinary shares.
other control rights in respect of any shares register of members at the close of business held by such trustees.
The trustees have full on 29 June 2018.
This dividend, if approved Voting rights on a poll, every shareholder discretion to vote or abstain from voting at by shareholders, together with the interim who is present in person or by proxy or general meetings of the Company in respect dividend of 0.95 pence 2017: 0.95 pence per represented by a corporate representative of such shares.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 109 GOVERNANCE | OTHER DISCLOSURES CONTINUED RETAIL BONDS The rules of the Companys employee share facilities in the Netherlands including those plans provide that awards and options may representing the Commercial Netherlands, As at 31 March 2018 the Company had in issue vest and become exercisable on a change of Hazardous Waste and Monostreams Divisions.
two Retail Bonds: the first, comprising 100m control of the Company.
The event provided an opportunity: to explain 4.23% guaranteed notes due 30 July 2019: Renewis business and showcase some high and the second, comprising 100m 3.65% RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT quality assets: to meet Renewis leadership guaranteed notes due 16 June 2022.
There team: to provide an update on core markets are no restrictions under the instruments The Group spent 556,000 2017: 44,000 on and strategy and provide clarity around governing these notes that restrict the rights research and development during the year.
Presentation of investors to hold or transfer them.
The This primarily related to a number of projects materials from the event are available on Company is not aware of any agreements undertaken by the Monostreams Division, the Renewi website.
between the holders of the notes that may including research into the recovery and use result in restrictions on their transfer.
of materials from incinerator bottom ash, ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING geopolymer technologies and bioplastics.
CHANGE OF CONTROL Notice of the AGM of the Company to be held at SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS POLITICAL DONATIONS the offices of Ashurst LLP, Broadwalk House, 5 Appold Street, London EC2A 2HA on The Groups principal financing instrument No donations were made by the Group for Thursday, 12 July 2018 at 11.00am will be made at 31 March 2018, a 575m multi-currency political purposes during the financial year available to shareholders, together with a revolving credit facility and term loan with 2017: nil.
form of proxy, and will also be available on the six major banks, contains an option for Company website at www.
The those banks to declare by notice that all NOTIFIABLE INTERESTS directors consider that all the AGM resolutions sums outstanding under that agreement are are in the best interests of the Company repayable immediately in the event of a change The Company has been notified of direct and and they recommend unanimously that all of control of the Company.
Any such notice indirect interests in voting rights equal to or shareholders vote in favour, as they intend to may take effect no earlier than 30 days from exceeding 3% of the ordinary share capital of do in respect of their own shareholdings.
the change of control and, if exercised at the Company as set out in the table below.
31 March 2018, would have required the By order of the Board repayment of 291.6m 2016: 279.6m in INVESTOR RELATIONS principal and interest.
Renewi has an active investor relations The Groups Retail Bonds issued in July 2013 programme to engage with institutional and in June 2015 require notice to be given to investors, analysts, press and other Philip Griffin-Smith bondholders within seven business days of a stakeholders.
The Company uses a number Company Secretary change of control following which the holders of channels to do this including its AGM, 24 May 2018 have an option to seek repayment at a 1% face-to-face meetings, roadshows, analyst premium, within 60 days of that notice.
Such workshops, videos, presentations, reports Renewi plc repayment must be made within ten business and its corporate website.
During the year the Registered in Scotland no.
SC077438 days of the expiry of the option period.
If Company hosted a successful Capital Markets exercised at 31 March 2018, repayment of event in the Netherlands for institutional 182.1m 2016: 177.6m in principal and investors and analysts.
This was held in interest would have been required.
September 2017 at a number of Renewis NOTIFIABLE INTERESTS Notifications received up to 24 May 2018 Number of Issued share shares capital % Kabouter Management LLC 97,571,428 12.19 Avenue Europe International Management LP 45,946,642 5.74 FMR LLC 41,620,714 5.20 Paradice Investment Management LLC 40,898,333 5.11 Cross Ocean Partners 34,079,882 4.26 Neptune Investment Management Limited 29,925,720 3.74 Sterling Strategic Value Fund 25,675,000 3.21 For investors: www.
com 110 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
