Strategic report Healthcare business sector Our technologies are helping within applications such Our healthcare products are as craniomaxillofacial surgery, dentistry, neurosurgery, designed to improve medical chemical analysis and nanotechnology research.
These include engineering solutions for stereotactic research and surgical procedures.
neurosurgery, analytical tools that identify and characterise the chemistry and structure of materials, the supply of implants to hospitals and specialist design centres for craniomaxillofacial surgery, and products and services that allow dental laboratories to manufacture high-quality dental restorations.
Healthcare The product range includes: Life expectancy is increasing in both developed and developing markets, meaning Craniomaxillofacial custom-made implants that key drivers include the requirement Additively manufactured from titanium, custom-made craniomaxillofacial implants are structural implants that are for faster procedures to reduce waiting used in the reconstruction of a patients head, face or jaw.
times, more economical treatments, more These are most commonly required after oncology treatment patient-specific treatments e. g. implants or as a result of traumas.
and personalised medicines, and safer Neurosurgical robot procedures with reduced human errors.
A stereotactic robot that provides a platform solution All our healthcare product lines are well for a broad range of functional neurosurgical placed to deliver on these requirements.
procedures including deep brain stimulation DBS,  SEEG, neuroendoscopy Our technologies are being applied to and stereotactic biopsies, and is being used within the an ever increasing number of applications context of clinical trials for both neurosurgical disorders and brain oncology.
within healthcare, including brain surgery, reconstructive surgery and dentistry.
Dental scanners 3D contact scanners and non-contact optical scanners used Our key markets are dental, neurological for digitising of dental preparations and the measurement and craniomaxillofacial products as well as of implant locations for tooth-supported frameworks and Raman spectroscopy.
For further information custom abutments.
Dental computer-aided design CAD software Dental CAD software that allows set-up of scanning routines and enables laboratory staff to design abutments and structures for crowns and bridges, including powerful anatomic design functions.
Dental structures manufacturing service A central manufacturing service that can handle CAD files from a wide variety of dental CAD systems to produce structures for crowns, bridges and abutments incobalt chrome.
Neurosurgical planning software Software that allows advanced planning of targets and trajectories for stereotactic neurosurgery.
Neurosurgical implants Implantable devices that allow surgeons to verify expected DBS electrode position relative to targeted anatomy using magnetic resonance imaging MRI for the treatment of Parkinsons disease, other movement disorders and neuropathic pain.
28 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Neurosurgical accessories Healthcare in numbers 2018 Specialist electrodes and instruments for use in epilepsy neurosurgery, manufactured by DIXI Medical.
Revenue Raman microscopes Research-grade inVia Raman microscope for the 35.7m non-destructive chemical analysis and imaging of materials used by scientists and engineers worldwide.
7% Its high-speed, high-quality results and upgradeability 2017: 33.4m are valued in fields as diverse as nanotechnology, biology and pharmaceuticals.
Adjusted operating profit Hybrid Raman systems Hybrid systems that unite the chemical analysis power of Raman spectroscopy with the high spatial resolution of 0.3m other techniques, such as atomic force microscopy and 2017: loss of 7.2m scanning electron microscopy.
These new instruments are vital tools for investigating materials and devices for nanotechnology applications.
Percentage of Group revenue Turn-key Raman analysis RA800 benchtop platform, which provides companies 6% with a high-performance chemical imaging and analysis system that can be tailored for the needs of their customers.
2017: 6% RA800 gives research-grade Raman microscopy performance in a Class 1 laser-safe, simple-to-use form.
Pharmaceutical analysis RA802 pharmaceutical analyser, a compact benchtop Raman imaging system designed exclusively for the pharmaceutical industry.
It enables users to formulate tablets more efficiently by speeding up the analysis of tablet composition and structure.
RA802 Our Raman instrumentation meets the high-performance requirements of a wide range of research applications.
The RA802 pharmaceutical analyser speeds up the analysis of tablet composition and structure to enable users to formulate tablets more efficiently.
Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 29 Strategic report Healthcare performance Performance There was growth from all our healthcare product lines spectroscopy, neurological We are seeing more and medical dental with strong growth in neurosurgeons carrying out theneurosurgical product line.
 The medical dental product line experienced growth from SEEG procedures with focusing on the sale of Renishaw AM machines configured for medical and dental applications.
Through the Healthcare theassistance of a Centre of Excellence at the Miskin site, it collaborates with Renishawneuromate healthcare organisations to prove the potential for AM in stereotactic robotin medical applications.
During the year, this included the first chest prosthesis to be manufactured and implanted thetreatment into a patient in Britain at Morriston Hospital, Wales, and of epilepsy.
an implant for a dog that replaced hard tissue lost due to tumour removal.
There was another good year of sales for additively manufactured metal dental structures created from cobalt chrome powder using Renishaw AM machines.
This came from a mix of LaserPFM frameworks Rupert Jones, UK crowns and bridges, LaserRPD partial dentures and LinkAbutments.
The majority of manufacture of medical During the year, the neurological product line achieved dental AM products takes place in the Healthcare Centre key sales of the neuromate stereotactic robotic systems.
of Excellence, based at Miskin, which operates under an The Walton Centre in Liverpool is the only NHS Trust in ISO13485 quality management system.
the UK dedicated to neuroscience and the staff includes Our Raman instrumentation meets the high-performance many leaders in their areas of expertise.
During the requirements of a wide range of research applications.
year, neurosurgeons at the Centre carried out their first The issue of pollution caused by plastics has gained  SEEG procedures with significant global coverage over the past year, including the assistance of a Renishaw neuromate stereotactic robot.
microplastics which have been identified within the SEEG is a procedure used in the treatment of epilepsy: food chain and water supplies.
In Denmark, the Danish multiple intracerebral electrodes are inserted into the brain Technological Institute DTI is using a Renishaw inVia to gather data and map brain activity to identify which Raman spectroscopy system to help its clients understand region of the brain is acting as a source for the epileptic and reduce the amount of microplastics in the environment.
Once the epileptogenic region has been identified neurosurgeons can follow up with a tailored resection to DTI uses a range of advanced features of the inVia remove the problematic tissue.
microscope to produce a comprehensive set of data on the number, size, shape, and chemical composition of Consultant neurosurgeons Prof. Paul Eldridge and Mr the particles in waste water.
It is expanding its research Jibril Osman-Farah, commented: Since there are multiple to also look at microplastics below 20 m in size, rubber trajectories to be both planned and executed it is highly contamination from vehicle tyres in sewers and microplastic suited to a robotic system fulfilling the requirement for a reduction at other local waste water sources, such repetitive stereotyped activity.
Without the robot it becomes as laundries.
impractical to consider such a series of multiple electrodes in a reasonable length of time for the procedure.
There is an increasing use of our technology within medical research.
For example, in the UK, we have collaborated Outside the UK, a neuromate robot was installed in the with scientists at the John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford to USA at the Boston Childrens Hospital BCH, which hosts a investigate the capability of Raman spectroscopy to classify National Association of Epilepsy Centers NAEC accredited gliomas, in terms of their genetic subtypes, using different Level 4 Epilepsy Center.
The team will integrate the robot pathological preparations.
This work was presented at the into their SEEG procedures and Dr. Scellig Stone, Director recent Cancer Research UK Brain Tumour Conference of Stereotactic and Functional Neurosurgery at BCH, and showed that Raman spectroscopy has the potential to commented: The addition of the neuromate system to our provide a non-invasive and non-destructive tool to probe the workflow promises to significantly increase the efficiency unique molecular vibrations of tissue samples, allowing for of our stereotactic surgeries, lower the risk for human rapid sample analysis to aid in clinical decision-making.
error in targeting, and complements other neurosurgical technologies that together allow us to stay at the cutting edge of paediatric neurosurgical therapies.
30 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Following the previous years announcement of a phase Key developments I-II clinical trial with Herantis Pharma to investigate the In the autumn of 2017, the US Food and Drug Administration treatment of Parkinsons disease using Cerebral Dopamine FDA cleared the latest version of neuroinspire Neurotrophic Factor CDNF, the first patients in Sweden stereotactic neurosurgery planning standalone software for and Finland were implanted with a novel drug delivery sale in the USA.
This software fuses MRI and CT datasets system, developed by Renishaw.
CDNF aims to relieve into a 3D volume, enabling neurosurgeons to streamline the symptoms of Parkinsons disease by protecting and complex neurosurgical procedures by identifying and regenerating dopamine-producing neurons.
outlining regions of interest, and determining the best available approach to the target.
Thorough planning Market conditions in the pre-operative stage can minimise the chance of Life expectancy is increasing in both developed and hitting key anatomy during the procedure, and improve developing markets, meaning that key drivers include patient outcomes.
the requirement for faster procedures to reduce waiting Neurosurgeons using neuroinspire can create plans based times, more economical treatments, more patient-specific on procedure type, with planning tools tailored to the treatments e. g. implants and personalised medicines, task in hand.
Users can choose to work on a Deep Brain and safer procedures with reduced human errors.
All our Stimulation DBS to reduce the symptoms of Parkinsons healthcare product lines are well placed to deliver on disease, a  SEEG to identify these requirements.
the area of the brain responsible for epileptic seizures or a Whilst academic research funding has been reduced in biopsy to assist with the diagnosis of a brain tumour.
some areas of the world due to global economic conditions, the worldwide demand for Raman products is growing Towards the end of the year the FDA then cleared for use due to research in key areas such as nanomaterials, Renishaws neuromate surgical robot with neuroinspire biomedical and green energy.
We are also seeing increased surgical planning software.
Both were previously cleared investment in research in developing nations and a growing for use separately in the USA, but not in combination.
acceptance of the benefits of Raman spectroscopy Before obtaining this latest clearance, surgical plans within industrial applications.
Our high-end spectroscopy generated using neuroinspire could be manually transferred products, which offer ease-of-use, are well placed to service onto a traditional stereotactic frame.
With this latest these growth areas clearance, neurosurgeons across America can now export surgical plans from neuroinspire directly to the neuromate Strategy for growth robot, allowing patients to benefit from improved procedures We aim to develop innovative healthcare products that for Parkinsons disease, epilepsy and brain tumours.
will significantly advance our customers operational Outlook performance by maximising research capabilities, reducing Increased life expectancy on a global basis means greater process times and improving the efficacy of medical incidences of degenerative neurological diseases, which procedures.
We are also increasingly addressing the will require surgical therapies.
With appropriate regulatory requirement for personalised healthcare treatments.
approvals and increasing numbers of reference sites we are As a key focus is to develop technologies that provide well-placed to supply neurosurgeons with the products and patented products and methods, we invested techniques to support such procedures.
6.5m before net capitalised development costs and the In developing markets, levels of wealth are increasing at R&D tax credit of expenditure on R&D and engineering a national and individual level, which is driving demand during the year.
for higher-quality medical treatments, often requiring more The regulatory requirements for healthcare products technologically advanced products.
demand significant investment, but make barriers to entry high for competitive products.
The market for Raman spectroscopy continues to grow in fields such as nanotechnology, advanced materials, Our metrology and healthcare businesses are pharmaceutical, life sciences and medical research.
interconnected and we employ core metrology technologies and manufacturing expertise to minimise technology risks.
This is illustrated very clearly in our medical dental product line where we use our own AM machines in the manufacture of dental structures and medical implants to demonstrate the suitability of AM for this purpose, whilst also taking advantage of our knowledge of subtractive machining in the hybrid manufacture of LinkAbutments.
We actively seek out partnerships that will assist research and our routes to market, and we consider acquiring businesses and or technologies that we feel are complementary to our existing healthcare products.
Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 31
