34 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Business review Exhibitions Business overview Exhibitions is a leading global events business.
It combines Our events leverage industry expertise, large face-to-face with data and digital tools to help customers data sets and technology to enable our customers learn about markets, source products and complete transactions to generate billions of dollars ofrevenues for the at over 500 events in almost 30 countries, attracting more than economic development of local markets and 7m participants.
Reed Exhibitions has its headquarters in London and has further principal offices in Paris, Vienna, Dsseldorf, Moscow, Norwalk Connecticut, Mexico City, So Paulo, Abu Dhabi, Beijing, Shanghai, Tokyo, Singapore and Sydney.
Reed Exhibitions has More than 500 events are in the Reed 4,200 employees worldwide and its portfolio of events serves 43 Exhibitions portfolio industry sectors.
43 industry sectors are served in almost 30 Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2018 were 1,219m countries across the globe compared with 1,109m in 2017 and 1,047m in 2016.
In 2018, 18% of Reed Exhibitions revenue came from North America, 44% Each year we host around 130,000 exhibitors from Europe and the remaining 38% from the rest of the world on attracting more than 7m participants an event location basis.
In 2018 Reed Exhibitions launched 44 Reed Exhibitions organises influential events in key markets new events focused on addressing the needs of the industry, where Our digital products increase the value of our participants from around the world meet face-to-face to do events to participants, enabling them to make business, to network and to learn.
Its events encompass a wide new contacts and meet face-to-face to do range of sectors.
They include construction, cosmetics, business.
In 2018, 247 events offered proactive electronics, energy and alternative energy, engineering, matchmaking and the vast majority of entertainment, gifts and jewellery, healthcare, hospitality, interior customers using the matchmaking service design, logistics, manufacturing, media, pharmaceuticals, real reported higher value and satisfaction estate, recreation, security and safety, transport and travel.
Market opportunities Growth in the exhibitions market is influenced both by business-to-business marketing spend and by business investment.
Historically, these have been driven by levels of corporate profitability, which in turn has followed overall growth in gross domestic product.
Emerging markets and higher growth sectors provide additional opportunities.
Reed Exhibitions broad geographical footprint and sector coverage allows it to effectively and efficiently capture growth opportunities globally as they emerge.
As some events are held other than annually, growth in any one year is affected by the cycle of non-annual exhibitions.
Strategic priorities Reed Exhibitions strategic goal is to deliver measurably higher value and improved outcomes to its customers.
It is achieving this organically by being focused on understanding and responding to individual customers needs and business objectives and the changing markets it serves.
Reed Exhibitions delivers a platform for industry communities to conduct business, to network and to learn through a range of market-leading events in all major geographic markets and higher growth sectors, enabling exhibitors to target and reach new customers quickly and cost effectively.
2016 and 2017 restated for adoption of new accounting standards IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Exhibitions 35 Organic growth will be achieved by continuing to generate greater Reed Exhibitions is active in developing exhibition markets with customer value through combining the best of face-to-face with launches in Mexico, Brazil, South Korea, South Africa, Vietnam, data and decision tools, launching new events, and by leveraging Saudi Arabia and China during 2018. its global network and technology platforms for faster and more Two small acquisitions were completed during 2018.
As well as agile development and deployment of innovation.
Reed Exhibitions Gamer Network in the UK, Reed Exhibitions became the majority is also actively shaping its portfolio through a combination of owner of the Automotive Manufacturing Technology & Material new launches, strategic partnerships and selective acquisitions Show AMTS show in China and the co-located Shanghai in faster growing sectors and geographies, as well as by International Assembly & Handling Technology Exhibition AHTE.
withdrawing from markets and industries with lower long-term growth prospects.
In addition, in January 2019, Reed Exhibitions announced the acquisition of Mack Brooks, a business with a portfolio of more Reed Exhibitions is committed to continuously improving than 30 events in 14 countries, including Germany and the customer solutions and experience by developing global United Kingdom, serving nine industry sectors.
Flagship brands technology platforms based on industry databases, digital tools include EuroBLECH sheet metal working technology : inter and analytics.
By providing a variety of services, including its airport airport infrastructure and technology : Fastener Fair integrated web platform, the company continues to drive up fastener and fixing technology : and Chemspec fine and customer value and satisfaction by proactively putting the right speciality chemicals.
buyers and sellers together on the event floor.
Increasingly, digital and multichannel services such as active matchmaking are Business model, distribution channels and competition becoming a normal part of the customer expectation and product Over 70% of Reed Exhibitions revenue is derived from offering, enhancing the value delivered through attendance at the exhibitor fees, with the balance primarily consisting of admission event.
Using customer insights, Reed Exhibitions has developed charges, conference fees, sponsorship fees and online and an innovative product offering that underpins the value proposition offline advertising.
Exhibition space is sold directly or through for exhibitors by broadening their options in terms of the type and local agents where applicable.
Reed Exhibitions often works in location of stand they take and the channels through which they collaboration with trade associations, which use the events to can address potential buyers.
promote access for members to domestic and export markets, In 2018 Reed Exhibitions launched 44 new events.
These included and with governments, for which events can provide important many events which delivered on the strategy of taking sector support to stimulate foreign investment and promote regional expertise, customer relationships and leading brands from one and national economic activity.
Increasingly, Reed Exhibitions is market and extending them into new geographies using local offering visitors and exhibitors the opportunity to interact before operational capability.
and after the show through the use of digital tools such as online directories, matchmaking and mobile apps.
Strong brands and value propositions in long established sectors continued to expand into new geographic markets with FIBO USA Reed Exhibitions is one of the largest global events organisers in joining FIBO China and the original FIBO Germany in the fitness a fragmented industry, holding a global market share of less than sector.
There was also rapid extension of successful launches and 10%.
Other international exhibition organisers include Informa, recently acquired brands into new markets.
Bar Convent Berlin, in Clarion and some of the larger German Messen, including Messe the bar equipment sector, was extended into the USA in 2018 with Frankfurt, Messe Dsseldorf and Messe Munich.
In property, the successful launch of MIPIM also comes from industry trade associations and convention Property Tech Summit in New York was followed in 2018 by MIPIM centre and exhibition hall owners.
The POP culture portfolio continued to grow strongly with launches in the USA KeyStone Comic Con, South Africa Comic Con Africa and France Play, and a further acquisition in the UK Gamer Network.
Emerging high potential sectors and the evolution of existing industries were served through innovative and highly curated launches such as AI Expo artificial intelligence, the Functional Fabric Fair advanced fabrics, Lightweight Asia advanced materials, Esports BAR e-sports and Travel Forward travel technology.
36 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Business review EUROPE 04-06 JUNE 2019 OLYMPIA LONDON PRIMARY LOGO WITH DATES MIPIM: The worlds property market Everything about information security China Shenzhen International Gifts, Handicrafts, Watches & Houseware Fair: One of the largest business gifts & home fairs in China 2 COLOUR WHITE LOGO WITH DATES LONDON World Travel Market: Premier global event Salo Internacional do Automvel: Brazils Bar Convent Berlin: International bar & for the travel industry automobile event beverage trade show INT'L PHARMACEUTICAL R&D AND MANUFACTURING EXPO National Hardware Show: US home Interphex Japan: Japans pharmaceutical R&D Expoprotection: The exhibition for risk improvement and DIY trade fair an WHITE LOGO d manufacWITH turing DA sh TES ow prevention & management One of the largest & longest standing The worlds entertainment content market The destination for the global aircraft interiors electronics manufacturing trade shows industry Leading international exhibition for personal International security conference Focused on the culture & community that care ingredients is gaming MERCHANDISE SHOW The golf business show The trade show for the doors and windows New York Comic Con: The East Coasts largest industry pop culture convention REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET EVENTS REVENUE BY SOURCE Electronic North 1,219m 1,219m 1,219m 4% America 18% Admissions and other 29% Rest of world 38% Europe 44% Exhibitor fees Face-to-face 71% 96% Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Exhibitions 37 2018 financial performance 2018 2017 Underlying Portfolio Currency Total m m growth changes effects growth Revenue 1,219 1,109 6% 1% -2% 10% Adjusted operating profit 313 287 10% 1% -2% 9% Underlying revenue growth rates exclude exhibition cycling effects.
Exhibitions achieved strong underlying revenue growth in We expect the Tokyo Olympic Games to constrain local venue 2018, with underlying operating profit growth reflecting capacity over the next 18 months, after which new and expanded cycling-in effects.
exhibition space will become available.
This could reduce the overall divisional underlying revenue growth rate by around one Underlying revenue growth was 6%.
After portfolio changes percentage point this year and next.
and five percentage points of cycling-in effects, constant currency revenue growth was 12%.
In 2018 we completed two small acquisitions, Gamer Network and AMTS, and made two minor disposals.
Since the year end we Underlying adjusted operating profit growth was 10% reflecting have acquired Mack Brooks, a leading organiser of over 30 highly cycling-in effects.
complementary events across key geographies and industrial In 2018 we continued to pursue organic growth opportunities, verticals.
launching 44 new events and piloting and rolling out several data analytics initiatives.
2019 outlook We expect underlying revenue growth trends to continue, the Underlying growth was good in Europe and strong in Japan and above temporary venue constraints aside, and we expect China.
The US continued to see differentiated growth rates by cycling-out effects to reduce the reported revenue growth rate industry sector, and Brazil returned to growth.
Most other by around five percentage points.
markets continued to grow well.
REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m m Underlying growth 10% Underlying growth 6% 1,219 313 1,109 287 2017 2018 2017 2018 2 017 restated for adoption of new accounting standards IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16.
38 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Business review Vision Expo bringing clarity and vision to small business growth Coco and Breezy is a designer glasses and sunglasses brand co-founded, owned and designed by twins Corianna and Brianna Dotson.
The sisters launched their brand in 2009 at the age of 19 and in a few short years have built a successful and high-profile business with innovative eyewear designs that have been worn by celebrities including Prince, Beyonc, Lady Gaga and Rihanna.
Based in New York, the twins channel their About Vision Expo unique style to create frames using a variety of 400 Vision Expo is one of the leading materials, patterns and colours.
Over the past stores across North shows for eye care professionals to four years, Coco and Breezy have presented America now stock discover and learn about the latest their brand and unveiled new frames and Coco and Breezy eyewear technologies, trends and products products to an audience of experts at Vision thanks in part to business in the sector.
They attribute a component of their growth opportunities growth to showcasing their products via The exhibition has two locations Vision at Vision Expo multiple platforms at the show including Expo East based in New York and Vision fashion shows, panel discussions, style events, Expo West in Las Vegas.
Combined, interviews, and press previews.
Vision Expo has the shows bring together over 700 enabled Coco and Breezy to make the shift from exhibitors and 27,000 global industry being a fashion brand, sold only in fashion professionals to network and share stores, to embedding their company into the knowledge on the latest innovations in eyewear and eye care industry.
products, solutions and fashion in the industry.
Through the collaboration of The Vision Council, the exhibition also invests in programmes to drive market growth and promote awareness of eye health.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Exhibitions 39 Coco and Breezy at Vision Expo West Before we started showing at Vision Expo our eyewear was sold in about 30 fashion stores.
Now our eyewear is sold in about 400 optical practices in North America.
Corianna and Brianna Dotson Co-founders, Owners and Designers, Coco and Breezy 40 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Business review
