GOVERNANCE THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS COLIN MATTHEWS CBE, JACQUES PETRY, ALLARD CASTELEIN, JOLANDE SAP, FREng MBA MD MSC Chairman Snr Independent Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: March 2016 Appointed: September 2010 Appointed: January 2017 Appointed: April 2018 Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Allard Skills and experience: Jolande Colin currently chairs Highways Jacques is currently Chairman is currently President and Chief has represented the Green England Company Limited, of energy provider Albioma, Executive Officer of the Port Party, GroenLinks, in the lower formerly the Highways Agency.
having held the position of of Rotterdam, having been house of the Dutch parliament, In his executive career he has both Chairman and CEO until appointed in 2014.
He qualified as including two years as party been Chief Executive Officer 1 June 2016.
He was Chairman a medical doctor before pursuing leader.
Between 1996 and 2003 of Heathrow Airport, Hays plc and Chief Executive of SITA a career in the Energy sector, Jolande worked at the Dutch and Severn Trent plc.
He has and its parent company, Suez holding a number of senior Ministry of Social Affairs and also been Managing Director Environnement.
In 2005 he was positions at Shell, culminating Employment and amongst of Transco and Engineering appointed Chief Executive of in becoming the Vice President other responsibilities headed Director of British Airways.
Sodexo Continental Europe Environment for Royal Dutch the Incomes Policy Department, Earlier he worked in the motor and South America.
Allard also holds before being appointed a director industry in Japan and the UK, 2007 he has advised corporate a number of Supervisory Board of LEEFtijd, a consultancy for in strategy consulting and for and financial sponsors, positions including those at Isala sustainable employment issues, General Electric in the UK, France specialising in Infrastructure Klinieken, Rotterdam Partners, until 2008.
Jolande is currently and Canada.
He has also served and Environmental Services Sohar Industrial Port Company on the Board of the Netherlands as a Non-Executive Director for investments worldwide.
He has and the Ronald McDonald House National Green Fund, a member Mondi plc, Severn Trent plc and extensive global non-executive Sophia Rotterdam.
He is a senior of the Supervisory Boards of Johnson Matthey plc.
Colin is a and executive experience.
member of several Dutch trade KPMG Netherlands, Royal KPN Fellow of the Royal Academy of organisations including Logistiek N. V. and the Springtij Forum.
She Engineering and was awarded Nederland, Economische chairs the Supervisory Boards of the CBE in 2014 for his services to Programmaraad Zuidvleugel the Netherlands Public Health aviation.
Colin was appointed as and the General Council of the Federation, Arkin and Fairfood the Non-Executive Chairman of Confederation of Netherlands International.
Jolande graduated EDF Holdings Limited, a whollyIndustry and Employers.
from the Tilburg University in owned subsidiary of the EDF economics having specialised in Group, in November 2017. political economy and philosophy.
com 80 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Key: Committee Membership: A Audit Remuneration R N Nomination Chair LUC STERCKX, MARINA WYATT, PETER DILNOT, TOBY WOOLRYCH, MSC, PhD MA, FCA B. Eng MA, ACA Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Appointed: September 2017 Appointed: April 2013 Appointed: February 2012 Appointed: August 2012 Skills and experience: Luc Skills and experience: Marina Skills and experience: Prior Skills and experience: Toby started his career at Exxon is a Fellow of the Institute of to joining Renewi, Peter was began his career at Arthur Chemicals, then became the Chartered Accountants and is a senior executive at Danaher Andersen where he qualified as CEO of Indaver before joining currently the Chief Financial Corporation, a leading global a chartered accountant before the executive committee of Officer at UBM plc.
Following industrial business listed on becoming Finance Director of PetroFina in which capacity he nine years with Arthur Andersen the NYSE.
He held a number of Medicom International Ltd, a served as Managing Director of in London and the US, she then progressive general management medical publishing company, in Fina Holding Deutschland and joined Psion plc as its Group roles including President Danaher 1992.
He then joined Johnson as Group Senior Vice President Controller and became Group Middle East, Group President Matthey plc as Corporate for SHEQ matters worldwide.
In Emerging Markets, and President Development Manager in 1997, He was then appointed CEO of 2002 she was appointed Chief EMEA and Asia of its Gilbarco going on to become Divisional Oleon where he led a successful Financial Officer of Colt Telecom Veeder-Root subsidiary.
Before Finance Director and then management buyout.
Luc was plc and joined TomTom as Danaher, Peter spent seven years Managing Director of one of subsequently appointed as its Chief Financial Officer in at the Boston Consulting Group Johnson Mattheys global CEO of SPE-Luminus in 2005, September 2005, where she BCG in London and Chicago, speciality chemicals business the second largest power & gas remained until taking up her working with industrial and units.
From 2005 to 2008, he company in Belgium, created as current position at UBM plc in pharmaceutical clients and was was the Chief Financial Officer a result of a multi-party merger.
Marina will a leader in BCGs global Sales & and Chief Operating Officer at Luc is an INSEAD certified be stepping down from the Marketing Practice.
Peters earlier Acta SpA, a renewable energy international director and a Board of UBM plc following career, after graduating from company, before joining specialist in Internal Governance.
its takeover by Informa plc, RMA Sandhurst, was spent as an Consort Medical plc as Group He currently holds a number which is expected to complete officer in the British Armed Forces Finance Director.
of non-executive and advisory in Summer 2018.
Marina is a where he saw active service with positions, specialising in the Member of the Supervisory both NATO and the UN.
Peter is fields of energy and chemicals, Board at Lucas Bols N. V. an independent non-executive renewables and corporate director of FTSE 250 global governance.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 81
