28 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Business review Legal Business overview Legal provides legal, regulatory and business information We help lawyers win cases, manage their work and analytics that helps customers increase their productivity, more efficiently, serve their clients better and improve decision-making and achieve better outcomes.
We assist corporations LexisNexis Legal & Professional is headquartered in New York in better understanding their markets and and has further principal operations in Ohio, North Carolina and preventing bribery and corruption within their Toronto in North America, London and Paris in Europe, and cities supply chains.
We partner with leading global in several other countries in Africa and Asia Pacific.
It has 10,500 associations and customers to help advance employees worldwide and serves customers in more than the rule of law across the world.
Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2018 were 1,618m, compared with 1,686m in 2017 and 1,619m in 2016.
In 2018, 67% of revenue came from North America, 21% from Europe and The LexisNexis legal and news database the remaining 12% from the rest of the world.
Subscription sales contains 109bn documents and records generated 77% of revenue and transactional sales 23%.
1.7m new legal documents are added daily to LexisNexis Legal & Professional is organised in market-facing the database from 52,000 sources, generating groups.
These are supported by global shared services 43bn connections.
In all, 20m legal documents organisations providing platform and product development, are processed daily operational and distribution services, and other support functions.
Nexis news and business content includes In North America, electronic reference, decision tools and 40,000 premium sources in 30 languages, analytics help legal and business professionals make better covering more than 150 countries.
It has data informed decisions in the practice of law and in managing their including 320m company profiles with a content businesses.
The flagship product for legal research and analytics archive that dates back 40 years is Lexis Advance, which provides statutes and case law together The LexisNexis database includes more than with analysis and expert commentaries from secondary sources, 226m court dockets and documents, 122m such as Matthew Bender.
Furthermore, Lexis Advance includes patent documents, 2.1m State Trial Orders, and the leading citation service, Shepards, which advises on the 1.2m Jury verdict and settlement documents continuing relevance of case law precedents.
In North America, LexisNexis also provides customers with news and business PatentSights database includes objective information, ranging from daily news to company filings, public ratings of the innovative strength Patent Asset records information, legal analytics tools, practical guidance, Index of more than 88m patent documents and efficiency solutions.
LexisNexis also partners with law from more than 80 countries schools to provide services to students as part of their training.
In 2018, Law360 produced over 50,000 news In 2018, LexisNexis continued to release new versions of Lexis and analysis articles Advance, an innovative web and mobile application designed to Legal analytics tool Lex Machina has transform how legal professionals conduct research and use normalised over 22m counsel mentions and analytics and data to drive decision making.
Built on the New Lexis 18m party mentions since 2016 advanced technology platform, Lexis Advance allows customers within legal and professional organisations to find relevant LexisNexis is committed to advancing the rule information more easily and efficiently, helping to drive better of law through operations and solutions that outcomes.
Future releases will further expand content and add provide transparency into the law in more than new innovative analytical tools extensively using machine learning 130 countries ML and natural language processing NLP.
LexisNexis employs lawyers and trained editors with professional legal backgrounds who review, annotate, and update its legal content to help ensure the collection is current and comprehensive.
This domain expertise combined with artificial intelligence AI and RELX's big data HPCC technology enables LexisNexis to update its entire legal collection faster and more efficiently than before, while also identifying and linking content, enabling customers to identify previously undiscovered relationships between documents.
LexisNexis continues to invest in advanced ML and AI capabilities that help power Lexis Advance.
In 2018, these technologies were used to enhance the Lexis Answers solution which leverages advanced NLP technologies, with the introduction of additional question types and features.
2016 and 2017 restated for adoption of new accounting standards IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Legal 29 In 2018, LexisNexis enhanced Lexis Advance by incorporating LexisNexis also supplies Business of Law Software Solutions advanced visualisations including 'Ravel View', a visualisation to law firms and corporate legal departments.
These solutions enhanced by Shepards treatment insights that transforms include practice management solutions, case management, traditional case law search lists into a map of the most and cost recovery services.
In 2018, LexisNexis also introduced Shepards In international markets outside North America, LexisNexis Case Card, which visually displays key Shepards data such as the serves legal, corporate, government, accounting and academic number of citing references, type of treatment and most cited markets in Europe, Africa and Asia Pacific with local and headnote for case law search results.
international legal, regulatory and business information.
LexisNexis also continues to expand the reach of its decision tools The most significant of these businesses are in the UK, France, and analytics.
In 2018, LexisNexis launched Lexis Analytics, a suite Australia and South Africa.
of analytics tools that incorporates the capabilities of Lex Machina, In the UK, LexisNexis is a leading legal information provider Intelligize, and Ravel Law.
In conjunction with the launch of Lexis offering an extensive collection of primary and secondary Analytics, LexisNexis also launched Context, a legal language legislation, case law, expert commentary, practical guidance, analytics solution that enables users to extract language deemed and current awareness.
Its extensive portfolio includes a number most persuasive by judges from court opinions, challenges, of leading brands: Halsburys, Butterworths, Tolley, MLex, and and motions.
In 2018, LexisNexis has continued to bring The legal analytics tool Lex Machina also extended its reach with increasingly sophisticated analytics to market, such as Tolley.
AI, the addition of four new modules in 2018, including Trade Secret a question-and-answer research tool that uses NLP to and Insurance, taking the total number of practice areas covered understand and answer customer questions within the tax to 13.
Lexis Practice Advisor rolled out an additional eight practice area.
modules, including Antitrust, Data Privacy and Security, and In 2018, LexisNexis further increased practical guidance Trusts and Estates, taking the total to 17 active modules.
This included adding greater depth and practical In the Intellectual Property analytics space, LexisNexis overlay to the core content set, launching new content types such proprietary Patent Asset Index, created by PatentSight, is used as interactive workflow documents, as well as further investment by corporations worldwide to manage and value their intellectual in LexisPSLs search capability.
Contract productivity and property portfolios.
proofreading tool LexisDraft is widely used among the largest law firms, while MLex has become a leading source of regulatory In 2018, LexisNexis also launched a State Law Comparison Tool news and insight for legal professionals.
Tolley, the LexisNexis tax on Lexis Practice Advisor, which covers four practice areas and intelligence suite, continued to expand its reach in 2018, with tax 51 jurisdictions.
The tool compares differences in the law across firms of all sizes leveraging TolleyLibrary and TolleyGuidance.
state jurisdictions and produces a customisable report to support complex research projects.
In France, LexisNexis main offering, Lexis360, is an integrated solution combining legal information, in-depth analysis with In Canada, LexisNexis enhanced Lexis Advance Quicklaw by JurisClasseur content, and practical guidance.
In 2018, LexisNexis incorporating advanced data visualisation with the introduction enhanced the Lexis360 solution, improving user experience, of Search Term Maps.
LexisNexis UK legal practical Critical analysis, checklists, forms and guidance service practice guides authored by industry experts covering over 50 major practice areas Premier citations service Provides analytics and benchmarking of LexisNexis North American Research SEC filings to optimise compliance strategies Solutions practical guidance service Flagship online legal research tool that LexisNexis UK flagship legal Patent analytics solution that provides transforms the way legal professionals online product insights into the strength, quality conduct research and value of patent portfolios Provides Legal Analytics to companies and law firms, enabling them to craft successful strategies, win cases and close business 30 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Business review In South Africa, LexisNexis launched a regulatory monitoring tools in its market.
To achieve this, LexisNexis is focused on service for 13 African countries, through its online Lexis introducing next-generation products and solutions on the global Assure product.
New Lexis platform and infrastructure: incorporating advanced technologies including ML and NLP: leveraging New Lexis globally In Austria, LexisNexis launched two modules for Lexis360, to drive print-to-electronic migration and long-term international targeting the tax and corporate segments, adding video content growth: and upgrading operational infrastructure, improving and webinar capabilities.
process efficiency and gradually improving margins.
In the Middle East, LexisNexis launched Gulf Legal Advisor, In the US, LexisNexis is focused on the ongoing development of an integrated practical guidance solution.
legal research and practice solutions that help lawyers make In the Asia Pacific region, LexisNexis continued its focus on data-driven decisions.
Over the coming years, progressive providing authoritative local online content embedded in decision product introductions, based on the New Lexis platform and tools for legal professionals.
In Australia, the New South Wales powered by big data HPCC Systems technology, will combine Court of Appeal Analyser was launched with data visualisation, advanced technologies, enriched content and sophisticated and New Zealand launched ComplyHub, which is a regulatory analytics to enable LexisNexis customers to make data-driven compliance tool for small and medium sized businesses.
legal decisions and drive better outcomes for their organisations Lexis China released a new version of its flagship online legal and clients.
research platform with improved user experience features and Outside the US, LexisNexis is focused on growing online services expanded content.
and developing further high-quality actionable content and Supporting our Rule of Law mission, LexisNexis has been named decision tools, including the development of additional practical among the top ten companies for corporate social responsibility in guidance and decision tools.
In 2019, LexisNexis will continue to the 2018 Annual Review of the State of CSR in Australia and New expand the New Lexis platform globally, including launches in Zealand for a second year running.
LexisNexis Australia is also an Malaysia and Singapore.
Additionally, LexisNexis is focusing on official project partner in a landmark inquiry led by the Australian the expansion of its activities in emerging markets.
Human Rights Commissioner into the challenges to human rights LexisNexis is also continuing the mission of spreading equality, and freedoms presented by technologies such as AI, social media, transparency and access to legal remedies globally through the and big data.
recently formed LexisNexis Rule of Law Foundation, a non-profit entity that will help provide financial and other support for projects Market opportunities that aim to advance the Rule of Law around the world.
Longer term growth in legal and regulatory markets worldwide is driven by increasing levels of legislation, regulation, regulatory Business model, distribution channels and competition complexity and litigation, and an increasing number of lawyers.
LexisNexis Legal & Professional products and services are Additional market opportunities are presented by the increasing generally sold directly to law firms and to corporate, government, demand for online information solutions, legal analytics and other accounting and academic customers on a paid subscription basis, solutions as well as decision support solutions that improve the with subscriptions with law firms often under multi-year contracts.
quality and productivity of research, deliver better legal outcomes and improve business performance.
Notwithstanding this, legal Principal competitors for LexisNexis in US legal markets are activity and legal information markets are also influenced by Westlaw Thomson Reuters, CCH Wolters Kluwer and economic conditions and corporate activity, as has been seen with Bloomberg.
In news and business information key competitors the continued subdued environment in North America and Europe.
are Bloomberg and Factiva News Corporation.
Significant international competitors include Thomson Reuters, Strategic priorities Wolters Kluwer and Factiva.
LexisNexis Legal & Professionals strategic goal is to enable better legal outcomes and be the leading provider of  information, analytics and information-based decision REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET REVENUE BY TYPE 1,618m 1,618m Rest of world 1,618m 12% Print Transactional 17% 23% Europe 21% North Electronic America Subscription 83% 67% 77% Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Legal 31 2018 financial performance 2018 2017 Underlying Portfolio Currency Total m m growth changes effects growth Revenue 1,618 1,686 2% -3% -3% -4% Adjusted operating profit 320 328 10% -10% -2% -2% Underlying revenue growth in 2018 was in line with the prior The market environment for legal services, and for legal year, with continued efficiency gains driving strong underlying information providers, remained stable.
Electronic revenues operating profit growth.
saw continued growth, partially offset by print declines.
The difference between The roll-out of new platform releases with broader data sets the constant currency and underlying growth rates reflects and tools continued across our US and international markets.
In 2018 we supported the organic expansion of our leading legal Underlying adjusted operating profit growth was 10%.
The analytics services with the acquisition of the German IP analytics increase in operating profit margin reflects ongoing organic business Patentsight, and disposed of two minor assets.
process improvements as we enter the latter stages of systems decommissioning.
This more than offset the absence of a profit 2019 outlook contribution from joint ventures, and other portfolio effects.
Trends in our major customer markets are unchanged, continuing to limit the scope for underlying revenue growth.
We expect good underlying profit growth.
REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m m Underlying growth 2% Underlying growth 10% 328 320 1,686 1,618 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 restated for adoption of new accounting standards IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16.
32 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Business review Intelligize helping law firms advise on complex financial disclosures Mayer Brown is a global law firm that advises the worlds leading companies and financial institutions on their most complex deals and disputes.
With extensive reach across four continents, it is the only integrated law firm in the world with approximately 200 lawyers in each of the worlds largest financial centres New York, London and Hong Kong.
Mayer Brown advises issuers, investment banks About Intelligize and investors in making disclosures to the US Intelligize pulls together and Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
automatically links a broad set of SEC These disclosures relate to transactions such disclosure documents from filings as public offerings.
The firms clients are under to comment letters, agreements and constant pressure to stay up to date with other exhibits enabling customers regulatory change.
They depend on Mayer Brown to navigate between related content partner Anna Pinedo and her colleagues to help with ease.
them ensure the disclosures are accurate and that they are aware of disclosure trends, peer With advanced search tools and company disclosures and related matters.
graphical analytical views, the solution However, researching relevant precedents rapidly delivers deep insights into filing can take a lot of time so finding a more efficient and disclosure characteristics that way of working is critical to Mayer Brown and would otherwise require extensive its clients.
Intelligize makes it easy to identify market standard When Mayer Brown is engaged on a new securities language and mitigate risk in offering, it regularly uses Intelligize to quickly find disclosures by benchmarking output peer companies in the same industry for insights from multiple peer companies.
Intelligize instantly provides links to relevant SEC comments and responses from multiple peer companies.
This puts clients in a position to anticipate potential problems and put forward disclosures that avoid expensive and time consuming comment letters from the regulator.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Legal 33 Intelligize Mayer Brown LLP's offices in New York Intelligize makes it easy to find the precedents you know are out there for specific transaction types and peer companies.
It allows us to very efficiently analyze massive amounts of disclosure documents, efficiencies we can pass on to our clients.
Anna Pinedo Partner, Mayer Brown LLP
