Governance Other statutory and regulatory disclosures Sir David McMurtry, as one party, and John Deer and Review of the business Mrs M E Deer, as the other party, have entered into an A review of the business and likely future developments agreement relating to the way each party would vote in is given in the Chairmans statement, Chief Executives respect of his or her shares if requested by the other party review and the other sections of the Strategic report.
Under this agreement Sir David McMurtry, John Segmental information by geographical market is given in Deer and Mrs M E Deer agree that i John Deer and Mrs note 2 to the Financial statements.
M E Deer will vote their shares in favour of any ordinary The principal activities of the Company are the design, resolution if requested to do so by Sir David McMurtry manufacture, sale, distribution and service of metrology and and ii Sir David McMurtry will vote his shares against any healthcare products and solutions outlined on page 2 of the special or extraordinary resolution if requested to do so by Strategic report.
The Group has established and acquired John Deer.
The voting arrangement was renewed in 2018 for overseas manufacturing, marketing and distribution a further period of five years and will terminate on the earlier subsidiaries to manufacture some of the Groups products of 25th May 2023 or the deaths of both Sir David McMurtry and to provide support to customers in our major markets in and John Deer.
the following regions outside the UK: The rules on appointment, reappointment and retirement Europe: Austria, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, by rotation of the directors and their powers are set out in France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Netherlands, Poland, the Companys Articles of Association.
There are no powers Spain, Sweden and Switzerland: given to the directors that are regarded as unusual.
Americas: Brazil, Canada, Mexico and USA: Directors and officers indemnity insurance Far East: Australia, China, Hong Kong, Japan, Malaysia, Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan: and the Companys Articles of Association provide for the other regions: India, Israel, Russia and Turkey.
directors and officers of the Company to be appropriately indemnified.
The Company maintains insurance for its There are also representative offices in Indonesia, Slovakia, directors and officers in respect of their acts and omissions Thailand and Vietnam and a joint venture in Slovenia, RLS during the performance of their duties.
Share capital and change of control Also part of the Group is a subsidiary in Slovenia which designs and arranges the procurement of applicationDetails of the Companys share capital, including rights specific integrated circuits for the Group and for RLS.
and obligations, is given in note 19 to the Financial statements.
The Company is not a party to any significant Further information is available on the Companys website: agreements that might terminate upon a change of control www.
Dividends A shareholder authority for the purchase by the Company The directors propose a final dividend of 33,482,730 or of a maximum of 10% of its own shares was in existence 46.0p per share 2017: 28,751,474 or 39.5p per share during the 2018 financial year.
However, the Company did which, together with the interim dividend of 10,190,396 or not purchase any of its own shares during that time.
14.0p per share 2017: 9,098,568 or 12.5p makes a total Auditor amount of dividends for the year of 43,673,126 or 60.0p per share, compared to 37,850,042 or 52.0p per share for A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the auditor of the previous year.
the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Directors and their interests Disclosure of information to auditor The directors at the end of the year together with their The directors who held office at the date of approval of this interests in the share capital of the Company with the statement confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there equivalent number of voting rights, as notified to the is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Company are listed on page 69. auditor is unaware, and each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to All the interests were beneficially held with the exception make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information of 2,434,411 shares 2017: 2,434,411 shares which were and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of non-beneficially held by John Deer but in respect of which that information.
There has been no change in the holdings shown on page 69 in the period 1st July 2018 to 26th July 2018.
In accordance with the provisions of the Governance Code all directors will retire and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting AGM to be held on 18th October 2018.
Details of directors who offer themselves up for re-election or election, as the case may be, are shown on pages 46 to 47 and full biographical details are available at www.
72 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual General Meeting Employees The notice convening the AGM and an explanation of the The retention of highly-skilled employees is essential to resolutions sought are set out in a separate circular.
At the the future of the business, and the directors place great meeting, the Company will be seeking shareholder approval emphasis on the continuation of the Companys approved for, amongst other things, the appointment of Catherine training policy.
Health and safety matters are given special Glickman and the ability to make market purchases of its attention by the directors and well-established systems of own ordinary shares, up to a total of 10% of the issued safety management are in place throughout the Group to share capital.
safeguard employees, customers and visitors.
The directors consider that all the resolutions proposed are Employment policies are designed to provide equal in the best interests of the Company, and its shareholders opportunities irrespective of race, religion, gender, age, as a whole, and unanimously recommend that shareholders disability or sexual orientation.
Proper consideration is vote in favour of the resolutions, as they intend to do in given to applications for employment from disabled people respect of their own holdings.
where suitable for appropriate vacancies.
Employees who become disabled whilst with the Company will be given Substantial shareholdings every opportunity to continue their employment through Apart from the shareholdings and corresponding voting reasonable adjustment to their working conditions, rights of Sir David McMurtry and John Deer 36.23% equipment, or where this is not possible, re-training for and 16.80% respectively, the table below discloses the other positions.
They will also be afforded opportunities to voting rights that have been notified to the directors under continue training and gain promotion on the same basis as the requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure any other employee.
Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR 5, which represent Details on information provided to employees on the 3% or more of the voting rights attached to issued shares performance of the business, consultation with employees in the Company, as at 30th June 2018.
It should be noted and performance incentives are contained in the description that these holdings are likely to have changed since of corporate social responsibility activities set out on pages being notified to the Company.
However, notification of 38 to 43. any change is not required until an applicable threshold is crossed.
There are no agreements with employees providing for compensation for any loss of employment that occurs % of issued because of a takeover bid.
Number of Substantial shareholdings share capital shares Donations Baillie Gifford & Co 5.25% 3,846,993 No political donations were made during the year.
BlackRock, Inc. 4.92% 3,578,133 Events after the balance sheet date Capital Research and 4.76% 3,465,730 Management Company There have been no material events affecting the Company since the year end.
Standard Life Investments Limited 4.99% 3,631,612 Financial risk management, objectives Research and development and policies The Group has a continuing commitment to a high level of Descriptions of the use of financial instruments and the R&D.
The expenditure involved is directed towards the R&D Groups financial risk management objectives and policies, of new products relating to metrology, including computerand exposure to market risk, including credit and liquidity aided design and manufacturing systems, and relating risk, can be found in note 20 to the Consolidated financial to healthcare products, including Raman spectroscopy statements on pages 108 to 111. systems, dental and craniomaxillofacial implants and certain areas in the medical devices field.
Further information on the expenditure on R&D is contained in the Performance financial review section of the Strategic report.
Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 73 Governance Other statutory and regulatory disclosures continued Guidance has been received from the FCA about the Controlling shareholders arrangements application of the enhanced oversight measures to the The Listing Rules require that premium listed companies remuneration and benefits received by the controlling with controlling shareholders defined as a shareholder shareholders in their capacity as executive directors in who individually or with any of their concert parties accordance with the Companys approved remuneration exercises or controls 30% or more of the votes that may be policy as well other ordinary course corporate matters, cast on all or substantially all the matters at the Companys such as the payment of dividends by the Company to all general meeting must enter into a relationship agreement shareholders.
The FCA has confirmed that either, these containing specific independence provisions.
are not transactions or arrangements that fall within the The independence provisions required by the Listing Rules enhanced oversight measures or, that the FCA will permit are that: a modification of the enhanced oversight measures so that they will not apply, provided that the arrangements remain i transactions and arrangements with the contr olling in the ordinary course of business and, in the case of salary shareholder and or any of its associates will reviews and bonuses, provided that they fall within the small be conducted at arms length and on normal transaction exemption in the Annex to LR 11.
This guidance commercial terms: continues to apply in respect of remuneration awarded ii neither the contr olling shareholder nor any of its under the existing remuneration policy, if approved at associates will take any action that would have the effect the AGM.
of preventing the Company from complying with its Greenhouse gas emissions obligations under the Listing Rules: and The disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions iii neither the contr olling shareholder nor any of its required by law are set out in the Corporate social associates will propose or procure the proposal of a responsibility report on page 42. shareholder resolution which is intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the proper application of the Signed on behalf of the Board.
By virtue of his shareholding in the Company, Sir David McMurtry Executive Chairman 36.23% shareholder is Mark Noble a controlling shareholder.
John Deer Deputy Chairman, General Counsel & Company Secretary together with his wife, 16.80% is also a controlling 26th July 2018 shareholder by virtue of a long-standing voting agreement between John Deer and his wife and Sir David McMurtry.
The Board confirms that the Company has not been able Renishaw plc to enter into a relationship agreement with its controlling Registered number 01106260 shareholders, containing the independence provisions England and Wales required by the Listing Rules.
The Financial Conduct Authority FCA has been notified of this, as required by the Listing Rules.
The controlling shareholders have informed the Board that they are not willing to enter into a relationship agreement because they are of the view that the requirement to enter into a relationship agreement infringes upon their rights as shareholders and their track record demonstrates that they act in the best interests of the Company.
As a result of there being no relationship agreement in place, the Listing Rules provide that certain enhanced oversight measures will apply to the Company.
This means that, unless and to the extent that the FCA agrees otherwise, all transactions with the controlling shareholders must be approved by the Companys shareholders excluding the controlling shareholders in accordance with the related party transaction requirements of the Listing Rules, and none of the normal exemptions apply.
74 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018
