66 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Governance Board Directors Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Erik Engstrom 55 Sir Anthony Habgood 72 R N C Wolfhart Hauser 69 R N C Chief Executive Officer Chairman Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Appointed: Chief Executive Officer of RELX Appointed: June 2009 since November 2009.
Joined as Chief Other appointments: Chairman of Preqin Appointed: April 2013 Executive Officer of Elsevier in 2004.
Holding Limited and Deputy Chairman of RG Other appointments: Chairman of Other appointments: Non-Executive Carter Holdings Limited.
FirstGroup plc and a Non-Executive Director Director of Smith & Nephew plc.
Past appointments: Previously was Chairman of Associated British Foods plc.
Past appointments: Prior to joining was a of the Court of the Bank of England, Past appointments: Chief Executive Officer partner at General Atlantic Partners.
Before Whitbread plc, Bunzl plc, Mlnlycke Health of Intertek Group plc from 2005 until 2015. that was President and Chief Operating Officer Care Limited and Norwich Research Partners Prior to that he was Chief Executive Officer of Random House Inc and President and Chief LLP and served as Chief Executive of Bunzl plc, of TV Sud AG between 1998 and 2002 Executive Officer of Bantam Doubleday Dell, Chief Executive of Tootal Group plc and a Director and Chief Executive Officer of TV Product North America.
Began his career as a of The Boston Consulting Group.
Formerly Service GmbH for ten years.
Served as a Non-Executive Director of Geest plc, Marks and Non-Executive Director of Logica plc.
Non-Executive Director of Eniro AB and Spencer plc, National Westminster Bank plc, Education: Holds a master's degree in Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA.
Powergen plc, SVG Capital plc, and Norfolk Medicine from : Holds a BSc from Stockholm and Norwich University Hospitals Trust.
University Munich and a Medical Doctorate School of Economics, an MSc from the Royal Education: Holds an MA in Economics from from Technical University Munich.
Institute of Technology in Stockholm, and Cambridge University, an MS in Industrial Nationality: German gained an MBA from Harvard Business Administration from Carnegie Mellon University School as a Fulbright Scholar.
and an Honorary Doctorate of Civil Law from the Nationality: Swedish University of East Anglia.
He is a visiting Fellow at Oxford University.
Nationality: British Nick Luff 51 Robert MacLeod 54 R Carol Mills 65 A C C Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: September 2014 Appointed: April 2016 Appointed: April 2016 Other appointments: Non-Executive Other appointments: Appointed as Chief Other appointments: Independent Director Director of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc.
Executive of Johnson Matthey plc in June of Zynga Inc and Entertainment Partners.
Past appointments: Prior to joining the 2014 after five years as Group Finance Past appointments: A member of the Boards Group was Group Finance Director of Director.
of Adobe Systems, Alaska Communications, Centrica plc from 2007.
Before that was Past appointments: Prior to joining Johnson Tekelec Corporation, Blue Coat Systems, Chief Financial Officer at The Peninsular Matthey, spent five years as Group Finance Xactly Corporation, WhiteHat Security & Oriental Steam Navigation Company Director of WS Atkins plc, having joined as and Ingram Micro.
From 2004 to 2006, P&O and its affiliated companies, having Group Financial Controller in 2003.
From was Executive Vice President and General previously held a number of senior finance 1993 to 2002, held a variety of senior finance Manager of the Infrastructure Products roles at P&O.
Began his career as an and M&A roles with Enterprise Oil plc in Group at Juniper Networks.
Formerly a Non-Executive to 2002 was Chief Executive Officer of Non-Executive Director of QinetiQ Group plc Director of Aggreko plc.
Acta Technology, and before Acta, spent and Lloyds Banking Group plc.
Nationality: British 16 years at Hewlett-Packard in a number Education: Has a degree in Mathematics of executive roles.
from Oxford University and is a qualified Nationality: American UK Chartered Accountant.
Nationality: British Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Board Directors 67 Adrian Hennah 61 A N C Marike van Lier Lels 59 A N C Suzanne Wood 58 A C Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Audit Committee Workforce Engagement Director Appointed: April 2011 Appointed: July 2015 Appointed: September 2017 Other appointments: Chief Financial Officer Other appointments: Member of the Other appointments: Senior Vice President of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
Supervisory Boards of NS Dutch Railways, and Chief Financial Officer of Vulcan Past appointments: Chief Financial Officer Dura Vermeer and Innovation Quarter and Materials Company.
of Smith & Nephew plc from 2006 to 2012. a member of the Executive Committee Past appointments: Served as Group Before that was Chief Financial Officer of of Aegon Association.
Finance Director of Ashtead Group plc from Invensys plc, having previously held various Past appointments: Member of the 2012 to 2018.
Chief Financial Officer of senior finance and management positions Supervisory Boards of TKH Group NV, Royal Ashtead Groups largest subsidiary, Sunbelt with GlaxoSmithKline for 18 years.
Formerly, Imtech NV, Maersk BV, KPN NV, USG People Rentals Inc, from 2003 until 2012.
Previously, a Non-Executive Director of Indivior PLC.
NV and Eneco Holding NV, and Executive Vice she also served as Chief Financial Officer of Nationality: British President and Chief Operating Officer of the two US publicly listed companies, Oakwood Schiphol Group.
Prior to joining Schiphol Homes Corporation and Tultex Corporation.
Group, was a member of the Executive Board Nationality: American of Deutsche Post Euro Express and held various senior positions with Nedlloyd.
Member of various Dutch governmental advisory boards.
Nationality: Dutch Linda Sanford 66 R C Ben van der Veer 67 C Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: December 2012 Appointed: September 2009 Other appointments: An independent Other appointments: Member of the Director of Consolidated Edison, Inc, Supervisory Boards of Aegon NV, Koninklijke Pitney Bowes, Inc and ION Trading UK Limited.
FrieslandCampina NV and Royal Vopak NV.
Serves on the board of trustees of the New Past appointments: Chairman of the York Hall of Science.
Executive Board of KPMG in the Netherlands Past appointments: Senior Vice President, and a member of the Management Enterprise Transformation, IBM Corporation Committee of the KPMG International board until 2014, having joined the company in 1975. until his retirement in 2008, having joined A consultant to The Carlyle Group from 2015 to KPMG in 1976.
Formerly a member of the July 2018.
Formerly a Non-Executive Director Supervisory Boards of Royal Imtech of ITT Corporation, served on the boards of NV, Siemens Nederland NV and Tom Tom NV.
Board Committee membership key directors of The Business Council of New York Nationality: Dutch A Audit Committee State and the Partnership for New York City, R Remuneration Committee and on the boards of trustees of the State University of New York, St Johns University N Nominations Committee and Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute.
C Corporate Governance Committee Nationality: American Committee Chairman
