Strategic report Metrology business sector Our metrology products help manufacturers to maximise Our key markets include aerospace, production output, significantly reduce the time taken to automotive, construction, consumer produce and inspect components, and keep their machines running reliably.
In the fields of industrial automation and products and power generation.
motion systems, our position measurement and calibration systems allow machine builders to manufacture highly accurate and reliable products.
The product range includes: Additive manufacturing AM Aerospace Advanced metal AM systems for direct manufacturing of 3D-printed metallic components.
A total solution is offered We offer expertise in controlling the manufacture from systems, materials, ancillaries and software through to of specialist components.
We specialise in consultancy, training and support for a range of industries performance, MRO, safety and innovative including industrial, healthcare and mould tooling.
For further information visit Co-ordinate measuring machine CMM www.
products Sensors, software and control systems for three-dimensional CMMs, including touch-trigger and scanning probes, Automotive automated probe changers, motorised indexing probe heads and 5-axis measurement systems, which enable the We have decades of experience in helping highly accurate measurement of manufactured components manufacturers improve their efficiency and and finished assemblies.
performance, bringing new components to Machine tool probe systems market faster than ever before.
We specialise Sensors and software for computer numerically controlled in new processes, automation, efficiency and CNC metal cutting machine tools that allow the automation performance.
For further information visit of setting and on-machine measurement operations, www.
leading to more productivity from existing machines and reductions in scrap and rework.
These include laser tool setters, contact tool setters, tool breakage detectors, touch Construction probes, contact scanning systems and high-accuracy inspection probes.
From construction and agriculture to rail Styli for probe systems andheavy plant, we work across all the Precision styli that attach to probe sensors for CMMs, heavyindustries.
For further information visit TM machine tools and Equator gauging systems to ensure www.
that accurate measurement data is acquired at the point of contact.
Consumer products Performance testing products Calibration and testing products to determine the positioning From consumer electronic devices to accuracy of a wide range of industrial and scientific high-precision components, we support machinery to international standards, including a laser improvements in manufacturing capabilities interferometer, rotary axis calibrator, wireless telescoping ballbar and software for data capture and analysis.
that cater to the demands of more sophisticated hardware, sleeker physical design and the requirement for ever-shorter life cycles.
For further information visit www.
Power generation We work across the entire energy sector.
24 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Gauging Metrology in numbers 2018 The Equator gauging system enables process control by delivering highly repeatable, thermally insensitive, versatile Revenue and flexible gauging to the shop floor, both as a standalone device and as part of an automated manufacturing cell.
Combined with IPC intelligent process control software, the 575.8m Equator gauge provides the functionality to fully automate tool offset updates in CNC manufacturing processes.
14% Fixtures 2017: 503.4m Modular and custom fixtures used to hold parts securely for dimensional inspection on CMM, vision and gauging systems.
Adjusted operating profit Position encoders Position encoders that ensure accurate linear and 142.8m rotary motion control in a wide range of applications from electronics, flat panel displays, robotics and 23% semiconductors to medical, precision machining and print 2017: 115.9m production.
These include magnetic encoders, incremental optical encoders, absolute optical encoders and laser interferometer encoders.
Percentage of Group revenue 94% 2017: 94% Equator 500 The new Equator 500 gauging system enables larger parts to be inspected on the shopfloor and for the manufacturing process to be automatically adjusted based on the results of inspection data.
Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 25 Strategic report Metrology performance As well as strong trade in the Far East electronics sector, on Performance a global basis we are continuing to see ongoing investment It was a very good year for our metrology in production systems and processes, including automation, business with record revenue and profits, aided by an increasing awareness of the benefits to be gained by adopting Industry 4.0 and Smart Factory and all lines seeing growth compared to philosophies.
Key sectors such as aerospace, automotive theprevious year.
There was strong growth and energy require Renishaw systems to meet their need for in our measurement and automation, ever tighter production tolerances and cost controls.
CMM, machine tool and AM product lines.
The drivers for our metrology business are similar across The measurement and automation product line, currently the world.
Many of our lines are benefiting from global focused on the Equator gauging system, continues to see skills shortages in the engineering sector, requiring high levels of global success in the automotive, electronics increased investments in automation and robotics to and aerospace sectors, with integration within automation offset the need for highly-skilled machine operators and cells continuing to be a notable trend.
To meet the demand demanding user interfaces and software that are easier for the gauging of larger parts, the Equator 500 system to operate.
Manufacturers are also faced with a relentless was launched in spring 2018, giving a working volume drive to reduce costs, shorten lead times, meet the need of 500 mm in diameter and up to 400 mm in height and for increased complexity and closer tolerances in product supporting workpiece and fixturing with a total weight design, and supply into markets where shorter product limit of 100 kg.
Typical automotive applications include lifecycles are compressing times for process development.
transmission and engine casings, conrods and differential Renishaw technologies provide them with proven solutions housings, suspension castings, valves and pumps.
to keep machines running reliably, maximise output from those machines, assist fast changeover between different There is growing interest in AM as a production technology, products, and significantly reduce the time taken to inspect where its ability to produce complex geometries and finished components.
lightweight components is proving attractive to many industry sectors.
Renishaw is being increasingly seen Another key driver across our metrology businesses is as a technology leader in this field as a result of our new the need to meet ever-shorter lead times, especially in the hardware and software products that were launched during consumer electronics sector.
Our ongoing investments in the year see Key developments.
manufacturing capacity have given us a very competitive agile capability that allows us to quickly respond to The position encoders line and our joint venture RLS, such demands.
continue to derive particular benefit from the ongoing global A key sector for Renishaw continues to be the civil aviation drive towards industrial automation which aims to increase market.
The Airbus and Boeing Global Market Forecasts capacity and flexibility, whilst reducing manufacturing lead in 2017 saw the need for between 35,000 and 41,000 times and costs.
This sector, like LED and flat panel display new aircraft by 2036 to meet growing demands and the FPD manufacture, requires rapid, reliable and accurate replacement of aircraft within the current commercial fleet.
measurement of position between moving parts.
The market Growth is seen as being due to the large rise in middlefor industrial robots is also growing, with the introduction income families in developing markets such as China, India of Smart Factory concepts seeing the expansion of new and the Middle East.
Renishaw products are heavily used in robotic applications into light industries, such as product the aerospace sector for high-levels of process control and assembly computing, communication and consumer part inspection to meet stringent safety standards.
and other automatic production lines, where robots with high precision and high flexibility are required.
The use of Strategy for growth collaborative robots cobots is increasing and we are also seeing more research into humanoid robots see page 23.
We continue to position Renishaw as a solutions provider.
Our measurement and automation, calibration, AM, and Market conditions accessory ranges, such as styli and fixtures, can be We continue to see a very favourable environment for many supplied direct to the end user, whilst we continue to of our metrology lines, especially the position encoders line strengthen our portfolio of hardware and software for users due to ongoing significant investments in FPD manufacture of CMMs, including the upgrades of measuring machines in the Far East and the increasing use of sensors in the already installed.
FPDs are widely used in consumer We are focused on the long term and a key focus is on electronics including tablets, laptops and smartphones, developing technologies that provide patented products and are increasingly used within the automotive sector and methods which support our product strategies, with especially for digital dashboard displays.
Encoders are 77.1m before net capitalised development costs and the required for manufacturing machinery throughout the FPD R&D tax credit expenditure on R&D and engineering during production process, from glass trimming and OLED printing the year.
The current technology focus continues to be on to photolithography and inspection.
products that help our customers to improve measurement performance, increase speed of operation, increase General market drivers for position encoders are size, measurement capability and are easier to use.
accuracy, speed and ease of use, and we continue to benefit from a combination of the right products to meet these demands, backed up by an excellent reputation for customer service.
26 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information These include: integrated process control solutions for Key developments automated manufacturing processes: the development In addition to new products already mentioned we of AM systems with faster processing capability and introduced other metrology products, most notably within improved process control for large-scale manufacturing: our AM line where at the formnext exhibition in November miniaturised high-resolution position feedback systems we introduced several important products including the that support the manufacture of high-precision electronics: RenAM 500Q system with four lasers, each of which simplified software, including apps, for machine tool and can address the whole bed of the machine to improve CMM probing, calibration and gauging: and a multi-sensor productivity up to four times without increasing platform size: capability for CMMs.
InfiniAM Spectral process monitoring which allows real-time analysis of laser energy input and melt-pool emissions: and Our wide portfolio of products gives us key advantages InfiniAM Central for remote monitoring of AM manufacturing when competing for high-value orders, and both AM facilities, including system status and productivity levels.
sales and automation projects are often with existing A special high temperature HT version of the AM 400 was customers who understand Renishaws holistic approach also introduced that allows the build plate to be pre-heated to manufacturing and the complementary products that to reduce residual stresses during production, allowing the can assist their part production.
Our exhibition stands processing of more challenging geometries and a wider and our in-house demonstration facilities increasingly range of materials.
focus on the levels of integration that we can bring to a manufacturing environment, especially for companies Also launched during the year was SupaScan v3 with looking to bring connectivity and the intelligent use of data SPRINT scanning technology which allows surface condition within their manufacturing processes.
We also utilise our monitoring on a machine tool, an enhanced version of the existing technologies across different product lines to speed high-accuracy MP250 probe for grinding machines that development times: for example, our MODUS metrology allows the probe to be configured to suit the application software platform, initially created for CMM applications, is TM requirements, and the new QUANTiC family of incremental also used with our Equator gauging systems where it allows all-in-one encoders which combine interpolation and digital CAD-driven programming and the gauging of complex signal processing inside the readhead and also offer ease profiles.
Our optical position encoders are used on the of installation with our widest ever set-up tolerances.
Z-axis of our new range of RenAM 500 AM systems and the REVO -2 measuring head for CMMs.
Outlook Growth in the worlds middle classes, with increasing disposable income, is forecast to drive demand in areas such as civil aviation, consumer products, agriculture, construction and power generation including renewables.
These trends should all result in increased demand for all our metrology product lines to help drive efficiencies, Our encoders are required reduce waste, increase automation and aid product for manufacturing machinery measurement traceability.
throughoutthe flat panel The continuing drive to automate manufacturing processes displayproduction in many sectors, both to minimise labour costs and reduce the need for skilled labour, will benefit our position encoder, process, from measurement and automation, and machine tool product glasstrimmingand lines, whilst we remain confident that there will be increased adoption of AM technologies by many of our existing OLED printing to customer groups.
Jean-Marc Meffre, Far East Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 27
