Governance Directors corporate governance report The Board is ultimately responsible to shareholders for all the Groups activities, its strategy and financial performance, the efficient use of the Groups resources and social, environmental and ethical matters.
Sir David Grant, Senior Independent Director The Board takes seriously its responsibilities for making Introduction sure that all employees are aware of their obligations to The Board continues to be committed to the highest act with openness, honesty and transparency.
This strong standards of corporate governance in order to protect our anti-corruption culture is embedded in our Group Business business and its long-term success.
Code and Anti-Bribery Policy which can be found at During the year, we paid particular attention to succession www.
In 2018, we have planning for the Board and Executive Board as a result of Sir continued to closely monitor operational risks in key regions David McMurtrys decision to hand over his Chief Executive and are implementing additional compliance policies in responsibilities.
Will Lee took over as Chief Executive certain areas.
We held a Group Subsidiary Conference with effect from 1st February 2018, having demonstrated at our UK HQ in March 2018 where compliance, legal significant leadership capabilities in his time at Renishaw.
and finance training was provided to key subsidiary Will has been with Renishaw since 1996 and was originally management to reinforce e-learning courses.
appointed to the Board as Group Sales and Marketing The Annual remuneration report for 2018 starting on Director in 2016.
The Board is confident that Will can inspire page 67 sets out the details of directors compensation the next generation to build on Renishaws heritage.
throughout this financial year, which will be subject to the A description of the key roles and responsibilities of the normal advisory vote at the AGM after a year of excellent Executive Chairman and myself in relation to corporate business performance.
Our Remuneration Policy 2017 governance can be found in the description of the remains unchanged.
ExecutiveChairmans role at With the assistance of the Audit Committee, the Board www.
approves the Groups governance framework and reviews Kath Durrant is stepping down as an independent its risk management and internal control processes with a non-executive director effective 31st July 2018 and view to maintaining high standards of corporate governance Catherine Glickman will be appointed as an independent throughout the Group.
With her Our executive risk committee conducted a thorough extensive experience as a Group HR Director, Catherine review of our principal risks together with mitigation plans.
will be a valuable addition to the Companys resources at The Board also considered the viability statement in the Board level.
context of risk and the viability statement is contained on The full business implications of Brexit remain uncertain but page 37. it is possible that changes will need to be made in aspects The Board has been updated on progress with our of the Groups operations.
However, with a strong direct General Data Protection Regulation compliance and the presence in the EU, Renishaw is well placed to respond to new Reporting on Payment Practices and Performance changes in future trading arrangements between the UK Regulations 2017. and the EU.
The executive risk committee, along with the Brexit steering group which was formed during the year, Another key activity this year was the internal Board will be monitoring developments closely to assess required effectiveness review.
I am pleased that this internal actions as the exit and trading negotiations become clearer evaluation of the Board and our Committees confirmed later in 2018. that the Board is collegiate, transparent and effective.
A summary of the findings and recommendations are set Cyber security continued to be a key focus for the Board out on pages 52 and 53 of this Report.
The next external this year, with regular updates being provided and new evaluation is set for 2019, in accordance with the UK initiatives and investment being undertaken in order to Corporate Governance Code Governance Code.
44 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information As a Group we are committed to gender diversity at Board Disclosure of information under and all levels and this will remain an important focus area.
4R We published our Gender Pay Gap report on the Groups The information that fulfils the reporting requirements under website, www.
this rule can be found in the pages identified below.
Details of how we interact with our stakeholders, including the communities in which we operate, and our Section Topic Location environmental impact, are set out in the Corporate social 1 Interest capitalised Not applicable responsibility section on pages 38 to 43.
2 Publication of unaudited financial Not applicable The Board has been updated on corporate governance information reform developments and will be focused on these as the 4 Details of long-term incentive Not applicable new requirements become clear.
schemes Scope of disclosures 5 Waiver of emoluments by a director Not applicable This corporate governance report has been prepared in 6 Waiver of future emoluments by Not applicable accordance with the Governance Code.
The Governance adirector Code can be viewed at www.
This report, 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity Not applicable which incorporates the reports of the Audit Committee forcash and Nomination Committee, together with the Directors 8 As item 7, in relation to major Not applicable remuneration report, describes how we have applied the subsidiary undertakings main principles of the Governance Code.
9 Parent participation in a placing Not applicable We report on the operation of our business in the byalisted subsidiary following ways: 10 Contracts of significance Not applicable A review of the Groups business and likely future developments is given in the Chairmans statement and 11 Provision of services by a controlling Directors Chief Executives review, pages 4 to 5 and 6 to 9 and the shareholder remuneration Strategic report.
Segmental information by geographical report pages market is given in note 2 to the Financial statements.
6071 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Not applicable The UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR, require the Annual report to 13 Shareholder waivers of future Not applicable include a management report which can be found in the dividends Strategic report.
14 Agreements with controlling Other statutory shareholders and regulatory The Directors corporate governance report and Other disclosures statutory and regulatory disclosures set out on pages 44 to pages 7274 54 and 72 to 74 form the Directors report.
For the purposes of the DTR, which require a corporate Cautionary note and safe harbour: this Annual report has been prepared for the purpose of assisting the Companys shareholders to assess the governance statement to be included in the Directors strategies adopted by the Company and the potential for those strategies to report, the Companys corporate governance practices are succeed and no one, including the Companys shareholders, may rely on it set out in the Directors corporate governance report, which for any other purpose.
forms part of the Directors report.
This Annual report has been prepared on the basis of the knowledge and information available to the directors at the time.
Given the nature of For the purposes of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing some forward-looking information, which has been given in good faith, the Companys shareholders should treat this information with due caution.
Rules LR, certain information required to be provided to the shareholders is also contained in the Directors corporate governance report, the Directors remuneration report and the Other statutory and regulatory disclosures, including information relating to arrangements with controlling shareholders.
Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 45
