Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 33 Strategy in action Pest Control Vector control case study Rentokil has offered mosquito and vector control services Facts about vector control for many years in Asia where dengue fever is a major threat to public health, but has now significantly enhanced 1 Transmission its capabilities in North America and Latin America.
Vector control interrupts or eliminates local transmission of diseases, reduces vulnerability to disease and prevents secondary infections from introduced diseases to prevent further outbreaks.
Through the VDCI Global vector control acquisition, we now have market c. $3.1bn 2 Capability the capability to reach Capability requires strong organisational North America each part of the vector framework, well defined plans, skilled control market technical operators and appropriate equipment.
c. $400m VDCIs historical focus has been on mosquitoes but it has recently developed programmes to control ticks and their 3 Primary targets Global Public Health Care transmission of lyme disease, which is Primary targets worldwide: Anopheles becoming increasingly prevalent in the US.
species for malaria parasite control and c. $390m Aedes species for viruses including dengue, Zika virus, chikungunya and West Nile Fever.
Surveillance 4 Threat c. $15m The threat to public health from mosquitoes is rising.
Climate change and increased travel are leading to more Mosquito trapping vector-borne disease outbreaks than ever before.
c. $73m 5 Risk Household protection There are 1bn cases of vector-borne diseases resulting in 1m deaths per year More than half the worlds population is c. $400m at risk of these diseases.
Our locations vs. vector-borne diseases Vector-borne diseases Rentokil and vector-borne disease crossover Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 34 Strategy in action Pest Control Growth through M&A Competitors Acquisitions are core to our pest control The pest control market is highly fragmented strategy we have the in-house capability with an estimated 40,000 operators globally, 40,000 toidentify, evaluate and execute acquisitions c. 20,000 of which are in North America.
Our model for value-creating M&A Key competitors of Rentokil are Orkin, Terminix independent pest control is structured around disciplined evaluation and Ecolab all based in North America and companies operate across the oftargets, detailed integration programmes Swedish pest control business Anticimex.
world, 20,000 of which are in and careful governance of new businesses Over the last 12 months there has been further North America.
M&A activity across the sector with major players targeting acquisitions in Growth and This year we acquired 42 pest control Emerging markets.
In addition, new technology companies in 22 countries: Australia, Brazil, solutions and increased digital marketing are 42 Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, driving inbound leads for national and smaller Dutch Antilles, France, Germany, Indonesia, pest control businesses have been independents.
Jamaica, Macau, Malaysia, Netherlands, acquired by the Company this year New Zealand, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Outlook for 2019 in 22 countries.
Turkey, United Arab Emirates and the US.
Pest control is a highly resilient industry offering sustainable, long-term growth prospects.
We In addition to the two vector control are ideally placed to take advantage of major companies we have just described, other growth drivers in the pest control market as 86m notable acquisitions this year include Mities detailed on pages 26 and 27. pest control business MPCL in the UK which 86m of additional pest control is being held separately pending completion In 2019 we will continue to build stronger revenues have been acquired of a CMA review and The Hitmen Termite positions in higher growth Emerging markets, during 2018.
&Pest business in San Francisco, California, notably India, China, Latin America, the which generated annualised revenues of Middle East and Africa by capitalising on 11.3m in the year prior to acquisition.
We also our growing scale.
Our focus will remain on built upon our growing expertise in aquatic targeted city-based acquisitions to build scale pest control through the acquisition of Aquatic and density benefits.
Organic growth will Systems in Pompano Beach, Florida in January be achieved through deploying innovations 2019 which generated 16.7m revenue in and using the power of the Rentokil brand to the year prior to purchase which specialises target international customers, such as global in the maintenance of lakes and wetlands, food supply chains.
Further, we will maximise using research and development to the use of digital tools to drive productivity understand the underlying causes of algae enhancements and exploit the mosquito and blooms and invasive plant growth, midge vector control market, particularly in Brazil.
fly invasions, odours and other lake water In Growth markets we will continue to quality health issues.
enhance margins by leveraging our scale Our pipeline of pest control opportunities in and building density, particularly in North both Growth and Emerging markets remains America, organically and through further boltvery strong and we are confident of further on acquisitions.
We will also aim to maximise high quality acquisitions in 2019. our national and international accounts capability.
The consistent deployment of Customers innovations targeted at key pest sectors, In 73 countries, businesses and homeowners Pest control treatment in Mumbai, India such as rodents and bed bugs, and with trust Rentokil to solve their pest problems and new, non-toxic solutions will be a key driver prevent them from reoccurring.
In addition, we will continue to customers account for approximately 80% harness the ongoing digital opportunity of revenue, with residential pest control including the further roll-out of customer representing approximately 20% over 75% extranet portals to aid added-value insight of this coming from the US and Australia.
commercial customer sectors include food & beverage processing, hospitality, FM, offices & administrative and logistics & warehousing.
On a per capita basis, both countries have much larger residential markets for pest control than in Europe, primarily because of the presence of termites and wooden housing.
Pest control treatment in Shanghai, China Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018
