Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 21 Our markets Hygiene Initial Hygiene is the Hygiene: leading market positions worlds largest hygiene Number of Initial markets services business.
Market position Established Emerging Total Initial Hygiene is the leading hygiene services business in 19 of its 41markets around the world with a number two position in 12 countries 1 15 4 19 and a number three position in three markets.
The hygiene services market offers good growth opportunities as 2 7 5 12 organisations demand increasing standards of hygiene hand hygiene, air hygiene and a professional feminine hygiene service.
3 3 0 3 As a leading player in the hygiene industry, Initial Hygiene has award-winning products and one of the worlds strongest brands, 4 5 2 5 7 which is particularly valuable in Emerging markets.
We have an in-depth understanding of the importance of density of customers by location, what we call postcode density, and by the number of serviced productsby customer, or product penetration and key operational drivers of growth.
Key structural growth drivers 7 Wellbeing accreditations Wellbeing is increasingly being incorporated into building standards, with 82% of employers stating a preference for wellness-enabled buildings according to the CBRE Group, Inc. 2018.
8 Wellness at work Productivity is replacing utilisation as a core metric of workplace performance aligned to health and happiness unwellness at work costs US $2.2tn 12% GDP annually.
9 Technology enablement 1 Growing and ageing 4 Urbanisation It is estimated that 70% of the population Wearable fitness technology is forecast population will live in cities by 2050 1990: 43%, to double by 2021 with over 100m The world population is growing by placing increasing importance on the role devices and informs on wellness 80m people each year and forecast of public spaces and access to nature.
acceptance levels and corporate to total 8.6bn people by 2030, putting improvements.
increasing pressure on health resource.
5 Rising hygiene 2 Increased legislation expectations This is driving rising standards of Awareness is increasing about the hygiene around the world, particularly in link between good hand hygiene and food businesses which are considered wellbeing cost of absence illness in to present higher risks to public health workplaces andhealthcare facilities.
Absenteeism costs the UK economy 18bn, forecast torise to 26bn by 2030.
3 Millennial mindset 6 Air quality Largest generation in the US workforce, the driving force behind the wellness Accounting for over 3m deaths per year, trend, where mental, physical and air quality is recognised as being the key emotional dimensions are in sync.
factor in improving wellness globally.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018
