18 Reasons to invest We believe that Rentokil Initial represents a compelling, compounding growth opportunity for investors.
We are a stable and sustainable growth company that aims to combine organic growth with rising margins and the allocation of free cash flow into value-creative M&A.
Rentokil and Initial are the worlds largest commercial pest control and hygiene businesses with unrivalled global position, service expertise and innovation creating high barriers to excellence.
We set out our principal reasons to invest below.
We are highly We have a clear plan cashgenerative to deliver 5% to 8% and this supports our balance sheet and Ongoing Revenue enables us to fund our M&A programme, growth over the implement a progressive dividend policy and pay down debt.
medium term We understand our customers needs Free Cash Flow generation for enhanced health and hygiene standards and deliver high service levels 192.0m across our diverse customer base.
Our We are a leader in in 2018 operational growth levers are focused on retention, upselling and organic sales.
our chosen markets We have a proven city and route density % cash conversion generating high returns with good growth focused M&A strategy.
Rentokil is the worlds 94.2% leading commercial pest control business Ongoing Revenue growth in 2018 and our principal engine for growth.
Weare the brand leader in the industry 13.2% and believe we possess unrivalled at 2,493.0m technical expertise.
Initial is the global leader in hygiene services with a focus Rentokil Initial is run onservice quality to grow market share Five-year compound annual growth rate by an experienced and drive management and back office synergies with other business lines.
and proven 11.1% management team Pest Control executing our strategy successfully and at pace.
We are a people and Top 3 values-based organisation.
Our expert positions in 66 of our 73 markets There is further scope service teams are highly trained and equipped with the best tools to perform for profit growth and Hygiene their roles, supported by a strong margin enhancement innovation pipeline.
We have a clear Top 3 governance framework and are We drive margins in part by focusing in 34 of our 41 markets committed to transparent reporting.
on increasing route density through organic and inorganic revenue growth.
We operate a low-cost support structurethrough shared back offices 6th out of 800,000 and efficient administration.
We are Andy Ransom, our Chief Executive, leaders in utilising technology and wasranked in 6th place out of 800,000 We have a clear innovation to deliver a competitive in the 2018 Top CEOs Employees differentiated advantage in our customer sectors.
Choice awards on Glassdoor, gaining anapproval rating of 98%.
management strategy 30% to drive performance and capital of our Group senior managers are allocation.
Our targeted strategies women, higher than the 25% average reflect our ability to develop and grow.
across the Group as a whole.
We have an increasing focus on Growth and Emerging markets.
Disciplined investment in capital expenditure and M&A is focused on those areas offering the best returns and sustainable growth.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018
