Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 35 Strategy in action Hygiene Changing demographics and tighter regulation These include population growth and an ageing population, which result in more health issues and hygiene product requirements, higher expectations for nappy changing disposal in public and retail areas, and incontinence facilities and product disposal.
Other demographic changes include growth inEmerging markets, rising middle classes andgreater levels of women at work requiring more feminine hygiene facilities and services.
Tighter regulation across the world is also driving greater compliance with workplace hygiene, food production and retaining hygiene and environmental standards.
The products and services which address the above are called in cubicle hygiene services and account for around 40% of the hygiene market.
Services include disposal of sanitary waste and disposal of nappies and incontinence products.
We have developed Pursuing an Execute high quality products to match these growth drivers and increase density, including Signature, Reflection and full colour bins in Now growth strategy different size options to suit customer needs, and also premium No-Touch products such as customised soap dispensers.
to leverage our key Rising customer expectations There is an increasing awareness of the link strengths in our 41 between good hand hygiene and wellbeing and a greater expectation for healthy workplaces and healthcare facilities.
Social countries of operation media is also driving companies to invest in brand protection, while an increasing focus on sustainability is encouraging lower water Initial Hygiene is the worlds largest hygiene Our Hygiene strategy consumption and paper saving.
services business and a strong complementary We aim to deliver continued growth in Hygiene business to Pest Control.
Both businesses services through: Hand care services account for approximately service the same types of customers and 22% of the hygiene market.
Initial Hygiene offers building on the strength of our leading also share country management, technology, a full range of hand hygiene solutions including hygiene brand and strong market positions: infrastructure and back office services.
soap and sanitiser dispensers, hand driers, roller selling with confidence our product ranges They are also route-based businesses towels, paper towel dispensers, consumables such as Reflection, Signature, Colour, where profit growth is driven by a fundamental and premium No-Touch products.
No Touch and Premium Scenting: understanding of the importance of density.
leading on innovation through Internet-ofThe megatrends in the hygiene industry Things for Hygiene, for example sensing, and the importance of being able to prevent hand hygiene compliance, particularly in the spread of diseases, germs and bacteria the food and health market sectors: and are fuelling demand for our services.
building city density and extending our footprint through organic growth and Over the past five years our Hygiene business targeted M&A.
has delivered a significant improvement in revenue growth, established a strong product Attractive and growing market range, launched the myInitial customer portal Like Pest Control, our Hygiene businesses for enhanced customer insight and engagement operate in an attractive industry offering good and has begun to acquire bolt-on businesses growth opportunities as expectations around to build scale and density.
It has delivered a standards of hygiene increase.
The global five-year CAGR of 8.8%.
hygiene market is expected to grow in line with GDP and our aim is to grow our Hygiene operations organically by between 2% and 3%per year.
Our Hygiene business is highly profitable withmargins being driven by postcode density servicing as many customers as possible in any tight geographic zone and customer penetration selling multiple service lines to customers.
An explanation of some of the key Initial technician in Selangor, Malaysia growth drivers in the global hygiene market is provided over the next paragraphs and is also summarised on page 21.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 36 Strategy in action Hygiene Enhanced brand experience Products and innovation Strong operational focus This is important within organisations seeking Initial Hygiene has award-winning products to enhance and differentiate customer Our operational plan is based on 10 key including Signature, Reflection and Colour experience through the use of design, points: and one of the worlds strongest brands, colour and scent.
Air care hygiene services which is particularly valuable in Emerging 1 offering the best product ranges in account for c. 15% of the market.
New products in 2018 included new, the market: is a major topic in Asia given air pollution improved air freshener units both fan and 2 developing new highly-targeted, concerns and accounts for over 30% of the aerosol along with a new range of fragrances, lower-cost products and innovation: market in Malaysia, for example.
Air Care which will become available in our Signature 3 maintaining a high customer Services include commercial air scenting, colour range in 2019.
We also launched a new service culture: air fresheners and air purification services to silver feminine hygiene unit in 14 countries to 4 building and maintaining strong combat airborne bacteria such as influenza, accompany our most successful white sanitary market positions: e. coli and salmonella.
Initial Hygienes Premium waste bin.
A new, cost effective toilet seat 5 being recognised as the leading Scenting range provides both standard and cleaner unit was launched in Asia this year hygiene brand, especially in bespoke scenting.
Customer segments include with the roll-out into Europe to follow in 2019.
Emerging markets: hotels offering scenting in lobby areas, car Our incontinence waste offer was launched 6 utilising international coverage for showrooms and clothing retailers seeking to with markets to commence trials in early 2019. key accounts: match scent to brand.
7 overlaying digital technology to Further additions to our product lines will be increase productivity: Mitigating risk introduced in 2019 including a new range 8 pursuing targeted city-based M&A to Floor care services include indoor and of  hand soaps, our build density and translate into profit: outdoor mats which help prevent trips and HygienicTouch door handle cover, as well as 9 selling smarter commissions linked slips and account for around 15% of the a number of developments to enhance our air to gross margin: and hygiene market.
Initial Hygiene offers a range care range.
Going forward, we see additional 10 leveraging much of our successful of high-quality products including textile and opportunities to build upon our core hygiene Pest Control model.
non-textile floor mats for use in reception offer through potential service and channel areas, industrial and food preparation areas.
We plan to exploit the growing It also offers logo and branded mats to opportunity in air care enhancement and M&A Products enhance brand experience.
purification by leveraging our current clean City-focused Best in Class air solutions and developing our premium Driving growth in Hygiene scenting portfolio and also developing sensing As the worlds largest hygiene services technologies, sharing the expertise we have Hygiene business, we have the scale and expertise Density Execute Now gained through our pest control activities.
Service Customer High todrive Organic Revenue Growth, which and Quality Product rose by 2.8% in 2018.
Pre central and regional overheads and restructuring costs.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 37 Strategy in action Hygiene Digital technology, leadership and Growth through targeted M&A Competitors web expertise As our confidence in our Hygiene model There are three types of competition in Hygiene.
grows, so too has our focus on securing In service provision, large competitors include Our digital sales and service tools are also attractive hygiene acquisitions and we have PHS, Elis and Berendsen.
In consumables being utilised to build customer awareness of acquired 17 hygiene businesses since 2014. products, competitors include SCA Tork, Initials multiple product offerings.
For example, Kimberley Clark and Hagleitner.
Thirdly, in our online Hygiene customer portal, myInitial, is In 2017 we acquired the hygiene business facilities management provision competitors being developed to highlight the full spectrum of CWS Italy and in January 2018 acquired include companies like Mitie in the UK and ISS of Hygiene solutions on its homepage.
We also acquired and OCS in Asia.
In recent years the hygiene a small hygiene business called Mauco Products Our Service route planner is a web-based industry has seen greater consolidation through in Chile, Cleanstation in Portugal and Miju in planning tool which we also use in our Pest joint ventures including our own with Haniel, South Korea.
During the year we have acquisitions and disposals.
further developed this tool for application across We have made excellent operational progress our Hygiene operations.
Service has been Outlook for 2019 this year with the integration of CWS Italy, formulated to optimise both territory and daily Our main areas of focus for our Hygiene establishing 49 separate projects to enhance route planning.
Customer service visits, driving business in 2019 will be on operational our capability in service, IT, operational routes and working days are automatically execution, building greater scale and density excellence, products and people.
These have pre-planned and optimised, then service visits organically and through M&A, broadening included migrating 20 CWS branches and four requiring further planning can be appointed, our range of services and developing our depots onto our standard network, issuing automatically confirmed and the plans updated.
product pipeline for key growth sectors smartphones to 119 CWS colleagues, creating such as air care and also developing lowera single salesforce organisation, consolidating ServiceTrak is our smartphone field service app, cost units.
In addition, we will seek to improve and moving 120 people into a new head the benefits of which include better colleague productivity through the continued roll-out of office and consolidating nine branches and retention, higher gross margins achieved digital products.
Finally, we will continue to depots and one IT organisation.
through greater service productivity and cost link sales incentives more closely to margin savings, and delivery of a more professional Cannon Hygiene Services has businesses in delivery, thereby reducing price discounting service to customers.
Our technicians use the UK, Ireland, Spain, Portugal, South Africa, and driving improved yield management.
the app to record service visits for example, India, Thailand, Australia and New Zealand.
It is start time, services performed, customer being integrated successfully and performing recommendations, customer signatures and well under our ownership.
Proof of service is then emailed increases our coverage in key markets to customers at the end of the visit and the enabling us to gain a good level of synergies data uploaded to our customer data systems, from enhanced density and combined allowing our customer care team to view the infrastructures.
The transaction also marks information and respond quickly and easily to our entry into the attractive Indian hygiene customer queries.
In 2018 ServiceTrak was used market where Cannon is the market leader.
by c. 2,400 Hygiene technicians in 24 countries, an increase of 500 colleagues on 2017.
In 2019 The Cannon UK business was subject to we plan to drive further field service efficiencies an investigation by the UK Competition & through development of a new floor plan app Markets Authority CMA and was therefore which will enhance productivity through greater held separate from the rest of our UK business customer site familiarity.
The CMA concluded its Phase 2 review of the transaction and Smarter selling and commissions announced on 25 January 2019 that the linked to density Company is required to sell a limited number 2.8% Significant leverage is gained in Hygiene of supply contracts with larger, national through selling multiple services to each Organic growth delivery in 2018 customers and frameworks, representing customer premises.
We give our sales a small part of the acquired business, after is at the top end of our targeted colleagues specialist training to help them identifying an issue relating to a single line 2% to 3% growth target.
sell multiple services to customers, supported of washroom service for those customers.
by promotional campaigns to highlight our Customers and service culture range proposition.
In addition, we have in Our key hygiene customer segments are place country-specific incentive programmes 8.8% manufacturing, FM, offices & administrative, with local rewards to focus our sales force Our Hygiene business has hospitality, retail and education.
We achieve and frontline colleagues on achieving greater delivered a five-year compound high customer satisfaction levels and believe product density.
this is a key competitive advantage.
We have account management processes in place for contacting customers at least annually to confirm service requirements are being met.
84m We use feedback from our Customer Voice Counts surveys to improve service levels and of annualised revenues have been every detractor score is followed up with a acquired this year in our Hygiene call from an account or branch manager within business.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018
