Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 19 A snapshot of our year Growth in Pest 2017 Winner Control and Hygiene Despite a slow start to the year in North America and the continued impact on our Puerto Rico operations from Hurricane Irma in September 2017, our Pest Control operations performed strongly in 2018, growing Ongoing Revenue by 12.6%, and Ongoing Operating Profit by 9.9%, with all regions contributing to growth.
This 2018 Winner has been aided by a strong performance in innovation and digital technology.
In Hygiene, we delivered revenue and profit growth of 26.5% and 19.9% through a combination of strong operational focus and targeted M&A to build city-density.
Read more on pages 30 to 37 France Workwear The Queens Award for Enterprise return to year-on-year forInnovation in PestControl profitable growth Innovation is a core part of our DNA and underlines our credentials as the global leader incommercial pest control.
We are leading the industry in digital pest control and work After many years of consistent and withbest-in-class partners, such as Google, to set increasingly high standards of service dedicated hard work to improve the forour customers.
We were therefore honoured and delighted to have received The operational and financial health of our Queens Award for Enterprise for Innovation for our RADAR and PestConnect system, France Workwear business, we are testament to our leadership position in product and digital innovation.
The award, which extremely pleased that the business isin recognition of the hard work and commitment of all our colleagues across theworld, returned to year-on-year profitable growth builds upon our earlier success in 2017 when we were awarded The Queens Award for of 2.8% for the year ended 2018, reaching Enterprise for International Trade.
this goal six months ahead of schedule Read more innovation in Pest Control on page 32 in June 2018.
This has been achieved through an outstanding execution of strategy by our management team, which has focused on service and product quality to drive customer retention, An excellent year together with profit improvement and ofM&A margin protection initiatives.
2018 has seen particularly strong execution Read more on pages 38 and 39 of our M&A programme with a record 47 businesses acquired during the year, principally in Pest Control in Growth and Emerging markets.
This year we acquired Pest Control Capital 42 pest businesses which both add local density to our existing operations and Markets Days build on our platforms in high growth areas London& New York including vector control, fumigation and aquatic pest control.
North America On 16 and 17 May 2018 our Group senior remains a key territory for pest control management team hosted two Capital acquisitions and this year we have acquired Markets Days to give greater insight to 14 businesses, further reinforcing our our investment community into our global position as the number three player in the pest control operations, as well as worlds largest market.
In addition, as our Combined annualised revenues product demonstrations to showcase confidence grows in the performance of ofbusinesses acquired in 2018 how we use technology and innovation and prospects for our Hygiene business, tocreate value.
Sessions included the we have heightened our focus on finding dynamics of the pest control industry, 170.0m strong and attractive Hygiene targets theRentokil business model, our and our acquisition of Cannon Hygiene NorthAmerica operations, pest control Services in January 2018, combined with Total spend on M&A in 2018 opportunities in Emerging markets, the highly successful integration of the leveraging M&A, our financial model CWSItaly hygiene operations acquired 298.4m tocompound growth and our focus in 2017, have contributed strongly to our onbecoming an Employer of Choice.
overall performance in this core category.
Acquisitions in Pest Control All presentations are available Read more on pages 30 to 37 for download on our website at 42 rentokil-initial.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018
