Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 167 Directors Report The Directors submit their report and audited financial statements of The terms of the Directors service contracts are disclosed in the the Company and the Group to the members of Rentokil Initial plc the Directors Remuneration Report starting on page 81.
Directors service Company for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Details of the Directors contracts and the letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company during 2018 can be found on pages 58 and 59. are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and the offices of the Companys legal advisors, Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer The Corporate Governance Report for the year on pages 56 to 97 forms LLP, at 65 Fleet Street, London EC4Y 1HS until the conclusion of the part of the Directors Report, together with the sections of the Annual AGM and will be available at the AGM which will take place on 8 May Report incorporated by reference.
A pro-forma of the Non-Executive Directors letter of appointment The Company has chosen to disclose the following information in the is available on our website.
Strategic Report on pages 1 to 54 and 104 to 107: Directors powers particulars of any important events affecting the Company which Under the articles of association, the Directors are responsible for the have occurred since the end of the financial year: management of the business of the Company and may exercise all the an indication of likely future developments in the business of the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of relevant statutes Company: and the Companys articles of association.
For example, the articles an indication of the Companys research and development activities contain specific provisions and restrictions regarding the Companys digital technology and innovation solutions are referred to throughout power to borrow money.
The articles of association also give power the Strategic Report but particularly on pages 2 to 13, 25 to 27 and 32 tothe Board to appoint and replace Directors as detailed above.
to 37 : details of employee involvement and human rights Corporate Powers relating to the issuing of shares are also included in the articles Responsibility, pages 48 to 54 : of association and such authorities are renewed by shareholders each information on greenhouse gas emissions and energy use year at the AGM, as detailed below.
Corporate Responsibility, page 51 : and Directors interests principal risks and uncertainties Risks and Uncertainties, pages 42 The beneficial interests of the Directors, including the interests of any to 47. connected persons, in the share capital of the Company are shown on The Strategic Report and the Directors Report constitute the page 91.
During the year no Director had any material interest in any management report as required under the Disclosure and Transparency contract of significance to the Groups business.
Dividend Information to be disclosed under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 in relation to The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 3.16p per share allotment of shares for cash Listing Rule 9.8.
4 7 and waiver of for the 52 weeks ended 31 December 2018.
Payment of this dividend dividends Listing Rule 9.8.
No other is subject to shareholder approval at the 2019 AGM.
Further information paragraphs under Listing Rule 9.8.
on the Companys dividend policy can be found on page 107.
Company constitution Share capital Rentokil Initial plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales, with The Company has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange company number 5393279.
The Company is a holding company with and an over-the-counter American Depository Receipt ADR listing to limited trading in its own right and with subsidiary undertakings in 73 facilitate shareholding in the United States.
All ordinary shares carry countries the Group operates in 75 countries.
The Companys related the same rights and no shareholder enjoys any preferential rights, undertakings are listed on pages 154 to 158. regardless of the size of their holding.
Articles of association The Companys share capital during the year consisted of ordinary The articles of association set up the internal regulations of the shares of 1p each.
There were 1,843,332,965 shares in issue at Company and cover such matters as the rights of shareholders, the 31 December 2018, which represents 100% of the Companys issued conduct of the Board and general meetings.
The articles themselves share capital 2017: 1,837,332,965.
Each ordinary share other than may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
treasury shares, which have no voting rights carries the right to vote at a general meeting of the Company.
The Company did not hold any Amendments to the articles of association have to be approved by treasury shares between 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2018 at least 75% of the votes cast by those voting in person or by proxy.
and accordingly the Company did not sell any treasury shares.
The Subject to company law and the articles of association, the Directors Companys articles of association provide that on a show of hands, may exercise all the powers of the Company and may delegate authority every member who is present in person or by proxy at a general meeting to Committees and day-to-day management and decision-making to of the Company shall have one vote.
On a poll, every member who is individual Executive Directors.
The articles of association are available present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of upon request and are displayed on our website at rentokil-initial.
Re-election of Directors and service contracts The articles do not contain special control rights or restrictions In accordance with the articles of association, Directors can be appointed on transfer or limitations on the holding of ordinary shares and no by the Board and must be subsequently elected by shareholders in requirements for the prior approval of any transfers.
No person holds general meeting.
In accordance with the articles of association and the securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code, Directors submit of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements themselves for re-election annually.
Directors can be removed, and their between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the replacements appointed, by shareholders in general meeting.
transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Information on our Board of Directors, including full biographical details, The Company is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another and changes during 2018, can be found in the Corporate Governance corporation or by an individual and there are no arrangements which Report on pages 58 and 59.
All Board members will seek re-election may at a subsequent date result in a change in control of the Company.
at the 2019 Annual General Meeting AGM, other than John McAdam and Richard Burrows who will be stepping down at the conclusion of the Authority for the Company to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for AGM, and Richard Solomons who will stand for election for the first time.
shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 12,248,000 was obtained at the AGM on 9 May 2018.
The authority remains in force and approval will be sought from shareholders at the 2019 AGM to renew the authority for a further year.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 168 Directors Report During the year a total of 6,000,000 ordinary shares with an aggregate Financial risk management nominal value of 60,000 were issued and allotted to Computershare Details of financial risk management and the relevant policies and Nominees Channel Islands Limited, the account nominee of certain exposures of the Company are disclosed in Note C1 on Computershare Trustees Jersey Limited who acts as trustee for the pages 139 and 140 of the Financial Statements.
Rentokil Initial Employee Share Trust the Trustee.
These shares were Key contracts issued to satisfy awards that vested in 2018 under the Companys Performance Share Plan.
Details of the shares held by the Trustee are The Group does not have any dominant customer or supplier relationships.
contained in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity table Post balance sheet events on page 110.
As at 31 December 2018 the Trustee holds on trust 0.44% There were no significant post balance sheet events affecting the Group of the issued share capital of the Company to satisfy awards that vest since 31 December 2018. under the Companys Performance Share Plan.
The Trustee has agreed to waive any right to all dividend payments on shares held by it and the Political donations voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the Trustee.
It is the Companys policy not to make payments to political organisations.
The Trustee may vote or abstain from voting with the shares or accept The Company does however maintain a shareholder authority to make or reject any offer relating to the shares, in any way it sees fit, without payments of a political nature but does so only in order to ensure that incurring any liability and without being required to give reasons for the Company has authority from shareholders for the limited number itsdecision.
of activities associated with the operation of the business which might Repurchase of shares be caught by the broad definition of payments of a political nature contained within current legislation.
There were no payments to political Authority for the Company to make purchases of its own shares of up to organisations during 2018 2017: nil.
183,700,000 shares was obtained at the AGM on 9 May 2018 and such authority will be valid until the 2019 AGM.
No purchases of its shares Equal opportunities were made by the Company during 2018.
The authority is normally The Company regards equality and fairness as a fundamental right of all renewed annually and approval will be sought from shareholders at of its colleagues.
Every colleague is required to support the Company the2019 AGM to renew the authority for a further year.
to meet its commitment to provide equal opportunities in employment Change of control provisions and avoid unlawful discrimination.
People with disabilities should have full and fair consideration for all vacancies, and disability is not seen There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate to be an inhibitor to employment or career development.
Appropriate upon a change of control of the Company, such as some financial and arrangements are made for the continued employment and training, commercial agreements and employee long-term incentive or share career development and promotion of disabled persons employed plans.
None of these are deemed to be significant in terms of their by the Company.
In the event of any colleague becoming disabled potential impact on the Group as a whole.
A description of the Groups while with the Company, their needs and abilities would be assessed debt funding arrangements is set out in Note C6 to the Financial and, where possible, we would work to retain them and seek to offer Statements.
Note C1 describes the change of control provisions relating alternative employment to them if they were no longer able to continue to the Groups Euro Medium-Term Note Programme.
Substantial shareholders Branches The Company has been notified pursuant to the Disclosure Guidance The Company, through various subsidiaries, has branches in several and Transparency Rules DTR 5 that the following shareholders held, different jurisdictions in which the business operates outside the UK.
or were beneficially interested in, 3% or more of the Companys issued share capital at 31 December 2018.
Directors indemnity and insurance Substantial interests in shares as at 31 December 2018 The Directors are ultimately responsible for most aspects of the Companys business dealings.
They can face significant personal liability No.
of ordinary Nature of under criminal or civil law, or the UK Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure % shares holding Guidance and Transparency Rules, and can face a range of penalties 1 including censure, fines and imprisonment.
The Company considers Ameriprise Financial Inc. 9.99 182,682,307 Indirect that it is in its best interests to protect individuals who serve as Directors Majedie Asset Management Ltd 5.61 101,963,126 Indirect from the consequences of innocent error or omission, since this enables BlackRock, Inc. 5.05 93,128,464 Indirect the Company to continue to attract prudent, appropriately qualified Schroders plc 4.91 89,878,920 Indirect individuals to act as Directors.
Invesco Ltd 4.89 89,477,118 Indirect The Company maintains at its expense a directors and officers liability Artemis Investment Management LLP 4.80 87,765,202 Direct insurance policy to afford an indemnity in certain circumstances for the AXA SA 4.80 87,093,421 Indirect benefit of Group personnel including, as recommended by the Code, 1.
Ameriprise Financial Inc. includes Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Ltd. the Directors.
The policy does not provide cover where the Director or officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Between 31 December 2018 and 27 February 2019 the Company was notified of the following change to the above table.
In addition, the Company has granted indemnities in favour of Directors, as permitted by s. 232 to 235 of the Companies Act 2006.
of ordinary Nature of terms, the indemnities protect Directors to the extent permissible by % shares holding law from all costs and expenses incurred in the defence of any civil or criminal proceedings in which judgment is given in their favour or the Aviva plc and its subsidiaries 3.00 55,339,110 Direct proceedings or otherwise disposed of without finding fault or where there is a successful application to court for relief from liability.
The Since these dates, the interest of any shareholder listed above may indemnity operates to the extent that the Director is not able to recover have increased or decreased.
No requirement to notify the Company of the relevant amounts under the Companys directors and officers any increase or decrease would have arisen unless the holding moved liability insurance.
up or down through a whole number percentage level.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 169 Directors Report The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Related party transactions records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys Other than in respect of arrangements relating to the employment of transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Directors, details of which are provided in the Directors Remuneration financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that Report, or as set out in Note D4 on page 147 of the Financial Statements, its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are which also provides details of transactions with joint ventures and responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary associate entities, there is no indebtedness owed to or by the Company to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from to any colleague or any other person considered to be a related party.
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and have general Disclosure of information to the auditor responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and The Directors confirm that, insofar as each of them is aware, there is no other irregularities.
relevant audit information as defined by s. 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible has taken all of the steps that should have been taken to ensure that for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors they are each aware of any relevant audit information as defined by Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that s. 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006 and to establish that the Companys complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are auditors are aware of that information.
responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation Going concern in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial The Directors, having made enquiries, consider that the Company statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operation for a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of these annual Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are set out on financial statements.
For this reason, they consider it appropriate to pages 58 and 59, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable Further details on the Groups net debt, borrowing facilities and financial set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, risk management policies are provided in section C. Financing of the liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the Notes to the Financial Statements on pages 139 to 146. undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Strategic Report and Directors Report include a fair review of Statement of Directors responsibilities the development and performance of the business and the position The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors and uncertainties that they face.
to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements for each Each Director considers the Annual Report and Financial Statements, financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and applicable position and performance, business model and strategy.
law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards including The Directors Report on pages 56 to 97 and pages 167 to 169 and the FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Strategic Report on pages 1 to 54 and 104 to 107 were approved by a duly authorised Committee of the Board of Directors on 27 February Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 2019 and signed on its behalf by Daragh Fagan, the Company Secretary.
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: DARAGH FAGAN make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Company Secretary for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been 27 February 2019 prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether Registered office: applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject Riverbank, Meadows Business Park, Blackwater, to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Camberley, Surrey, GU17 9AB.
Company financial statements: Registered in England and Wales No: 5393279 assess the Group and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018
