30 Strategy in action Pest Control Growth markets These markets include North America, the UK, Pacific, Germany, Benelux and the Caribbean.
They represent 54% of Group revenues and 59% of Group Ongoing Operating Profit and have delivered a five-year CAGR of 14.7%.
North America is particularly important and ourbusiness here provides national pest control coverage, supported by 300 branches, 45 distribution centres and over 8,000 colleagues.
75% of revenues are contracted with the remaining 25% comprised of jobbing revenue.
North America has delivered a fiveyear revenue CAGR of 21.1%.
Our strategy in this region is to build density through organic initiatives and successful M&A.
Organic initiatives include growth in national and international accounts, product innovation, harnessing the digital opportunity and leveraging our B2B sales capability in our core sectors of food processing, food retail, Focused on delivering healthcare and offices.
We have a proven track record in M&A and, as the buyer of choice, our pipeline remains particularly strong.
consistent, profitable At our Capital Markets Days in 2018 we set out our ambition for our North America business tobecome a $1.5bn revenue, 18% Net Operating growth while building Margin business by the end of 2020.
We have made excellent progress towards our revenue target as noted above, with ongoing revenue strong market-leading growth of 12.3% in the year and acquisitions with combined annualised revenues of over $53m.
Based on our revenue growth positions expectations for the region of 12 to 15% per annum, we are confident that we will deliver the c. 10% compound annual growth rate We have strengthened our position as global A resilient and growing market CAGR required in revenue growth in 2019 20 leaders in pest control through increased Pest Control is an attractive, non-cyclical to achieve our $1.5bn revenue target.
organic growth and by establishing stronger growth market worth c. $18bn and expected market positions, particularly in Emerging to deliver a CAGR of around 5% through to Our progress towards our net operating margin and Growth markets, and through innovation, 1 2023.
Approximately 46% of the global market target improved in the second half of the digital expertise and acquisitions.
is Commercial pest control, 35% is Residential year, rising by 50 basis points and supported and 19% is Termite.
North America is the worlds by stronger organic growth and savings in Our Pest Control strategy single largest market and worth 50% of the property and procurement from our Best of Pest Control is our core business line and total.
Pest control has multiple growth drivers Breed cost savings programme.
We are making our engine for growth.
Continued acceleration including increasing pest pressures, climate steady progress with our IT transformation of the business can be achieved through: change, urbanisation, growing middle classes, and to ensure that the replatforming of the building on our unrivalled global leadership rising consumer expectations for hygiene business and the deployment of Group IT through continued expansion in Growth standards and increasing workplace and food applications are delivered effectively, we have andEmerging markets, with a continued regulations for more details, see page 20. put back the date for completion by 12 months focus on North America: to H1 2020.
This will have an associated Vector control is an important growth sector maintaining a strong, value-creating impact on our expectation for the timing of within the global pest control market and is acquisition programme to build density: systems dependent savings in areas such as estimated to be worth an additional $3.1bn.
harnessing the digital opportunity Vector control interrupts or eliminates local completing the roll-out of our best-in-class transmission of diseases, reduces vulnerability customer portals and developing web to disease and prevents secondary infection presence for a mobile digital-first world.
from introduced diseases to prevent further We aim to lead in connected products, outbreaks.
The most frequent vector control particularly for high dependency food clients: activity is mosquito control.
Asia and Latin exploiting the international sales opportunity America are considered to be particularly using tight profiling and framework important markets because of the dangers to agreements.
Our pipeline of international public health from mosquito-borne diseases, opportunities is worth just under 60m: and notably dengue fever, Zika virus and malaria.
continuing to innovate at pace for future growth through deployment of new pest control products and services from our innovation pipeline.
S ource: Various market reports including Allied Market Pest Control service in the Bronx, New York, USA Research and Genesis Market Research Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 31 Strategy in action Pest Control 2 Ongoing Revenue Ongoing Operating Profit Operating Margin AER: 1,537.9m, 10.1% AER: 273m, 8.3% 12.6% 9.9% 0.4% 18.0% 1,571.9m 277.0m 17.6% 252.0m 1,396.6m 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Pest Control as % of Group Ongoing Pest Control as % of Group Ongoing Five-year Ongoing Revenue growth 1 Revenue Operating Profit CAGR16.2% 1,571.9m 1,396.6m 1,150.2m 911.9m 802.9m 63% 67% 2014 2015 20 20116 8 2017 2018 2.
Pre central and regional overheads and restructuring costs Service Productivity and Field Administration, 12.7% in 2018 and complementing this with Emerging markets meaning that we now expect our 18% margin a solid acquisition agenda, notably in Chile, We have an unrivalled position in the markets target to be delivered at the end of 2021.
We entered the Costa of Asia, Latin America, the Middle East, Rican market for the first time in February 2018 North Africa and Turkey, Kenya, Fiji and Since 2014 we have acquired 112 new pest through the acquisition of Fumigadora and also Central America, which combined represent control businesses in Growth markets 56 in acquired ISS Brazil in So Paulo to build further a strong platform for delivering sustainable, North America.
We have also established an density in this key city.
They represent 9% of M&A pipeline in the Pacific, acquiring 19 pest Group Ongoing Revenues and 8% of Group control companies and further strengthened our We continue to explore opportunities Ongoing Operating Profit and have delivered presence in Europe through 18 deals.
We have presented by the opening up of public sector a five-year CAGR of 28.6%.
built upon our UK growth story through the use vector control contracts in Brazil, a market of digital expertise, innovations, productivity and currently estimated to be worth c. US$1bn Over the last five years we have expanded service enhancements and acquisitions.
The country reports 1.5m dengue our scale in these higher growth markets c. 33% of new sales in the UK were delivered cases across its 5,500 cities each year at by acquiring a number of attractive pest through our innovation pipeline.
a cost of around US$1,000 per case.
In India, where we see have an experienced management team very high opportunities for growth, we have in vector control in place and in November grown from a small loss-making unit to the we acquired Brazilian pest control company countrys number one pest control operator Multicontrole operating principally in Porto through the formation of our Rentokil PCI joint 14.7% Alegre, Brazils 5th largest metropolitan area in venture.
However, due to the complexity of terms of population and GDP which will lead Our Pest Control businesses in the integration of this business, the expected our Municipality Vector Control Project going benefits from integration are being realised Growth markets have delivered a forward.
Our market leadership, technical more slowly than anticipated.
In China we five-year revenue CAGR of 14.7%.
capability and proven track record in the arepursuing a city-based strategy with a country, cemented through the Rio Olympics, focuson specific urban and industrial zones.
places us in a strong position to secure contract Asia made good progress during 2018, vector control mandates from Brazilian 21.1% delivering 6.4% Organic growth in Pest Control.
Our largest pest control business, Once again, our more mature markets of Rentokil Pest Control is also the clear market North America, has delivered a Indonesia and Malaysia delivered double-digit leader in MENAT, and in 2018 we acquired revenue growth of 12.8%.
National Pest Control, the market leader in Latin America is our youngest region but the UAE with 180 colleagues.
We now have expanding rapidly.
Our aim is to become a the capacity and footprint to operate across 150m revenue business by the end of 2022 all of the main Emirates.
Rentokil Our Pest Control businesses in Driving growth in Pest Control has top three leadership positions in all its Emerging markets have delivered Latin American markets and operates in nine An update on some of our Organic Revenue a five-year revenue CAGR of 28.6%.
of the 10 most populated cities.
The business growth levers in Pest Control is provided is growing organically at double-digit rates overleaf.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 32 Strategy in action Pest Control Other notable product launches this year smartphone and apps across the group to drive included our fluorescent tracking gel, Agrilaser, service and sales productivity and reduce costs.
Fruit Fly Ninja and Entotherm Compact.
In 2019 ServiceTrak is our smartphone field service app we plan to continue the roll out of RapidPro used by around 7,000 technicians to record the worlds fastest acting rodenticide aimed service visits for example, start time, services specifically at mice into new countries and performed, customer recommendations, expand our range of mosquito control solutions customer signatures and end time.
This has from our vector control centre of excellence.
now been deployed in 33 countries and used for 4m service visits throughout the year, saving Digital products and services around 3m that would have been incurred on We continue to see unprecedented levels replacing traditional handheld devices.
of change from the impact of technology Targeting growth in the $3.1bn on our customers and our frontline and back office colleagues and use IT to improve globalvector control market the quality and consistency of service delivery, Rentokil has offered mosquito and vector drive innovation and reduce costs.
We believe control services for many years in Asia where we are leading the pest control industry in the dengue fever is a major threat to public commercialisation of the Internet of Things health, but has now significantly enhanced its Servicing RADAR in Sydney, Australia through connected devices and have digital capabilities in North America and Latin America.
expertise at every stage of the customer Global and national accounts The US mosquito vector control market is journey from web searching through to We continue to make good progress in estimated at c. $600m and has the potential e-billing.
We are also transforming our backtargeting global customers, particularly in to grow even larger given the demographic office system to a cloud platform over the food processing and hospitality sectors.
Our changes which are increasing the ways in next two years and opening up new customer 2015 acquisition of Steritech, combined with which mosquito-borne diseases are spread.
This will allow us to our increasingly active participation in the realise further value from our data and deploy In 2017 we acquired Vector Disease Control Global Food Safety Initiative, has strengthened innovations faster across the global business International VDCI, the leading provider of our global brand presence in these sectors.
We are beginning municipal and commercial mosquito control We now have 18 global customers including to use robotics and AI in back office functions in the US.
It provides a full range of vector Mondelez, ISS, Sodexo and Kerry Foods, and to automate manual admin tasks in a cost control services, including weekly monitoring our pipeline of future opportunities is worth effective way.
of mosquito levels, species identification some 60m.
and disease testing using its in-house We have made further progress in digital pest Steritech has also significantly enhanced our laboratory and control of both adult and larval control in 2018.
Our myRentokil online customer capability in the US national accounts market mosquitoes from the ground and using aircraft.
portal is now being used across 34 countries, and since 2015 we have delivered compound We also established a new global centre of with over 140,000 premises added in 2018. annual growth in national accounts revenue excellence for mosquito and vector control Last year our customers downloaded over 4m of 22%.
Now with greater scale and density, based in North America to support our growing e-reports from the portal.
Approximately 84% we are more competitive and securing an work in this field.
of our commercial pest control customers now increasing share of national accounts through use the myRentokil portal and we aim to have This year we added to our expertise through our reputation for service quality, the careful 100% of commercial customers using it by the the purchase of Louisiana-based Mosquito targeting of attractive prospects, improving our end of 2019.
Control Services, LLC, one of the leading sales execution and leveraging our combined independent vector control companies in the national sales expertise of both Rentokil and Connected devices, such as PestConnect, US with operations across five states.
In 2018 we increased our North our award-winning remote monitoring system business, which is based south of ArkansasAmerican national account sales by 15% and, for rodents and the worlds smartest mouse based VDCI, offers similar services to VDCI as with our global accounts, our pipeline of trap, enables us to provide customers with plus public education and community prospects is strong.
a complete pest detection solution and full programmes.
We also acquired Multicontrole in traceability.
We now have over 70,000 devices Industry leading innovation Brazil further details of which are on page 31 being used in c. 3,800 customer premises We believe our innovation pipeline is unrivalled which will lead our Municipality Vector Control across 18 countries.
We are extending our and the opening of the Power Centre in 2017, Project going forward.
Connect range with the launch of multi-catch our home for innovation, science and training, rodent devices and are also piloting our has further strengthened the expertise of our innovative bed bug monitor across 400 sites people and ensures we are ideally placed to in North America.
deliver the best service for our customers, today and in the future.
We have a strong Other digital products developed during pipeline of 70 innovations a 30% increase 2018 included Autogate and Dual Autogate on 2017 targeting key pest groups of rodents Connect and MultiMouse Trap.
These three and insects with 16 patents pending.
solutions, along with a number of others, will be launched through 2019.
In addition Following the success in 2017 of our first to this we will have increased capability in Lumnia insect light trap product, we extended the generation of insights that will support the range in 2018 to include Lumnia Standard our pest management effectiveness Ultimate which uses second generation by enabling our frontline technicians to lamps, Lumnia Compact and Lumnia Colour.
have greater information as they deliver Since launch we have sold over 60,000 service to our customers.
Lumnia units across our global estate, of which 30% were in North America.
We plan 2018 has seen a record number of visits to our to expand the range in 2019, with additional web estate, with a total 21m visits, an increase models to meet customer demand.
We have also made Pest control inspections in Rio, Brazil excellent progress in the continued roll out of Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018
