58 Board of Directors N N R A N A N R JOHN McADAM ANDY RANSOM JEREMY TOWNSEND ANGELA JULIE SOUTHERN LINDA YUEH Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer SEYMOUR-JACKSON Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director & Chief Information Non-Executive Director Officer Appointed: May 2008 Appointed: May 2008 Appointed: August 2010 Appointed: March 2012 Appointed: July 2014 Appointed: November 2017 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience John brings to the Group a deep and strategic Andy has broad commercial experience gained Jeremy has extensive experience in audit Angela is a qualified marketing professional Julie has extensive financial experience having As an economist, corporate lawyer and understanding of a wide range of industry in senior executive positions and legal roles.
and corporate finance gained in various and a member of the Chartered Institute had a long, successful career in a number of financial broadcaster Linda brings a diverse sectors gained from his career with Imperial He joined Rentokil Initial from ICI where he senior and executive roles at Ernst & Young of Marketing.
She brings to the Board commercially oriented finance and related roles range of skills to the Board, including strong Chemical Industries plc ICI and Unilever over held various management positions as a LLP, J Sainsbury plc and Mitchells & Butlers experience of leading highly customer-focused working for some of the worlds best known commercial experience gained through her more than 30 years, and his other board and senior lawyer and head of the mergers and plc.
Jeremy has a degree in Management businesses and improving processes and consumer brands.
Julie, through her role as work in corporate law and previous nonadvisor appointments.
John joined ICI in 1997 acquisitions team since 1987.
In 2005, he was Sciences from Manchester University and is a functions for a mobile workforce gained in Chief Commercial Officer at Virgin Atlantic Ltd executive positions.
Linda has acted in various and was appointed Group Chief Executive in appointed to the executive management team fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants various executive and other senior roles at and her various non-executive roles, has gained advisory roles, including to the World Bank 2003.
Prior to joining ICI, John spent 24 years and had operational responsibility for ICIs of England and Wales and a former member RAC Motoring Services, Aviva UK Life, Aegon significant exposure to commercial, legal, HR and the European Commission.
Linda has with Unilever where he held a number of Regional and Industrial Division.
of the Accounting Council of the Financial UK plc and Norwich Union Insurance.
and operational challenges and responsibilities.
obtained a BA at Yale: Masters at Harvard: senior management positions.
Juris Doctorate at New York University: and During his career with ICI he spent several She has over 20 years of experience in Julie is a Chartered Accountant, having an MA and doctorate at Oxford.
John was Senior Independent Director at years working in its businesses in the US Current external commitments retail financial services.
Angela holds an trained with Price Waterhouse, and has a BSc J Sainsbury plc from 2005 to 2016 and a and Canada.
Andy joined Rentokil Initial MSc in Marketing.
in Economics from Cambridge University.
Current external commitments NED, parkrun Trading Limited and parkrun Non-Executive Director of Rolls-Royce plc from in 2008 as the Executive Director of the Global Limited Member of the Policy Committee of the Current external commitments Current external commitments 2008 to 2017.
John received a BSc honours global Pest Control business and became NED, Galliford Try plc Centre for Economic Performance at the Deputy Chairman and SID, GoCompare.
com NED, NXP Semi-Conductors N. V. degree in Chemical Physics at Manchester Chief Executive in October 2013.
Andy is a London School of Economics and Visiting Group plc Netherlands University and later gained a PhD before graduate of the University of Southampton Professor at LSE IDEAS NED, Janus Henderson Group plc NED, DFS Furniture plc becoming a research fellow.
Trustee of Malaria No More UK: Royal NED, PageGroup plc stepping down effective 31 March 2019 Commonwealth Society: and The Coutts Current external commitments Current external commitments NED, Cineworld Group plc Foundation Chairman, United Utilities Group plc Director and Trustee of Street League NED, easyJet plc NED and SID, Cobham plc Patron of Malaria No More UK NED, Ocado Group plc NED, Wilmcote Holdings plc NED and SID, Selecta AG Switzerland N R A N A N RICHARD BURROWS SIR CRISPIN DAVIS JOHN PETTIGREW DARAGH FAGAN Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Company Secretary Appointed: January 2008 and became SID Appointed: July 2017 Appointed: January 2018 Appointed: Group General Counsel in in September 2017 September 2013 and became Company Skills and experience Skills and experience Secretary in July 2014 Skills and experience Sir Crispin has had a distinguished and John is Chief Executive of National Grid Skills and experience Richard has significant international successful business career across the with a strong economic background and business experience ranging from leading international media, fast-moving consumer engineering leadership experience.
John Daragh is a qualified solicitor having successful branded manufacturing and goods, and publishing sectors.
He was Chief has a strong track record of developing and trained at Herbert Smith and has extensive service businesses in the drinks industry Executive of Reed Elsevier plc from 1999 to implementing global strategies for profitable experience in major listed multi-national to banking and financial services roles.
His 2009, and previously Chief Executive of Aegis growth at National Grid.
His skillset includes corporations, including those with significant executive career has been with Irish Distillers, Group plc and Group Managing Director of service provision to a large customer base, businesses in emerging markets.
Daragh where he was Chief Executive from 1978 to Guinness Group plc.
Sir Crispin has experience delivering world-class levels of safety previously worked at Thomson Reuters as 2000, and at Pernod Ricard, where he was in leading and delivering business change and performance and driving transformational General Counsel, Europe & Asia, and General joint Chief Executive from 2000 to 2005. transformation, particularly in the digital arena, change in highly regulated environments.
Counsel, EMEA of Reuters Group plc.
Before He has served as the Governor of the Bank as well as strong international experience having joining Reuters, he spent 10 years working He has significant experience of the US market, of Ireland and has held several non-executive lived and worked in the US and Germany for in the oil and gas industry for the Italian having led the generation and distribution positions.
Richard is a graduate of Wesley substantial periods during his early career at multi-national Eni SpA.
Daragh has an MA businesses of National Grid in North America.
College, Dublin, and is a Fellow of the Institute Proctor & Gamble.
He has held various nonin History from Cambridge University.
John holds a BSc in Economics, an MSc in of Chartered Accountants of Ireland.
executive positions and has a degree in Modern International Economics, is a fellow of the Current external commitments History from Oxford University.
Current external commitments Institute of Engineering and Technology and None Current external commitments sitson the Presidents Committee of the CBI.
Chairman, British American Tobacco p. l. c. NED, Carlsberg A S Denmark NED, Vodafone Group Plc Current external commitments NED, Hasbro Inc USA Chief Executive, National Grid plc Trustee and Member of the University Board for Oxford University Advisor to CVC Capital Partners Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 59 Board of Directors N N R A N A N R JOHN McADAM ANDY RANSOM JEREMY TOWNSEND ANGELA JULIE SOUTHERN LINDA YUEH Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer SEYMOUR-JACKSON Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director & Chief Information Non-Executive Director Officer Appointed: May 2008 Appointed: May 2008 Appointed: August 2010 Appointed: March 2012 Appointed: July 2014 Appointed: November 2017 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience John brings to the Group a deep and strategic Andy has broad commercial experience gained Jeremy has extensive experience in audit Angela is a qualified marketing professional Julie has extensive financial experience having As an economist, corporate lawyer and understanding of a wide range of industry in senior executive positions and legal roles.
Trustee of Malaria No More UK: Royal NED, PageGroup plc stepping down effective 31 March 2019 Commonwealth Society: and The Coutts Current external commitments Current external commitments NED, Cineworld Group plc Foundation Chairman, United Utilities Group plc Director and Trustee of Street League NED, easyJet plc NED and SID, Cobham plc Patron of Malaria No More UK NED, Ocado Group plc NED, Wilmcote Holdings plc NED and SID, Selecta AG Switzerland Age of Directors Professional background N R A N A N RICHARD BURROWS SIR CRISPIN DAVIS JOHN PETTIGREW DARAGH FAGAN Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Company Secretary Appointed: January 2008 and became SID Appointed: July 2017 Appointed: January 2018 Appointed: Group General Counsel in in September 2017 September 2013 and became Company Skills and experience Skills and experience Secretary in July 2014 Skills and experience 45-54 34% Finance 33% Sir Crispin has had a distinguished and John is Chief Executive of National Grid Skills and experience 55-65 33% Marketing 22% Richard has significant international successful business career across the with a strong economic background and 66-75 33% Legal 17% business experience ranging from leading international media, fast-moving consumer engineering leadership experience.
John Daragh is a qualified solicitor having Economics 17% successful branded manufacturing and goods, and publishing sectors.
He was Chief has a strong track record of developing and trained at Herbert Smith and has extensive Science 11% service businesses in the drinks industry Executive of Reed Elsevier plc from 1999 to implementing global strategies for profitable experience in major listed multi-national to banking and financial services roles.
Sir Crispin has experience delivering world-class levels of safety previously worked at Thomson Reuters as Key RICHARD SOLOMONS 2000, and at Pernod Ricard, where he was in leading and delivering business change and performance and driving transformational General Counsel, Europe & Asia, and General Richard will join the Board as a NonA Audit Committee Member joint Chief Executive from 2000 to 2005. transformation, particularly in the digital arena, change in highly regulated environments.
Before Executive Director on 1 March 2019 and, He has served as the Governor of the Bank as well as strong international experience having joining Reuters, he spent 10 years working N Nomination Committee Member He has significant experience of the US market, subject to shareholder approval at the of Ireland and has held several non-executive lived and worked in the US and Germany for in the oil and gas industry for the Italian R Remuneration Committee Member having led the generation and distribution Companys AGM, will become Chairman positions.
Committee Chair College, Dublin, and is a Fellow of the Institute Proctor & Gamble.
executive positions and has a degree in Modern NED Non-Executive Director International Economics, is a fellow of the Current external commitments History from Oxford University.
SID Senior Independent Director Current external commitments Institute of Engineering and Technology and None Current external commitments sitson the Presidents Committee of the CBI.
Chairman, British American Tobacco p. l. c. NED, Carlsberg A S Denmark NED, Vodafone Group Plc Current external commitments NED, Hasbro Inc USA Chief Executive, National Grid plc Trustee and Member of the University Board for Oxford University Advisor to CVC Capital Partners Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018
