Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 1 Protecting People Contents Strategic Report Enhancing Lives... 2 P rotecting people, enhancing lives... everywhere 12 Q &A with Andy Ransom, Chief Executive Everywhere 14 Our big five challenges 15 2 018 progress towards financial targets We have continued to execute our RIGHTWAY plan across our 16 Our brands and businesses 18 Reasons to invest regions ofNorth America, Europe, UK & Rest of World, Asia and 19 A s napshot of our year Pacific all of which continue to provide excellent opportunities for 20 Our markets sustainable and profitable growth.
We continue to witness strong 22 O ur business at a glance demand for our services everywhere we operate and our powerful 24 Our business model 26 C apital allocation model by category brand, outstanding customer service and proven operating model 28 Key performance indicators have delivered further operational and financial improvements across 30 Strategy in action the business in 2018.
40 Regional performance 42 Risks and uncertainties At the heart of our success are our people.
We are determined 48 Corporate responsibility to bean Employer of Choice across our global operations, and to Corporate Governance ensure ourengaged and talented colleagues utilise their local market 56 Q &A with John McAdam, Chairman knowledge, relationships and culture to apply our services to the 58 Board of Directors highest standards.
60 Executive Leadership Team 61 Corporate Governance Report Our single, most important aim at Rentokil Initial is to protect people 71 Audit Committee Report and enhance lives.
We do this by providing essential pest control 77 Nomination Committee Report and hygiene services to protect our customers and keep them safe 81 Directors Remuneration Report 98 Independent Auditors Report in their living and working environments.
We also support local communities and charities around the world, implement health and Financial Statements hygiene programmes in areas where the need for greater healthcare 104 Financial Review 108 Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and education is most profound, and work hard to minimise our and Other Comprehensive Income impact on the environment.
109 Consolidated Balance Sheet 110 Consolidated Statement of Changes Over the next few pages we highlight a number of examples that inEquity demonstrate how we have made a difference to customers and 111 C onsolidated Cash Flow Statement communities around the world through the services we provide, 112 N otes to the Financial Statements andhighlight some of the initiatives we are using to drive growth 154 Related undertakings 159 Five-year summary inour business to deliver real value for our shareholders.
160 Par ent Company Balance Sheet 161 Parent Company Statement of Changes On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our shareholders and in Equity customers for giving their continued support to Rentokil Initial and for 162 N otes to the Parent Company Accounts their ongoing trust and loyalty.
This is a very exciting time for Rentokil Additional Information Initial, both locally and globally, and we hope you will enjoy reading 167 Directors Report our 2018 Annual Report.
170 Additional shareholder information 172 Glossary JOHN McADAM Chairman The Financial Review on pages 104 to 107 27 February 2019 forms part ofthe Strategic Report.
Alternative Performance Measures This Annual Report includes certain financial performance measures which are not GAAP measures as defined under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
These include Ongoing Revenue, Ongoing Operating Profit, Adjusted Profit Before Tax and Free Cash Flow.
Management believes these measures provide valuable additional information for users of the financial statements in order to understand the underlying trading performance.
Ongoing Revenue and Ongoing Operating Profit measures represent the performance of the continuing operations of the Group including acquisitions after removing the effect of disposed or closed businesses.
Ongoing Profit and Adjusted Profit Before Tax exclude certain items that could distort the underlying trading performance.
Ongoing Revenue and Ongoing Operating Profit are presented at CER unless otherwise stated.
An explanation of the measures used along with reconciliation to the nearest IFRS measures is provided in Section E. Alternative Financial Measures on pages 149 to 153.
Visit our website at rentokil-initial.
com Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018
