38 Strategy in action Protect & Enhance Key industry trends going forward include wellness at work being recognised as a serious aspect in building design, with air quality a major concern and a younger workforce demanding better workplace environments.
We are very encouraged by Ambiuss performance this year and its return to growth in profits of 16.4% on revenues up 3.1% during the year.
UK Property Care Our Property Care business is based in the UK.
Services include dry rot and woodworm treatment and damp proofing.
We have a leading position in the industry and have developed a strong operational capability with certified teams undertaking work in commercial and social housing.
The business has an excellent reputation for customer service and aloyal customer base.
Our three brands Peter Cox, Wise and Rentokil Property Care were the top three businesses rated by Focus on enhanced customers in the damp proofing category, ranked by Trustpilot in 2018.
Property Care hasCVC scores of 50% which are amongst service, customer the highest in the Group.
Trading, however, continues to be significantly retention and profit impacted by the slowdown in the UK property market and, while the business is small generating revenues of 23.1m in 2018 protection its revenue decline of 17.4% has dampened Organic Revenue growth in the UK and Rest of World region by 1.6% points in the year.
The four businesses included in this category Workwear are Workwear France, Ambius Global, To counter ongoing market pressures we Our Workwear operations in France specialise Property Care UK and a very small Dental have put in place a business improvement in the supply and laundering of workwear, Services operation Germany and Sweden.
plan based on better revenue, leveraging our uniforms, cleanroom garments and personal All are cash-generative businesses which digital expertise from Pest Control and a focus protective wear.
After three years of declining share overheads with our Pest Control and on cost and efficiency measures.
A new area profitability, the business returned to profitable Hygiene businesses.
However, they operate operating model is in place and beginning to growth in the first half of the year, some within more challenging markets and have gain traction.
The business is also now fully six months ahead of plan.
This has been historically failed to deliver consistent integrated into our UK back office and shared achieved through an outstanding execution profitable growth.
Combined, the businesses support centres and, while web enquiries of strategy by our management team which represent c. 11% of Ongoing Operating Profit have risen throughout quarters three and four, has focused on service and product quality and generate a Net Operating Margin of 11.7% they are not yet converting into sales.
Looking to drive customer retention, together with on an annualised basis.
forward into 2019 we are planning to develop profit improvement and margin protection pest proofing service lines to additional initiatives.
While we are greatly encouraged Improving performances in 2018 customer segments to reduce dependence by our performance in 2018, we continue 2018 has been a more encouraging year for on the housing market.
to work towards returning the business to our Protect & Enhance businesses despite full operational and financial health through continuing market challenges, with three ongoing implementation of our Quality Agenda.
of our four businesses delivering year-onyear profitable growth.
We were particularly Ambius encouraged by the performance of our Ambius operates in 16 countries with leading France Workwear business which returned positions in the US, Canada, Australia and to year-on-year profitable growth of 2.8% New Zealand.
Its product offering is broadly during 2018 compared with a decline last year consistent across the world and includes of 12.2%.
Ambius grew Ongoing Operating interior landscaping, Christmas decorations Profit by 16.4% 2017: decline of 14.9% and and premium scenting.
Dental services grew by 47.7% 2017: decline Key customer segments are offices, facilities of 26.8%.
Our Property Care business has management, hospitality, food and non-food continued to struggle, however, and despite retail, leisure, healthcare and education.
an improving rate of decline throughout Its strategic focus is on higher-margin green the year, it posted a fall in profits of 1.9m living walls and premium scenting, expanding compared to 2017. and exploiting international agreements and driving lead generation through digital applications.
Servicing office plants in New Jersey, USA Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 39 Strategy in action Protect & Enhance 1 Ongoing Revenue Ongoing Operating Profit Operating Margin AER: 384.1m, 0.7% AER: 45.7m, 12.1% 0.7% 10.6% 1.0% 384.4m 45.1m 11.7% 381.6m 40.8m 10.7% 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Protect & Enhance as % of Group Ongoing Protect & Enhance as % of Group Ongoing 1 Revenue Operating Profit 15% 11% 1.
Pre central and regional overheads and restructuring costs.
Outlook for 2019 We are very encouraged by this years performance from France Workwear.
3 out of 4 However, we are not complacent and will have to continue to work steadily in 2019 and of our Protect & Enhance beyond to restore the business to long-term businesses delivered year-on-year operational and financial health.
While performances in our Ambius operations are linked to economic conditions, it is a highlyskilled leader in its industry with specialist 2.8% expertise in large-scale installations.
It also benefits from a strong fourth quarter, reflecting growth in Ongoing Operating strong Holiday sales in North America in the Profit was achieved by our France run up to Christmas.
Ambius is also well placed Workwear business in 2018, while to capitalise on the rapidly growing global Ambius grew 16.4% and Dental scenting market.
All these are encouraging Services by 47.7%.
Market conditions in Property Care will remain Creating a moss wall challenging in 2019.
However, the business -1.9m hasshown signs of improvement in 2018 and we expect these to continue in 2019 as we However, our Property Care gain further traction from the operational business continues to struggle, improvement plans implemented in the second reporting profits 1.9m below 2017. half of 2018 and from the potential introduction of new service lines.
We expect trading conditions in our Dental Services markets of Germany and Sweden to be broadly similar to 2018.
Ambius technician in Chicago, USA Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018
