26 Capital allocation model by category Our capital allocation model bycategory is working well.
Since the first articulation of our RIGHT WAY plan five years ago we have worked steadily to improve the quality of our revenues, 85% of which is generated by our corecategories of Pest Control and Hygiene.
Business Strategy Market context Our focus for 2019 Progress in 2018 Pest Control is our core business and our primary engine Key factors which are driving consistent growth include Growth markets Pest for growth.
Continued acceleration of our business an increasing population, additional legislation in critical Deploy innovation consistently in key pest sectors and with new non-toxic solutions 1.6bn can be achieved by building on our unrivalled global areas such as food safety, and a growing pest burden Control Target new services, for example fumigation Europe, UK and Brand Standards North America Ongoing Revenue, up 12.6% leadership through further expansion in Growth and of species such as mosquitoes.
The world population Harness the digital opportunity across the customer lifecycle.
Capitalise on success of Emerging markets, both organically and through our is expected to grow to 8 billion by 2025, impacting connected pest control with a wider product range and complete roll-out of customer value-creating acquisition programme.
Areas of key specifically on strategically important markets to us, extranetportals 277.0m focus include developing our digital capability, exploiting including India, China and Brazil, where we are already Maximise national and international accounts capability Ongoing Operating Profit, up 9.9% national and international sales opportunities and experiencing double-digit revenue growth.
Build margins by leveraging scale and building density, particularly in North America continued pest control products and services innovation.
Continue to execute strong M&A programme In M&A we look for an IRR of 13% in Growth markets and Emerging markets 15% in Emerging markets.
42 Build stronger positions in higher-growth markets: Latin America, our youngest business acquisitions completed in 2018 Read more on pages 30 to 34 butgrowing rapidly, China which remains a significant opportunity with the right model, India where we are exploiting our scale since the integration ofRentokil PCI and the Middle East andAfrica where we are well placed to grow Use innovations and the power of the Rentokil brand to target international customers particularly globalfood supply chains Exploit mosquito vector control opportunities, particularly in Brazil Drive productivity enhancements such as ServiceTrak and other digital tools Acquire city-based businesses to build scale and density We have continued to make further progress in revenue As with Pest Control, our Hygiene businesses Target upselling of multiple services to customers using our full Hygiene range Hygiene growth in Hygiene in 2018.
Our focus is to build on the operate in an attractive industry offering good growth Gross margin-based sales commission and incentives 536.7m strength of our leading Hygiene brand and strong market opportunities as expectations around standards of Innovation focused on highest growth sectors such as Air Care purification and scenting, Ongoing Revenue, up 26.5% positions, sell our range of award-winning hygiene hygiene increase.
Margins are driven by postcode particularly in Asia and sensing technologies sharing expertise from Pest Control products with confidence, lead the way on product and density servicing as many customers as possible in Development of strong pipeline of new products and introduction of lower-cost products service innovation, build city density and extend our a tight geographic zone and customer penetration intargeted sectors, such as feminine hygiene 90.2m footprint through organic growth and targeted M&A.
selling multiple service lines to customers.
What we Target growth through national accounts and relationships with facilities management providers InM&A we look for an IRR of between 15% and 20%.
seek therefore is more customers on our routes and Build route density through targeted selling, use of tools such as ServicePlus and a targeted, Ongoing Operating Profit, up 19.9% more products within customers premises.
city-focused acquisition programme Read more on pages 35 to 37 4 acquisitions completed in 2018 The businesses included in this category are Workwear Initial Workwear is the No.
2 player in the French France Workwear further implementation of Quality Agenda see page 38 for more details Protect & France, Ambius global and Property Care UK.
It also workwear market and returned to year-on-year todeliver operational and financial stability 384.4m includes a sub-scale Dental Services business Germany profitable growth in 2018.
Market conditions have been Ambius deliver Organic growth of 3%, focus on implementation of Project 90 90% customer Enhance Ongoing Revenue, up 0.7% and Sweden.
All are cash-generative businesses and challenging for a number of years due to economic retention, work to achieve recognition as the interior plants solution partner of choice in our combined represent c. 11% of Ongoing Operating Profit.
pressures and an intense pricing environment, but have top10 markets Our strategic focus is on enhanced customer service, improved in 2017 and 2018, reflecting a better economic UK Property Care maintain strength of service proposition despite market challenges, 45.1m customer retention and profit protection.
Acquisition outlook and some easing of pricing pressures.
Our convert increasing web enquiries into sales and develop pest proofing service lines to reduce opportunities are likely to be more limited than in multi-award-winning interior landscaping business, dependence on UK housing Ongoing Operating Profit, up 10.6% PestControl and Hygiene and require an IRR of 20%.
Ambius, also operates in competitive markets with pricing pressures but benefits from a large Christmas Read more on pages 38 and 39 market in North America.
Our UK Property Care 26.9m business is closely linked to the housing market which Ongoing Operating Profit France Workwear up 2.8% has weakened since the June 2016 Brexit referendum result and the General Election and has seen a decline in revenue as direct result.
1 small Ambius acquisition completed in 2018 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 27 Capital allocation model by category Business Strategy Market context Our focus for 2019 Progress in 2018 Pest Control is our core business and our primary engine Key factors which are driving consistent growth include Growth markets Pest for growth.
1 small Ambius acquisition completed in 2018 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018
