Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 53 Corporate responsibility Workplace culture Our culture is characterised as customer focused, commercial, diverse, down to earth andinnovative.
We have highly engaged colleagues, willing to go the extra mile, and a drive within the business to keep improving whether through learning and development, the roll-out of innovations or the introduction of industry-leading digitaltools.
Our model Our mission What were Protecting People.
here to do Our values Service Relationships Teamwork The core things We are passionate about delivering We value long-lasting relationships Our business is all about great that underpin excellent customer service to withour colleagues and customers teamwork getting it right, for everything we do everycustomer ourcolleagues and customers Our culture Customer focused Commercial Diverse Down to earth Innovative What its Firstly, were a We employ smart We want our We dont like big We use the latest actually like to service company.
people who help workforce to egos.
People who advancements to work withand We strive to meet the Company grow reflect the diverse succeed with us are build an innovation at Rentokil our customers profitably by making customers we friendly, comfortable pipeline that sets Initial needs and our good decisions serve.
We value in their own skin, us apart from the people go the extra that benefit our everyones talents straightforward, competition.
We and abilities and constantly seeking embrace digital work hard to support constantly seek out strive to attract, to improve, technologies that our customers and new opportunities recruit and retain the with ideas and help create new each other.
When for growth and best people from experiences and products and make Read more things go wrong, ways to work more the widest possible acknowledge the us more efficient.
Our measures World-class service Measuring our culture How we make company We measure our workplace culture through external and internal KPIs, sure our culture Customer service but we have also created a measurement tool mapping our colleague is working Net Promoter Score engagement survey questions to each of the five pillars in order to Customer retention create a score out of 100 that can be tracked over time.
In the 2017 External reviews survey the last one conducted, Diverse and Customer Focus were e. g. Trustpilot the strongest cultural elements.
This will be measured again in 2019.
World-class Employer Regions dimensions Customer Down of Choice YVC 2017 scores focused Commercial Diverse toearth Innovative Your Voice Counts Asia 90 87 88 85 88 YVC survey, Culture Index Europe 70 67 76 67 68 Employer of Choice retention, diversity North America 80 74 82 73 72 Compliance Pacific 75 73 82 69 74 training, Speak Up External reviews UK & RoW 78 73 80 70 78 e. g. Glassdoor Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 54 Corporate responsibility Our culture in action Our culture model on the previous page features five core characteristics, which are how we define and measure our workplace culture.
These are customer focus, commercial, diverse, down to earth and innovative.
On this page we provide examples of our culture in action from around the Rentokil Initial world.
Customer focused Commercial In 2018 our team in Belgium was asked Retaining more colleagues doesnt to treat bed bugs at a hotel in Antwerp, just mean we provide better service: which was also part of a large national it also reduces our costs through less account in France.
Working together, recruitment, training and time to become both teams made sure that the job went fully productive.
smoothly with 125 rooms heat treated, In 2018 our business in North America without compromising safety.
launched a Certified Field Trainer The Rentokil team worked in shifts for programme that pairs new colleagues threedays and nights, and an electrical with designated Certified Field Trainers power station was installed to supply in their branch for the first six weeks of 32heat canons and fans.
The customer their employment, to help them learn was delighted that they could remain on-the-job skills.
open during the treatment and have Short-term 0-6 month Sales their rooms quickly back in operation.
retention in North America improved by 9.9 percentage points in 2018.
Diverse Down to earth Innovative Rentokil Initial is a diverse organisation Being recognised and thanked is a big Key to the development of our innovation operating in 75 countries with multiple part of our culture.
Branch Managers pipeline and the Companys culture of cultures, languages and customs.
33% of use our G social media communities to innovation is the Power Centre.
Opened the Board are female, while direct reports provide an instant well done or great in late 2017 the Centre has had a of the Executive Leadership Team now job, while every region has awards particularly successful first 12 months comprises 30% women up from 27% where we recognise colleagues for with 1,700 colleagues and customers in 2017 and 24% in 2016.
Across the excellent customer feedback such as visiting, including service colleagues Company there is a strong focus on our First Class Awards in the Pacific and from the Netherlands, the Latin American future talent with the graduate scheme Presidents Club in North America.
management team, and an increasing comprising of over 50% females.
number of existing and prospective Increasingly, colleagues past and customers.
The new Lumnia insect light In 2018 we introduced a Women in present can give feedback on our traps are a great example of this pipeline Pest Control initiative in Australia culture on websites such as Glassdoor.
of innovations with over 60,000 sales which brought together our female As at 31 December 2018 Rentokil Initials to date.
One supermarket chain in technicians to agree steps to make a UK Glassdoor score for Culture and Singapore ordered 450 units which were career in pest control more attractive Values was 4 out of 5, well ahead of the installed by colleagues over one month.
to women and to support recruitment.
average of 3.2 out of 5 of the 800,000 The customer will save approximately companies on the site.
9,000 per year inreduced energy costs.
Rentokil Initial was ranked in the Top 200 companies globally for gender equality by Equileap in 2018.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018
