Board of Directors as at 15 March 2019 N R Debbie Hewitt MBE Andy McCue Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Debbie was appointed as Non-Executive Director on Andy joined the Company as Chief Executive Officer on 1 May 2015 and Chairman on 12 May 2016.
He was previously Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Chair of Moss Bros Group plc, White Stuff of Paddy Power plc, where he embedded a new growth Limited, Visa Europe Limited and BGL Holdings Limited strategy which delivered record revenues and profits, as well and Non-Executive Director of Galaxy Midco 1 Limited as playing a pivotal role in the merger with Betfair plc.
Debbie retired from her role as to that, he led the Paddy Power UK and Irish retail businesses, Senior Non-Executive Director of Redrow plc on 7 November transforming profitability and overseeing its growth.
Andy 2018 after 9 years with the company.
joined Paddy Power from OC&C Strategy Consultants where he was a Principal.
Her executive career was spent at RAC plc where she was Group Managing Director and prior to that she was in retail Andy is currently also a Non-Executive Director and Chairman management with Marks & Spencer plc.
She is a Fellow of of the Remuneration Committee of Hostelworld plc.
the Chartered Institute of Personnel Development and was awarded the MBE for services to Business and the Public Sector in 2011.
Kirk Davis Member of the Audit Committee A Chief Financial Officer N Member of the Nomination Committee Kirk joined the Company as Chief Financial Officer on Member of the Remuneration Committee R 5 February 2018.
He has extensive finance experience within listed leisure and retail businesses, and was previously Committee Chairman Chief Financial Officer at Greene King plc for three years.
Prior to that he was Finance Director at JD Wetherspoon plc, and he has also held senior finance roles at Tesco plc and Marks & Spencer plc.
He is a member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
30 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements A N R A N Graham Clemett Simon Cloke Independent non-executive Director Senior Independent non-executive Director Graham was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on Simon was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of the 1 June 2016.
Graham is currently Chief Financial Officer of Company in March 2010.
Formerly Global Head of Industrials Workspace Group plc.
He was previously Finance Director at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, he was appointed for UK Corporate Banking at RBS Group plc where he worked Managing Director of HSBCs Diversified Industries Group for 5 years.
Prior to RBS, Graham spent 8 years at Reuters in 2005 and is currently responsible for managing HSBCs Group plc, latterly as Group Financial Controller.
He qualified business with some of its largest house building and building as a chartered accountant with KPMG.
materials clients as well as a number of HSBCs largest UK corporate relationships.
A N R A N Mike Tye Allan Leighton Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Mike was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on Allan was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of the 4 April 2016.
He has extensive experience of the Leisure Company on 24 December 2018.
Allan is currently Chairman and Hospitality sector and was, until 2015, Chief Executive of a number of consumer-focused businesses including Officer of Spirit Pub Company plc, where he led its successful Co-operative Group Limited and Entertainment One Limited, establishment as a public company following the demerger and was the Chairman of Mabel Topco Limited the parent from Punch Taverns and the subsequent turnaround and company of the Wagamama Group prior to its acquisition by sale of the business.
Prior to that, he held a number of senior TRG.
He was previously Chief Executive Officer of ASDA executive roles in Whitbread, including Managing Director Group Limited and Pandora A S, President & CEO of Wal-Mart of David Lloyd Leisure, Premier Inn and Costa Coffee.
Europe and Chairman of Pace plc and Royal Mail.
Mike is currently also Chairman of Moto Hospitality Limited the motorway services operator, Chairman of the Haulfryn Allan has also been the Chairman at Race for Opportunity Group Limited and Vice-Chairman of Prostate Cancer UK.
and Business Ambassador for HRH the Prince of Wales, and is a Patron of Breast Cancer Care.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 31
