Directors report The Directors present their annual report together with the Directors and Directors interests audited financial statements of the Company and the Group The names of all persons who were Directors during the year for the year ended 30 December 2018 with comparative can be found on page 23.
Directors interests in the shares information for the year ended 31 December 2017. of the Company can be found on page 46.
The Directors report comprises these pages 54 to 55 and the Directors and officers liability D&O insurance other sections and pages of the Annual Report and Accounts Details of the D&O insurance maintained by the Company cross-referred to below which are incorporated by reference.
As permitted by legislation, certain disclosures normally included in the Directors report have instead been integrated Articles into the strategic report pages 4 to 20.
The Companys Articles may only be amended by special resolution and are available on the Companys website at Results and dividends www.
The results for the year are set out in the consolidated income statement on page 69.
This shows a Group Adjusted profit after Greenhouse gas reporting tax of 41.8m 2017 restated: profit of 45.8m.
After charging The disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions exceptional items, the Group recorded a statutory profit after are included in the corporate social responsibility report tax of 6.9m 2017 restated: profit after tax of 18.3m.
The closing mid-market price of the ordinary shares on Disabled employees 28 December 2018 the last trading day before 30 December The Companys policy towards disabled employees is 2018 was 138.8p and the range during the financial year included in the corporate social responsibility report on was 128.5p to 324.6p.
Increase Employee participation Dividend decrease The action taken during the year in relation to employee Interim dividend participation is included in the corporate social responsibility report on pages 16 to 18.
Paid on 11 October 2018 6.80p per share 0% Final dividend Employee benefit trust EBT and share awards Subject to shareholder approval, Details of the Companys EBT arrangements can be found payable on 5 July 2019 to on page 98 Note 19.
Dividends on shares held by the EBT shareholders on the Register of are waived.
Members at the close of business on 7 June 2019 1.47p per share 86% The Company has an all employee Save As You Earn scheme Total dividend payable in and a Long-Term Incentive scheme.
Details of share-based respect of 2018 8.27p per share 52% payments during the year can be found on pages 99 to 103 Note 20.
For more information on the Companys dividends, see Note 10 on page 91 and for details on our dividend policy Substantial shareholdings see page 79.
Details of substantial shareholdings can be found on pages 28 and 29.
For definitions of the Adjusted Performance Metrics used by the Group and how these reconcile to statutory measures, see the glossary on page 121.
54 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Capital risk management Corporate governance The Group manages its capital to ensure that it will be able to The Companys statement on corporate governance can continue as a going concern while looking to maximise returns be found in the corporate governance report on pages 21 to shareholders.
The capital structure of the Group consists to 29 of these financial statements.
The corporate of equity comprising issued share capital, other reserves governance report forms part of this Directors report and retained earnings, borrowings and cash and cash and is incorporated into it by cross-reference.
The Group monitors its capital structure on a regular basis through cash flow projections and consideration Disclosure of information to the external auditor of the cost of financing its capital.
In the case of each of the persons who are Directors at the time the report is approved, the following applies: The Group is subject to externally imposed capital as far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant requirements in respect of its bank loan.
The Group is required audit information of which the Companys auditors are to maintain a required net debt to EBITDA ratio and EBITDA unaware and to net interest charge ratio.
These requirements are monitored the Director has taken all of the steps that he she ought as part of the capital management process on a regular basis to have taken as a Director in order to make him herself and have been complied with for the current financial period.
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that Details of the Companys share capital structure can be found information.
Going concern Financial instruments and financial risk management The strategic report contains a summary of the cash flow The Groups policy on the use of financial instruments is and borrowing position of the Group on page 12.
The set out in Note 1 to the financial statements.
The Groups Group is highly cash generative and as a retail business financial instruments and financial risk management are with trading receipts settled by cash or credit or debit set out in Note 23 to the financial statements.
cards enjoys favourable working capital movements.
Significant agreements and change of control Information on the Groups policies for capital risk provisions management and financial risk management are set out The Group has total revolving credit facilities of 220m in above.
The principal risk factors and uncertainties that place until December 2021 and a 10m overdraft facility.
In could affect the business are detailed on page 57. addition the Group has a high-yield bond of 225m repayable in July 2022.
Based on the Groups plans for 2019, and after making enquiries including preparation of reasonable trading The margin on interest rates applied to the revolving credit forecasts, consideration of current financing arrangements facility is dependent on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
and current headroom for liquidity and covenant The banking facility covenants are tested twice a year and compliance, the Directors have a reasonable expectation are monitored on a regular basis.
The Group remained within that the Group has adequate resources to continue its banking facility covenant limits throughout 2018. operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing The Group has entered into various contracts, including the financial statements.
leases, during the course of ordinary business which may be terminated in the event of a change of control of the Company.
By order of the Board Kirk Davis Chief Financial Officer 15 March 2019 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 55
