Strategic report | The EU referendum The directors believe that our strong market position and The result of the UKs EU referendum in 2016 increased the relationships with our customers, and the value embedded level of macroeconomic uncertainty and could increase the in our membership continue to position us well providing likelihood of the housing market macroeconomic risks set that housing transaction volumes do not take a sharp out on page 25.
During 2018 the Board has continued to downward turn.
assess the impact of the EU referendum result in relation to the broader housing market, transaction levels and our In relation to both our cost base and day to day operational customer base and has concluded that there has been no issues we perceive the potential impact on Rightmove of a material change to the severity of this risk.
In particular, the hard Brexit to be low as: directors considered the following: We are a UK domiciled business with very little interaction The Rightmove business is largely subscription based and is with EU customers or suppliers: therefore less susceptible to short-term shocks or variations None of our employees will lose the right to stay in the UK: in the property market or wider economy: we currently employ 23 EU nationals: and Around two-thirds of our Agency customers also provide We purchased less than 100,000 in supplies from lettings services which may mitigate the impact of any EU-based suppliers in 2018.
The impact of further downturn in the property market on their business: and depreciation of Sterling versus the US Dollar in relation to A reduction in housing market activity increases the licence costs is also not considered to be material.
propensity for advertisers to evaluate their marketing spend Our balance sheet philosophy to date has been to maintain a both offline and on other portals and we remain confident in simple debt-free position, which we believe is a strength as the strength of the Rightmove value proposition.
we have no debt-refinancing or interest-related Brexit risks.
Strategic report | Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2. of the 2016 UK Corporate and considers the Groups profitability, cash flows and dividend Governance Code, the directors have assessed the viability of cover over the period.
the Group over a three-year period, taking into account the The plan is subject to robust downside sensitivity analysis Groups current position and the potential impact of the which involves flexing a number of the main assumptions principal risks and uncertainties set out on pages 25 to 27. underlying the plan.
Where appropriate, analysis is carried out Based upon the robust assessment of the principal risks facing to evaluate the potential financial impact over the period of the the Group, including those that would threaten its business Groups principal risks actually occurring.
Specific scenarios model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, the directors that have been modelled include downside scenarios in have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the relation to the key drivers of revenue being customer numbers Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its and ARPA together with the impact of a plausible combination liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period to 31 of these scenarios.
Furthermore, our business model is December 2021. structured so that the Group is not overly reliant on a The directors have determined that a three-year period to concentrated customer base with no single customer 31 December 2021 constitutes an appropriate period over constituting more than 2% of Group revenue.
which to provide its viability statement, as the Group operates Also our significant free cash flow and our ability to adjust our within the online digital marketplace, and projections looking discretionary share buyback programme provides long-term out further than three years become significantly less comfort around viability in the face of adverse economic or meaningful in the context of the fast moving nature of the competitive conditions.
Three years is also the period considered under the Groups current three-year strategic plan.
The three-year plan Whilst this review does not consider all the risks that the Group is reviewed by the Board and is developed on a segment by may face, the directors consider that this stress-testing based segment basis using a bottom up model.
The three-year plan assessment of the Groups prospects is reasonable in the makes certain assumptions about Agency and New Homes circumstances of the inherent uncertainty involved.
customer numbers, ARPA growth and Other revenue streams 28 rightmove.
