Governance | Directors and officers Scott Forbes Peter Brooks-Johnson Robyn Perriss Chairman Chief Executive Officer Finance Director Nationality American and British Nationality British Nationality British and South African Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 13 July 2005 10 January 2011 30 April 2013 Committee membership Current external commitments Current external commitments Nomination Chairman Non-executive director of MPI None Marketplaces International Current external commitments Previous roles and relevant experience The international online classifieds operation Chairman of Cars.
com Inc Robyn joined Rightmove in 2007 as Financial of Schibsted Media Group Chairman of Ascential plc Controller with responsibility for day to day Non-executive director of Travelport Worldwide Previous roles and relevant experience financial operations and was promoted to Limited Retirement pending completion of agreed Peter joined Rightmove in 2006 and became the Board as Finance Director in April 2013. sale of Travelport to a financial sponsor group Chief Operating Officer in April 2013 having been She was also Company Secretary from April Managing Director of rightmove.
co. uk since 2012 to July 2014 and from June to October Previous roles and relevant experience 2011 and head of the Agency business since 2016.
Robyn qualified as a chartered accountant Chairman of Orbitz Worldwide until September 2008.
He was promoted to Chief Executive in South Africa with KPMG and worked in both 2015 and Director of NetJets Management Ltd, Officer in May 2017.
Prior to joining Rightmove, audit and transaction services.
Prior to joining a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway until October Peter was a management consultant with Rightmove, Robyn was Group Financial 2009.
Scott has over 40 years experience in Accenture and the Berkeley Partnership.
Controller at the online media business, operations, finance and mergers and acquisitions Auto Trader.
including 15 years at Cendant Corporation which was formerly the largest worldwide provider of residential property services.
Scott established Cendants international headquarters in London in 1999 and led this division as Group Managing Director until he joined Rightmove.
Rakhi Goss-Custard Andrew Findlay Sandra Odell Non-Executive Non-Executive Company Secretary Director Director Nationality American Nationality British Appointment as officer to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 1 November 2016 28 July 2014 1 June 2017 Current external commitments Committee membership Committee membership None Remuneration, Nomination Audit Chairman, Nomination Previous roles and relevant experience Current external commitments Current external commitments Sandra is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Non-executive director of Kingfisher plc Director of easyJet plc Secretaries and Administrators.
Prior to joining Non-executive director of Schroders plc Rightmove, Sandra was Company Secretary Previous roles and relevant experience Non-executive director of Intu Properties plc of Quintain, the London property developer, Andrew has been the Chief Financial Officer of and before that held various senior company Previous roles and relevant experience easyJet plc since 2015.
Before joining easyJet, secretarial positions in listed financial Rakhi was a non-executive director of Be Heard Andrew was Chief Financial Officer of Halfords services companies.
Group plc until August 2018 and a Director of UK plc and prior to that Director of Finance, Tax Media at Amazon to June 2014.
She held various and Treasury at Marks and Spencer.
He formerly other senior positions during her 11-year tenure held senior finance roles at the London Stock at Amazon including Media, Entertainment, Exchange and at Cable and Wireless, both in General Merchandise and Book divisions as the UK and US.
Andrew qualified as a chartered well as Product Development.
Prior to Amazon, accountant with Coopers & Lybrand.
Rakhi previously advised Zappos and held strategy roles at TomTom and Oliver Wyman.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Lorna Tilbian Jacqueline fide Rojas CBE Non-Executive Peter Williams Non-Executive Director Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Nationality British Nationality British Nationality British Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 3 February 2014 30 December 2016 1 February 2018 Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Remuneration Chairman, Audit, Nomination Audit, Nomination Remuneration, Nomination Current external commitments Current external commitments Current external commitments Chairman of DP Eurasia NV President of techUK Non-executive director of Jupiter UK Chairman of boohoo.
com plc Non-executive director of Costain Group plc Growth Investment Trust plc retiring on 15March 2019 Non-executive director of AO World plc Non-executive director of Proven VCT plc Chairman of U and I plc Non-executive director of Finsbury Growth Previous roles and relevant experience & Income Trust PLC Previous roles and relevant experience Jacqueline has been employed throughout her Non-executive director of Euromoney Peter was previously senior independent director career by global blue-chip software companies Institutional Investor PLC of ASOS plc and Sportech plc, Chairman of and has held senior positions at Citrix, CA Non-executive director M&C Saatchi PLC Jaeger, held non-executive director roles in Technologies, McAfee and Ascential Software.
Cineworld Group plc, the EMI group, Blacks She was a non-executive director of Home Retail Previous roles and relevant experience Leisure Group plc, JJB Sports plc, GCap Media plc Group from 2012 to 2016.
Jacqueline is an advisor Lorna was Executive Director and Head of the and Capital Radio Group plc.
In his executive to the Digital Leaders Technology Group and a Media Sector in Corporate Broking & Advisory at career, Peter was Chief Executive at Alpha passionate advocate for diversity and inclusion in Numis Corporation PLC until September 2017.
Group plc and prior to that, Chief Executive the workplace with a particular focus on getting She was a founder of Numis when it launched in of Selfridges plc where he also acted as women and girls into digital careers and studying 2001 having worked at Sheppards, as a director Chief Financial Officer for over ten years.
She was awarded a CBE for of SGWarburg and executive director of WestLB services to international trade in the technology Panmure.
Lorna sits on the Advisory Panel of Tech industry in the 2018 New Years Honours list.
City UKs Future Fifty programme and has served as a Cabinet Ambassador for Creative Britain for the Department of Culture, Media & Sport.
Diversity on the Board Rightmove recognises the benefits of having diversity across the Board to ensure variety of thought in relation to the business strategy and effective engagement with key stakeholders.
The age, gender and tenure of Board members as at 31 December 2018 is set out below.
of directors Executive Executive Executive Chairman Chairman Chairman NonNonNon- 03 03 36 03 36 69 36 69 9 69 9 9 Female Female Female Male Male Male direc dirt ec ort s ors directors executive executive executive yea yr ea s rs yea yea yr ea s rsr s yea yea yr ea s rsrs yea yea yr ea s rsrs years Executive Executive Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive direc dirt ec ort s ors directors Rightmove plc annual report 2018 37 Age range Age range Age range
