EMPOWERING Strategic report | Business model The Rightmove network effect BUYERS The place consumers Unrivalled exposure, SELLERS AGENTS turn to first and leads and products RENTERS DEVELOPERS engage with most for our customers LANDLORDS SIMPLICITY What we do How we make the market more efficient for consumers Rightmove is the UKs number one property portal and the Rightmove is free to consumers, and it is the only place UKs largest property marketplace.
We bring the UKs largest where home buyers and renters can see almost the entire and most engaged property audience and the largest UK property market in one place.
The ease of accessing inventory of properties together in one place.
We benefit almost the entire UK property market through fast, always from strong network effects as our property audience and available digital platforms means Rightmove has become the properties our customers advertise create a virtuous the place consumers turn to first when they think about circle enhancing the Rightmove value proposition.
Our customers are primarily estate agents, letting agents Finding your next home can be a stressful experience, home and new homes developers advertising properties for sale buyers will often say its got to be perfect and renters will and to rent in the UK.
The simplicity Rightmove brings can reduce the stress.
The carefully designed website avoids Our aim is to create a more efficient housing distractions in pursuit of simplicity, putting home hunters in marketplace and make home moving easier control of their search and research.
The UK housing market, both in sales and rentals, is complex and often inefficient.
Moving home can be a stressful and Rightmove keeps investing to deliver the most engaging time consuming experience for consumers and an inefficient experience for home movers and our culture of restlessness and frustrating process for professionals often with continues to drive improvement and innovation.
The elements of wasted effort and unavoidable manual hundreds of updates to our platforms released each month processes.
We believe by creating asimpler and more include recent improvements and innovations such as efficient marketplace we can make home moving in the UK Keyword Sort, which allows home hunters to prioritise easier.
A better marketplace which empowers consumers those properties which meet their diverse needs from and property professionals alike creates a better housing the over one million UK homes for sale or rent listed on market.
By creating value for, and building long-term Rightmove and a raft of technical changes which have partnerships with, both consumers and property further reduced the response time of the property search.
professionals we are able to grow our revenue.
Our continued growth allows us to innovate to create more value for all.
co. uk EFFICIENCY Strategic report Governance Financial statements We also help drive efficiencies within our Agent customers Rightmove takes some of the effort out of the home search businesses by providing best in class software that delivers by proactively bringing suitable properties to home hunters, data, market insight and analytical tools to help them inform and in 2018 we sent more than three-quarters of a billion their decisions, with 90% of our Agent customers now using instant alerts an increase of 30% compared to 2017 to our software each month.
Knowing the moment when a new property comes to market allows a home hunter to stay Rightmoves culture of restless innovation helps create abreast of the market wherever they are.
Combined with more efficiency opportunities for our customers.
For our near whole of market view, consumers need not fear example, in 2018 our lead reporting tools were upgraded missing their dream property when it comes to market.
to make them faster and also help agents better identify Beyond finding a buyer or tenant, the tools we provide for those leads which might contain new business opportunities researching the market bring simplicity and confidence to from the 42 million leads we sent in the year.
As a result of sellers and landlords as they consider one of the largest the upgrades more than twice as many customers used transactions of their lives and choose an agent to help the lead reports in 2018 saving them valuable time.
them on their home moving journey.
How we create value for our shareholders How we make the market more efficient for Our principal sources of revenue are the monthly industry professionals subscription fees paid by customers to advertise all of their By creating the UKs largest property marketplace we have properties and the fees paid for our additional advertising brought together virtually all the audience our customers solutions.
Our additional advertising solutions increase a want to attract.
We are able to offer the most significant customers share of voice and competitiveness.
These are and effective exposure for their brands and properties critical factors for our customers and particularly for an resulting in the largest source of high quality leads, thereby agent to help to win the instruction opportunity to sell or significantly increasing our customers marketing efficiency.
rent a home, which remains the lifeblood of their business.
Our digital solutions help our customers reach their In 2018 our ARPA was again driven by the value our audience faster and more efficiently.
Winning new business customers see in our platform and our higher value is key, but time consuming for our Agent customers: those packages and products together with membership fee price customers who buy our highest value Optimiser package, increases.
In 2018 ARPA exceeded the 1,000 per month on average win twice as many instructions as those who milestone for the first time.
As the property industry becomes more digital, Rightmoves Our solutions for New Homes developers help them reach market leading audience, best in class software and almost every serious home buyer in the UK and also help data-driven analytics are becoming even more valuable them target these buyers both on and off Rightmove.
ARPA growth will continue to be driven by Based on our deep knowledge of search habits we increased product penetration, pricing and innovation and introduced Active Display in 2018 to allow developers to is underpinned by the value of our unrivalled audience and re-target interested home hunters within the Rightmove data, our substantial product inventory and our culture and environment.
Active Display has increased the exposure track record of innovation.
of the properties our New Homes customers are looking We also continue to develop a number of smaller adjacent to promote by 50%.
businesses such as advertising overseas and commercial properties and providing property-related data and valuation services.
