252434 RIT R&A pp001-pp018 04 03 2019 16:15 Page 5 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Our Strategy & Business Model Introduction This section aims to provide a clear and succinct ver the last five years shareholders overview of our strategy and business model, in Ohave seen a total return of 66% particular: compared to 47% from the market.
what we are trying to achieve Strategic Aims : We believe that our active management of equity how we go about it Investment Approach : exposure, combined with early identification of opportunities and themes across multiple asset classes, how well we have done Measuring Performance is more likely to lead to long-term outperformance.
We and KPIs, and 2018 Performance : would hope to display healthy participation in up markets, and reasonable protection in down markets.
Over time, how we structure our remuneration Incentive this should allow us to compound ahead of markets Structure : and throughout the cycles.
Indeed, since your Companys listing in 1988, we have participated in 74% of the market our Governance and Group Structure.
upside but only 39% of the market declines.
This has Strategic Aims resulted in our NAV per share total return compounding at Our strategic aims are best illustrated by our Corporate 11.0% per annum, a meaningful outperformance of Objective: global equity markets.
Over the same period the total return to shareholders was 12.1% per annum.
to deliver long-term capital growth, while preserving Investment Approach shareholders capital: to invest without the constraints of The strategic aims are expressed in more practical terms a formal benchmark, but to deliver for shareholders in our Investment Policy: increases in capital value in excess of the relevant indices over time.
to invest in a widely diversified, international portfolio across a range of asset classes, both quoted and We believe this accurately reflects our long-term aims.
unquoted: to allocate part of the portfolio to exceptional However, we have sought to provide further clarification managers in order to ensure access to the best external to assist shareholders in understanding what we are talent available.
trying to achieve for them over time in particular because we differ from many other large trusts who It is this policy which guides us as we manage your always aim to be fully invested in quoted equities.
So, while we retain at our core an equity bias, we nonetheless have the freedom to invest your portfolio The most important objective is long-term capital growth across multiple asset classes, geographies, industries while preserving shareholders capital.
The essence of and currencies.
This has been the basis of our style over our investing DNA is about protecting and enhancing many years combining thematic investing with shareholders wealth.
individual securities, and private investments with public stocks.
The long-term success of your Company has There may be times when we will deliberately place been drawn from a distinctive blend of stocks, private protection of shareholders funds ahead of growth as investments, equity funds, real assets, and absolute happened in the run up to the 2008 global financial crisis return and credit, all overlaid with currency positioning and more recently.
However, we also recognise that such and macro exposure management.
market timing is unlikely to be sustainable in the long term.
We believe the extent of our global reach and unique network allows us to maximise our ability to deploy capital effectively.
We seek to capitalise on an in-house investment team working closely with our core external ince your Companys listing in 1988, we managers, investing in funds which are largely closed to Shave participated in 74% of the market new investors, and cannot be accessed by a retail upside but only 39% of the market declines.
This aspect of our model is key to our ability to identify and deliver value from differing sectors, markets This has resulted in our NAV per share total and assets.
And while access to such specialist return compounding at 11.0% per annum, a managers comes at a cost, it is one which forms a clear meaningful outperformance of global equity part of our investment decision and, if warranted, we are markets.
Over the same period the total comfortable paying.
Equally, our strong relationships with return to shareholders was 12.1% per annum.
many of our managers provides co-investment opportunities in addition to our core fund holdings.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2018 5 252434 RIT R&A pp001-pp018 04 03 2019 16:15 Page 6 Our Strategy & Business Model Above all, our approach is long term.
For example, in relation to private investments, we are not constrained by e believe the extent of our global reach the typical industry model of a limited life partnership.
Wand unique network allows us to This means we can hold such investments over an maximise our ability to deploy capital extended period and choose to realise them at an effectively.
We seek to capitalise on an optimum time.
optimal blend of an in-house investment On quoted investments, we aim to avoid being forced team working closely with our core external sellers of stocks if we are comfortable with their managers, investing in funds which are underlying fundamentals, even if it means incurring shortlargely closed to new investors, and cannot term losses.
be accessed by a retail investor.
We also deploy derivatives to assist our approach, whether seeking to protect or reduce unwanted take an unconstrained approach to our currency exposure, or to enhance returns.
This might be in relation positioning: for example, in early 2008 we had no to managing our net exposure to equity markets, or to exposure to Sterling ahead of its significant fall in value adjust our exposure to currency risk.
Alternatively, we later that year.
may use derivatives to express views on the future direction of interest rates.
Our wholly-owned subsidiary, J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited JRCM, is tasked with managing In summary, our flexible model, utilising multiple asset the portfolio to deliver a NAV return.
Ultimately however, classes and different investment structures to express the return to our shareholders is through share price our views, allows us to deploy capital and manage risks growth and dividends.
We therefore also consider the as efficiently as possible.
Measuring Performance and KPIs 2018 Performance While we believe our success can only really be The portfolio delivered a positive return of 0.8% in 2018, measured over the long term, we also recognise that a pleasing performance against the broad declines in providing shareholders with a comparator against which global equity markets and other asset classes.
to measure our performance over shorter periods is important.
With a return in volatility and many investors struggling to navigate the markets, our cautious positioning was clearly The strategic aims highlighted on the previous page, helpful.
Perhaps even more importantly was where we reflect the desire to produce real capital growth and to deployed our exposure with our private investments exceed markets over time.
These are reflected in the and non-equity positions in particular providing a helpful following targets or Key Performance Indicators KPIs : offset to our equity book.
Absolute outperformance: NAV total return in excess I believe this year was an excellent illustration of our of RPI plus 3.0% per annum: rigorous and careful portfolio management approach, with our Chief Investment Officer, Ron Tabbouche, 2.
Relative outperformance: NAV total return in excess providing more details in the Investment Review.
of the MSCI All Country World Index ACWI : and The ACWI ended the year down -5.8%, while our 3.
Share price total return or Total Shareholder Return absolute KPI of RPI plus 3.0% measured 5.7%.
sizeable downturn in equities, it was no surprise that we did not keep pace with the absolute hurdle.
However, I The first of these KPIs reflects the desire to produce am delighted that we delivered on our capital strong absolute returns with a meaningful premium preservation aims, and outperformed the ACWI by almost above inflation.
The second reflects our unconstrained global investment We saw our premium maintained over the year approach and the desire to outperform markets.
averaging 7% on a monthly basis with a modest decline Consistent with many investment companies, we use the at the year end.
As a result, the TSR was -1.0% for the ACWI which we believe is an appropriate comparator for year.
If I look back over the last five years, RITs our global, unconstrained approach.
More specifically, we shareholders have seen a TSR of 66.3% compared to the use a blended index consisting of 50% of the ACWI ACWI at 46.8%.
This is a great testament to our CIO and measured in Sterling and 50% of the ACWI measured in the rest of the team at JRCM.
However, we also retain the flexibility to 6 Report and Accounts December 2018 RIT Capital Partners plc 252434 RIT R&A pp001-pp018 04 03 2019 16:15 Page 7 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Our Strategy & Business Model Incentive Structure Our approach to remuneration incorporates the Directors am delighted that we delivered on our Remuneration Policy as well as company-specific Icapital preservation aims and structures designed to attract, motivate and retain the outperformed the ACWI by almost seven high-quality individuals we need to deliver our long-term percentage points.
The approach is designed to align with, and reinforce, these strategic aims.
At the year end, the RIT Group employed 57 people, with 44 working for JRCM and 13 working for SHL.
Our Real The incentive structure seeks to provide an appropriate Assets portfolio includes Spencer House as well as other balance between shorter term awards albeit including properties in St Jamess, London.
These are maintained share deferrals and other longer-term features and by SHL.
In addition to premises management, this longer-term incentives.
subsidiary also operates a profitable events business.
A The Chairman of RIT Capital Partners plc, as well as breakdown of the gender balance of the Directors of the JRCM and Spencer House Limited SHL employees, Company and also the senior managers and employees participate in the Annual Incentive Scheme AIS.
of the Group is set out on page 42.
The AIS is designed to incentivise staff through a share in We remain focused on costs, whether our own direct the total NAV outperformance against the absolute hurdle costs or the fees charged directly or indirectly by external and the relative hurdle.
In addition to this formulaic pool, fund managers.
In order to provide investors with AIS awards are also made for individual performance information on the costs of RITs own investment against qualitative measures.
In order to further align staff business, we calculate an Ongoing Charges Figure OCF with shareholders, and in line with good practice, awards based on recommendations from the Association of for senior staff include a significant proportion made in Investment Companies AIC.
These assume no change deferred shares which vest over three years.
in the composition or value of the portfolio therefore excluding transaction costs and direct performanceThe second main aspect of the remuneration approach is related compensation and excludes finance costs.
For a long-term incentive plan LTIP which provides longer- 2018, our own OCF amounted to 0.68%, with further term incentives of up to 10 years using Share information provided on page 88.
Appreciation Rights SARs, which vest if RITs TSR is above the hurdle of RPI plus 3.0% per annum over three In addition to our own costs, our investment policy years.
Periodic awards targeting longer-term retention includes the allocation of part of the portfolio to thirdhave also been made to JRCM executive management in party managers, which have their own fees.
These the form of performance shares, which vest over up to include long-only equity and hedge fund managers, as seven years, based on TSR outperformance against RPI well as private equity and absolute return and credit plus 3.0% and the ACWI.
The managers fee structure is a key consideration in our investment diligence, with the decision made on Further details of remuneration are provided in the the basis of expected returns, net of all fees.
To assist Directors Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 39. shareholders, we estimate that the average annual management fees for external managers represent an Governance and Group Structure additional 1.03% of average net assets.
This excludes Our Chairman, Lord Rothschild, is responsible for the performance fees which are typically paid for leadership of the Board.
RIT is a self-managed outperformance against an index or an absolute hurdle.
investment company and the management of the Further information on fees is provided on page 41. investment portfolio has been delegated to our subsidiary, JRCM.
JRCM is also responsible for the Against the backdrop of volatile markets, ever-changing administration of the portfolio as well as acting as regulations and other challenges, I remain grateful to all corporate company secretary.
of my colleagues here in Spencer House, who provide me, the Board and our shareholders with such excellent The day-to-day running of JRCM is under the support.
management of an Executive Committee led by myself as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
JRCM executives represent RITs interests on the SHL board.
Full details of the RIT Board and the JRCM Executive Committee are provided on pages 20 to 23.
Francesco Goedhuis Chairman and Chief Executive Officer J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2018 7
