Strategic report Commercial Commercial partners with Our Commercial group creates value using We also work hand-in-hand with our product ourproduct groups, customer, supplier and market insights groups to enable us to better address customer customers and suppliers to generated through the visibility we enjoy needs and adjust our operations to meet market across the entire value chain.
As an example, in 2018, we introduced generate insights and unlock understanding of the needs of our customers a secondary iron ore product, to protect the value for all our stakeholders.
and suppliers is crucial to successfully quality of our flagship Pilbara Blend products.
navigating commodity and economic cycles This was in direct response to market feedback, Simon Trott while achieving our growth aspirations.
which underscored the importance of maintaining the premium brand position occupied by the Chief commercial officer This year, the Commercial group brought Pilbara Blend due to its consistent quality together our global sales and marketing, andmarket liquidity.
procurement, marine, logistics and marketing analysis activities to strengthen our ability to With the formation of the Commercial group, 1,300 share commercial insights and build crosstheproduct groups now have a single point of employees product group capabilities.
We are the voice interface from managing procurement needs ofcustomers and suppliers within Rio Tinto, through to turning contracts into cash.
Our goal connecting market perspectives back to our is to simplify our systems, automate interfaces assets and operations.
and provide a common approach and set of S ingapore processes to our product groups across The year has been a formative one.
We consolidated our American and European C ommercial commercial activities into Chicago and Frankfurt Our procurement function has significantly to be closer to customers.
These offices are simplified its contractual terms and conditions.
closely integrated with our Singapore hub and This has reduced the number of different H ub ouroffices in China, Japan and South Korea, template contracts from 400 to four, simplified with satellite offices in Chicago and Frankfurt enhancing opportunities to identify and respond the language, reduced the length by two-thirds and offices in China, Japan and South Korea to market developments.
to made them ready for automation.
Contractsare now easier to prepare, Approximately Safety .
We are committed to ensuring the safety, health and wellbeing of our workforce.
We face a diverse We also work in partnership with our product 2, 000 range of risks across multiple geographies in our groups to safely and sustainably source the customers across 96 countries global sales and marketing, procurement marine optimal raw materials and supplies for the Group and logistics activities.
Our primary focus has at competitive prices.
In 2018, we delivered more More than been implementing Group standards and than 400 cash-generating initiatives, with the critical-risk management fatality prevention mindset of bringing our customers and suppliers programmes across our areas of greatest into the heart of our business.
We continue to try 200 exposure, primarily Marine & Logistics, and to address issues and challenges together, and Procurement.
In 2018, we had zero fatalities deliver outcomes that benefit every business, contracted ships managed at any one time and a 0.18 all-injury frequency rate.
we intend to build on this and share our focus Managing around on safety, health and wellbeing in a tangible Digitalisation of trade and visible way through our daily interactions Our goal is to improve customer experience, with our customers and suppliers.
andwe are investing time and resources into 3 7, 000 simplifying systems and automating activities.
suppliers in more than 120 locations Performance Asan example, in 2018, we successfully trialled Our customer and supplier interactions provide us ablockchain transaction as part of the first fully with unique insights and data that we can use to digitised end-to-end trade transaction completed create and unlock value today, as well as shaping in Singapore.
The sale included electronic our future resource investment decisions.
shipping documents as well as a digital letter ofcredit.
While the technology is not ready for widescale use, this is a significant step forward inthe digitalisation of international trade.
Ourambition is to continuously improve the experience of doing business with Rio Tinto, reduce documentation turnaround times andoptimise working capital.
Markets and outlook For our analysis of the markets and outlook for 2019 see the Iron Ore, Aluminium, Copper & Diamonds and Energy & Minerals sections.
Business reviews Commercial Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
