Strategic report | Business reviews Growth & Innovation We grow and improve the Whether exploring or building assets, we find Exploration ground-breaking ways to add value across the We have an extensive global exploration Groups business by entire lifecycle of our operations.
This year, we explored in 16 countries discovering the minerals and looking for eight commodities and generated We work across Rio Tinto, supporting each product moreopportunities than ever before.
Expenditure metals we need today and groups daily operations from start to finish.
We on exploration and evaluation in 2018 was tomorrow, applying new are responsible for exploration the search for $488million.
Of this, $231 million relates to new sources of commodities and the design and theexploration and evaluation of our greenfield technologies, delivering our construction of new assets.
This year, our projects programmes and $257 million to our product projects and optimising team completed, with Aluminium, the Amrun groups, mostly copper.
We have had some early bauxite project in Queensland, Australia and, success in copper exploration in the Pilbara, ouroperations.
with Iron Ore, started work on Koodaideri, our Western Australia, at the Winu project where intelligent mine in the Pilbara, Western Australia.
phase 2 drilling is now underway.
The majority Stephen McIntosh ofour projects this year are in the early stages Group executive, Growth & Innovation We also provide technical expertise and project ofdrilling.
Projects at a more advanced stage management to close our sites when they reach arelisted in the table below.
We work to create a more efficient, safe and agile Rio Tinto by managing Productivity and technical support 2,200 major technical risks, researching and developing We are continuing to focus on productivity new ways of operating, automating for safety and initiatives and we remain on track to deliver employees productivity, providing information technology $1.5billion a year in additional cash flow from systems and services, and partnering with our productivity improvements from 2021.
We formed sites to replicate industry-leading best practice.
three Centres of Excellence Processing, Surface Mining and Underground Mining to bring 1 2,000 Safety together our most critical technical capabilities.
contractors working in exploration We had a fatality-free year and our all-injury Tobetter support our technical people in building and construction 1 frequency rate of 0.19 improved by 42% compared their careers, we entered into a landmark with 2017.
This improvement reflects the time we partnership with AusIMM and created a technical have spent reinforcing our existing safety culture.
career pathway programme called RioExcel.
3 Projects Information Systems & Technology IS&T new Centres of Excellence Processing in Working with Iron Ore, this year in Australia we Technology has the power to change Rio Tinto.
This Montreal, Surface Mining in Perth and completed AutoHaul.
We also began a three-year year, our IS&T function continued to make us more Underground Mining in Brisbane with project to enhance the hydroelectric power supply resilient to cyber threats and began a digital around25 people ineach for the Kitimat aluminium smelter in British transformation journey to make us safer, betterColumbia.
The world-class underground copper connected and more productive.
We upgraded project at Oyu Tolgoi, in Mongolia, also critical infrastructure, built an integrated data progressed, including with the signing of the platform and made more of our applications mobile.
The detailed different commodities being explored for engineering design work and overall construction Top of the class in 16 countries is mostly on track, but more detailed geotechnical This year, we asked Deloitte to benchmark our information and difficult ground conditions have capital projects team.
Working with Oxford Global required a review of the mine design.
This, Projects and the Project Management Institute, combined with fit-out and commissioning they did a series of assessments, interviews, $2.3bn challenges with the main production shaft, is workshops and data analysis, to benchmark 21 ultimately expected to result in a further revised of our projects against more than 500 capital spent on capital projects in 2018 ramp-up schedule to sustainable first production projects from a range of industries, including beyond the nine-month delay indicated in those of five of our mining peers.
Detailed design work is underway We were ranked fourth for safety performance, to estimate the impact these issues will have on underscoring the focus we place on cost and schedule.
Our projects have a stronger cost performance with a median underrun of 10%, while our peers average was 0%.
Advanced stage exploration projects Our project schedule performance is 20% better than the industry average, with a Project Commodity Country Type Stage medianoverrun of just 1%.
Cape York Bauxite Australia Greenfield Project ofMerit Borborema Mineral Sands Brazil Greenfield Project ofMerit Sudi Mineral Sands Tanzania Greenfield Project ofMerit 2 FalCon Diamond Canada Greenfield Order of Magnitude Pilbara Iron ore Australia Brownfield Project ofMerit Grader West Industrial Mineral Canada Brownfield Project ofMerit 1 E xcludes Oyu Tolgoi operations and support functions Oyu Tolgoi Copper Mongolia Brownfield Project ofMerit that were transferred to Copper & Diamonds in 2018.
2 T his project was referred to as Stella in 2017.
Bingham Canyon Copper US Brownfield Project ofMerit Winu Copper Australia Greenfield Order of Magnitude Project of Merit Preliminary evaluation of orebody size, Kalindi Copper Zambia Greenfield Project ofMerit quality and potential.
Order of Magnitude judging whether an opportunity will Korgantas Copper Kazakhstan Greenfield Project ofMerit be economical to develop.
