Governance Executive Committee Day-to-day management of the business is delegated to the chief executive and through him to other members of the Executive Committee.
Executive Committee Responsible for the delivery of strategy, annual plans and commercial objectives.
Manages the financial and operational performance of the Group.
The following management committees support the Ore Reserves Steering Committee chief executive in the performance of his duties: Responsible for standards and control procedures in the ore reserves estimation and disclosure Investment Committee process.
Ensures that these are effective in meeting Reviews proposals on investments, acquisitions and internalobjectives and regulatory requirements.
Approves capital decisions within delegated authority limits, and otherwise recommends matters Disclosure Committee for approval to the board, where appropriate.
Oversees the identification of inside information and its public disclosure, including processes to ensure Risk Management Committee such disclosure is accurate and timely.
Oversees the management and mitigation of the principal risks that could materially impact the Groups Closure Committee business objectives and exceed its risk tolerances.
Oversees the process and controls designed to manage the material risks related to rehabilitation, closure and legacy operations.
Jean-Sbastien Jacques Jakob Stausholm Bold Baatar Alf Barrios Chief executive Chief financial officer Chief executive, Energy & Minerals Chief executive, Aluminium Bold has been the chief executive of our Alf became chief executive of Rio Tinto Energy & Minerals E&M product group Aluminium RTA in 2014.
Since then, RTA Executive Committee members since 2016.
Through the development of has seen significant improvement on new products and markets, a value-oversafety and strong financial performance The two executive directors, Jean-Sbastien Jacques volume approach for E&M, and the with industry-leading EBITDA margins, chief executive and Jakob Stausholm chief financial successful divestment of the coal and growth projects including the business, he has helped to drive the modernisation of the Kitimat smelter and officer, are members of the Executive Committee.
optimisation of Rio Tintos portfolio and construction of the Amrun bauxite mine.
Their biographies can be found on page 76. to generate significant shareholder value.
RTA continues to lead the industry on He has also refreshed the Groupsfocus sustainability, launching the first certified on Africa and driven the development of low CO aluminium, becoming the first 2 Rio Tinto Ventures, whichfocuses on company certified by the Aluminium assessing growth opportunities in the Stewardship Initiative for responsible minerals and metalsof the future.
production, and establishing Elysis, a partnership with Alcoa supported by Apple and the governments of Canada and Quebec, to further develop the worlds first carbon-free smelting technology.
com Governance Vera Kirikova Steve McIntosh Joanne Farrell Simone Niven Human Resources Group executive Growth & Innovation Group executive Health, Safety & Environment Group Corporate Relations Group executive executive Vera was appointed Group executive, Steve became chief executive of Simone was appointed Group executive, Joanne was appointed Group executive, Human Resources, in 2017.
She has led Growth& Innovation in 2016, following Corporate Relations, in 2016.
Simone has Health, Safety & Environment in July the development of a robust peoplemore than three decades of service played an important role indeveloping 2016.
She has driven projects aimed at strategy, aligned to our business withRioTinto.
As chief executive, our vision of partnership which improving the Groups hazard control strategy, and the delivery of an Stevehas successfully applied mitigates risk while delivering sustained frameworks while simplifying the award-winning leadership programme.
innovative, leading-edge technical value to our assets and society.
She also paperwork burden on frontline Since 2018, she has been responsible expertise to discover new ore deposits led the development ofintegrated market employees.
Joanne has also championed forour strategy for shaping a strong and develop them into assets including and regional country strategies which fitness-for-work initiatives and support workforce for Rio Tintos future: this our Amrun bauxite mine in Queensland.
align both with business and Group for mental wellbeing.
As managing includes the development of a technical He is also leading our efforts to digitise priorities.
In 2018, Simone led the director, Australia, she has helped drive career framework, a strong talent operations, including through artificial development of our new approach to our diversity and inclusion agenda and pipeline, and a new Group-wide approach intelligence and data analysis.
In 2018, environmental, social and governance secure our White Ribbon accreditation, to performance.
She has also been he led RioTintos groundbreaking White performance, which was launched in which recognises workplaces taking overseeing the implementation ofthe Ribbon accreditation initiative, which October 2018 with the boards ESG active steps to stop violence against Groups new operating model, which supports employees who are victims of Investor Seminar.
Joanne draws on more than 35 is designed to increase collaboration family or domestic violence.
years experience of the mining industry.
Philip Richards Chris Salisbury Arnaud Soirat Simon Trott Group General Counsel Chief executive, Iron Ore Chief executive, Copper & Diamonds Chief commercial officer Philip was appointed Group General Chris has been chief executive of our Iron Arnaud was appointed chief executive Simon was appointed chief commercial Counsel in April 2017 after taking on the Ore product group since 2016.
Over this ofour Copper & Diamonds C&D officer in 2017 in order to establish and role from December 2016 on secondment time, Iron Ore has consistently delivered productgroup in 2016.
Under Arnauds lead our Commercial group.
Alongside leading our strong operational and cost performance.
leadership, C&D has progressed its works with our product groups to grow legal teams around the world, Philip It has also led in innovation: including the growth projects and focused on value across customer and supplier oversees a range of governance functions development ofthe worlds largest robot operational excellence, productivity chains.
To establish Commercial, Simon including the Company Secretariat, a driverless train up to 2.4 km long and improvement and cost reduction, managed the integration of sales and Ethics & Integrity, and Technical developing plans for the construction of deploying lean manufacturing to help marketing, marine and logistics, Evaluation Group.
His work to reinforce Koodaideri, the worlds first intelligent achieve them.
The resulting strong value andprocurement activities into one governance includes overseeing the mine.
At the same time, Chris has creation has enabled the business to organisation.
This included linking formation of a specialist legal team to focused on reskilling, retraining and self-finance its growth and stay Commercial activities in the Singapore support our expanding Commercial reshaping theIron Ore workforce to be free-cash-flow positive.
The payment of hub with new consolidated satellite group, the transformation of the Groups ready for the future, and made improving strong dividends from Escondida and the offices in Chicago and Frankfurt, and risk function, and the creation of an safety andwellbeing across Iron Ore a sale ofour participation in Grasberg other Commercial offices globally, and integrated assurance office to coordinate personal and business priority.
both non-managed assets have also building a team focused on growing all our second line assurance activity.
created substantial value for our valuethrough capability building, shareholders.
digitalising key processes, and step-outcommercial activities.
Executive Committee Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
