Strategic report | Business model and strategy Our strategy in action This year, we brought Partners Sourcing locally in Australia our strategy to life in Real partnership means creating mutual and sustainable benefit, and we are doing this in many ways, across avariety of ways.
One example is Kulbardi, a Perth-based Indigenous business that provides workplace supplies for our Western Australia all our businesses.
Another is Pindari, an Indigenousowned labour-hire company supplying workers for our Pilbara mines approximately 30% of the Pindari workforce is Indigenous.
And this Portfolio Performance year, the first Indigenous-owned and operated mine in Australia, Gulkula, began producing bauxite in Australias Northern Territory.
We Reshaping our portfolio Focusing on safety buy from Gulkula and sell its bauxite both in This year, we divested several assets.
The sales We track safety performance to identify patterns Australia and internationally.
To help people in of our interests in the Hail Creek and Kestrel to help prevent incidents for example, by being the area build careers in mining, we have also coal mines and the Valeria and Winchester extra vigilant at particular times of the day when invested A$2.4 million in the Gulkula Mine South coal development projects in Australia we know incidents are more likely.
This year, Training Centre, which provides industryrealised $4.15 billion in pre-tax proceeds and ourdata analysis team began looking beyond related training.
helped to position us for the transition to a traditional safety metrics bringing factors like low-carbon economy.
In November, we weather and workers accommodation into the announced the sale of our interest in Rssing picture to identify leading indicators of injuries, Uranium in Namibia.
And in December, we incidents and fatalities.
We are factoring our $82m completed the sale of our investment in the learnings into revised safety practices in key invested in vocational training Grasberg copper mine in Indonesia for total parts of ourbusiness.
We also completed the sale of our aluminium smelter in Dunkerque, Data as an asset Made in Mongolia France for headline proceeds of$500 million.
Every day our automated drills, trucks, Oyu Tolgoi is making a significant shovels, conveyors, trains and ships produce contributiontothe national and local economies huge amounts of valuable data.
Alongside a workforcethat is $4.15bn morethan 4,000 vehicles across our 60 global approximately 93% Mongolian, we are partnering in pre-tax proceeds from the operations, 24 hours a day.
Each of our haul with local businesses: more than half of our saleofourcoalassets trucks has more than 45 electronic tags procurementspend goes to Mongoliansuppliers.
sending data every few seconds, giving us more than 30 million geopositions every We also invest in local education: to date, Investing in our business single day.
Our Mine Automation System, in $82million has helped build vocational In March, we delivered the first ore from the place at98% of our operations, uses artificial training centres in five Mongolian towns and newfourth pipe at our Diavik diamond mine in intelligence and machine learning to turn cities, supporting the training of vocational Canada, following an investment of $350 million.
thisdata into real-time operational insights.
teachers and university scholarships for young Mongolians.
We have also found innovative In November, we approved the development Data from our autonomous drills makes our ways to support local communities.
Through ofthe $2.6 billion Koodaideri iron ore project orebody modelling more accurate.
Data from our partnership in the Sustainable Cashmere inthe Pilbara.
Koodaideri will be our first trucks allows us to optimise their speed and Project, we are helping to re-engineer the intelligent mine, with fully integrated reduce queuing small improvements in supply chain of high-quality cashmere to autonomous drills, trucks and rail networks, efficiency that produce a significant gain protect and enhance the livelihoods of underlining our industry-leading position.
And inDecember, we made our first shipment fromthe Amrun bauxite mine in Queensland 4,000 Australia, six weeks ahead of schedule.
vehicles tracked 24hours a day 18 Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com Strategic report You can see more examples of our strategy Divider pages Business review pages in action at the start of each section of the See page 3, 75, 143, 267 and 289.
See pages 34-51. report and in the businessreviews.
The value we create We want to manage and grow Rio Tinto in ways that are safe, smart and benefit the world around us.
So we set clear standards both for ourselves and for the value we aim to deliver toour shareholders and stakeholders.
People Shareholders $13.5bn We are committed to delivering superior cash returns declared returns and aim to pay 40%-60% of our Supporting employees in need toshareholders underlying earnings in total cash returns.
The safety and wellbeing of our people is our toppriority.
In 2017, we took steps to eradicate Communities domestic violence with a package of initiatives $192m We create jobs for local communities and toprotect and support employees.
In 2018, in invested in communities paybillions in taxes and royalties.
We also Australia, this led to Rio Tinto being the first contribute to local economic and social mining company to receive White Ribbon development, the impact of which is often accreditation and recognition at the annual felteven after our operations have ended.
Australian Women in Resources National Awards.
We have extended the programme to Canada and the US, where employees in need can take up to Customers 2,000 ten days of paid extra leave, work flexible hours, We aim to better address customer needs customers served and receive financial aid and emergency andadjust our operations to meet market accommodation.
In 2019, we will be equipping demands.
As customer expectations evolve, leaders and HR teams to address family and we are also seeking to position more of our domestic violence issues, while rolling out products as responsibly sourced and similarprogrammes in other parts of the world.
Suppliers $12.3bn We look for the right balance of global, White Ribbon paid to suppliers national and local capability, working with accreditation achieved in Australia partners to drive innovation and create localsupply chains wherever we can.
Not business as usual Embracing technology and thinking differently, Employees 22.6% with new perspectives, is crucial to our We are committed to the safety, rights and of senior management continuedsuccess.
The Rio Tinto 4.0 Pioneer Lab, wellbeing of our 47,500 employees.
Our are women inBrisbane, will help us to tackle some of our aspiration is to create a culture that nurtures biggest challenges and opportunities.
This year, new ideas and higher performance.
we announced that six of our best and brightest people willcome from all over the world to work The environment together on breaking new frontiers from the 43% We are finding new ways to work more circular economy to syntheticmaterials.
GHG emissions since 2008 sustainably as a business to meet the challenges of a low-carbon future.
Our strategy in action Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
