Governance | Remuneration report Remuneration policy extracts Competitive remuneration linked to performance What this section contains andshareholdervalue creation Remuneration is linked to performance targets over both the short and This section sets out relevant extracts of our longterm, to ensure that executive rewards are aligned to the delivery both Remuneration Policy that provide context for of short-term priorities and long-term sustainable growth in shareholder value.
In order to assess the competitiveness of the packages we offer, we our 2018 Implementation Report.
For example, benchmark ourselves against other companies in the FTSE30 excluding during the year our chief financial officer financial services companies, which typically have similar global reach andcomplexity, and other international mining and natural resources retired, and we hired a new chief financial companies.
The outcomes of these benchmarking exercises form just part officer, so our policies for termination and of our consideration of the appropriate level of remuneration packages, but we would not expect either base salaries or the expected outcome of our recruitment are included in full.
shortand long-term incentive plans to deviate markedly from the median of these comparator groups.
The actual outcome will, of course, depend onbusiness and individual performance.
Further detail We take salary increases in the broader employee population into account Our full Remuneration Policy as approved at our 2018 in determining any change to the base pay of executives and regularly AGMs can be found at: consult with shareholders on the design of our shortand long-term incentive plans to ensure that they are aligned with shareholder interests riotinto.
We do not formally consult with our employees on the Remuneration Policy, but approximately 40 per cent of the workforce are Remuneration Policy introduction shareholders, through participation in our employee share plans and Our Remuneration Policy applies to our executive and non-executive therefore have the right to vote on the Remuneration Report.
Employees directors and to the chairman.
In accordance with Australian law, are also free to ask questions or express opinions through our normal it also sets out the broad policy principles that apply to members employee communications channels.
of the Executive Committee who are not directors.
Performance under the Short Term Incentive Plan STIP is measured over Shareholders should note that our Remuneration Policy is binding one year based on a balanced scorecard including safety, financial and only insofar as it relates to directors.
We recognise the importance of ensuring these targets are achieved in the right way, and aligned to the companys values.
Our remuneration policies, principles and practices Therefore in considering STIP outcomes, we also consider the extent to Our first priority is to spend remuneration resource wisely.
We want our which outcomes are in accordance with our values.
Fifty per cent of the STIP paypolicies to be regarded as fair by shareholders and employees alike.
for executives is delivered in deferred shares that vest after three years.
Although we believe that our Remuneration Policy is fit for purpose, the Committee retains the discretion to override unforeseen and inappropriate Performance for performance share awards PSA under the Long Term mechanistic outcomes.
Incentive Plan LTIP is measured over five years and awards are typically delivered in shares.
From 2018, performance is measured by reference to High-quality people, who are capable of managing and growing the the total shareholder return TSR of Rio Tinto relative to the EMIX Global business, are essential to generate superior returns for our shareholders.
Mining Index formerly the Euromoney Global Mining Index 50 per cent Rio Tinto operates in global and local markets where it competes for a and the MSCI World Index 50 per cent, reflecting the fact that the limited pool of talented executives and our compensation strategy is company competes for capital with both mining companies and other global therefore designed to attract and retain the people that we need.
IHS Markit purchased from Euromoney Indices all of its recognise that remuneration represents just one of the factors that benchmark index intellectual property assets and subsequently rebranded encourage the attraction and retention of talent.
We also seek to engage those indices as the EMIX Indices.
The relative EBIT margin improvement our employees over the long term, to foster diversity, and to provide measure has been removed following consultation with major shareholders challenging work and development opportunities.
Our people strategy is and feedback from employees, in order to achieve greater simplicity, underpinned by our commitment to safety and our other core values of transparency and alignment.
respect, integrity, excellence and teamwork.
A new Equity Incentive Plan EIP was approved by shareholders at the AGMs in 2018.
This allows both PSA and the deferred element of the STIPas described herein to be granted under a single plan with sufficient flexibility to reflect any future changes in the Groups Remuneration Policy.
Participants below the Executive Committee level will also participate in LTIP awards under the EIP.
Deferred dividends are accumulated under the EIP.
Options are no longer granted, but existing vested options may be exercisedup to ten years after their grant.
Our share ownership policy requires executives to build up and maintain a material shareholding inthecompany as described in the Implementation Report.
com Governance Executive remuneration structure policy table Further details on the key performance indicators KPIs used to assess The total remuneration package is designed to provide an appropriate Group performance are provided in the Strategic report.
balance between fixed and variable components, with an emphasis on long-term variable pay.
The remuneration structure for executives, Any commitment made before this Remuneration Policy takes effect or including the relationship between each element of remuneration and before an executive became or becomes a director will be honoured even Group performance, is summarised below.
Complementary remuneration ifit is not consistent with this or any subsequent Remuneration Policy.
structures are designed for other employees, drawing on these strategiesand policies.
Remuneration arrangements Fixed Link to Group performance and strategy Base salary Base salary provides the main fixed element of the remuneration package.
We pay competitive salaries to Base salaries are reviewed annually, with a maximum individual increase of nine per cent, hire, motivate and retain highly orinflationif higher, per annum.
An individual increase may be higher than this for executives competentpeople.
whoare not directors in the circumstances described below.
Any increase is generally aligned with the average base salary increases applying to the broaderemployee population unless there were significant changes to an individuals role and or responsibilities during the year.
Any increases are determined with reference to underlying Groupand individual performance, global economic conditions, role responsibilities, an assessmentagainst relevant comparator groups and internal relativities.
An increase above the maximum noted above for executives who are not directors may be made inthe event of internal promotion or increase in responsibility or where the executives base salary issignificantly below market positioning.
Benchmarking is undertaken periodically but not annually, and our intention is to apply judgment inevaluating market data.
Pension or superannuation Employment benefits typically include participation in a pension plan, superannuation fund, or a We provide locally competitive post cash allowance to contribute to a personal pension or superannuation fund, which are aligned employment benefits in a cost-efficient withthe arrangements for the broader workforce of the country of residence.
manner in order to hire and retain.
For appointments made from 1 June 2018, the maximum level of company contribution to an individual executive directors scheme annually is 25 per cent of base salary.
For appointments prior to 1 June 2018 the maximum was 35 per cent.
Other benefits Other benefits may include, but are not limited to, private healthcare cover for the executive We provide competitive other benefits andtheir dependants, company car or allowance, car parking, life insurance, accident insurance, in a cost-efficient manner in order to provision of company-provided transport chauffeur, professional advice, participation in local hireandretain.
flexible benefit programmes and certain other minor benefits including modest retirement gifts in applicable circumstances, occasional spouse travel in support of the business and any RioTinto business expenses which are deemed to be taxable and where the company has paid the tax on their behalf.
Secondment, relocation and localisation benefits for example, housing, tax equalisation, cost of living allowance, the payment of school fees, periodic visits home for the executive and their family and where relevant, localisation payments may also be made to and on behalf of executives living outside their home country.
Examples of these types of payments are set out inthe Implementation Report.
Other benefits are paid at cost and, given the nature and variety of the items, there is no formalmaximum level of company contribution.
Remuneration report | Remuneration policy extracts Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 107 Governance | Remuneration report Remuneration policy extracts continued Remuneration arrangements Performance-related At risk Link to Group performance and strategy Short-Term Incentive Plan STIP 25 per cent of maximum is awarded for threshold performance: 50 per cent for target: and 100 per STIP focuses participants on achieving cent for outstanding.
Between threshold and target, and between target and outstanding, the award demanding annual performance goals, is pro-rated on a straight line basis.
In the case of executive directors, the percentage award is whichare based on the Groups five multiplied by 1.2.
The maximum award is capped at 200 per cent of base salary for all executives.
Any priorities, in pursuit of the creation outcome from the formulaic STIP calculation is subject to the exercise of discretion by the Committee.
A scorecard based on the Groups five priorities is established for each executive at the We demand that sustainable business commencement of the financial year.
The measures and the relative weightings are selected by the practices are adhered to, particularly Committee in order to drive business performance for the current year, including the achievement in the context of safety.
of financial, safety and other individual business outcomes that are priorities for the financial year When reviewing the outcome of the awards in question.
At least 50 per cent of the measures will relate to financial performance and a under the STIP the Committee will, when significant component will relate to safety performance.
evaluating overall safety, financial, Group The measures, weightings and targets are reviewed annually and are included either prospectively andindividual performance, consider the or retrospectively each year in the Implementation Report.
The Committee retains flexibility to overall fairness against original determine the measures, weightings and targets as appropriate, based on the outcomes of expectationsand shareholder experience.
Any discretionary adjustments for directors We expect to disclose the measures, weightings and targets for safety goals at the beginning of will be disclosed in the Implementation each year.
In the area of financial and individual goals, we will, at the beginning of each year, Report for the financial period.
disclose the measures and weightings only, because we regard the targets as commercially We consider the individual performance of sensitive.
However, we intend to disclose these targets and outcomes retrospectively.
In the rare our executives against our values.
The way instances where this may not be prudent on grounds of commercial sensitivity, we will seek to we work outlines how we deliver both our explain why, and give an indication of when they will be disclosed.
It makes clear how Threshold, target and outstanding performance levels are established for all STIP measures to allemployees should behave, in accordance helpdrive high levels of business and individual performance.
with our values of safety, team work, respect, The central or base plan delivers what the board considers to be target performance.
performance is intended to be stretching.
Probability factors are then applied, based upon a range of potential operating and cost scenarios, to establish the threshold and outstanding performance levels.
These threshold below target, target, and outstanding above target levels are determined by the Committee at the beginning of each performance year.
In making its year-end determination of STIP awards, the Committee seeks to ensure that actual performance is directly comparable to the targets set at the beginning of the year.
This may result in adjustments to the targets or to the assessed results being made by the Committee in particular to take account of events outside managements control, to ensure a like-for-like comparison.
Both upward and downward adjustments can be made, with reference to principles agreed by the Committee, to ensure the outcomes are fair.
Safety KPIs comprise a significant portion of the STIP for executives, and any fatality will have a material impact on the STIP result for all executives.
Bonus Deferral Fifty per cent of the STIP is delivered in bonus deferred shares under the EIP with the remainder Bonus Deferral ensures ongoing alignment of the STIP delivered in cash with no deferral.
Prior to 2018, bonus deferred share awards were between executives and shareholders made under the Bonus Deferral Plan BDP.
through deferral of 50 per cent of STIP The bonus deferred shares vest in the December of the third year after the end of the STIP awards into Rio Tinto shares.
performance year to which it relates.
The number of shares that vest is increased by reference to the dividends paid in the deferralperiod.
Bonus deferred shares vest on a change of control.
Given the mandatory nature of the deferral and the absence of performance conditions, bonus deferred shares are treated as owned from the award date for the purposes of calculating an executives shareholding level.
Malus, claw-back and suspension provisions that apply are set out later in the RemunerationPolicy.
com Governance Remuneration arrangements Performance-related At risk Link to Group performance and strategy Performance Share Awards PSA under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP PSA granted under the EIP will be conditional share awards that vest subject to the achievement PSA are designed to provide a simple and of stretching performance conditions, comparing Rio Tintos TSR relative to the EMIX Global transparent mechanism for aligning Mining Index 50 per cent and to the MSCI World Index 50 per cent.
executive reward with the execution of an Full vesting is only achieved if Rio Tintos relative TSR significantly outperforms the TSR effective business strategy that delivers of both indices.
The outperformance required for full vesting is considered by the Committee superior long-term shareholder returns.
The TSR measure excludes stock repurchases on the basis that these would Award levels are set to incentivise be reflected via our share price.
long-term performance and to contribute The current level of outperformance required for full vesting is 6 per cent per annum over five towards the competitiveness of the overall years.
However, for each award the Committee will determine the level of outperformance remuneration package.
required against the indices on a per annum basis or on a compounded basis over the five-year Relative TSR has been chosen as the most period, in order for the whole of the award to vest.
appropriate measure as it allows for an Each component of the award will be assessed independently.
Details of the TSR targets and objective external assessment over a vesting schedules for the year under review and for the following year will be set out in the sustained period on a basis that is Implementation Report each year.
Awards have a maximum face value of 438 per cent of base salary ignoring dividend equivalents How performance is generated is as as described below.
important as what level of performance is The awards have been calculated independently by our consultants Willis Towers Watson to have delivered.
Before vesting, the Committee an expected value of approximately 50 per cent of face value.
Expected value is face value will satisfy itself that relative TSR is an adjusted for the probability of the performance target being met.
appropriate measure of the underlying Threshold performance, as explained in the Implementation Report, would result in the vesting of performance of the business, and may 22.5 per cent of the face value of an award.
The maximum expected value of PSA is 219 per cent of base salary ie 438 per cent x 50 per cent.
The maximum threshold value is 98.6 per cent of base salary ie 438 per cent x 22.5 per cent.
Actual award levels may vary for each executive and are included in the Implementation Report.
If vesting is achieved, participants are entitled to receive a number of additional shares whose market value reflects the aggregate cash amount of dividends that would have been received had the shares which have vested at the end of the performance period been held throughout the performance period.
Where permitted by the plan rules, and where the Remuneration Committee so decides, awards may be made or satisfied in cash in lieu of shares.
Awards and performance conditions may be adjusted to take account of variations of capital and other transactions.
Subject to this Policy, performance conditions may also be amended in other circumstances if the Committee considers that a changed performance condition would be a fairer measure of performance.
If there is a change of control, awards will vest to the extent performance conditions are then satisfied.
Unless the Committee determines otherwise, if the change of control happens during thefirst 36 months from the date of grant of the award, the number of shares that can vest will be reduced pro rata to that 36-months period.
The Committee may, alternatively, with agreement ofan acquiring company, replace awards with equivalent new awards over shares in the acquiringcompany.
The Committee retains the discretion, where circumstances warrant, to amend performance conditions under the relevant plan rules.
The Committee will seek to ensure that outcomes are fairand that they take account of the overall performance of the company during the performanceperiod.
Malus, claw-back and suspension provisions that apply are set out later in the Remuneration Policy.
Notes to the policy table Committee will consider, on a discretionary basis, any specific, significant, The major change to the Remuneration Policy in 2018 is the removal of the unusual, below the line items eg impairments reported by Rio Tinto or its relative EBIT margin improvement measure from the PSA.
For PSA granted peers during the performance period to ensure genuine comparability when from 2013 until 2017 under the 2013 Performance Share Plan, conditional determining any level of vesting indicated by third-party data currently S&P share awards vest subject to the achievement of stretching performance Capital IQ.
The application of any such discretion will be disclosed.
conditions, comparing Rio Tintos performance against: One-third: TSR relative to the EMIX Global Mining Index: Long-term incentive awards made prior to 2018, which may vest should One-third: TSR relative to the MSCI World Index: and therelevant performance conditions be satisfied, are permitted under this One-third: improvement in EBIT margin relative to the global mining Policy.
Details of awards granted prior to 2018, which have yet to vest, comparators which will be listed in the Implementation Report each year.
including their respective performance conditions, are provided in the Implementation Report.
Each component of the award will be assessed independently.
With respect to the EBIT margin measure, in order to ensure that outcomes are fair and that business performance has been appropriately taken into account, the Remuneration report | Remuneration policy extracts Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 109 Governance | Remuneration report Remuneration policy extracts continued Malus, claw-back and suspension Recruitment remuneration Subject to approval by shareholders at the 2018 AGMs, malus, claw-back For both internal and external recruitment, we aim to position base and suspension provisions will apply to LTIP awards, including awards salaryat an appropriate level, taking into consideration a range of granted in connection with deferred bonuses under the EIP.
factorsincluding the executives current remuneration and experience, internal relativities, an assessment against the relevant comparator Under both the malus and claw-back provisions, where the Committee groupsand cost.
determines that an exceptional circumstance has occurred, the Committee may, at its discretion, reduce the number of shares to be received on Other elements of remuneration will be established in line with this vesting of an award, or, for a period of two years after the vesting of an Remuneration Policy.
award, the Committee can claw-back value from a participant.
In the case of internal appointments, existing commitments will The circumstances under which the Committee exercises such discretion behonoured.
may include, inter alia: any fraud or misconduct by a participant or an exceptional event which If the Committee concludes that it is necessary and appropriate to secure has had, or may have, a material effect on the value or reputation of any an appointment, relocation-related support and international mobility member of the Group excluding an exceptional event or events which benefits may be provided depending on the circumstances.
Any relocation have a material adverse effect on global macroeconomic conditions : arrangements will be set out in the Implementation Report.
an error in the Groups financial statements which requires a material downward restatement or is otherwise material or where information Any compensation provided to an executive recruited from outside has emerged since the award date which would have affected the size the Group for the forfeiture of awards under variable remuneration of award granted or vested: arrangements entered into with a previous employer is considered where the Committee determines that the personal performance of a separately to the establishment of forward-looking annual remuneration participant, of their product group or of the Group does not justify arrangements.
Our policy with respect to such buyouts is to determine vesting or where the participants conduct or performance has been in a reasonable level of award, on a like-for-like basis, consisting primarily of breach of their employment contract, any laws, rules or codes of conduct equity-based awards, but also potentially cash or restricted stock, taking applicable to them or the standards reasonably expected of a person in into consideration the quantum of forfeited awards, their performance their position: conditions and vesting schedules.
The Committee will obtain an the performance of the company, business or undertaking in which a independent external assessment of the value of awards proposed to participant worked or works or for which he or she was or is directly or be bought out and retains discretion, subject to the considerations noted indirectly responsible is found to have been misstated or based upon any above, to make such compensation as it deems necessary and appropriate material misrepresentation and which resulted in the award being to secure the relevant executives employment.
The Committees intention granted and or vesting over a greater number of shares than would is that buy-out compensation should include, where appropriate, otherwise have been the case: performance conditions and an equivalent deferral period.
where any team, business area, member of the Group or profit centre in which the participant works or worked has been found guilty in No form of golden hello will be provided upon recruitment.
connection with any regulatory investigation or has been in breach of any laws, rules or codes of conduct applicable to it or the standards Executives service contracts and termination reasonably expected of it: or Under normal circumstances, executive directors will be offered service a catastrophic safety or environmental event or events occurring in contracts which can be terminated by either party with up to 12 months any part of the Rio Tinto Group.
notice in writing, or immediately by paying the base salary only in lieu of any unexpired notice.
In exceptional circumstances, an initial notice period Under the suspension provisions, the Committee may suspend the vesting of up to 24 months during the first two years of employment, reducing to of an award for up to five years until the outcome of any internal or up to 12 months thereafter, may be necessary to secure an external external investigation is concluded and may then reduce or lapse the appointment.
In some circumstances, it may also be appropriate to use participants award based on the outcome of that investigation.
Note that fixed-term contracts for executive directors.
For new appointments, if the where suspension applies, the 24-month claw-back period will not extend company terminates by making a payment in lieu of notice, the Committee beyond the period commencing from the original vesting date.
will for executive directors to the extent permitted by relevant law have regard to the executive directors ability to mitigate his or her loss in assessing the payment to be made.
com Governance The letters of appointment are available for inspection at Rio Tinto plcs Treatment of STIP and LTIP on termination registered office, and at its AGM.
The STIP and LTIP rules govern the entitlements that executive participants may have under those plans upon termination of employment.
Other executives are offered service contracts which can be terminated by the company with up to 12-months notice in writing, and by the employee The concept of an eligible leaver is defined in the relevant plan rules.
with six-months notice in writing, or immediately by the company by In general terms, an eligible leaver is an executive who leaves the Group paying the base salary only in lieu of any unexpired notice.
For the chief by reason of ill-health, injury, disability as determined by the executives executive and for executives appointed from 1 January 2018, notice may employer : retirement: redundancy: transfer of the undertaking in which the be paid progressively in instalments over the notice period.
executive works: change of control of the executives employing company: or death.
Usually there is discretion for the Committee to treat an executive The current contract terms of both directors and the other executives are as an eligible leaver.
included in the Implementation Report.
STIP Executives may be required to undertake garden leave during all or part If an eligible leaver leaves the Group during a performance year, the of their notice period and may receive their base salary, STIP and other Committee may determine in its absolute discretion to award a pro rata benefits during the notice period or the cash equivalent.
Where applicable, portion of the STIP based on the amount of the year served and based on tax equalisation and other expatriate benefits will continue in accordance actual assessment of performance against targets.
Any cash payment will with the executives prevailing terms and conditions.
be made at the normal STIP payment date and no portion of the award will be deferred into shares.
In the case of dismissal for cause, the company can terminate employment without notice and without payment of any salary or compensation in lieu If an executive provides the company notice of their resignation during the of notice.
Outstanding awards under any of the Groups long-term incentive performance year, but does not leave the Group until after the end of the plans may be forfeited in these circumstances.
performance year, the Committee may determine in its absolute discretion to make an award under the STIP.
In these circumstances, the executive will Accrued but untaken annual leave and any long service leave will be paid only be eligible to receive the cash portion of the award and will forfeit the out on termination, in accordance with the relevant country legislation deferred shares portion.
Any cash payment will be made at the normal and applicable practice applying to all employees.
For eligible leavers as STIP payment date.
defined below in Australia, the value of the leave is calculated on the basis of base salary, target STIP and car allowance.
No STIP is included where the No STIP award will be made where an executive who is not an eligible leaver executive is not an eligible leaver.
leaves the Group, resigns or is terminated for cause prior to the end of the performance year.
If termination is a result of redundancy, the terms of the relevant local policy will apply in the same way as for other local employees.
Bonus deferred shares under the EIP and grants under the BDP 2013-2017 On termination, the company will pay relocation or expatriation benefits For grants made to executives, awards will normally vest on the scheduled as agreed at the time of the original expatriation and or in accordance with vesting date.
There will be no pro rata reduction of awards and any dividend applicable policies on travel and relocation.
equivalent shares will be calculated on the vested shares.
On termination other than for cause, the company may make a payment in If the executive resigns or is dismissed for misconduct, or for any other consideration for entry by the departing executive director into appropriate reason that the Committee decides, the awards will lapse.
restrictive covenants to protect Rio Tinto and its shareholders.
The amount of such payment will be determined by the Committee based on the Performance Share Awards under the EIP and Performance content and duration of the covenant.
SharePlan 2013-2017 For grants made to executives from and including 2013, awards will normally Following termination, executive directors may be eligible to receive be retained, and vest at the scheduled vesting date.
Unvested awards remain long-term incentive awards under the conditions described in the sections subject to the satisfaction of the performance conditions.
They and their dependants may also be eligible for postequivalent shares will be calculated on the vested shares atvesting.
retirement benefits such as medical and life insurance.
The company may also agree to continue certain other benefits for a period following If the executive leaves the Group during the first 36 months from the date of termination where the arrangements are provided under term contracts or grant of the award, the number of shares that can vest will be reduced pro in accordance with the terms of the service contract, for example, payment rata over that 36-month period.
for financial advice, tax advice and preparation of tax returns for a tax year.
In some cases, they may receive a modest retirement gift.
Awards will vest immediately on death, but if an executive dies during the first 36 months from the date of grant of the award, the number of shares Subject to the approval of the Committee the company may pay such that vest will be reduced pro rata over that 36-month period.
amount as it determines is reasonable to settle any claims that an executive director may have in connection with the termination of his or If the executive resigns or is dismissed for misconduct, or for any other her employment.
The company may also pay reasonable legal and other reason that the Committee decides, the awards will lapse.
professional fees including outplacement support to or in respect of a director in connection with the termination of his or her employment.
These Where permitted by the plan rules, and where the Remuneration Committee may include legal fees incurred in negotiating a settlement agreement with so decides, awards may be made or satisfied in cash in lieuofshares.
In assessing what is reasonable, the company will take account of prevailing rates for such advice and support and determine an appropriate level of contribution based on the complexity of the issues.
com 111 Governance | Remuneration report Remuneration policy extracts continued Management Share Awards under the EIP and grants under the Non-executive directors Management Share Plan MSP prior to 2018 Fees paid to non-executive directors reflect their respective duties and Awards are only made to executives prior to their appointment as an responsibilities and the time required to be spent by them so as to make Executive Committee member, except under the circumstances described ameaningful and effective contribution to the affairs of Rio Tinto.
in the Recruitment remuneration section above.
All retained awards will be reduced pro rata to reflect the proportion of the period between the date The non-executive directors fees and other terms are set by the board of grant of the award and the normal vesting date which has not elapsed at upon the recommendation of the Chairmans Committee which comprises the time employment ceased.
Any dividend equivalent shares will be the chairman, chief executive and chief financial officer.
calculated on the vested shares.
Awards vest on death, subject to the pro rata reduction described above, unless the Committee decides otherwise.
Non-executive directors receive a fixed annual fee comprising a base fee, committee membership or committee chairmanship fee or senior For grants made to executives, awards will normally be retained, and vest, independent director fee, as applicable, and allowances for attending at the Committees discretion, at the scheduled vesting date although meetings which involve medium or long-distance air travel.
They do awards for US taxpayers may vest on leaving.
notparticipate in any of the Groups incentive plans.
If the executive resigns or is dismissed for misconduct, or for any other Where the payment of statutory minimum superannuation contributions reason that the Committee decides, the awards will lapse.
forAustralian non-executive directors is required by Australian superannuation law, these contributions are deducted from the All employee share plans directorsoverall fee entitlements.
For grants made to executives, awards will normally vest on or shortly after leaving.
There will be no pro rata reduction of awards and any dividend Non-executive directors may on occasion receive reimbursement for costs equivalent shares will be calculated on the vested shares.
incurred in relation to the provision of professional advice.
These payments, if made, are taxable benefits to the non-executive directors and the tax If the executive resigns or is dismissed for misconduct, or for any other arising is paid by the company on the directors behalf.
reason that the Committee decides, the awards will lapse.
Other benefits provided include accident insurance note this is neither Chairman and non-executive directors remuneration contractual nor a taxable benefit, other minor benefits including modest Chairman retirement gifts in applicable circumstances, occasional spouse travel in It is Rio Tintos policy that the chairman should be remunerated on a support of the business and any Rio Tinto business expenses which are competitive basis and at a level which reflects his or her contribution deemed to be taxable where the company has paid the tax on their behalf.
to the Group, as assessed by the board.
Rio Tinto does not pay retirement or post-employment benefits to non-executive directors.
The Committee excluding the chairman, if he or she is a member determines the terms of service and remuneration of the chairman.
The chairmans fees are set by the Committee.
The chairman receives a fixed annual fee and does not receive any additional fee or allowance either for committee membership or chairmanship, or for travel.
The chairman does not participate in the Groups incentive plans.
The chairman may be provided with a car and driver.
Any use for transport between home and the office and other personal travel is a taxable benefit to the chairman, and the company pays any tax arising on the chairmans behalf.
The chairman pays a fixed annual fee to the company for the personal travel element.
Relocation and localisation benefits in accordance with the policy for executive directors for example, housing, tax equalisation, cost of living allowance, the payment of school fees, periodic visits home for the executive and their family and where relevant, localisation payments may be made to and on behalf of a chairman working outside their home country.
Any instances of these types of payments will be set out in the Implementation Report.
Other benefits include private healthcare cover, accident insurance note this is neither contractual nor a taxable benefit, other minor benefits including modest retirement gifts in applicable circumstances, occasional spouse travel in support of the business and any Rio Tinto business-related expenses which are deemed to be taxable where the company has paid the tax on his or her behalf.
Rio Tinto does not pay retirement or postemployment benefits to the chairman.
