Strategic report | Market context Strategic realities Six themes, arising fromglobal megatrends, thatshape the strategic landscapeof our industry.
Productivity China Resilience breakthrough New Era premium Productivity declined during the Chinese China represents more than 55% of industry While the global economy has been steadily economic boom 2003-13, when both demand demand.
Chinese companies are among our expanding since mid 2016, certain tension points and prices for mined materials werehigh.
key customers and important joint-venture may create geopolitical pressures, protectionism, However, todays relatively low commodity partners, suppliers and competitors.
battles over technology leadership and, in places, price environment, combined withdisruptive elevated debt levels.
technologies, has created market fundamentals China will be a driving force of the industry in which productivity is back in focus.
Digital foryears to come, but with the New Era Mining is a cyclical industry, typically enablers automation, intelligent mining, President Xi Jinpings midto long-term experiencing larger swings in demand compared artificial intelligence willbe a key feature strategy for the country the nature of its with underlying changes in GDP.
The ability of this next step-change inproductivity.
growth and ambition is changing.
We see a tosucceed throughout the commodity cycle stronger focus on industrial and technological resilience is therefore critical to the way we As competition for world-class assets leadership, more stringent environmental runour business.
Two key drivers ensure our increases, the effective use of technology will policies and greater global aspirations, ownresilience:balance sheet strength and be a differentiating factor among competitors including those defined through the aportfolio ofworld-class assets.
This will push the industry Belt andRoad Initiative.
totreat data as a valuable asset and will shift The mining sector as a whole has now traditional supplier relationships towards more Certain elements will have an immediate significantly reduced debt levels.
Deployment dynamic and richer partnerecosystems.
impact on our industry: the restructuring of ofcapital towards smart growth is again being state-owned enterprises, Chinese customers considered.
Disciplined capital allocation Our mine-to-market agenda, which includes shift towards higher-quality products such as remainsa strategic priority for Rio Tinto, and allaspects of productivity, is driving this step our premium iron ore product, Pilbara Blend, thesanctioning of expenditure for new growth change, as is our investment in advanced the emergence of Chinese companies as key projects is always weighed against the return technologies like AutoHaul and our suppliers and as stronger overseas competition.
We have adapted and strengthened our With regard to the strength of our balance sheet, relationship with China.
In 2018, we signed we reduced our debt ahead of the sector in the ajoint-venture agreement with Minmetals last cycle, resulting in a less volatile share price andare deepening our relationship with the performance compared with our peers between We are on track to deliver State-Owned Assets Supervision and mid 2014 and late 2017.
This year, we reduced Administration Commission SASAC, which netdebt by $4.1 billion.
$1.5bn supervises and manages Chinese state-owned assets.
We also strengthened our partnership Our world-class assets are positioned in the in additional free cash with Tsinghua University: a Joint Research lower part of the industry cost curve.
They are flow from productivity Centre that brings together experts from therefore better able to provide attractive and China and other countries to study, generate less volatile margins throughout the cycle, improvements each year and share ideas and best practices on ascosts increase and or prices decrease.
continually evaluate each of our assets against the attractiveness of each commoditys industry structure as well their competitive positions, including expandability and partner-to-operate risks.
Over the past three years, we have significantly reshaped our portfolio, realising $12billion in sales proceeds, pre-tax.
com Strategic report Supply Business Climate gaps topeople change While commodity demand has outpaced GDP Mining companies work with a complex and Climate change presents a significant challenge growth on average since 2000, we expect interconnected range of stakeholders, from for the world, and for Rio Tinto.
Initiatives such future global GDP growth to be less national governments to global NGOs to local as the Task Force on Climate-related Financial commodity-intensive.
We expect South and community groups, all of which can have Disclosures TCFD encourage more transparency South East Asian economic development to shifting, and at times conflicting, expectations.
on climate-related risks and opportunities aligned contribute to continued growth in commodity Our own expectations can also at times with objectives of the Paris Agreement, such as our demand, and for this to be partly offset by conflict with those of our stakeholders.
For resilience to a 2C warming scenario.
Chinas maturing economy and increased example, there is a natural tension between useof scrap.
mining companies need for stable, predictable We believe that climate change has the potential legal, fiscal and regulatory frameworks and to shape our sector and business profoundly For individual commodities, including those host governments desire to maximise revenue overthe medium and in particular, long term.
weproduce, this translates to more limited from their non-renewable resources.
In some OurTCFD report is available on our website supplygaps.
jurisdictions, this can result in significant risks atriotinto.
The global iron ore industry is shifting from to the business.
volume growth to a focus on quality.
This Our response begins with understanding our has positive implications for our higherOur approach is defined through our partnercarbon footprint and options for managing it.
to-operate strategy, which focuses on Ourproducts have a role to play in the move to Capital-intensive aluminium production collaborating to enable wider benefits where a low-carbon economy, and today, we are the only sees Chinese producers currently at an we operate, and is designed for what is called major mining company that does not produce coal.
advantage to supply the market with the Business to people era.
Our higher-quality iron ore is more carbonlower-cost options.
However, environmental efficient, and has to travel a relatively short policy pressures may create opportunities This new era demands clear, transparent and distance to market.
Aluminium is increasingly for our more sustainable metal, as our honest communication.
With the rise of social in demand for its lightweight properties and Canadian aluminium assets are all powered media in particular, everyone has a global recyclability, and our assets in Canada are by clean, renewable hydropower.
platform, and is empowered to use it.
At powered by clean, renewable hydropower.
Gaps in the supply of copper and other companies like ours, employees need for a And copper is a key part of electrification, commodities nickel, lithium and cobalt sense of purpose, generational shifts, and the including, for example, in electricvehicles.
needed for energy storage may be harder impact of digitalisation and automation all We have published our to fill, since growth projects may be more create challenges and opportunities.
Producing difficult to bring into production and more materials essential to human progress and first TCFD report competitive to secure.
doing this responsibly helps us to meet these evolving expectations.
com TCFD2018 Market context | Strategic realities Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
