Governance Compliance with governance codes and standards This section sets out our compliance with the applicable governance UK Code codes and standards.
As our shares are listed on both the Australian A.
Leadership and London Securities Stock Exchanges, we set out how we have A.
1 The role of the board complied with the codes and standards governing those bodies Our board provides effective leadership and is collectively responsible for on the following pages: thestewardship and long-term success of the Group.
The board provides London Stock Exchange UK Corporate Governance Code entrepreneurial leadership, within a framework of prudent and effective 2016 version the Code, see pages 97 and 98. controls that enable risk to be assessed and managed.
The formal schedule Australian Securities Exchange ASX Corporate Governance ofmatters reserved for the boards decision, available on our website, covers Councils Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations areas including: setting the Groups purpose and strategic vision: monitoring 3rd edition the ASX Principles, see pages 99 and 100. performance of the delivery of the approved strategy: approving major investments, acquisitions and divestments: the oversight of risk and the setting In addition, as explained within the Chairmans governance review, of the Groups risk appetite: and reviewing the Groups governance framework.
as a foreign private issuer FPI with American Depository Receipts Through our The way we work framework, the board sets the companys values, ADRs listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, we need to and standards for the Groups employees.
For further information on the report any significant corporate governance differences from the delegation of business to management please refer to pages 78 and 79.
2 Division of responsibilities The UK Code Provision with which the Group did not comply during 2018 There is a clear division of responsibilities between the chairman and the was Provision E. 2.4.
The Notice of AGM and related papers were sent to chief executive, to ensure that no individual has unfettered powers of shareholders 17 working days before the meeting instead of 20 days.
Written roles and responsibilities, which are available on our was due to technical difficulties in producing the 2017 Annual report to website, explain this division.
comply with new reporting requirements.
3 The chairman Statement of compliance with the Code and ASX Principles The chairman is responsible for the leadership and overall effectiveness of Throughout 2018 and as at the date of this report, the Group has applied the board.
He was independent on the date of his appointment in March the Principles of the Code and the ASX Principles.
He recognises the importance of creating a boardroom culture which at www.
uk, and the ASX Principles at www.
For the encourages openness and debate and ensures constructive relations purposes of ASX Listing Rule 4.10.3 and the ASX Principles, pages 76 between executive and non-executive directors.
This is reflected in his role to 100 of this report form our Corporate Governance Statement.
He ensures that the directors receive accurate, timely and clear statement is current as at 27 February 2019, unless otherwise indicated, information, and that shareholder communications are effective.
and has been approved by the board.
Corporate governance documents and policies referenced can be found at riotinto.
4 Non-executive directors The non-executive directors NEDs constructively challenge and help develop Difference from NYSE listing standards proposals on strategy.
They are also responsible for scrutinising management We have reviewed the NYSE Standards and consider that our practices performance and ensuring that financial information, risks and controls, and are broadly consistent with them, with the following exceptions where the systems of risk management are robust.
The board ensures, through the literal requirements of the NYSE Standards are not met due to differences Nominations Committee, that the board composition and succession plans are in corporate governance between the US, UK and Australia: robust.
The Remuneration Committee ensures that appropriate remuneration The NYSE Standards state that companies must have a nominating structures are in place.
Ann Godbehere, the senior independent director, corporate governance committee composed entirely of independent provides a sounding board for the chairman and serves as intermediary for directors which, in addition to identifying individuals qualified to become other directors when necessary.
The chairman and NEDs typically meet at the board members, develops and recommends to the board a set of start or end of each board meeting without the executive directors, creating an corporate governance principles applicable to the company.
Our opportunity for NEDs to raise any issues in the private session.
Nominations Committee comprises the chairman and independent non-executive directors, information about which is set out on pages 88 B.
This Committee does not develop corporate governance principles B.
1 The composition of the board for the boards approval.
The board itself develops such principles.
In total, the board comprises 11 board members: eight independent NEDs, Under US securities law and the NYSE Standards, the company is required the chairman, the chief executive and the chief financial officer.
This is to have an audit committee that is directly responsible for the appointment, considered to be an appropriate size for the business, and to provide the compensation, retention and oversight of the work of external auditors.
right balance of executive and non-executive directors.
The board remains While our Audit Committee makes recommendations to the board on these satisfied that it has the appropriate balance of skills, experience, matters, and is subject to legal and regulatory requirements on oversight of independence, and knowledge of the company to enable its members to audit tenders, the ultimate responsibility for the compensation of the discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively, and that no external auditors and the appointment of the external auditors of Rio Tinto individual or group can dominate the boards decision-making.
Only the rests with the shareholders.
chairman and committee members have the right to attend the meetings of the Nominations, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Attendance by all other individuals is by invitation only.
The Nominations Committee assesses the independence of each NED, using an independence framework which takes into account the requirements of the Code, the ASX Principles and the NYSE Standards.
The Committee reviews and approves that framework each year.
In line with the framework, all non-executive directors were considered independent in judgment and character when appointed to the board, and continued to be independent in 2018.
A particularly rigorous independence review was conducted for Ann Godbehere as she has served on the board for more than six years.
The review concluded she continues to demonstrate independence.
Ann will stand down from the board at the 2019 AGMs.
Compliance with governance codes and standards Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 97 Governance Compliance with governance codes and standards continued B.
2 Appointments to the board C. Accountability The Nominations Committee ensures a formal, rigorous and transparent C. 1 Financial and business reporting procedure for the appointment of new directors and is responsible for board The board is responsible for the presentation of a fair, balanced and succession planning, regularly assessing the balance of skills, experience, understandable assessment of the companys position and prospects, diversity and capacity required to oversee the delivery of Rio Tintos notonly in the Annual report, but in all publicly available financial and strategy.
It also reviews proposals for appointments to the Executive operating reviews and reports.
We have a robust process in place including Committee, and monitors executive succession planning.
In 2018, we through the Disclosure Committee, to ensure that this is the case: please appointed Jakob Stausholm, Moya Greene and Simon McKeon to the board.
refer to pages 140 to 141 of this Annual report for further detail.
For further details on their appointments please refer to pages 89.
C. 2 Risk management and internal control B.
3 Commitment The board is ultimately responsible for our risk management and internal Each non-executive directors letter of appointment available for inspection controls, and for ensuring that the systems in place are robust and take at the AGM outlines the commitments expected of them throughout the intoaccount the principal risks faced by the company.
Each director has undertaken to allocate sufficient time to the Group in certain matters to the Audit Committee, and the Audit Committee provides order to discharge their responsibilities effectively, and this is kept under updates to the board on matters discussed at each meeting.
Please refer review by the Nominations Committee.
Executive directors are prohibited topages 93 and 94 of this Annual report for further detail.
from taking more than one non-executive directorship in a FTSE100 company, or the chairmanship of such a company.
Simon Thompsons other C. 3 Audit Committee and auditor appointments are listed on page 76.
These have not changed since his We have formal and transparent arrangements in relation to corporate appointment as chairman.
reporting, risk management and internal controls.
The Audit Committees terms of reference set out its responsibility for overseeing risk management B.
4 Development and internal controls including internal control over financial reporting.
On joining Rio Tinto, all non-executive directors take part in a full, formal These terms of reference will be reviewed in the light of the 2018 UK induction programme which is tailored to their specific requirements.
The Audit Committee conducted an audit members can also participate in training and development opportunities tender in the second quarter of 2018 which resulted in the decision to throughout the year, including visits to Rio Tinto operations.
These visits appoint a new external auditor, KPMG, for the 2020 year end.
Please provide an opportunity to meet employees and other key stakeholders, and refertopage 93 of this Annual report for further detail.
to develop a deeper understanding of the challenges and opportunities at operational sites and in the business areas more generally.
The chairman D. Remuneration holds annual appraisal meetings with all directors to review their performance, D. 1 The level and components of remuneration and training and development needs are discussed with the directors.
Our Remuneration Policy is designed to help drive a performance culture which incentivises executives to deliver the Groups long-term strategy and B.
5 Information and support create superior shareholder value over the short, medium and long term.
Board papers are circulated at least five days before each meeting to ensure The Remuneration Committee uses the FTSE30 as its initial comparator directors have appropriate time to review them, and to seek clarification group for assessing appropriate levels of remuneration for executives.
The quality of papers is kept under review, and some also references comparable companies, such as international industrial areas for improvement in board presentations were identified in the most organisations and other international mining companies, and is mindful of recent board effectiveness review.
The chairman reviews the board agenda pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
Base salaries are with the chief executive, chief financial officer and Group company typically aimed at the median position of these comparator groups to avoid secretary before each meeting to ensure the directors receive clear and the risk of an upward ratchet in remuneration levels.
The Group company secretary is the trusted interlocutor within the board and its committees, and between senior D. 2 Procedure management and the non-executive directors.
He is responsible for We have a formal and transparent procedure for developing the advising the board, through the chairman, on all governance matters.
Remuneration Policy, and no director is involved in deciding their own remuneration.
For further information, please refer to the Directors B.
6 Evaluation remuneration report on pages 101 to 136 of this Annual report.
An internal board and board Committee effectiveness evaluation is carried out each year.
The evaluation considers but is not limited to : the balance E. Relations with shareholders of board members skills and experience: independence: diversity: the E. 1 Dialogue with shareholders running of the board: and directors knowledge of the company.
This results The board is kept aware of major shareholder issues and concerns through in effectiveness reviews which are discussed at the board and each of the reports from a variety of sources, including the chairman, the chief financial committees.
Every third year, the board evaluation is externally facilitated.
officer, the chief executive, the investor relations team and external The next external review is scheduled to take place in 2019.
Other ways in which the board maintains dialogue with performance evaluation of the chairman was internally conducted, with shareholders include general meetings, investor roadshows and interim theassistance of Lintstock.
The chairman evaluates each directors and full-year results presentations.
Please see page 85 for further details performance and contribution, ensuring that they have the training on investor seminars held this year.
andknowledge required to effectively fulfil their role.
E. 2 Constructive use of general meeting B.
7 Re-election The board uses the AGMs to communicate with investors and to encourage The boards policy is that all directors stand for re-election by shareholders their participation.
At each AGM, a separate resolution is presented in each year at the AGM.
The Notice of annual general meeting includes a relation to each matter, including a resolution seeking shareholder statement that the board considers that all directors continue to perform approval of the Annual report.
effectively and demonstrate appropriate levels of commitment.
It also provides reasons why each director is recommended for re-election, highlighting the directors relevant skills and experience.
com Governance ASX Principles Principle 2: Structure the board to add value Principle 1: Lay solid foundations for management and oversight Recommendation 2.1 Recommendation 1.1 The Nominations Committee includes all non-executive directors and Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have a common board of directors.
is chaired by the chairman of the board.
The board is satisfied that all The principal role of the board is to set the Groups strategy and to review non-executive directors, including the chairman, continue to meet the its strategic direction regularly.
The board also has responsibility for test for independence under the UK Code, the ASX Principles and the corporate governance.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for the NYSE Standards.
The Nominations Committees terms of reference are board is available on our website.
The Nominations Committee report on pages 88and 89 provides further details on its role and responsibilities.
Details The board delegates responsibility for day-to-day management of the onmembership, the number of times the Committee met, and the business to the chief executive and other members of the Executive attendance of members are set out on page 87.
A number of management committees support the chief executive and the Executive Committee.
The structure of these Recommendation 2.2 committees is set out on page 78.
A board skills matrix showing key attributes in terms of skills, experience and diversity that are relevant to the board is set out on page 89 of the Recommendation 1.2 Annual report.
The Nominations Committee, on behalf of the board, ensures a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors.
Recommendation 2.3, 2.4, 2.5 Further information on the appointment approach is set out on page 88.
The Nominations Committee is responsible for assessing the independence of each non-executive director against an independence framework which The Notice of annual general meeting includes a statement that the board combines the requirements of the Code, the ASX Principles and NYSE considers that all directors continue to perform effectively and demonstrate Standards.
The Nominations Committee reviews and approves this appropriate levels of commitment.
It also provides reasons why each framework each year.
director is recommended for re-election, highlighting the directors relevant skills and experience.
Further information on the skills and experience of The board is satisfied that all of its non-executive directors are independent each director is set out on pages 76 and 77 of the Annual report.
in character and judgment and are free from any relationships material or otherwise or circumstances that could create a conflict of interest.
Recommendation 1.3 The company has written agreements setting out the terms of appointment The chairman was considered independent upon his appointment and, in for each director and senior executive.
Non-executive directors are the boards view, he continues to satisfy the tests for independence under appointed by letters of appointment.
Executive directors and other senior the Code, the ASX Principles and the NYSE Standards.
executives are employed through employment service contracts.
Further information is set out on pages 110 and 112 of the Annual report.
The name, skills and experience of each director, together with their terms in office, are shown in the biographical details on pages 76 and 77.
Recommendation 1.4 The Group company secretary is accountable to the board and advises the Recommendation 2.6 chairman, and, through the chairman, the board on all governance matters.
On joining Rio Tinto, all directors receive a full, formal induction The appointment and removal of the Group company secretary is a matter programme.
It is delivered over a number of months, and tailored to their reserved for the board.
specific requirements, taking into account their prospective committee responsibilities.
Further details are set out on page 94 of the Annual report.
Recommendation 1.5 Rio Tinto has a Group-wide, board-endorsed Inclusion and diversity policy.
All directors are expected to commit to continuing their development A summary of the policy is available on our website.
The board sets during their tenure.
This is supported through a combination of: site visits: objectives for achieving diversity for the board and the Group and states internal business: and operational briefings provided in or around scheduled that the board and Executive Committee will annually review the Groups board and committee meetings.
In addition, the Group company secretary performance against them.
Page 54 of the Annual report sets out the provides regular updates on corporate governance developments in the measurable objectives and our performance against them.
The respective UK, Australia and the US.
Further details are set out on page 84 of the proportions of men and women on the board, in senior executive positions Annual report.
and across the whole organisation is reported on pages 55 and 56 of the Annualreport.
Principle 3: Act ethically and responsibly Recommendation 3.1 Recommendation 1.6 Rio Tintos commitment to integrity and compliance is set out in The way The performance of the board, and of each of its committees and individual we work, a global code of conduct for all employees.
This is available on directors, was reviewed in 2018, as it is each year.
Detailed information on ourwebsite and is summarised on page 94 of the Annual report.
the board and committee evaluation and the evaluation of the chairman and the non-executive directors is set out on page 86 of the Annual report.
Principle 4: Safeguard integrity in corporate reporting Recommendation 4.1 Recommendation 1.7 The Audit Committee report on pages 90 to 94 provides details on the role The performance of Executive Committee members, including executive and responsibilities of the Committee.
The Audit Committees terms of directors, is continually evaluated as part of the Groups performance reference are available on our website.
Further details on membership, evaluation cycle.
Further details are set out in the Remuneration report thenumber of times the Committee met during 2018 and the attendance on page 114. ofmembers are set out on page 87.
Recommendation 4.2 Details on compliance with the financial reporting requirements contemplated under this recommendation are set out on pages 140 and 141 oftheAnnual report.
com 99 Governance Compliance with governance codes and standards continued Recommendation 4.3 Further information on engagement with shareholders and investors during Rio Tintos external auditors, PwC, attend Rio Tintos AGMs and are available 2018 is set out on page 85 of the Annual report.
to answer questions about the conduct of the external audit and the preparation and content of the independent auditors report.
Recommendation 6.3 The AGMs present an opportunity to provide a summary business Principle 5: Make timely and balanced disclosure presentation, to inform shareholders of recent developments, and to give Recommendation 5.1 them the opportunity to ask questions.
Generally, the chairs of all board Rio Tinto recognises the importance of effective and timely communication committees are available to answer questions raised by shareholders, with shareholders and the wider investment community.
andall directors are expected to attend where possible.
In 2018, all the directors attended the AGMs save for Paul Tellier who stood down from It is our policy to make sure that all information disclosed or released by the the board on 2 May 2018 and therefore did not attend the Rio Tinto Limited Group is accurate, complete and timely and complies with all continuous AGM.
The AGMs are webcast and transcripts of the chairmans and chief and other disclosure obligations under applicable Listing Rules and other executives speeches are made available on our website.
A summary of the relevant legislation.
proceedings at the meetings, and the results of voting on resolutions, are made available as soon as practicable after the meetings.
To ensure that trading in our securities takes place in an informed and orderly market, we have established a Disclosure Committee to oversee Recommendation 6.4 compliance with our continuous disclosure obligations.
The terms of Shareholders can choose to communicate electronically with the reference of our Disclosure Committee, together with our adopted companies and the share registrars.
The contact details for the procedures in relation to disclosure and management of relevant registrars are on page 299 and on our website.
information, support compliance with our disclosure obligations, and constitute our continuous disclosure policy.
Principle 7: Recognise and manage risk Recommendation 7.1, 7.2 The Groups Disclosure Committee is responsible for determining whether The board is ultimately responsible for risk management and internal controls information relating to Rio Tinto may require disclosure to the markets under and for ensuring that the systems in place are robust and take into account the continuous disclosure requirements in the jurisdictions in which Rio Tinto the principal risks faced by the Group.
The board delegates certain risk is listed.
In accordance with its terms of reference, the specific focus of the management matters to the Audit Committee, and the Audit Committee Disclosure Committee is to consider and determine on a timely basis whether provides updates to the board on matters discussed at each meeting.
information would, to the extent that the information is not public and relates Further details on the Groups governance framework for risk management directly or indirectly to Rio Tinto, be likely to have a material effect on the and internal control are set out on pages 93 and 94 of the annual report.
price of Rio Tinto securities if that information was generally available.
Recommendation 7.3 The members of the Committee are the chief executive: chief financial officer: Further information on Rio Tintos Group Internal Audit function is set out Group company secretary: the Group general counsel: the head of investor on page 94 of the annual report.
relations and the Corporate relations Group executive.
Recommendation 7.4 Principle 6: Respect the rights of security holders A description of the principal risks and uncertainties that could affect Rio Recommendation 6.1 Tinto including economic, environmental and social sustainability risks, Our website includes pages dedicated to corporate governance, providing and of the Groups governance framework for risk management and internal information on compliance with governance codes and standards control, are on page 93 of the Annual report.
the Code, ASX Principles and the NYSE Standards : the terms of reference of the committees: risk management and financial reporting: and board Principle 8: Remunerate fairly and responsibly governance including selection, appointment and re-election of Recommendation 8.1 directors, directors independence and board performance evaluation.
The Remuneration report on pages 101 to 136 provides details on the role and responsibilities of the committee.
The Remuneration Committees All information released to the markets is posted in the Media section terms of reference are available on our website.
Our website also provides general investor information.
membership, the number of times the Committee met during 2018 and the Annual and half-year results, as well as any major presentations, are attendance of members are set out on page 87. webcast and the materials are available on our website, which also contains presentation material from investor seminars.
Recommendation 8.2 Rio Tintos policies and practices regarding remuneration of non-executive Recommendation 6.2 directors, executive directors and senior executives are set out on pages Our main channels of communication with the investment community 101 to 136 of the Remuneration report.
arethrough the chairman, chief executive and chief financial officer, who have regular meetings with the Groups major shareholders.
The senior Recommendation 8.3 independent director has a specific responsibility to be available to Rio Tintos approach on participating in equity based remuneration shareholders who have concerns which have not been resolved through schemes is set out on page 140 of the Annual report.
contact with the chairman, chief executive or chief financial officer, or for whom such contact is inappropriate.
We have a number of processes and initiatives to ensure that members of the board understand the views of major shareholders.
The chief financial officer reports to the board at each meeting, and provides regular investor updates.
In addition, the head of investor relations reports regularly to the board, and an annual survey of major shareholders opinions is presented to the board by the Groups investor relations advisers.
