Strategic report | Market context Our business in a transforming world D ata is set to be our most Disruptive technologies valuable asset.
Cars and The ever-increasing pace of technological advancement is reshaping most sectors of the global economy and competitive landscapes trains will drive themselves, within it, including mining.
For example, as the volume of data collected continues its exponential growth, and the cost to store it falls to nearly zero, equipment will be printed, ever more intelligent algorithms can access richer data pools to add insight to complex problems notmade, and machines will including at Rio Tinto.
Our first intelligent mine Koodaideri, in Western Australia will use extensive digital modelling to make operations accelerate human cognition.
The world of energy is also in transition: the cost ofsolar power and lithium-ion batteries has fallen by 80% over the past decade, with further savings expected.
The global fuel mix has remained stable Global Global over the past 50 years, with oil, gas and coal contributing about 80% of total energy needs.
interconnections Today, competitive storage technology, together megatrends Over the past three decades, the freer movement with further electrification in the global economy, of capital, goods, services and people has including transportation, is set to lead the unlocked significant global wealth, lifting millions transitionto a low-carbon energy system.
out of poverty and improving the lives of millions more.
RioTinto has played an important role in Disruptive technologies will also shape the future Megacities are this transformation.
Automation and artificial intelligence willdisplace workers at a faster pace in some the source of Globalisation has reduced inequalities between activities.
New roles will undoubtedly be created countries, but it has also contributed to increased and future human-machine collaborations should disparities within some societies.
Nevertheless, the and populist backlash has been steadily building scope for social disruption is significant and 66% since the global financial crisis, in particular thetransition needs to be managed carefully.
across developed and liberal economies.
of global Combined with the rise of China, this is creating These dynamics will likely affect Rio Tinto in two economic a new set of challenges for the institutions that ways.
First, automation and new technologies have supported the global order since World War will directly impact our workforce and local activity II.
This is resulting in a less stable geopolitical communities with a mix of challenges and landscape and a stronger reliance on bilateral opportunities.
And second, we should see a relationships in an increasingly polarised world.
stronger global emphasis on the materials that will underpin the transition to a low-carbon economy.
These dynamics do not necessarily imply a reversal of global interconnections, but rather a shift in their nature.
While traditional flows of goods, services and capital have stagnated over the past decade, cross-border data flows have 1.
6m grown exponentially, supporting the sharing of information and ideas.
This has led to the autonomous emergence of new global digital communities, as kilometres travelled well as stronger networks between the worlds TM megacities, which by some estimates are the byRioTintos AutoHaul source of 66% of global economic activity and 85% of innovation.
With our global footprint and customer base, and the fact that most of our products are sold cross-border, the continued evolution of global interconnections presents both risks and opportunities for Rio Tinto.
com Strategic report Global demographicshifts One in ten people is expected to be over age 65 by2025 from one in 12 today : in high-income countries, this number is expected to be one in five.
Over the next decade, we expect this ageing population to increasingly outnumber working populations in the developed world and China: countries in sub-Saharan Africa and the Middle East will continue to see strong population growth.
This will have implications for the location of global manufacturing centres and the pace of economic development in these regions.
As living standards in These diverging demographic trends will also continue to support cross-border migration.
emerging markets improve Thenumber of international migrants has grown around the world, people will byabout 50% since 2000, although at just over 3%this remains a small portion of the global have rising expectations of Industrialisation population.
Estimates indicate migrants have made fairness and sustainable significantly stronger contributions to global GDP andurbanisation than if they had remained in their home countries.
The industrialisation and urbanisation of China has However, migrants are often seen by host been a key force shaping the mining sector and Rio communities as competing for jobs and financial Tinto over the past two decades.
While this will resources: a negative perception of migration has remain important in coming years, it is diversifying contributed to the backlash against globalisation.
towards India, South East Asia and Africa.
As living standards in emerging markets These regions have a large infrastructure gap, improve around the world, people will have which will require a significant increase in rising expectations of fairness and sustainable investment to support growth.
Water and air quality projects tend to be funded by the private sector issues have become particularly important, but also offer opportunities for governments to especially in urban areas, influencing exert influence at home andabroad.
Companies like such as Chinas Belt andRoad Initiative are oursare also expected to play a greater role addinga strategic geopolitical dimension to inaddressing global social and environmental theinfrastructuregap.
issues, and to doso transparently.
Mobility is another aspect of urbanisation undergoing significant change.
Ride-sharing apps have already disrupted transportation in and around cities.
In the longer term, the combination of shared mobility with autonomous driving may revolutionise urban transport, affecting the size of the global vehicle fleet, as well as roads, parking, power systems and urban air quality.
Other kinds of new technology and an increasing focus on the circular economy, with its emphasis on minimising waste, will also drive resource efficiencies in the industrial sector.
For example, 3D printing, as well as new carbon or composite If we are to thrivein materials, may decrease demand for traditional minerals and metals, as could rising recycling rates.
this newworld, we Each of these trends could have a profound influence on the future demand for our products.
need afundamentally Chinas Belt and Road Initiative will also affect supply, as mining projects come online, particularly in Africa and Latin America.
Market context | Our business in a transforming world Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
