Governance Board of directors Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have a common board of directors.
The directors are collectively responsible for the stewardship and long-term success of the Group.
Chairman, executive and non-executive directors Simon Thompson Jean-Sbastien Jacques Jakob Stausholm Megan Clark AC Chairman, MA Oxon, PhD.
Appointed Chief financial officer, Ms Economics.
Independent non-executive director, Appointed April 2014: chairman from March 2016: chief executive from July 2016 Age 50.
Appointed March 2018 November2014 Skills and experience: J-Ss strong Skills and experience: Jakob has over Skills and experience: Simon has executive leadership has driven 20 years experience in senior finance Skills and experience: Megan significant global experience in mining significant growth and transformation roles in Europe, Latin America and Asia.
combinesexpertise in the mining and and metals, finance and corporate projects at Rio Tinto.
As chief executive He also has deep experience of metals industry with strong leadership governance.
Among a wide range of of our Copper group from 2013, and our capital-intensive, long-cycle businesses, experience in science, research and board appointments, Simon was an Copper & Coal group from 2015, he led and of innovative technology and supply technology.
Megan was chief executive executive director of Anglo American plc, the transformation of the product groups chain optimisation.
Jakob spent six years ofthe Commonwealth Scientific and where he held the roles of chairman and safety and cash performance.
He also with the Maersk Group, where his roles Industrial Research Organisation CSIRO chief executive officer of the Base Metals ledtwo successful growth projects, included group chief financial officer from 2009 until 2014.
She had previously Division, chairman of Tarmac, OyuTolgoi in Mongolia and Resolution andexecutive director of the groups held various roles with Western Mining andchairman of the Exploration Division.
integrated transport and logistics Corporation, and was a director at Earlier in his career he held various business, and group chief financial officer N M Rothschild and Sons Australia, J-S brings more than 15 years of investment banking positions at S. G. for the facility services company ISS A S. and avice president at BHP Billiton.
Her experience in the aluminium, bauxite Warburg and N M Rothschild.
He had previously spent more than 19 commitment to sustainable development andsteel industries to Rio Tinto.
years with Royal Dutch Shell plc, and understanding of innovation bring Current external appointments: Current external appointments: holdinga range of finance positions, valuable insights to the board.
Chairman of 3i Group plc since 2015.
Member of the International Council on including chief internal auditor.
Current external appointments: Mining and Metals and the European Current external appointments: Non-executive director of CSL Limited Roundtable of Industrialists since None.
since 2016 and CARE Australia since 2015.
Head of Australian Space Agency.
Former directors who served for part of the year Jan du Plessis Jan retired as chairman and as a director with effect from 5 March 2018.
Hon Paul Tellier Paul stepped down from the board on 2 May 2018.
David Constable Dame Moya Greene Chris Lynch Independent non-executive director, Independent non-executive director, Chris stepped down from his role as chief financial officer on 3 September BSc.
Appointed 2018, and retired from Rio Tinto on 30 September 2018.
February 2017 September2018 Skills and experience: David has Skills and experience: Moya is an strongcorporate governance, board and experienced leader in both private leadership credentials.
His international andpublic sectors who has expertise in experience in the engineering, logistics, strategic planning and complex Past external appointments over the last three years construction, energy, mining and negotiations.
She was CEO of Royal Mail For details of each directors past appointments, see the Directors report chemical sectors includes the execution plc from 2010 to 2018, having formerly onpage138.
David was chief been president and CEO of Canada Post executive officer of Sasol Limited from Corporation.
Moya moved into business Board committee membership key 2011 to 2016, and worked with Fluor in 1996 having previously served in the Committee chairman Corporation from 1982 to 2011, most Canadian civil service, including serving recently as Group president, Operations.
as assistant deputy minister for Audit Committee Transport Canada.
Current external appointments: Remuneration Committee Non-executive director of Anadarko Current external appointments: Nominations Committee Petroleum Corporation since 2016 and Non-executive director of EasyJet plc ABB Ltd since 2015.
Chairman of the since July 2017.
Member of the board of Chairmans Committee Compensation Committee at ABB Ltd. trustees for the Tate Gallery and the Sustainability Committee Senior advisor, Cerberus Capital National Gallery.
Member of the US Business Council.
com Governance Director appointment after 31December2018 Company secretaries Ann Godbehere Simon Henry Simon McKeon AO Steve Allen Independent non-executive director, Independent non-executive director, Independent non-executive director, Group Company Secretary, BA Modern FCPA, FCGA.
Appointed January 2019 Languages and European Studies, February2010 board, June 2017 Solicitor England and Wales.
Skills and experience: Simon has Skills and experience: Simon brings seniorindependent director Appointed January 2017 significant experience in global finance insights into a wide range of sectors Skills and experience: Ann brings as well as corporate governance, M&A, including financial services, the law, Skills and experience: Steve is extensive financial and governance international relations and strategy.
Simon company secretary of Rio Tinto plc and experience to Rio Tinto as well as draws on over 30 years experience at practiced as a solicitor before joining joint company secretary of Rio Tinto expertise in audit and risk management, Royal Dutch Shell plc, where he was Macquarie Group where he spent 30 Limited.
Before joining Rio Tinto, Steve M&A and international relations.
During chieffinancial officer from 2009 to 2017, years culminating as executive chairman was deputy general counsel at BG Group more than 25 years in financial services, following roles as chief financial officer of its business in the state of Victoria, plc.
He served as company secretary of Ann was chief financial officer at Swiss and executive vice president, Finance, Australia.
He served as chairman of BG Group from 2011 to 2016, having Re from 2003 until 2007, and was interim Exploration & Production, andhead of AMPLimited and of the Australian previously been chief counsel, Corporate, chief financial officer and executive Group Investor Relations.
governments research and development from 2008 to 2011.
Before joining BG director of Northern Rock bank after body, CSIRO.
He also served as the Group in 2005, Steve was a corporate Current external appointments: itsnationalisation in 2008. firstpresident of the Australian lawyer for Herbert Smith LLP in London.
Non-executive director and chair ofthe Takeovers Panel.
Current external appointments: Audit Committee and Risk Committee of Current external appointments: Non-executive director of UBS AG and Lloyds Banking Group plcsince June Current external appointments: Member of the GC100 Executive UBS Group AG since 2009 and 2014, 2014.
Independent directorof PetroChina Chancellor of Monash University.
Non-executive director of Company Limited since June 2017.
Non-executive director of Spotless Group GovernanceCouncil.
Royal Dutch Shell plc since 2018.
Member of the UK Defence Board and since December 2016.
Fellow of the chair of the Defence AuditandRisk Australian Institute of Company Committee.
Sam Laidlaw Michael LEstrange AO Tim Paine Independent non-executive director, Independent non-executive director, Joint Company Secretary, Rio Tinto MA, MBA.
Appointed BA Sydney, MA Oxon.
Limited BEc, LLB, FGIA, FCIS.
February2017 Appointed September 2014 AppointedJanuary 2013 Skills and experience: Sam has more Skills and experience: Michaels Skills and experience: Tim joined the than 30 years experience of long-cycle, distinguished public service career gives Group in 2012 and became joint company high-capex industries in which safety him practical experience of the broader secretary of Rio Tinto Limited in 2013. andcommunity engagement are critical.
geostrategic and societal trends which He has over 25 years experience in Previous executive roles include president impact Rio Tinto.
Michael held various corporate counsel and company and chief operating officer, Amerada Hess senior roles for the Australian secretary roles, including as general Corporation: CEO, Enterprise Oil plc: government, including head of the counsel and company secretary at Mayne executive vice president, Chevron Cabinet Policy Unit and secretary of the Group, Symbion Health and Skilled Corporation: CEO, Centrica plc: and Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade.
Tim spent 12 years at ANZ Bank, membership of the UK Prime Ministers He served as High Commissioner to the including as acting general counsel and Business Advisory Group.
United Kingdom, and is an Officer of the company secretary.
Current external appointments: Current external appointments: Chairman of Neptune Energy Group Current external appointments: Company secretary for the Foundation Holdings Ltd. Chairman, National Centre Director and deputy chancellor of the for Australia-Japan Studies and a of Universities & Business.
Deputy chair, University of Notre Dame, Australia.
member of the Governance Institute Oxford Sad Business School.
Council Non-executive director, Qantas ofAustralias Legislation member, Radley College.
Board of directors Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
