252434 RIT R&A pp001-pp018 04 03 2019 16:15 Page 8 Investment Review Markets and Performance NAV total return held up, ending the year in positive 2018 may well be remembered as a year which marked territory at 0.8%.
an inflexion point for two entrenched macroeconomic This performance was driven by our established and trends.
First, it interrupted a decade when excess consistent portfolio approach, which targets diversified liquidity has been chasing, and in the process inflating, sources of returns with the capacity to generate financial assets.
As authorities reduce this liquidity, it is of significant uncorrelated gains.
More specifically, the key little surprise that those financial assets deflated, almost positive performance drivers for 2018 were: regardless of fundamental macro data.
The early months of the year affected assets that are most reliant on the A cautiously positioned portfolio, illustrated by flush of liquidity for example, vulnerable emerging modest net quoted equity exposure, and with market countries with the fourth quarter affecting the effective hedges deployed in the last quarter of the most cash-rich companies in the fastest growing year: developed market country for example, large-cap US technology.
Across asset classes there was little place to Careful selection and structuring of several private hide.
investments over recent years, both direct and via funds, yielded significant benefits in 2018: and The second inflexion point, again after a multi-year trend, has been the international outcry towards Chinese global Positive contribution from all the non-equity ambitions.
The US, through the trade war, is clearly allocations including bonds, real assets, absolute taking the lead preventing China gaining any further unfair return and credit, and currencies.
While of course much wider in its scope, this will have important implications both The main headwinds were: positive and negative on Chinese domestic policy, as Our structural bias towards Asia in our quoted well as on many global sectors that are at the forefront of equities book, expressed through specialised innovation, and ultimately the drivers of economic growth managers, was a key detractor with those markets for the next decade.
selling-off significantly more than other regions: and Against this difficult macroeconomic backdrop, equity Our allocation to resources companies markets ended the year significantly lower, however our underperformed in the second half of 2018 as commodity prices declined.
1 RIT NAV Total Return versus Global Equity Markets, 2018 5% 0.8% 0% -5% -4.4% -7.4% -10% -9.5% -10.1% -10.3% -10.7% -15% -20% -22.7% -25% RIT S&P MSCI FTSE MSCI STOXX Nikkei Shanghai NAV TR 500 World All-Share Emerging Europe 225 Composite Markets 600 1 Indices are measured in local currencies.
8 Report and Accounts December 2018 RIT Capital Partners plc 252434 RIT R&A pp001-pp018 04 03 2019 16:15 Page 9 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Investment Review Asset Allocation and Portfolio Contribution 31 December 2018 2018 31 December 2017 2017 Asset Category % NAV Contribution % % NAV Contribution % 1 1 Quoted Equity 47.0% 6.3% 55.6% 9.1% Private Investments 25.7% 4.9% 21.8% 2.6% Absolute Return and Credit 23.7% 0.5% 25.0% 1.6% Real Assets 3.1% 0.1% 3.5% 0.9% Government Bonds and Rates 0.5% 0.4% 0.2% 0.2% 2 2 Currency 0.3% 2.2% 1.0% 4.3% Total Investments 99.7% 1.8% 107.1% 9.7% 3 3 Liquidity, Borrowings and Other 0.3% 1.0% 7.1% 1.5% Total 100.0% 0.8% 100.0% 8.2% 1 Average Net Quoted Equity Exposure 47% 44% 1 The Quoted Equity contribution reflects the profits from the net quoted equity exposure during the year.
This can differ from the % NAV as it reflects notional exposure through derivatives as well as estimated adjustments for derivatives and or liquidity held by managers.
2 Currency exposure is managed centrally on an overlay basis, with the translation impact and the result of the currency hedging and overlay activity included in this category.
3 This category includes interest, mark-to-market movements on the fixed interest notes, and expenses.
Quoted Equity In terms of activity, we have redeemed more than 10% This category includes long-only funds, equity hedge of our long-only and equity hedge funds.
This reflected funds, direct stocks, listed co-investments and our equity both a more cautious strategy, as well an exposure management positions.
acknowledgement that the environment is a difficult one for the traditional equity hedge fund model.
Quoted Equity Portfolio Weaknesses in emerging markets provided opportunities Stocks, 27% to add to our exposure here.
Tightening global liquidity, the trade war, declining commodity prices and investor Hedge Funds, 28% outflows all played a role in a near perfect storm for these assets in 2018.
There are good reasons to be hopeful however: some Latin American economies have seen the emergence of pro-market leaders, commodity prices appear fundamentally undervalued and perhaps most importantly, Chinese policy makers have a renewed sense of urgency to stabilise their economy.
This backdrop is unfolding just as the Fed is seeming to be Long-only less restrictive, and with valuations more attractive.
Funds, 45% Note: This chart includes the notional exposure from single stocks Our allocation to the US stayed fairly constant over the held via equity swaps and excludes portfolio hedges.
After years of ultra-easy monetary policy and a more recent fiscal bonanza, the danger for the US economy The quoted equity portfolio had a mixed year.
It could not was always going to be whether too much growth has escape the simple truth that when investing for long-term been front loaded.
Add to this a recent increase in capex structural trends, one is bound to experience short-term which will increase the economys capacity, and we can volatility.
Of note here were our long-term strategic easily find ourselves in 2019 with more supply and less allocations to fund managers covering Asia in particular demand, and with therefore lower GDP growth, lower China and Japan, which underperformed other regions in earnings and less inflationary pressures.
On the positive side, our largest stock cothat the US market as a whole has already discounted investments performed well and our key biotechnology such a scenario, but we do think that some assets have manager finished the year in positive territory.
already done so and therefore might offer an interesting asymmetric profile going forward.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2018 9 252434 RIT R&A pp001-pp018 04 03 2019 16:15 Page 10 Investment Review Whilst economists are divided about US prospects for Some of the key performers in 2018 were Thrive Capital 2019, they have little doubt that a slowdown is on the Funds III, IV and V and ICONIQ 6, both US venture cards for the European economy.
A prolonged period of firms, where the valuation gains reflected positive aggressive quantitative easing has not increased the development across several underlying portfolio probability that growth in the region will reach escape investments.
In addition, an older fund, Blumberg VC I, velocity anytime soon.
Adding to the deteriorating macro sold one of its last remaining positions for a very sizeable picture are contagion risks emanating from the Italian uplift following rapid business growth.
The majority of the debt situation and UK Brexit developments.
It came as no private funds are valued using the General Partners GP surprise that European equity indices underperformed September valuations, adjusted for subsequent calls and their US counterparts.
There clearly needs to be a distributions up to the year end.
Over the year we met tangible structural shift for the area to offer a viable long- 37 million of capital calls and received 78 million in term investment alternative.
distributions, resulting in a net inflow of capital of 41 million.
Private Investments The private investments portfolio is split between Absolute Return and Credit directly-held investments and third-party funds.
At the Our overall allocation to this category represented 24% of year end, the portfolio represented 26% of net assets, year-end NAV.
The objective in this area is to deliver with 11% in direct investments and 15% in funds.
Both stable returns through investing in strategies that are less categories had a strong year, with a combined correlated to markets.
In recent quarters we had reduced contribution of 4.9% to the NAV.
the overall credit sensitivity of this portfolio, which helped in 2018 as the category delivered a positive contribution As highlighted by your Chairman, the direct portfolio of 0.5% at a difficult time for credit markets.
The majority benefitted from the positive revaluations of Acorn, the of our fund managers ended the year in positive territory, coffee and soft-drinks business, and Coupang, the Korean with the best performing funds benefitting from a higher online retailer.
Both uplifts were event-driven we made volatility environment, macroeconomic dislocations and a sizeable follow-on investment in Acorn to help fund the profitable merger arbitrage opportunities.
Our key creditmerger of Keurig with Dr Pepper Snapple, which was focused funds offered protection from the sizeable well received by the market, resulting in a higher listed drawdown in credit markets through careful security share price: and Coupang benefitted from a sizeable selection and timely portfolio hedges.
These are recent coinvestments, which underline the breadth of our global Towards the end of the year we have been looking to network and our strong relationships with leading capitalise on idiosyncratic opportunities in credit markets, investors.
where we see the ability to obtain double-digit yields for debt securities with relatively low default probabilities.
As the Chairman noted in August, Helios Towers, our African Telecom towers business, withdrew its IPO in the Real Assets, Government Bonds and Rates early part of the year, resulting in a reduction in value at Our exposure to Real Assets at the year end totalled the half year.
With the business continuing to expand its approximately 6% of NAV, 4% from gold-related assets profits, the valuation recovered ground at the year end.
and 2% from our investment properties.
Gold provided 2018 also saw the completion of the sale of Rockefeller useful diversification benefits against the sell-off in the in January, and the successful IPO of Dropbox in March.
For the year as a whole, Real Assets ended in positive territory, with a successful investment The third-party funds portfolio also had a strong year, in carbon emissions offset by losses from soft reinforcing our strategic approach in this area.
than target generic private equity funds, we have over recent years, been making selective commitments to Our positions in Government Bonds and Rates high quality managers with niche expertise, as well as to contributed 0.4% to the return for the year, with the core partners who we feel comfortable co-investing majority of the contribution coming from US 10-year alongside.
Over 2018 we made sizeable new interest rate positions during the fourth quarter, which commitments to funds managed by Biomatics a benefitted from the decline in yields as investors became healthcare specialist, BDT Capital our co-investment increasingly concerned about a US economic slowdown.
partner for Acorn, ICONIQ and Hillhouse a Chinese specialist.
10 Report and Accounts December 2018 RIT Capital Partners plc 252434 RIT R&A pp001-pp018 04 03 2019 16:15 Page 11 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Investment Review Currencies As discussed earlier, we also deploy leverage through the 2018 was notable in the currency markets for a US Dollar careful use of derivatives.
These are designed to both that gradually strengthened throughout the year.
In the help hedge the NAV against unwanted exposures, as well early part of the year, this reflected the relatively strong as to enhance returns through efficient structuring.
For state of the US economy versus the rest of the world, example, during 2018, we utilised currency options to while the more modest rally in Q4 was due to the help protect the NAV against Sterling strengthening, as currency benefitting from safe haven flows.
The well as deploying a short biotech index future to hedge strengthening of the Dollar against Sterling was a key part of an equity managers exposure in this sector.
contributor to the NAV in 2018.
Furthermore, our Equally, many of our interest rate positions were allocation to the Japanese Yen and the Swiss Franc expressed through derivatives.
proved useful towards the end of the year as they also benefitted from the flight to safety.
In terms of allocation to Sterling we have been taking a balanced approach as the possibility of a destabilising political outcome remains, set against what is Ron Tabbouche fundamentally an undervalued currency.
Chief Investment Officer Debt and Leverage J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited We have continued to deploy leverage during the year through short-term revolving credit facilities as well as our longer-term unsecured fixed interest notes.
One of our facilities was refinanced at the end of the year for a further five years.
At 31 December 2018, we held drawn borrowings of 430 million paying an average rate of 2.8%, with 25 million undrawn.
Our cash and cash equivalents of 211 million have increased from 123 million at the previous year end, resulting in a corresponding fall in our level of gearing, from 13% to 11%.
Currency Exposure as % of NAV 30% 30% US Dollar 30% 44% Sterling 47% 6% Euro 12% 6% 31 December 2018 Japanese Yen 31 December 2017 5% Swiss Franc 2% 9% Other 9% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2018 11
