252434 RIT R&A pp019-pp023 04 03 2019 16:17 Page 20 Board of Directors Chairman Senior Independent Director Lord Rothschild OM GBE Jacob Rothschild has chaired RIT since its flotation in 1988.
Michael Marks joined the Board of the Company as a nonHe is Chairman of the Nominations Committee and also the executive Director in September 2004 and became its Senior Chairman of the Investment Committee of J. Rothschild Independent Director in July 2010.
He is a member of the Capital Management Limited.
Conflicts, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Having left NM Rothschild & Sons in 1980, Jacob developed He is Chairman of MR Capital Consultants Limited and was RITs predecessor companies, co-founding companies in Chairman of NewSmith Capital Partners LLP, which he money management, insurance and investment, including founded in 2003.
He was formerly Co-Head of the Global Global Asset Management and St. Jamess Place Capital plc.
Equities business of Merrill Lynch, which he joined in 1995 He served as Deputy Chairman of BSkyB Plc for five years, and where he subsequently held positions as Chief Operating to 2008.
He is Chairman of Windmill Hill Asset Management Officer of Merrill Lynch Europe, Middle East and Africa.
He Limited WHAM, which manages the philanthropic was subsequently named Executive Chairman.
He was also foundations connected with his family, as well as chairing his Executive Vice President of Merrill Lynch & Co. Inc. own familys office and the Rothschild Foundation.
Michael began his career at Smith Bros. in 1958, where he In addition to his career in finance he has been involved in became a director in 1975 and Chief Executive of Smith New public service including the arts, heritage and philanthropy Court in 1987.
He was a non-executive director of Old having chaired The National Gallery, The National Heritage Mutual plc from February 2004 to May 2007 and a nonMemorial Fund and The Heritage Lottery Fund.
executive director of London Stock Exchange plc until 2004.
Non-Executive Directors Independent Andr Perold Philippe Costeletos Philippe Costeletos joined the Board as a non-executive Andr Perold joined the Board of the Company as a nonDirector in July 2017 and is a member of the Valuation executive Director in April 2018 and is a member of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
He has over 25 years of private investing experience Andr is Co-Founder, Managing Partner and Chief Investment spanning several investment cycles, investment types Officer of HighVista Strategies, a Boston based investment including start-ups, growth capital, and buyouts and firm.
He is a board member of the Vanguard Group, the global geographies, including emerging markets.
investment company and also serves on the Investment Committee of the Partners Healthcare System and for the Philippe was formerly Chairman of International for Colony Museum of Fine Arts.
Northstar, a leading global real estate and investment management firm.
Previously, he was Head of TPG Capital in He was previously the George Gund Professor of Finance and Europe and served as a member of TPGs Global Banking at the Harvard Business School where he also held Management and Investment Committees, being responsible senior roles including Chair of the Finance Faculty and Senior for investment strategy during a period which included Associate Dean.
investments in TIM Hellas, where he was Chairman, and Debenhams plc, where he was a member of the Board.
At the forthcoming AGM, subject to his re-election, Philippe will assume the role of Senior Independent Director.
He will in July 2019, become Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and also be appointed to, and become Chairman of, the Conflicts Committee.
20 Report and Accounts December 2018 RIT Capital Partners plc Michael Marks CBE 252434 RIT R&A pp019-pp023 04 03 2019 16:17 Page 21 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Board of Directors Non-Executive Directors Independent Mike Power Jeremy Sillem Mike Power joined the Board of the Company as a nonJeremy Sillem joined the Board of the Company as a nonexecutive Director in January 2014 and is Chairman of the executive Director in April 2018 and is a member of the Audit Valuation Committee and a member of the Audit and Risk and Risk Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
He is Managing Partner and Founder of Spencer House He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Partners LLP SHP, which provides corporate finance advice England and Wales ICAEW and Professor of Accounting at to asset and wealth management businesses.
SHP is the London School of Economics and Political Science, independent of your Company.
He is the Chairman of where he is a Governor and has written extensively on risk BioPharma Credit plc an investment trust.
He was a non-executive From 2000 to 2004 he was Executive Chairman of Bear director of St. Jamess Place plc from 2005 to 2013 where he Stearns International in London, prior to which he had a 28- chaired the Risk Committee and was a member of the Audit year career with Lazard in London and New York.
He remains on the board of St. Jamess Place International plc, which he joined in September 2012 and was appointed as its Chairman in 2014.
Mike has held a number of other advisory positions, including the Financial Reporting Lab Advisory Committee at the Financial Reporting Council, and the Technical Development Committee of the Institute of Risk Management.
In 2016 he was elected as a Fellow of the British Academy.
Amy Stirling The Duke of Wellington The Duke of Wellington formerly Lord Douro joined the Amy Stirling joined the Board of the Company as a nonBoard of the Company as a non-executive Director in July executive Director in February 2015 and is Chairman of the 2010.
He is Chairman of the Conflicts and Remuneration Audit and Risk Committee and a member of the Valuation Committees and a member of the Nominations Committee.
She is a Fellow of the ICAEW and Chief Financial Officer of He has broad experience in banking and finance, having the Virgin Group.
Further to the acquisition of Virgin Money served as Chairman of Sun Life and Provincial Holdings from by CYBG in October 2018, she was appointed as non- 1995 to 2000 and of the Framlington Group from 1994 to executive Director of Clydesdale Bank plc, CYBG plc and 2005.
He was a director of Compagnie Financire Richemont Virgin Money plc.
from 1999 to 2017 and is now a Senior Adviser.
He served on the Board of Sanofi for 12 years until May 2014 and was a Until July 2017, Amy served as a Director and Chairman of director of Pernod Ricard for eight years until 2011. the Audit Committee of Pets at Home Group plc.
She also The Duke of Wellington is Chairman of Richemont Holdings served as the Chief Financial Officer of TalkTalk Telecom UK Limited.
He is a member of the House of Lords and was Group Plc until 2013, having been with the business since its a member of the European Parliament from 1979 to 1989. start up as part of the Carphone Warehouse Group, which she joined in 2000.
From 2007 to 2016 he was Chairman of Kings College London and since 2014 he has been a governor of Wellington College.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2018 21 252434 RIT R&A pp019-pp023 04 03 2019 16:17 Page 22 Board of Directors Non-Executive Directors Non-Independent Hannah Rothschild CBE Hannah Rothschild joined the Board of the Company as a non-executive Director in August 2013.
She is a non-executive director of WHAM, a director of Five Arrows Limited and serves as a Trustee of the Rothschild Foundation.
In 2015 she became chair of the Trustees of the National Gallery.
Hannah is also a writer and filmmaker with a long standing career in the media.
Her first novel, The Improbability of Love was published in 2015 in the UK, US and ten other countries.
In the 2018 Queens Birthday Honours, Hannah was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire CBE for services to the arts and to charity.
22 Report and Accounts December 2018 RIT Capital Partners plc 252434 RIT R&A pp019-pp023 04 03 2019 16:17 Page 23 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | J. Rothschild Capital Management JRCM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of RIT and acts as RITs Manager.
Directors of JRCM are listed below: Chairman & Chief Executive Officer Francesco Goedhuis Executive Directors Andrew Jones Chief Financial Officer Jonathan Kestenbaum Chief Operating Officer Ron Tabbouche Chief Investment Officer The Executive Committee of JRCM comprises the above directors, led by Francesco Goedhuis.
They are responsible for the day-to-day management of the business.
The biographies of the Executive Committee members can be found below: Francesco Goedhuis Andrew Jones Francesco Goedhuis is the Chairman and Chief Executive Andrew Jones is the Chief Financial Officer and Chief Risk Officer.
He joined JRCM as the Principal in the Chairmans Officer.
Prior to joining JRCM in 2008, he spent three years Office in 2010.
Previously, he was in New York working for in venture capital and four years at Nomura, advising on its the Economics Nobel Laureate Robert Merton and the private equity investments as well as risk, global corporate former Vice Chairman of J. P. Morgan, Roberto Mendoza at development and strategy.
A Fellow of the ICAEW, he IFL, commercialising financial academic theory on both the qualified as a chartered accountant with Deloitte where he buy and sell sides.
Jonathan Kestenbaum Ron Tabbouche Jonathan Kestenbaum is the Chief Operating Officer.
He Ron Tabbouche is the Chief Investment Officer.
He joined joined JRCM in 2011, having previously been Chief Executive JRCM in 2012 having previously been the Head of of Five Arrows Limited.
He is also an adviser to philanthropic Investments for Managed Portfolios at GAM.
At the age of foundations connected to Lord Rothschild and a non- 26, he joined GAMs Investment Committee, working with executive director of WHAM.
He was previously Chief Gilbert fide Botton, its co-founder.
Subsequently, he led the Executive of the National Endowment for Science, overall investment strategy of multi-billion dollar funds across Technology and the Arts.
Prior to that he was Chief of Staff to a broad range of asset classes.
Ron is an Adviser to the the Chairman of Apax Partners, Sir Ronald Cohen.
In January WHAM Investment Advisory Committee, and is also a 2011 Jonathan was appointed to The House of Lords.
Member of the Investment Committee of the Wolfson Foundation.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2018 23
