Strategic report Chief financial officers statement We continue to allocate capital with discipline.
Our strong balance sheet and operating cash flow allow us to invest in the business and deliver sector-leading cash returns to shareholders.
Underlying EBITDA Strong and consistent EBITDA Increasing our investment in the business In a fairly volatile geopolitical environment, we and returning cash to shareholders increased our revenues to $40.5 billion while Having a strong balance sheet is key and we ended $18.1bn our underlying EBITDA remained relatively 2018 with net cash of $0.3 billion, following the steady at $18.1 billion, with a margin of 42%.
completion of the Grasberg disposal in December.
2% decrease Average pricing, volumes and exchange rates Our balance sheet provides us with the platform were all positives, adding around $1.4 billion in to continue to invest in attractive growth aggregate to EBITDA.
Higher sales volumes were opportunities and sustain our track record of Operating cash flow mainly from iron ore, copper and gold.
Shipments delivering strong cash returns to shareholders.
from the Pilbara rose 2% following improved rail capacity from AutoHaul.
And we delivered a Over the past three years we have steadily $11.8bn strong year in copper on all fronts.
However, increased our capital expenditure to $5.4 billion 15% decrease these increases were offset by rising input in 2018, as we continue to invest through the costs, in particular energy and raw materials.
In 2018, we completed the Amrun bauxite These cost increases were mainly felt by our project in Queensland and fully implemented Net cash aluminium business, which was impacted to the AutoHaul autonomous trains system in the tune of $0.5 billion.
However, we did see the Pilbara.
Our most significant growth project some softening in raw material inflation in the is the Oyu Tolgoi copper gold underground $0.3bn second half.
Other costs included $0.3 billion of mine in Mongolia where we are investing around $4.1bn reduction in net debt restructuring, $0.1 billion higher than 2017, and a $1.0 billion a year.
And from 2019, we will $0.1 billion increase in corporate costs, including ramp-up investment in replacing our iron ore pensions and insurance.
production inthe Pilbara, following board approval for the Koodaideri and Robe River Productivity accelerating in 2019 sustaining mines.
We remain committed to generating $1.5 billion of additional free cash flow each year from At the same time, we are continuing to deliver 2021 from our mine-to-market productivity sector-leading cash returns to our shareholders.
2018 was a challenging year due Intotal, we have announced $13.5 billion of returns to the rising input costs.
In 2019, we expect to in respect of 2018.
This includes the final dividend deliver $0.6 billion from the programme, which of 180 US cents per share bringing the total will bring our run-rate by the end of 2019 to ordinary dividend to 307 US cents, or $5.3 billion, $1.0 billion of additional free cash flow each year.
which, together with the $1.0 billion share buy-back we announced in August, represents 72% of underlying earnings.
We also announced supplementary returns of $7.2billion from the divestments we made in 2018, including a $3.2 billion share buy-back and aspecial dividend of $4.0 billion from ourmost recentlycompleted Grasberg and Aluminium Dunkerque disposals.
com Strategic report Our view on the 2018 global economy investment.
Signs that downside risks could be Global economic growth in 2018 was around 3%.
minimised would include a successful resolution Strong economic growth in the US, estimated at to US-China trade negotiations, early stabilisation 2.9%, was driven by domestic tax cutsimplemented of the global manufacturing cycle and a slower in January 2018.
The US unemployment rate fell to a pace of interest rate increases by the Federal 49-year low of 3.7% inSeptember, but strong growth Reserve.
and rising core inflation resulted in four benchmark rate increases over the year.
The imposition of section Stimulus in China and a modest relaxation of 232 tariffs on steel and aluminium in March, and deleveraging could provide some support for section 301 tariffs on China in April, weighed on domestic demand in the second half of the year.
global commodity prices, though macro effects Measures to increase infrastructure construction were limited.
Worries over slowing growth and will also be important and could provide some trade tensions caused a sharp downward correction support for commodity demand.
in US equity markets inthe fourth quarter, erasing earlier gains.
We believe the biggest risks in 2019 include any escalation of the US trade conflict with China, a In China, growth was 6.8% in the first two sharp downward correction in global equities as quarters, as a second quarter pick-up in industrial monetary policy tightens, and a more severe than production and strong trade data helped to offset expected deceleration of Chinese growth.
weakening housing sales and falling infrastructure investment.
The effects of a deleveraging Volatility around these risks, combined with campaign squeezed the economy more visibly weakening fundamentals, would make for a inthe third quarter, resulting in government challenging business environment.
However, our measures to encourage infrastructure investment strong balance sheet and world-class portfolio and support the private sector.
Growth continued place us in a sound position.
We will be able to to decelerate in the fourth quarter as property continue to improve our business, invest through sales remained soft and industrial value-added the cycle and deliver returns to shareholders.
production and trade growth weakened.
The European and Japanese economies slowed more than expected due to weak global demand and negative shocks to business investment.
Investment was hurt by softer manufacturing growth, tapering of quantitative easing across Jakob Stausholm Europe and natural disasters in Japan.
Chief financial officer 27 February 2019 A weakening global manufacturing cycle and softer Chinese commodity demand hurt growth in many emerging markets.
Increased capital outflows, driven by monetary tightening in the US and rising risk aversion, also reduced domestic investment.
Outlook Over the next couple of years, global growth is likely to weaken as monetary policy normalises and US fiscal stimulus fades, increasing risks to the business environment.
The outlook for China depends to some extent on the resolution of the tariff negotiations with the US, but is likely to be weaker on softer property sales and deferred Financial review Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
