Strategic report | Business model and strategy The way we work Implicit in our purpose is the expectation that our activities should also support human progress.
Our business model Repurpose Explore and and renew evaluate Disciplined capital allocation Market Develop and and deliver innovate Mine and process 14 Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com Strategic report We aim to run our business in ways that aresafer, smarter and more sustainable.
We use some of the most advanced exploration Explore and technologies in the world to find potential new sources ofminerals and metals.
And we consider new products and operations with an understanding of customers evaluate andcommunities needs.
We are also mindful of the future: our environmental impact, as well as the diversityand balance of ourportfolio.
We assess each potential operation with a focus on risk, Develop and potential returns, and long-term sustainability and value.
Once we have approved an investment, we design and build each operation.
We aim to develop every potential innovate site to achieve optimal, long-term productivity while minimising risks.
Our growing network of partners governments, communities, customers and suppliers ishelping expand our thinking, capabilities and ability todeliver mutual benefit.
Disciplined A safe site is a productive site, and advanced technologies Mine and are playing a more important role in how we achieve both.
capital We also share best practices across our assets to create safe, environmentally responsible working practices process allocation andahigh-performing culture that targets production atlowercosts.
Our business is underpinned by adisciplined approach to capital At the same time, our operations aim to benefit local allocation: we strive to use every economies by contributing jobs, taxes and royalties, dollar prudently.
Today, our contracts with local businesses and social and community balance sheet is a key strength, investment.
By understandingand respecting our business providing a platform for strong partners, employees, communities, and the environment, shareholder returns, as well as we can create sustainable value for all our stakeholders.
enabling usto invest throughout thecommodity cycle.
Our minerals and metals are used in a vast array of everyday products from cars to coffee pods to smart Market phones.
Our Commercial team ensure that we manage our products in line with market and customer needs.
And our anddeliver network of rail, ports and ships means that we can control end-to-end logistics to deliver our products safely, efficientlyand reliably.
We aim to design and run our assets to create a positive Repurpose legacy once our mining activity concludes.
Applying this approach could entail rehabilitating the land for a nature reserve, for example, or repurposing it for light industrial and renew use.
Each of our sites has rehabilitation plans that we review each year.
We see this long-term approach planning and operating with the future in mind as integral to running a safe, responsible and profitable business.
Business model and strategy | The way we work Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 15 Strategic report | Business model and strategy The way we work continued Our strategy Our strategy is to create superior value for shareholders by meeting our customers needs, maximising cash from our world-class assets and allocating capital with discipline.
Attracting, developing and retaining the best people Our portfolio of low-cost, long-life assets is crucial to our success.
We continue to strengthen delivers attractive returns throughout the cycle.
our technical and commercial capabilities through After a significant portfolio reshaping, we are our centres of excellence, and are committed to invested in commodities with strong long-term building a diverse and inclusive workforce fundamentals and material acrossour global business.
People Portfolio A focus on the four Ps Partners Performance Partnerships and collaboration are essential to the Safety is our number one priority.
We look to long-term success of our business.
We work closely generate value from mine to market and also to withtechnology partners, local suppliers, governments, prioritise value over volume in our investment community groups, industry leaders and NGOs at all stages decisions.
We work to maximise value in other of the mining lifecycle, from exploration to rehabilitation and ways for example, by developing new markets closure.
We believe this gives us a competitive edge and also for our materials and by focusing on operating allows us to work more thoughtfully and responsibly, and excellence to improve efficiency.
todeliver real benefits to all our stakeholders.
com Strategic report The way we work We deliver both our purpose and our strategy through The way we work.
Our values Safety Caring for human life and wellbeing aboveeverything else This means: we make the safety and wellbeing of our employees, contractors and communities our number one priority.
Safelylooking after the environment is an essential part of our careforfuture generations.
Teamwork Collaborating for success This means: we work together with colleagues, partners and communities globally to deliver the products our customers need.
Welearn from each other to improve our performance and achievesuccess.
Respect Fostering inclusion  This means: we recognise and respect diverse cultures, communities and points of view.
We treat each other with fairness and dignity to make the most of everyones contributions.
Integrity Having the courage and commitment to do theright thing This means: we do the right thing, even when this is challenging.
Wetake ownership of what we do and say.
And we are honest and clearwith each other, and with everyone we work with.
Excellence Being the best we can be for superiorperformance This means: we challenge ourselves and others to create lasting value and achieve high performance.
We adopt a pioneering mindsetand aim to do better every day.
Business model and strategy | The way we work continued Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
