Gary Bullard Non-Executive Chief Executive Finance Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chairman Experience Martin has extensive Prior to joining Rotork in Jonathan joined Rotork in Lucinda was Chief Financial Gary previously held senior experience in the global February of 2018, Kevin 2002 after holding a number Officer of the British Land management positions, Company pie until January including sales and engineering sector.
He served as the CEO of FDH of finance positions in listed worked for IMI pie for over Velocitel, a private equity companies.
She served on the marketing roles, at IBM and experience of the Rotork board of British Land from BT Group pie and was a 33 years in a number of backed real-estate, senior management roles, engineering and business initially as Group 2011 and now holds a non-executive director joining the IMI board in construction business serving Financial Controller, and number of non-executive of Chloride Group pie.
1996, and serving as Chief the telecommunications and then as Finance Director of directorships.
Gary held the position of Executive from 2001 to infrastructure industries in the Rotork Controls division, President Logica UK until 2013.
He has served on the North America.
Prior to this, and in 2010 was appointed October 2012 and was a boards of a number of Kevin was an executive Group Finance Director.
member of the Executive engineering businesses in a advisor to several private Committee of Logica pie.
His roles both in the public and included CEO of a speciality private equity arena.
valve manufacturer and executive chairman of an engineered high-pressure vessel company serving the cryogenics and LNG industries.
From 2005 to 2012, Kevin was in various senior executive roles at the publicly traded IDEX Corporation, including serving as an officer of the company where he led the Fluid and Metering Technologies Segment.
Kevin also had responsibility for leading their Asia and Emerging Markets businesses.
From 1997 to 2004, he held a number of business leadership positions and senior strategic and business development roles at Ingersoll Rand.
Appointment 2014 2018 2010 2014 2010 External appointments Chairman of Evoqua Water N A N A Non-executive director of Founder and CEO of Catquin Technologies Corp Derwent London pie Ltd Member of the European Non-executive director of Chairman of New Model Advisory Board of AEA Crest Nicholson Holdings pie Identity Ltd Investors UK Ltd Treasurer and National Non-executive director and Trustee at Citizens Advice Remuneration Committee Chair of Spirent Communications pie Non-executive chairman of Gooch & Housego pie N NO R N A 0 52 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 8.
Sally James Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Andersen Director Non-Executive Director Nomination From April 2019, Peter will Sally James was appointed Tim Cobbold has extensive Ann Christin is currently N Committee be Chief Operating Officer as Senior Independent experience in leading large, Chief Digital Officer of TechnipFMC pie, a global of Melrose pie, the FTSE 100 Director of Rotork pie on complex international listed Remuneration industrial business that 27 February 2017.
She was businesses having previously company that provides R Committee been the Chief Executive projects and services for the recently acquired GKN.
Managing Director and Prior to this, Peter spent General Counsel of UBS Officer of Chloride Group energy industry.
She brings Audit A Committee seven years as Chief Investment Bank EMEA pie, fide La Rue pie and most 30 years of experience from Executive Officer of from 2001 to 2008, and recently, UBM pie.
Prior the oil and gas industry, Denotes international recycling previously held a number to this he held senior where she has served Chair companies Renewi pie and of senior legal roles in management positions at in a variety of senior Shanks Group pie.
Peter has investment banks in London Smiths Group Tl Group management positions.
an engineering background and Chicago.
She has been where he worked for In addition, Ann Christin has served as a non-executive and before joining Shanks non-executive director of 18 years.
He has been a Group, he was a senior Moneysupermarket.
com non-executive director at director of Veidekke ASA Drax pie for the past eight and currently holds a executive at Danaher Group PLC since April 2013, Corporation, a leading non-executive director of years.
Tim qualified as a director position with chartered accountant at Glitre Energi, a renewable global industrial business Rotork pie since May 2012, listed on the NYSE.
Before and non-executive director Price Waterhouse.
Danaher, Peter was at the of Bank of America Merrill Boston Consulting Group Lynch International Limited BCG based in both London DAC since December 2018. and Chicago... z z r, V, m z vi 2017 2012 2018 2018 r, 0 ::: Non-executive director of Chief Digital Officer of z CEO of Renewi pie Non-executive director, - Moneysupermarket.
"com TechnipFMC pie Drax pie z Group pie Director, Glitre Energi 0 Non-executive director of ""' ::: Abdi Limited 0 Non-executive director of z Hermes Investment Management Trustee of Legal Education Foundation N A R N R A N R A N R A ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 53"
