Our Business Performance UK Personal & Business Banking UK Personal & Business Banking provides a comprehensive range of banking products and related financial services to the personal, private and small business segments in the UK.
Offering 24 7 banking facilities, customers are served through the NatWest and Royal Bank of Scotland network and distribution channels.
Ulster Bank RoI Ulster Bank RoI provides a comprehensive range of financial services through Personal and Commercial Banking divisions.
Personal Banking provides loan and deposit products through a network of branches and direct channels, including the internet, mobile and telephony.
Commercial Banking provides services to business and corporate customers, including small and medium enterprises.
Commercial Banking Commercial Banking offers comprehensive banking and financing solutions to commercial and corporate customers in the UK.
This includes financing business assets and invoices, as well as providing specialist finance and transaction services, through a dedicated network of relationship managers.
We continue to digitise the customer experience, through our growing digital channels and propositions.
Private Banking Private Banking serves UK connected high net worth individuals and their business interests.
We continue to focus on delivering the best client experience through a pro-active engagement model which supports clients across both sides of their balance sheet.
Our client-centric strategy is focused on improving returns by deepening client relationships and improving our digital banking capabilities to make it easier for clients to deal with us.
RBS International RBS International serves retail, commercial, corporate and financial institution customers in Jersey, Guernsey, Isle of Man and Gibraltar and financial institution customers in Luxembourg and London, supported by our market leading brands such as NatWest International and Coutts Crown Dependency.
Across our personal banking propositions we continue to maintain our position as market leader in the Isle of Man and top three market positions in Guernsey and Jersey.
NatWest Markets In NatWest Markets we help global financial institutions and corporates manage their financial risks and achieve their short and long-term financial goals while navigating changing markets and regulation.
We do this by providing global market access, financing, risk management and trading solutions.
24 UK Personal & Business Banking We are focused on serving customers brilliantly.
This means treating customers fairly, offering them flexibility in how they choose to bank with us and offering extra help to vulnerable customers and those in financial difficulty.
It also means keeping their funds safe and secure, improving financial capability, and supporting them in the moments that matter.
Despite a highly uncertain economic We were the first bank to launch a We have over 850 branches, which outlook, and a continued low interest paperless mortgage process with is the second largest branch network rate environment, we delivered an customers continuing to embrace across the UK.
99.7% of the UK operating profit of 2,458 million in the simplicity and ease of our market population live within 15 minutes 2018 as we delivered an operating leading innovation.
Approximately of a branch, a mobile-van stop or a expense reduction of 347 million in half of all mortgage applications in Q4 Post Office location and our fleet of 2018, or 9% compared with 2017.
As a proactive 41 mobile vans serve more than 600 bank we are using automation and communities each week.
We are also Gross new mortgage lending in 2018 technology to simplify and streamline proud to have the most professional was 30.4 billion, giving a market share our key customer journeys.
We are also workforce of any bank in the UK, with of 11.3% and supporting stock share continuing to invest in roles such as over 13,000 colleagues achieving their of around 10%.
In achieving this, the Community Banker and TechXperts Professional Banker Certificate.
business has maintained a prudent to help customers get the most from approach to risk and pricing, in a our award-winning digital services very competitive market.
including our mobile banking app which now has 6.4 million regular users and was awarded Best Banking App at the British Banking Awards in 2018.
Ulster Bank RoI We are focused on our strategic ambition to become the number one bank in the Republic of Ireland for customer service, trust and advocacy.
We have continued to deliver on growth in new lending, building lasting relationships with customers and on digital and technological innovation that creates benefits for customers and operational efficiency.
Operating profit was 15 million The Help for what matters initiative are choosing to bank with us through compared with a loss of 151 million and First Five mortgage campaign digital channels.
Total income of 689 million continued to support lending growth in faster, more convenient and secure remained stable with the prior year 2018.
New mortgage lending increased digital application experience for and operating expenses decreased by 13% to 1.13 billion, compared to customers applying for current by 115 million, or 14.9%.
Net loans 2017, supported by a positive uptake on accounts and personal loans and made reduced by 1.0 billion principally the market leading two, four and seven further enhancements to the mobile reflecting the successful sale of a year fixed rate products.
Mobile payments portfolio of non-performing loans and transfers increased 36% on prior We have continued to strengthen our of 0.6 billion which contributed to a year, reflecting the continued customer digital proposition in 2018 through reduction in the non-performing loan migration from physical to digital enhancements to digital and mobile ratio from 16.7% in 2017 to 11.3% in 2018. channels.
69% of our active personal current account customers 25 Commercial Banking 2 In our position as the largest UK Operating profit was 1,358 million This is the largest value offered 1 commercial bank, with professional compared with 944 million in 2017. by a UK commercial bank, giving 2 relationship management at our core Total income was 3,374 million customers rapid, digital access to and a strong regional network, we 2017 3,238million and operating funding decisions, with around 50% of 2 provide deep sector and business expenses decreased by 132 million, loan applications given a decision in insight to help UK businesses and or 6.6%, reflecting continued operating principle in under 24 hours.
This model simplification and efficiencies.
Notes: commitment and support has 1 Market share includes personal bank accounts generated market-leading customer In the year, we made 10.5 billion used as business accounts: includes NatWest, RBS & W&G: Source Charterhouse Business Banking Survey, advocacy.
In 2018, within total utilised RWA reductions through active capital Q4 2018.
Sample size 3,075: lending of around 90 billion, we either management activity, leading also sample size excluding dont knows: NatWest 598 : Royal Bank of Scotland 271.
Question: How likely made or renewed commitments for to lower impairment loss rates.
would you be to recommend bank.
Base: Claimed around 30 billion of term lending main bank.
Data weighted by region and turnover to be representative of businesses in Great Britain.
facilities, of which 18 billion utilised Customer banking preferences as at 31 December 2018, to our mainly continue to evolve and we are working 2 Comparisons with prior periods are impacted by transfers in preparation for ring-fencing.
Additionally hard to anticipate and respond.
impact of these transfers on 2017 operating profit at Q3 2018, we provided a further Approximately 85% of customers now would have been to reduce income by 246 million, operating expenses by 10 million and impairments 2 billion of growth funding to help interact with us digitally and we have by 72 million.
The variances in the commentary British businesses prepare for the developed solutions they value.
We have been adjusted for the impact of these transfers.
Brexit transition, bringing the total successfully launched our Bankline commitment to 3 billion.
Mobile in the Apple app store, while our lending journey now enables customers to apply digitally for loans of up to 750,000 through a self-service application process.
Private Banking Through the Coutts and Adam & Company brands, our business provides private banking and wealth management services to UK connected high net worth clients with domestic and international needs.
Coutts is recognised as one of the leading private banks, wealth and investment managers in the UK with a 325 year history.
A strategy of providing a personal approach to private banking and wealth management, combined with outstanding brand recognition, drove strong customer volumes in 2018.
Operating profit was 303 million We gained further external recognition We continue to shift from a physical compared with 152 million in 2017. to a digital client offering as we for our investment management 1 Total income was 775 million 2017 performance having won two Gold deliver more innovative solutions.
1 702 million and operating expenses Approximately 60% of clients bank awards at the Portfolio Advisor Wealth decreased by 66 million, or 12.1%, as Manager PAM awards in 2018. with us digitally, and 94% of clients we continued to focus on front-to-back positively rate our Coutts24 telephony Note: simplification and the digitalisation service.
We also recently launched 1 Comparisons with prior periods are impacted of key processes.
Net lending growth Coutts Connect, a social platform by the transfers in preparation for ring-fencing.
The net impact of the transfers on 2017 would have was 0.9 billion, or 6.7%, compared which allows clients to network and been to increase income by 24 million and increase with 2017.
Assets under management build working relationships between operating expenses by 15 million.
The net impact on the 2017 balance sheet would have been to reduce net have decreased by 1.0 billion, or 4.8%, one another.
loans to customers by 0.1 billion and assets under reflecting negative market movements management by 0.7 billion.
The variances in the commentary have been adjusted for the impact partially offset by new business inflows of these transfers.
26 RBS International We are one of the largest banks These changes preserve value for the 71% of wholesale customer payments operating in the Channel Islands, banking group, provide continuity for are now processed using our newly Isle of Man and Gibraltar and in 2017 our customers and support compliance introduced international banking established new wholesale branches with incoming Basel III Liquidity platform, making the payments in Luxembourg and London.
In line Coverage Ratio rules.
with the wider Group we are focused on serving customers well and Operating profit was 336 million We transformed our retail branches in becoming a bank that is simpler compared with 304 million in 2017. each of our jurisdictions to include self 1 and easier to deal with.
Total income was 594 million 2017 service automation terminals giving 540 million, the increase largely customers more options in how they During 2018, we repositioned our driven by deposit margin benefits.
bank with us and in 2018 we helped our 1 balance sheet so that excess funds Operating expenses increased by customers buy over 1000 new homes.
were no longer up streamed to 27 million, or 11.6%, primarily due to RBS.
Instead some funds have been 39 million higher back-office costs 2018 was a very successful year for deployed into funding customer assets associated with becoming a non ringcommunity investment activities in our new London branch which fenced bank.
Net loans to customers across all of our jurisdictions due looks after long-standing alternative were 13.2 billion and gross new to the commitment and generosity investment fund customers who mortgage lending in 2018 was 0.3 of our colleagues who supported could not remain inside the UK ringbillion compared with 0.5 billion in our Do Good Feel Good Campaign.
Note: liquidity portfolio across central and 1 Comparisons with prior periods are impacted by correspondent banks and sovereign Our mobile app has been further the transfers in relation to ring-fencing.
The net impact of the transfers on 2017 would have increased income bond holdings.
developed to include new functionality, by 151 million and increase operating expenses by allowing customers to manage their 14 million.
The net impact on the 2017 balance sheet would have been to increase net loans to customers finances more effectively and we have by 4.5 billion.
The variances in the commentary have 23% more users compared with 2017 been adjusted for the impact of these transfers.
NatWest Markets We continue to put customers at the centre of the way we do business and have focused on the core products and markets where we have a strong track record, longstanding relationships and market leading positions.
An operating loss of 70 million compared with a loss of 977 million in 1 2017.
Total income increased by 288 million, or 25.0%, primarily reflecting lower disposal losses in the legacy to 238 million, and reduced litigation Awards and rankings and conduct costs, down 84 million to S terling Bond House of the Year 2018 business and a 165 million indemnity insurance recovery, partially offset 153 million.
Source:International Financing Review IFR by lower income in the core business.
The reduction in the core business was NatWest Markets is increasingly using # 1 for Overall Service Quality for UK technology to enhance the way it Corporate Source: 2017 Greenwich driven by challenging fixed income, currencies and commodities FICC provides innovative financial solutions Associates FX Survey to its customers and partners.
For T ied #1 for Rates Service Quality market conditions in Q4 2018, together with turbulence in European bond example, FXmicropay makes it simpler UK FIs Government Bonds and for businesses operating globally to Interest Rate Derivative Investors markets earlier in the year.
accept payments in multiple currencies, Source: Greenwich Associates, reducing costs and increasing revenues European Fixed Income 2018 Rates.
Operating expenses decreased by 595 million, or 27.1%.
This reflects for our customers.
Our success in Note: 1 1 Comparisons with 2017 are impacted by the harnessing technology has been reductions in other expenses across transfer of business activities in preparation for both the core and legacy businesses, recognised with the award for Best in ring-fencing.
The net impact of the transfers would have been to increase total income by 104 million Service Globally among Corporates down 313 million to 1,213 million, in 2017 and reduce operating expenses by 2 million lower strategic costs, down 198 million for Algorithmic trading in the 2018 in 2017.
The commentary has been adjusted for the impact of these transfers.
