The Board is responsible for determining the RISK APPETITE nature and extent of the risks it is willing to FRAMEWORK take in achieving its strategic objectives.
Our Group Risk Appetite Statement is designed to set the right tone from the top and support decision making.
Risk appetite statement Risk appetite framework approach Rotork is a growth company and will continue We have applied the RAF throughout 2018, incorporating this into Board decision to pursue both organic and acquisition-led making.
The approach taken by the Board is summarised below: initiatives to drive future growth.
We are embarking on a Growth Acceleration Programme, investing in technology, new products and new service infrastructure that Identify key decisions and underlying parameters are relevant in a rapidly changing market, but only where there is evidence of market For a given Board decision, underlying parameters are identified opportunity.
We will not dilute the core values and considered alongside the likely impacts of the decision: associated with the Rotork brand.
We will Impact types Potential decision points maintain the current level of operational risk and outcomes.
and will not risk the financial stability of the company through the pursuit of development opportunities.
Who: Group Finance Director and Head of Risk & Internal Audit The RAF provides qualitative and quantitative insight on key risks and supports proactive mitigation planning.
The RAF consists of: Evaluate potential decisions against Group risk appetite 0 Risk Appetite Dimensions Potential decisions are evaluated against the Potential decisions are assessed against over-arching principles articulated through the detailed Group risk appetite metrics, 0 Risk Appetite Statements the Group Risk Appetite Statement.
for example: Do the forecast returns justify the additional risk taken on?
0 Risk Appetite Preferences 0 Key Risk Indicators KRls Who: Board During 2018, we revised the RAF to reflect changes to the nature of Rotork's business Evaluate specific risk appetite dimensions and its operating environment.
We updated the Board's risk appetite dimensions, Potential decisions are evaluated against the specific risk appetite statements and preferences, which inform the dimensions, statements and KRls, considering: KRls monitored by the Board, and enhanced The key risk appetite How the KRIS are expected Whether the impact the analysis and reporting of those risks dimensions related to the to be impacted by the supports our desired appetite which exceed appetite.
for the given risk s. decision.
The risk appetite statements provide guiding principles to support decision-making at both Who: Board a Board level and throughout the wider Group.
The Board sets the Group's risk appetite preference for each dimension, Assess and refine Risk Appetite Framework stating whether we are tolerant, neutral or averse to a particular risk dimension.
These The RAF is continuously refined in light of the decisions made.
preferences guide the Group's approach to We then use the RAF to determine: managing risk.
Where we are Where further Whether decisions How the RAF could willing to take on action is needed to expose us to better support the additional risk.
manage risk within additional risk Board's decision our appetite.
dimensions not making process in currently identified.
Who: Group Finance Director and Head of Risk & Internal Audit, with Board sign-off See principal risks and uncertainties o n pages 26 -28 CO 24 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Risk appetite dimension Statement KRls Acquisitions We will pursue acquisition opportunities that are in line with None.
our growth agenda and review each on its individual merits and expected benefits.
Control environment We will set a minimum standard of control globally, and invest Number of control breaches identified by internal in order to further strengthen the control environment of the audit in the highest two categories.
business, including in second and third lines of defence.
Control environment - We will continue to review current external and internal cyber PC system security compliance.
cyber threats so that the business is protected from these threats Server system security compliance.
and ensure that we have appropriate processes in place to % of staff who are up to date with security respond to a successful cyber-attack.
Culture and We will have a regard to our culture in considering strategic None.
behaviours decisions and recognise some change in culture may be required to deliver our objectives.
We will seek opportunities to maximise on the benefits of our culture and ensure that our culture supports the needs of our strategy.
Earnings volatility We have limited appetite for volatility in underlying earnings, Level of hedging cover for currency exposures.
but would consider growth acceleration opportunities that Current year adjusted operating profit.
would increase the risk of earnings volatility, if the upside Order book coverage of in year revenue forecasts.
Geopolitical We will continue to operate a geographically diverse business % of Group revenue from risky countries by: and actively pursue opportunities to maximise upon greater Subsidiary location - forecast: critical mass and increased efficiency of global supply chains.
Risky countries are defined in the AON Political Risk Map 2018.
Health and safety We are fully committed to ensuring the safety of all our LTIR incidents leading to absence.
Health and safety audit scores.
"Number of near misses reported. ""'"
z l Legal and regulatory We have zero tolerance for non-compliance with relevant laws Number of confirmed significant regulatory z m compliance and regulations in the markets in which we operate.
"breaches external investigations notification or "" approach from a regulator."
Market and industry We will, in the long term, move to increase the size of the % of Group revenue by industry.
addressable markets which we serve.
Operational - We will use our purchasing power to optimise our vendor Number of critical components which are single supply chain base, ensure value for money and reduce lead times whilst sourced.
Operational - We will take on sales projects, including complex, extended Major contracts approved.
sales projects scope and long-term maintenance contracts, but wi ll only do so on acceptable terms and conditions.
-n z l z Operational footprint We want to optimise our operational infrastructure to ensure None.
"we make the most of our resources and facilities, processes "" and core competencies, and ensure it meets the future needs E of the business."
m z People - We will invest in ensuring that we have the right people, with None..... V, talent management the right skills to deliver our strategy.
This will include ensuring that we maintain appropriate succession plans, develop and attract the right talent.
People - We will ensure that management capacity is sufficient to None.
management capacity implement our strategy and that business decisions do not negatively influence our day to day business.
Product We will invest in R&D in order to retain a differentiated Actual R&D investment.
product portfolio and will support this by providing a leading Market opportunities and competitor actions.
"0 "" :::: service element to our offering."
"We will invest in new ""I: products and technologies where there is evidence of market z - opportunity."
"z 0 Quality We will maintain robust quality control procedures over % of service labour used on warranty activity. ""'"
:::: components purchased and over our finished product in all of Number of significant warranty incidents.
Number of significant safety incidents.
z Tax We do not pursue aggressive tax planning schemes, and Monitoring of Group effective tax rates.
consider the tax impact in making business decisions.
Number of tax audits carried out against the Group.
This framework enables Rotork to have better visibility of which risks potentially need additional mitigation, which risks are potentially over managed, and where we have appetite to accept additional risk.
