We are currently in the execution phase of OUR STRATEGY the detailed review conducted in 2018 of our routes to market, innovation funnel, operations footprint, supply chain, talent development and IT systems.
The review included feedback from our business partners.
The full impact will be seen in the longer term and our progress in the past few months is on plan.
Strategic initiatives Progress in 2018 Strategic objectives We delivered revenue growth of Sales growth - Penetrate 8.3%.
While some project activity has underserved markets and slowed, our sales pipeline has seen an geographies with focused ACCELERATED uplift from greater interest in US commercial activities.
GROWTH Innovation - Accelerate new product We have introduced a number of development and launches with new, intelligent products such as a smart position indicator and fugitive increased rigour in processes and Deliver accelerated Maximise our return on lean development philosophies.
year-on-year growth in capital through We increased the number of service Service growth - Continue to revenues and profits optimising engineers by 9% and the number of leverage our growing installed base through a combination manufacturing and actuators under a maintenance in aftermarket parts and services as of organic growth and supply chain processes.
well as Integrated Asset acquisition.
Our M&A pipeline is healthy and we Management solutions.
have continued to have conversations and cultivation meetings with a Acquisitions - Growth to expand into number of potential targets.
adjacent markets, new geographies, new platforms and segments, new offerings and technologies.
We consolidated two sites into one in Manufacturing excellence - the US.
Our plans for a new Consolidate operations and develop manufacturing facility and global STRONG efficient, effective world-class headquarters in Bath, UK continue to manufacturing facilities.
MARGINS Cost management - Continued cost We delivered annualised cost savings management, reflecting current of 1.7m in 2018 from sourcing initiatives.
market condition and development Maintain strong and of the global supply chain.
We initiated the roll out of our new sustainable margins ERP system.
through our market Global business systems - Develop We have divested two non-core, low leading position and and rollout our global business margin businesses and closed a small innovative products systems to enable more efficient engineering office.
We maintained our focus on our Positive customer experience - customers having a positive Enhance our customer facing experience, focusing on response processes to reflect current market times and providing the appropriate c-:- SUSTAINABILITY requirements.
Our aftermarket service team assists customers in Employee development - Invest to resolving any issues as they arise.
support our growth strategy and promote diversity and inclusion We recruited a new Global HR Director and conducted a global throughout the Group.
Maintain our track Be the supplier of choice training audit to help us understand record of strong cash for our customers, CSR - Communicate best practice further the key global capability builds generation to sustaining our revenue throughout the Group, training those to focus on.
responsible and, where appropriate, Our CSR sub-committees continued sheet and ensure we verifying adoption in each subsidiary.
to promote improvements in health Be the employer of have sufficient resources and safety, monitor initiatives to for investment in choice, developing and reduce CO, emissions, provide retaining our talented innovation and training on ethical behaviour and our acquisitions.
employees gave their time and money to many charities around the world.
