"INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ROTORK PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements of Rotork pie the 'parent company' and its subsidiaries the 'group' give a true and fair view of the state of the group's and of the parent company's affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the group's profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 ""Reduced Disclosure Framework"": and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation."
We have audited the financial statements which comprise: the consolidated income statement: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: the consolidated and parent company balance sheets: the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity: the consolidated statement of cash flows: the related notes 1 to 30 to the group financial statements: and the related notes a to i to the company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
"The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 ""Reduced Disclosure Framework"" United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice."
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Council's the 'FRC's' Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRC's Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: inflation and discount rate assumptions used in the UK defined benefit pension scheme valuation: and revenue recognition in respect of significant new contracts or orders with non-standard or unusual terms.
Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with @ and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year identified with Materiality The materiality that we used for the group financial statements was 6.0 million which was determined on the basis of a percentage of profit before tax after certain adjusted items.
The percentage based on final reported results was 4.9% of the base profit number.
Scoping Based on our assessment we identified 16 components which, in our view, required a full scope audit of their financial information in order to ensure that sufficient appropriate audit evidence was obtained.
We identified a further two components on which we perform specified audit procedures.
Based on the work performed at these 18 components, our scope covered 73% of group revenue and 85% of group profit before tax.
Significant changes Our approach to materiality and scoping is consistent with last year.
in our approach We have included a key audit matter in the year in respect of revenue recognition on significant new contracts with non-standard or unusual terms reflecting the additional focus on this risk area of the first time application of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
Last year our report included a key audit matter in respect of the impairment of goodwill and intangibles in the Bifold cash generating unit 'CGU', which is not included in our report this year.
We concluded that this area did not represent a key audit matter in the current year following the impairment recognised in the prior year, the consistent approach to assessing goodwill for impairment, and the financial performance of the Bifold CGU in the current year.
86 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We confirm that We have reviewed the directors' statement in note 1 to the financial statements about whether they considered we have nothing it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material to report, material uncertainties to the group's and company's ability to continue to do so over a period of at least add or draw 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
attention to in respect of these We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the group, its business model and related risks matters.
including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the directors' assessment of the group's ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, and evaluated the directors' plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that Based solely on reading the directors' statements and considering whether they were consistent with the we have nothing material to report, knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the directors' assessment of the group's and the company's ability to continue as a going concern, we are required add or draw to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: attention to in respect of these the disclosures on pages 26-29 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: matters.
"the directors' confirmation on page 29 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors' explanation on page 29 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what Cl period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to ""' whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet z z its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing m "" attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions."
We are also required to report whether the directors' statement relating to the prospects of the group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Inflation and discount rate assumptions used in defined benefit pension liability valuation Key audit matter The Group had a net defined benefit pension liability of 27.3m and gross defined benefit pension liabilities of description 207.0m at 31 December 2018 2017: 48.2m net: 237.1m gross.
The UK defined benefit scheme accounts for a significant majority of these balances and so this scheme is the focus of our key audit matter.
There is a risk of material misstatement relating to judgements made by management and their actuaries in @ valuing the defined benefit pension scheme liabilities.
Small changes in the key input assumptions can have a significant impact on the valuation of the liability and resultant gains or losses recognised in the year.
Sensitivities to key inputs are explained by management in note 24 Pension Schemes.
Given these sensitivities we consider the key audit matter to be focused on the discount and inflation rate assumptions.
Refer to further detail provided in the Audit Committee report on page 62 and the disclosures regarding key sources of estimation uncertainty in note 1 to the financial statements.
"0 How the scope In order to address this risk we have performed the following procedures: "" :::: of our audit assessed the design and implementation of key controls performed by management in considering the key z responded to the inputs to the pension liability valuation model: - z key audit matter utilised our benchmarking tools with the support of our internal specialists to establish a reasonable range 0 for the key assumptions in order to challenge the appropriateness of the inflation and discount rate ""' :::: assumptions used in respect of the UK scheme: assessed the work of management's experts by considering their scope of work, objectivity, and capability 6 z '5 - as well as assessing the output of their work: considered the adequacy of the Group's disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the deficit to changes in these key assumptions."
We have engaged internal actuarial specialists to assist in evaluating the key assumptions used in the valuation of liabilities.
Our audit response to this key audit matter does not rely on controls and therefore we have not tested the operating effectiveness of relevant controls.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 87 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ROTORK PLC CONTINUED Inflation and discount rate assumptions used in defined benefit pension liability valuation B continued Key observations We are satisfied that the inflation and discount rate assumptions applied in respect of the valuation of the defined benefit pension scheme liability are within a reasonable range.
@ Revenue recognition in respect of significant new contracts or orders with non-standard or unusual terms @ Key audit matter Revenue is a key metric for the group and there can be judgement in the determination of how to apply description accounting policies in respect of contracts or orders with non-standard or unusual terms.
The group has applied IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers for the first time in the year having initially concluded in 2017 that it would not have a material impact.
Refer to note 1 to the financial statements for an explanation of the v-J transition exercise as well as the revised revenue accounting policy.
@ Our key audit matter focuses on the risk that incorrect judgements, arising through fraud or error, are made in applying IFRS 15 to significant contracts or orders with non-standard or unusual terms such as non-standard warranties or multiple and varied performance obligations.
How the scope In order to address this risk we have performed the following procedures: of our audit assessed the design and implementation of key group-wide controls in place to address the judgements responded to the made in applying the group's revenue recognition policy to significant new contracts: key audit matter reviewed the amendments to the revenue recognition policy of the group resulting from the transition to IFRS 15: on a sample basis inspected the underlying contracts or orders and other source documentation for new significant arrangements entered into in the year: and where multiple performance obligations are identified within a contract we recalculated a reasonable allocation of 'e - the total transaction price in order to assess whether revenue has been recognised accurately in the year.
Key observations We are satisfied that the revenue is accurately recorded on the significant contracts of the group, in line with IFRS 15.
@ Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality 6.0m 2017 5.0m 3.6m 2017 2 Sm Basis for Materiality was determined as 4.9% of profit before tax Parent company materiality equates to 1.5% of net determining excluding the impact of certain adjusting items 2017: assets 2017: 2.0% of net assets, which is capped at materiality 5.3% profit before tax excluding certain adjusting items.
These items are disclosed as adjusting in note 4 to the financial statements but we don't adjust for the items that occur every year being amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
In the year ended 31 December 2018 the adjustments we make to profit before tax represent a charge of 2.
Rationale for Adjusted profit before tax reflects the manner in which Net assets are considered to be an appropriate the benchmark business performance is reported and assessed by benchmark for the parent company given that it is applied external users of the financial statements.
A set percentage of Group with last year we have adopted this measure, as defined materiality was applied to the Company based upon above, as it provides a consistent year on year basis for the scoping of components, assessing the risk within determining materiality.
the company compared to others within the Group.
88 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 PBT adjusted for certain items 123.
Gm Group materiality 6.0m Component materiality range 2.4m to 3.6m PBT adjusted for certain items Group materiality Audit committee reporting threshold 0.3m We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 300,000 2017: 250,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at a group level.
Our approach was consistent with that adopted in the prior year.
Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 16 components which were subject to a full scope audit and on a further two components which were subject to specified audit procedures.
The 18 locations 2017: 19 locations represent the principal business units within the Group's four reportable segments across 11 countries and account for 73% of the Group's revenues 2017: 72% and 85% of profit before tax 2017: 86%.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work Cl at these locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality ranging from 2.4m to 3.6m 2017: 2.
"z z Revenue Profit before tax m "" 15% 0 27."
78% 66% Full audit scope Full audit scope Specialised audit procedures Specialised audit procedures Review at group level Review at group level Due to the significance to the group audit of the 16 components' operations subject to full scope audits, a programme has been designed and implemented for senior members of the group audit team to periodically visit the most significant components.
As part of the 2018 audit, senior members of the group audit team visited key components in the United Kingdom, United States of America and Italy.
For each of the businesses included within the programme of planned visits, the group audit team also discusses audit findings with the relevant component audit team throughout the audit engagement and reviews relevant audit working papers.
For the remaining locations where full scope audits were completed, we discuss audit findings with the relevant component audit team, review certain audit working papers in relation to key issues and discuss key matters with component management where considered necessary in forming our group audit opinion.
At the parent entity level, we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to full scope audit.
None of these components represented more than 3% of revenue or profit before taxation individually.
"0 "" :::: z - z 0 ""' :::: 6 z ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 89 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ROTORK PLC CONTINUED Other information We have nothing The directors are responsible for the other information."
The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditor's report thereon.
to report in respect of these matters.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable - the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the group's position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting - the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors' statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code - the parts of the directors' statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the company's compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors' responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the group's and the parent company's ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRC's website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditor's report.
Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: enquiring of management, internal audit, in-house legal counsel and the audit committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the group's policies and procedures relating to: - identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance: - detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: - the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations: discussing among the engagement team including significant component audit teams and involving relevant internal specialists, including tax, valuations, pensions and IT specialists regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this discussion, we identified potential for fraud in revenue recognition on non-standard contracts as a result of the potential for significant judgements to be made in the determination of revenue: and obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework that the group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the financial statements or that had a fundamental effect on the operations of the group.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included the UK Companies Act, Listing Rules, pensions and tax legislation.
90 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Audit response to risks identified As a result of performing the above, we identified revenue recognition in respect of significant new contracts or orders with non standard or unusual terms as a fraud risk and a key audit matter.
The key audit matters section of our report explains the matter in more detail and also describes the specific procedures we performed in response to that key audit matter.
In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations discussed above: enquiring of management, the audit committee and in-house legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud: reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance and reviewing internal audit reports: and in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments: assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists and significant component audit teams, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors' remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
"In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: Cl the information given in the strategic report and the directors' report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and ""' z the strategic report and the directors' report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements."
"z m "" In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and of the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors' report."
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or report in respect of adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit these matters.
have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors' remuneration We have nothing to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors' report in respect of remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors' remuneration report to be audited is not in these matters.
agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the Audit Committee on 2 June 2014 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2014 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is five years, covering the years ending 31 December 2014 to 31 December 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
"Use of our report 0 "" This report is made solely to the company's members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006."
Our :::: audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company's members those matters we are required to state to them in an z - auditor's report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other z than the company and the company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
"0 ""' :::: 6 z Nigel Thomas Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London 4 March 2019 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 91"
