Royal Mail plc | Directors report Share capital As at 25 March 2018, the Companys issued Directors report share capital comprised 1,000,000,000 ordinary shares of one penny each as set out in Note 23 to the accounts on page 142.
The Directors present their report together with audited financial A block listing of 5,000,000 shares was statements for the year ended 25 March 2018. undertaken in November 2014.
To date, no new shares have been issued.
Rights and obligations attaching to Strategic report Corporate governance statement shares voting To enable an assessment of how the The Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Subject to the provisions of the Articles, and Directors have performed their duty to Rules require certain information to to any special rights or restrictions as to promote the success of the Company, the be included in a Corporate Governance voting attached to any class of shares in the Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors Statement in the Directors Report.
This Company of which there is none, members to set out in this report a fair review of the information can be found in the Statement will be entitled to vote at a general meeting business of the Group during the year, the of Corporate Governance on pages 54-55. as follows: position of the Group at the end of the year It is incorporated into this Directors Report and a description of the principal risks facing by reference.
On a show of hands, every member the Group.
This information can be found in present in person has one vote.
Every Shares the following sections of the Annual Report proxy present who has been duly Final dividend and Financial Statements 2017-18 and are appointed by appointing one or more The Board recommends a final dividend incorporated by reference.
members will have one vote, except of 16.3 pence per ordinary share, giving a that a proxy has one vote for and one The information required to be disclosed in total dividend for the year of 24.0 pence vote against if the proxy has been duly the Annual Report under Listing Rule 9.8.
The final dividend will appointed by more than one member and is marked with an asterisk below.
be payable on 31 August 2018, subject to the proxy has been instructed by one or shareholder approval, to shareholders whose more members to vote for and by one or names appear on the register of members on Index Page more other members to vote against.
27 July 2018. Business model 14 For this purpose, the Articles provide that, Dividends and distribution where a proxy is given discretion as to Strategy for delivering objectives 16 The Company may by ordinary resolution how to vote on a show of hands, this will from time-to-time declare dividends not Results 26 be treated as an instruction by the relevant exceeding the amount recommended by member to vote in the way that the proxy Financial assets and liabilities 135 the Board.
Subject to the Companies Act decides to exercise that discretion.
2006, the Board may pay interim dividends, Principal risks 40 On a poll, every member has one vote per and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever share held by them and they may vote Corporate responsibility 48 the financial position of the Company, in in person or by appointing one or more the opinion of the Directors, justifies its Greenhouse gas emissions 51 proxies.
Where they appoint more than payment.
If the Board acts in good faith, it is one proxy, the proxies appointed, taken Disabled employees 50 not liable to holders of shares with preferred together, shall not have more extensive or pari passu rights for losses arising from Our people 48 voting rights than the member could the payment of interim or fixed dividends exercise in person.
Going concern 98 on other shares.
All dividends shall be apportioned and paid pro rata according to In the case of joint holders of a share, the Viability statement 46 the amounts paid up on the shares.
vote of the senior holder who tenders a Long-Term Incentive Plans 132 vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall Dividend waivers be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of 127 Statement of the amount of The trustee of the Royal Mail Share Incentive the other joint holders and, for this purpose, and interest capitalised Plan will not receive any dividends other seniority shall be determined by the order 130 than any special dividend declared by the in which the names stand in the register in Dividend waiver 96 Board on Free Shares which it has not been respect of the joint holding.
possible to award to, or which have been No member shall be entitled to vote at any forfeited by, participants in the plan.
Disclosure Guidance and general meeting or class meeting in respect Political donations Transparency Rules of any share held by him, or her, if any call No political donations were made during the The Strategic Report and the Directors or other sum then payable by him or her in year.
The Company intends to continue its Report together include the management respect of that share remains unpaid or if a policy of not making such donations for the report required by DTR 4.1 of the Disclosure member has been served with a restriction foreseeable future.
Guidance and Transparency Rules of the notice as defined in the Articles after failure UK Financial Conduct Authority Disclosure to provide the Company with information Future developments Guidance and Transparency Rules, the concerning interests in those shares required Possible future developments are described Directors having consulted with the to be provided under the Companies Act 2006. in Our Strategy on pages 16-17 and Principal Management on such matters.
Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
Risks on pages 40-45 of the Strategic Report.
96 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Voting instructions may be submitted rights to subscribe for or to convert any As at 16 May 2018, the Company had been electronically at www.
co. uk by security into shares in the Company: notified, in accordance with the Disclosure following the online instructions.
Guidance and Transparency Rules, of the a. up to a nominal amount of following interests amounting to three per 3,333,333: and Employees allocated Free Shares under the cent or more of the voting rights in the issued Employee Free Shares Offer, which are held b. comprising equity securities up to a ordinary share capital of the Company: in trust by the Trustee of the Royal Mail Share nominal amount of 6,666,666 such Incentive Plan, are entitled to exercise any amount to be reduced by any allotments % of Shareholder Number voting rights in respect of such Free Shares voting made under paragraph a above in of shares by instructing the Trustee how to vote on rights connection with an offer by way of a their behalf.
rights issue: BlackRock, Inc 55,076,360 5.50% The authorities conferred on the Directors Deadline for voting rights to allot securities under paragraph a Full details of the deadlines for exercising Amendment to the Companys Articles and b will expire on the date of the 2018 voting rights in respect of the resolutions of Association AGM or close of business on 30 July 2018, to be considered at the AGM, to be held on Any amendments to the Companys Articles whichever is sooner, the Expiry Date.
19 July 2018, will be set out in the Notice may be made in accordance with the The Directors will be seeking a new authority of AGM.
provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way for the Directors to allot shares and to of special resolution.
grant subscription and conversion rights to Special rights Directors ensure that the Directors continue to have There are no persons holding securities that the flexibility to act in the best interests of carry special rights with regard to the control Indemnity of Directors shareholders when opportunities arise by of the Group.
To the extent permitted by the Companies issuing new shares or granting such rights.
Acts, the Company may indemnify any Transfer of shares Director or former Director of the Company or The Board was also given authority to allot Subject to the Articles, any member may any associated company against any liability equity securities for cash or to sell Ordinary transfer all or any of his or her certificated and may purchase and maintain for any Shares as treasury shares for cash subject shares by an instrument of transfer in any Director or former Director of the Company to certain limitations, such authority to apply usual form or in any other form which the or any associated company insurance against until the Expiry Date.
The instrument of any liability.
transfer must be signed by or on behalf of the Purchase of own shares by the Company transferor and in the case of a partly-paid These types of indemnity are qualifying By a resolution passed by shareholders on share the transferee.
third-party indemnities as defined by section 20 July 2017, at the AGM, the Company was 243 of the Companies Act 2006.
No amount The transferor of a share is deemed to remain authorised to purchase up to a maximum was paid under this provision during the year.
the holder until the transferees name is number of 100,000,000 of its Ordinary Shares entered in the register.
pursuant to certain limitations, such power Appointment and replacement to apply until the Expiry Date.
The Company of Directors The Board can decline to register any transfer did not repurchase any of its Ordinary Shares Unless otherwise determined by ordinary of any share which is not a fully paid share.
during the year ended 25 March 2018. resolution of the Company, the Directors shall The Board may also decline to register a The Directors require express authorisation be no fewer than two and no more than 15 transfer of a certificated share unless the from shareholders to purchase our own in number.
Accordingly, at the 2018 AGM, the i. is duly stamped or certified or otherwise Directors may be appointed by the Company Directors will seek authority to make market shown to the satisfaction of the Board by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
purchases of up to a maximum of ten per to be exempt from stamp duty and is cent of issued share capital.
At the present In accordance with the Code, all Directors accompanied by the relevant share time, the Company has no plans to exercise of the Company are subject to annual certificate and such other evidence of this authority.
the right to transfer as the Board may reasonably require: A Director appointed by the Board holds office Employee Benefit Trust EBT only until the next AGM and is then eligible for As at 25 March 2018, a total of 513,230 ii.
is in respect of only one class of share: and election by the shareholders.
if to joint transferees, is in favour of not EBT on behalf of the Company.
The Companys Articles provide that, at each more than four such transferees.
AGM, all those Directors who have been in Substantial shareholdings Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated office at the time of the two preceding AGMs As at 25 March 2018, the Company had been share may be refused in the circumstances and who did not retire at either of them, or notified, in accordance with the Disclosure set out in the uncertificated securities rules who have held office with the Company, other Guidance and Transparency Rules, of the as defined in the Articles and where, in the than employment or executive office, for a following interests amounting to three per case of a transfer to joint holders, the number continuous period of nine years or more at cent or more of the voting rights in the issued of joint holders to whom the uncertificated the date of the AGM, shall retire from office ordinary share capital of the Company: share is to be transferred exceeds four.
and may offer themselves for re-appointment by shareholders.
The Board has, however, Authority of the Directors to allot shares % of decided to follow the Code as referred to Shareholder Number voting By a resolution passed by shareholders on above so that all Directors are subject to of shares rights 20 July 2017, at the AGM, the Directors were annual re-election.
authorised, subject to certain limitations, BlackRock, Inc 55,076,360 5.50% In addition to any power of removal conferred to allot shares in the Company and to grant by the Companies Act 2006, the Company Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 97 Royal Mail plc | Directors report Global Reporting Initiative Index and the may by special resolution remove any The Syndicated Loan Facility with various Companys performance is assessed against Director before the expiration of his or her financial institutions provides the Group international sustainability indices.
with a revolving credit facility for general Company reports progress against corporate corporate and working capital purposes.
Directors and their interests responsibility objectives under five areas: The agreement contains provision on The Directors of the Company during the Customer, People, Community, Suppliers and a change of control of the Group for year are given on pages 58-60.
See page 48 for a summary of negotiation of the continuation of the the interests of the Directors and, where key corporate responsibility aspects.
agreement or cancellation by a lender.
applicable, their Connected Persons in The 500 million bond issued by the the Ordinary Shares of the Company and Going concern Company in July 2014 contains provisions of Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards over These consolidated financial statements have such that, on a change of control that is Ordinary Shares of the Company are set out been prepared on a going concern basis.
combined with a credit rating downgrade in the Directors Remuneration Report on The financial performance and position of in certain circumstances, the noteholders pages 75-96. the Group, its cash flows and its approach may require the Company to redeem or, at to capital management are set out in the There are procedures in place to deal with the Companys option, purchase the notes Financial Review on pages 21-39.
The Board any conflicts of interest and these have for their principal amount, together with has reviewed the Groups projections for operated effectively.
interest accrued to but excluding the the next 12 months.
The Directors have a date of redemption or repurchase.
reasonable expectation that the Group has Powers of the Directors adequate resources to continue in operational The business of the Company will be Branches existence for at least 12 months.
managed by the Board who may exercise all As a global Group, our interests and the powers of the Company, subject to the activities are held or operated through Viability Statement provisions of the Articles, the Companies subsidiaries, branches, joint arrangements The Viability Statement is set out on page 46 Act 2006 and any ordinary resolution of or associates which are established in, and of the Strategic Report.
subject to the laws and regulations of, many different jurisdictions.
Audit information Directors annual bonus and Long-Term The Directors confirm that, so far as Incentive Plan awards upon a change New products and services they are aware, there is no relevant audit in the control of the Company In the ordinary course of business, the Group information as defined in section 418 of the Upon a change of control of the Company, develops new products and services in each Companies Act 2006 of which the Auditor share awards under the annual bonus and of its business units.
is unaware and that each Director has taken vesting under the 2014 LTIP or 2016 LTIP all reasonable steps to make themselves arrangements could pay out on a pro-rated Environmental, Social and aware of any relevant audit information and basis if the performance conditions have Governance risks to establish that the Auditor is aware of been met.
The performance-testing period The Strategic Report, together with that information.
would automatically end on the date of the greenhouse gas GHG emissions which are change in control.
Awards granted less discussed on page 52, sets out key The Directors confirm full compliance with than 12 months prior to a change in control environmental, social and governance ESG the Competition and Markets Authoritys would typically be pro-rated, unless the risks faced by the business.
Further Remuneration Committee decides otherwise.
information about the audit transition can The Board identifies and assesses significant be found on page 70 of the Audit and Risk risks, including those relating to ESG matters, Events after the reporting period Committee Report.
through the maintenance and review of the There were no events after the reporting period.
This contains significant This confirmation is given and should be current risks, including ESG risks, which are interpreted in accordance with the provisions Financial risk management identified at an early stage as part of the of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Groups financial risk management long-term business perspective.
objectives and policies and the main risks Disclaimer arising from the Groups financial assets and Emerging risk identification is conducted by The Disclaimer can be found on page 65 of liabilities are summarised in Note 21 to the experts in the business and risk management the Report.
See the financial risks is owned and managed at the operational and related hedging contained on page 33 of level, supported centrally.
An independent By Order of the Board.
the Financial Review in the Strategic Report.
effectiveness review by an independent external auditor confirmed good links between Change of control the strategy of the Company and currently The following agreements contain provisions identified risks and that appropriate Kulbinder Dosanjh permitting exercise of termination or other importance is placed on risk management by Company Secretary rights in the event of a change of control: executives within the Group.
The Company 16 May 2018 maintains a range of policies and procedures The Mails Distribution Agreement with Post for managing business risks, which include Royal Mail plc Office Limited provides for the supply of ESG-related matters.
100 Victoria Embankment certain services to the Group and allows for London a request for renegotiation of terms in the The Board annually reviews the Companys EC4Y OHQ event of a change of control of either party Corporate Responsibility Report, which covers where such change of control is likely to in detail the Groups non-financial ESG Company number 08680755 have a material adverse effect on the party performance.
The report is prepared in not undergoing the change of control.
alignment with the reporting framework of the 98 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information reasonably open to them to safeguard the Statement of Directors assets of the Group and to prevent and detect responsibilities in respect of the fraud and other irregularities.
Annual Report and Financial Under applicable law and regulations, the Statements 2017-18 Directors are also responsible for preparing a The Directors are responsible for preparing Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors the Annual Report and the Group and parent Remuneration Report and Corporate Company financial statements in accordance Governance Statement that complies with with applicable law and regulations.
that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to The Directors are responsible for the prepare Group and parent Company financial maintenance and integrity of the corporate statements for each financial year.
Under that and financial information included on the law, they are required to prepare the Group Companys website.
Legislation in the UK financial statements in accordance with IFRS governing the preparation and dissemination as adopted by the EU and applicable law, and of financial statements may differ from have elected to prepare the parent Company legislation in other jurisdictions.
financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 The Directors consider that the Annual Report Reduced Disclosure Framework.
and Financial Statements 2017-18, when taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and Under company law, the Directors must not understandable and provides the information approve the financial statements unless they necessary for shareholders to assess the are satisfied that they give a true and fair view Groups position and performance, business of the state of affairs of the Group and parent model and strategy.
Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Each of the Directors, whose names and parent Company financial statements, the function are set out on pages 58-60 confirm Directors are required to: that, to the best of their knowledge: select suitable accounting policies and then the financial statements, which have been apply them consistently: prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true make judgements and estimates that are and fair view of the assets, liabilities, reasonable, relevant, reliable and prudent: financial position and profit or loss of the for the Group financial statements, state Company and the undertakings included in whether they have been prepared in the consolidation taken as a whole: and accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: the Strategic Report includes a fair review for the parent Company financial statements, of the development and performance state whether applicable UK Accounting of the business and the position of the Standards have been followed, subject to any Company and the undertakings included material departures disclosed and explained in the consolidation taken as a whole, in the parent Company financial statements: together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
assess the Group and parent Company's ability to continue as a going concern, This responsibility statement is approved by disclosing, as applicable, matters related to the Board of directors and is signed on its going concern: and behalf by: use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease Moya Greene operations, or have no realistic alternative but Chief Executive Officer to do so.
The Directors are responsible for keeping Stuart Simpson adequate accounting records that are Chief Finance Officer sufficient to show and explain the parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
