Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 33 Strategic Report VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2016 revision of the Code, the directors have assessed the Groups viability over a three year period, which is a longer period than the twelve month outlook required in adopting the going concern basis of accounting and is in line with the time frame currently adopted in the Groups strategic planning.
The directors have assessed the Groups prospects over this three year period based on the sustainability of the Groups business model and associated principal risks as detailed on pages 28 to 32.
Assessment of prospects While output from the strategic and financial planning process reflects the directors best estimates of future prospects of the business, a number of The Groups prospects are assessed through a strategic and financial planning alternative scenarios and the financial impact have also been considered: process.
This includes review of three year financial plans and assumptions from the executive directors along with the executive team within each division.
n Lack of market growth The output of this is a consolidated set of financial projections covering the next n Loss of major customers three years compiled from divisional estimates of the most likely performance, n Pricing pressures after taking account of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties.
n Polymer price increases A central review of debt covenant compliance and debt headroom is also completed.
Once the annual budget process is completed for the first year of the n Failure to realise synergies on acquisitions three year strategic plan, the strategic plan financial projections are refreshed.
n Foreign exchange risk The strategic plan reviewed in 2017 18 covers the three year period ending 31 March 2021. n Lack of access to funding n Increases in financing costs Assessment of viability After taking account of the Groups current position, the Board also considered While developments in packaging legislation is considered a principal risk the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, how they are managed of the Group the current impact is expected to be low in the forecast period.
and the actions that could be taken to mitigate their effect.
The resulting More details are given on page 32. disclosures, which include those risks that could threaten the Groups business Financial scenarios were modelled against these risks individually and in model, performance, solvency and liquidity are shown on pages 28 to 32 of this likely combinations, such as an economic crisis or specific adverse market Annual Report.
In some cases the inputs took into account the availability and likely The Board believes the Group is well placed to manage those risks successfully effectiveness of mitigating actions, including flexing the cost base and reducing and, consistent with the prior year, has determined that three years to planned capital expenditure and dividends where the realisation of these risk 31 March 2021 is an appropriate time frame for the viability statement as this events would likely allow these actions.
is aligned with the time frame currently adopted in the Groups strategic plan.
The results of this stress testing showed that the Group would be able This alignment enables management and the Board to have sufficient, realistic to withstand the impact of these scenarios without affecting the Groups visibility on the commercial, financial and strategic assumptions required to ability to continue trading within its current and forecast borrowing facilities.
undertake this assessment, as it is considered an appropriate period over which Whilst certain of the Groups borrowing facilities do fall due for renewal in the to consider customer, consumer and product trends and in which time the Group three year time period considered, it is expected that they will be replaced at could react to any changes in current business assumptions.
comparable levels for consistent periods.
Confirmation of longer term viability Based upon the assessment undertaken, the directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 March 2021.
34 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report CASE STUD Y ENHANCING the waste collection process While such issues do not usually arise with round-lid Reliable collection systems are a vital bins, these are more costly and , part of effective waste disposal and and trucks need to be equipped with a special lidrecycling, and the large 1100 litre waste opener in the lifting device.
and recyclables container has become The first-to-market Split Lid from ESE World tackles a popular municipal collection format these problems with a solution that combines the advantages of both round-lid and flat-lid bins.
It improves the emptying process while at the same Two types of bins are available with sliding or round time making access for waste disposal easier, especially lids, and with flat lids.
When it comes to the collection for the young, the elderly and handicapped people.
and emptying of these bins, flat-lid bins can sometimes Split Lid requires much less effort to open than either encounter problems with rotating-drum vehicles flat or round-lids.
A handle running around the entire because of their long, wide lids occasional collisions front section further eases opening as well as making it can occur between the lids and waste residues in the accessible from the side.
As only a third of the lid opens, tipping zone or with the compactor plates, which it then stays open in a position that makes closing causes damage to the lids.
The lid is also child-safe.
To avoid the problems of collisions associated with standard flat lids, the Split Lid design allows the front lid to hinge in either direction, meaning the lid simply gives way to avoid the possibility of damage.
Split Lid can be retrofitted to any ESE World 1,100 litre flat-lid bin.
Coloured front lids provide easy identification for collection of different materials.
Like all ESE World 1100 litre bins, the solution is manufactured from recycled materials and carries the Blue Angel ecolabel.
