OUR GROWTH ACCELERATION PROGRAMME Commercial Excellence We are committed to returning Rotork over five years to the higher level of growth and margins previously delivered by the Group.
We have confirmed our initial hypothesis set out Operational in 2017 that we can accelerate growth Excellence through investing in innovation and service and re-orientating our routes to Page 20 market and that this can be funded by savings generated from restructuring our operational footprint and supply chain.
Commercial excellence and Operational excellence are the first two pillars of our Growth Acceleration Programme and capture these aspects Talent Acquisition of our work.
& Development The other two pillars of the Growth Acceleration Programme address the key enablers of the strategy, namely people and systems.
The talent acquisition & Page 20 development pillar covers all aspects of our human capital from the assessment, development and training of our current people to the recruitment of new talent.
Aligning behaviours with strategy and with our culture forms part of the work here.
We are also developing our IT systems and core business processes to provide an improved common platform and way of working across the Group.
This will in turn increase efficiency throughout our businesses.
18 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 01 Commercial excellence We now have a consolidated database of Focus on providing our customers Development of all ongoing programmes, and are able to with the products and services they service offering concentrate our resources on the most want whilst at the same time making promising and profitable areas.
We have also it simple for them to buy from changed our approach to accelerate our new Rotork wherever they are in the A core element of our commercial product development cycle.
While happy with many excellence pillar relates to site services, aspects of Rotork's performance, identified in our customer research as In addition, we evaluated our engineering customers singled out in their a key differentiator for the Group.
"capabilities against those required for our feedback to us three areas for future success and put in place a plan to improvement, which we have This is an area we intend to expand as we Cl strengthen those required competencies worked hard to address: quote continue our migration from a reactive through building, partnering or acquiring turnaround times, on-time delivery service model to proactive preventative ""' z them where we identified gaps."
Our l maintenance, and ult imately to the and client communications.
"z intention in the short term is to keep m utilisation of rea l-time data analytics to "" investment in innovation and R&D to around predict fai lures and prevent them from 2018 levels, but to use our expenditure Route to market occurring in the first place."
We have more efficiently, by: recruited a new Global Director of Site improving our process for project Services, who has a depth of experience One of the most significant conclusions selection: in running major service networks, and from the programme has been a accelerating our process cycle times: and bolstered the team through the addition recognition of the need to migrate from increasing our hit rate through improved of 45 customer-facing service technicians.
Rotork's product-based structure to an customer and supplier input early in organisation that is more closely the process.
aligned to market segments and Innovation and new customer needs.
All of these activities are supported by a product developmentn robust set of management KPls to monitor z l Several of our fastest growing geographical and drive improvements in our ongoing new z markets already work partially in this way, product development effectiveness.
"Once "" Work under the commercial excellence and in 2019 we will begin a phased, region improved processes and tighter focus have pillar also included a detailed review E by region roll out, which we expect to have been embedded, we will re-eva luate the of our structure and processes for completed in 2020."
The approach, whereby quality of projects in our innovation funnel m innovation and new product z.... team members are tasked with providing and assess our levels of investment V, development.
solutions to customers, irrespective of the accordingly.
historical division responsible for that Previously, each division was responsible for its product, will be supported by a greater new product development and had its own emphasis on key account management budget.
We now have a central structure, led and end user engagement, and a renewed by our Group Director of Innovation and drive to be easier for customers to do Engineering, w ith areas of expertise including business w ith.
electrical engineering, software engineering and data analytics.
"The introduction of a Our key account managers currently focus 0 "" revised framework for assessing new product :::: on 15 of our largest oil and gas end users development efforts led to the elimination of ""I: z and the most active international - 35% of in-flight product development z engineering contractors."
"The key account programmes that were not deemed to be 0 team has been able to adapt to the end sufficiently value-enhancing to Rotork. ""'"
:::: users' business requirements and improve relationships with key influencers and 0 z decisions makers in customers' procurement, operations and projects departments.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 19 02 Operational excellence Improve our operational Operational improvements Supply chain improvements efficiency through the use of mixed-model lean techniques, improved inventory management Performance improvement reviews The review of our supply chain carried and footprint optimisation with have now been carried out at the out last year indicated that through supply chain globalisation largest nine sites covering over 70% of centralisation of what was a our factory output and improvement fragmented and locally managed delivering cost savings and whilst plans developed for each.
These plans supply base there was significant maintaining our reputation for have already delivered improvements potential for savings.
high-quality products and in productivity, quality and lead times.
We have now created the cent ra l team that Initially facilitated by external support, the will lead this work and have been very review process has now been internalised pleased wit h t he progress so far.
Wave 1 and in 2019 will be extended to drive further focused on travel, insurance and certain improvement initiatives and sharing of best product components and was completed practices.
The Rotork lean model is another last year.
Wave 2 is focused on more improvement initiative w hich has now been significant component categories and launched and the training materials commenced in t he fina l quarter of 2018. deployed.
Work to embed this commenced The new agreements wi ll gradua lly be at the end of 2018.
In parallel the Rotork phased in during 2019 and are expected to inventory management module was yield a benefit of around Sm in 2019. launched in the last quarter of the yea r. Plans have been created for every site and targets set.
A set of operational KPls has been developed to track all these initiatives.
03 Talent acquisition & development Having the right team in place is Global talent development Performance management crucial to achieving our aspirations.
Through a combination of targeted development of existing employees, Following assessment of our senior A performance management and recruitment of world-class external leaders we were prompted to fill skill objective setting approach has been talent and a re-alignment between gaps, through internal training or launched which will be applied externally through hiring, improving globally, providing total alignment to our strategy, behaviours, results and our capabilities particularly in our vision and setting the standard for rewards systems, we have already operations and procurement.
what high performance looks like.
delivered promising results in driving towards our ambitions and have a Leaders have now been hired for our With our new performance approach as a clear roadmap to make further General Counsel, Procurement, foundation we have been able to adjust our progress.
Communications, Talent, Strategy & M&A variable and fixed compensation and Site Service functions.
The talent programmes to include differentiation review and succession planning processes between high and lower performers and initially provided by consultants have now have announced a new annual cycle for been internalised to enable us to deliver compensation.
them ourselves as we move forward.
2Q ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 IT & core business 04 processes IT systems IT team development development Dashboards At the end of 2018 we appointed our The system development programme In order to support the business through partner to work with us on the design of work is significant and it is vital a period of change, we need to be able and development of our new core we have the right people with to track and measure the improvements.
the appropriate skills to lead the programme.
To deliver a consistent and visible set of These will go beyond the ERP system and KPls we have developed dashboards for will incorporate CRM, project tracking and In recognition of this, the IT team has been some of our key focus areas.
This integrated strengthened with additional enterprise for Rotork Site Services, Global Operations development has now started and will be architecture and project management and Customer Quote Responsiveness were deployed in phases with some aspects resources particularly.
The training and launched in 2018.
These dashboards going live in 2019, although ultimately this development of the wider team has also operate independently from our underlying is a multi-year programme before all sites been increased, focused on the skills that systems and will provide us with a are operating on a common platform.
will be most relevant to the system consistent set of data as we roll out our development programme.
"Cl ""' z z m "" Strategy, portfolio and product line assessment The four pillars outlined above are supported."
"z by our strategy, portfolio and product line z "" assessment activities."
The initial assessment of our portfolio identified three business areas that were E m candidates for immediate exit, given that they z.... V, were dilutive to Group margins, yet accounted for only 1 % of Group revenue.
An extensive product review identified more than 28 product lines with low sales volumes, dilutive 8 margins or both.
These added a great deal of :::: complexity to the business, and will be withdrawn z - z from production over the course of 2019.
"Sales 0 ""' from these are being transferred to alternative :::: products, in most cases to newer generations, 0 z within the core portfolio."
