Royal Mail plc | Pensions Committee report Pensions Committee report The Committee was pleased with Managements agreement with the CWU over pensions, pay and working conditions and is confident that this is the right result for Royal Mail and our stakeholders.
Last year's priorities, actions and next years priorities 2017-18 Progress over 2018-19 priorities the year priorities Dear shareholder, As Chair of the Pensions Committee, I am Conclusion of 2018 Pension Agreement reached with the CWU Successfully deliver key pleased to present the Committees report Review and proposals for future on future pension arrangements outputs from negotiations in for the year ended 25 March 2018.
Due to the pension benefits prior to being and approved by the Board relation to pensions, including significance of the Groups pension schemes recommended to the Board investment strategy for approval to its financial management and affairs, the Pensions Committee has an important The implementation of 2018 Oversight of implementation of Support Managements work role in providing oversight and review of Pension Review outcomes and revised pension arrangements with UK Government to introduce pension matters.
communication to members and member communications necessary CDC legislation and regulations In July 2017, Matthew Lester stepped Results and implications of Reviewed and agreed key pension Consider results and implications down from the Board and this Committee RMPPs 2015 valuation assumptions of RMPPs 2018 valuation and we welcomed Stuart Simpson as a member.
I would like to express my thanks Future investment strategy Investment strategy continuously Ongoing Committee and to Matthew for his contribution.
The number for pension schemes within reviewed as part of the 2018 Board training to ensure good of Committee meetings held during the the Group Pension Review understanding of broad pension developments and issues year and members attendance is set out on page 61.
The full Terms of Reference for the Annual review of Committees Carried out review of the Continue to provide Committee can be found on our website at Terms of Reference Committees Terms of Reference recommendations on pension royalmailgroup.
com matters of strategic importance to Board and Audit and Risk This has been a busy year for the Committee Committee where necessary given the ongoing pension negotiations with Review and recommend to Review of interim and full year Review and recommend to the Communication Workers Union CWU.
Audit and Risk Committee assumptions carried out Audit and Risk Committee Having announced in February 2018 that an key assumptions relating to key assumptions relating to agreement in principle had been reached accounting for Royal Mails accounting for Royal Mails pension liabilities pension liabilities over pensions, among other matters, we will now work on the successful implementation of the revised pension arrangements for continue to provide oversight as revised Revised pension our employees.
arrangements It will ensure both the Board and the Audit An external evaluation of the Committee was The Committee has focused on the proposed and Risk Committee are kept appraised carried out in 2017-18.
It concluded that the revised pension arrangements so as to as appropriate.
Pensions Committee operated very well.
The advise and support Management in their evaluation is discussed in greater detail on Committee membership negotiations with our unions.
Alongside me, the members of the kept the Board fully advised.
Royal Mail Committee are Paul Murray and Stuart The following report goes into more detail on is committed to providing sustainable Simpson.
Committee meetings are also the revised pension arrangements.
It outlines and affordable pension arrangements attended, as required, by the Group HR the Committees priorities during the year, acceptable to our people and our unions: we Director, the Chief of Staff, the Legal the progress we have made and our priorities are pleased with the agreement reached.
Director for Pensions and Employee for 2018-19.
Now, together with the CWU, the Group is Benefits, the Head of Pensions Strategy lobbying Government to make the necessary Les Owen and representatives from the Companys legislative and regulatory changes to Chair, Pensions Committee pensions advisers, Willis Towers Watson establish the UKs first Collective Defined 16 May 2018 Limited.
The Committee is supported by the Contribution scheme CDC, providing Company Secretary.
new, innovative pension benefits for Royal Mail employees.
The Committee will 74 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18
