Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 13 Strategic Report OUR MARKETPLACE RPCs key markets are the global plastic packaging market and the polymerconsuming technical components market.
An increased focus on the responsible use and disposal of plastics particularly inEurope will continue to provide opportunities for RPC to work with customers, communities and suppliers to optimise the recyclable and reusable characteristics of its plastic products and to ensure end-of-life collection.
A key change in the plastics environment during the financial year to 31 March 2018 was the perception of plastic packaging, which was affected by used plastic products ending up in the natural environment, for example oceans, around the world and increased publicity and political interest around this.
Sustainability and the natural environment The attractions of rigid and flexible plastic packaging versus alternative It is critical that the industry takes its environmental responsibility seriously: packaging materials continue to include: akey driver for the industry is the significant movement towards the principles of a circular economy and the responsible disposal of plastic.
Plastic is n Light weight reducing transport costs of packaged goods a valuable resource, which should not be littered into the land or marine n Strength and durability ideal for effective product protection environment, but recycled or reused to maintain its value and reduce the environmental impact of new products which incorporate recycled material.
n Versatility can be moulded or formed into just about any shape enhanced marketing opportunities and transport efficiency Our response n Low carbon less energy used and less carbon emitted during the At RPC we remain committed to incorporating environmental sustainability production process into our overall business strategy and to helping our customers achieve their n Recyclability over 90% of plastic based products currently on the UK environmental goals.
Plastic provides a light weight, durable, recyclable and low market are recyclable those that are not are where plastics are combined carbon option for packaging and non-packaging products.
with other materials e. g. foil laminates RPC is uniquely placed to help customers given its design and engineering capabilities, and continues to work with customers at the design stage and n Ability to reduce food waste through extending the shelf-life of both fresh throughout the product lifecycle to improve the recyclability and reusability of and processed food their products and contribute to a sustainable and circular future for plastic.
However, if plastic is treated incorrectly, its strengths can become weaknesses: We have our own recycling capabilities and through our RPC bpi and ESE World n Light weight plastic floats in water and is highly visible in a businesses are able to close the loop e. g. in ESE World by collecting and marine environment recycling disused bins into new bins and in RPC bpi by collecting agricultural films and recycling these to make new films.
n Strength and durability it does not naturally decompose We continue to research and develop the incorporation of biopolymers including n Although plastic is recyclable, it is not always recycled compostable materials in our plastic products and to explore ways to increase The plastic packaging market is expected to grow at an average annual rate of the recycled polymer content in our products.
3.7% between 2017 and 2022, taking a 1.4%pt share over the same period from RPC is also active in industry-wide programmes to further enhance plastics other packaging materials and, at 344bn, accounting for around one third of the sustainability.
A recent pilot scheme tested the feasibility of establishing a global packaging market by 2022. closed loop recycling solution for used plastic paint containers: and RPC bpi The plastic packaging market recycled products are part of the New Plastics Economy, a three year initiative led by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, which aims to develop a global and coordinated system for plastics in line with circular economy principles.
Forecasted growth rates by material geography between 2017 and 2022: Rigid Plastic 3.4% Western Europe 2.1% Value Flexible Plastic 4.0% Eastern Europe 5.0% Plastic Global $834bn Packaging Packaging Card 2.7% North America 2.0% 2 1 CAGR 3.7% Market Market South and Metal 1.4% 2.3% 2017-22 CentralAmerica Glass 2.4% Asia 5.0% Other 2.6% Rest of World 4.9% Source: Smithers Pira 1 2017 Global packaging market, materials, by value 2 2017 Plastic packaging market, materials & regions, by value 14 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report OUR MARKETPLACE CONTINUED Demography, lifestyle and economic trends Efficiency in supply chains and globalisation In addition to the growing importance of lightweighting, sustainability and the Cost optimisation is increasingly important, further driving the lightweighting of circular economy, demographic, lifestyle and economic trends also continue to packaging and reducing the overall amount of packaging required by combining favour plastic packaging.
This requires the packaging to both be stronger and to be shelf display ready.
An ageing population continues to drive demand for healthcare devices while an increase in the number of smaller and single person households in developed Retailing is changing as online sales and e-commerce take share from economies and increasing incomes in emerging markets is increasing demand traditional bricks-and-mortar propositions.
This shift necessitates packaging for packaging specifically rigid plastic packaging.
A rising population is also to be more robust for transportation and reusable for any returns.
Products are fuelling demand for packaging.
sent in smaller, often individual, packaging rather than bulk packaged to sales outlets.
Online penetration also results in products reaching a more international Busier lifestyles and the proliferation of e-commerce is further driving demand audience.
Producers are therefore expecting packaging to be consistent across for packaging and the light weight, waterproof and flexible nature of plastic all geographies they serve, reducing regional differences.
packaging lends itself particularly well to this application.
Our response Our response RPC has reduced the weight of its products across all manufacturing processes RPCs product portfolio is well-positioned to exploit the above trends.
Since the through significant innovation investments in tooling, process changes and start of the Vision 2020: Focused Growth Strategy, through both organic and machinery alongside developments in materials.
acquisitive growth, revenue from the healthcare and pharmaceutical endmarkets has more than doubled and RPC is the largest dry powder inhaler Our footprint of 189 operations across 34 countries allows us to provide global producer in Europe.
solutions to all customers whether they serve global, regional or local markets.
Design and innovation is key to offering our customers solutions that will Through acquisition the Group has added coverage to 15 new geographies.
differentiate their products on the shelf and offer the end consumer convenience This increased scale allows us to follow customers as they expand into new and functionality.
Our 32 design and engineering innovation centres understand countries examples being our new greenfield manufacturing sites in Brazil customers needs and how to fashion them into finished products.
over 60 of our products have either won awards or been finalists and many of the new products we have developed such as SuperLock, Longlife, AirFree and Slidissime are aimed at prolonging product life, reducing wastage, adding convenience to the end user while standing out on the shelf.
RPCs acquisition of ACE Corporation Holdings Limited Ace in May 2014 enhanced the companys footprint in the Emerging Markets and, in addition to significantly increasing RPCs exposure to the Technical Components end-market, enabled the Company to maximise its existing plastic packaging manufacturing plant in China.
Following the year end, the Group acquired Nordfolien for a consideration of 75m.
This acquisition will increase RPCs in-house recycling capabilities and its 189 contribution to a circular economy.
operations across 34 countries Growth Rigid Flexible drivers plastic plastic Card Metal Glass Rising and aging populations Increasing number of smaller and single person households in developed economies Increasing income in emerging markets Busier lifestyles and convenience packaging Growing importance of lightweighting, sustainability and the circular economy Move to e-commerce Level of impact Significant Positive Neutral Negative Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 15 Strategic Report Competitive environment Key players Key players global market share TECHNICAL 1980 2017 2017 COMPONENTS Rigid Numerous 5 10% plastics Technical components covers many different product and market combinations including temporary waste solutions, precision engineered components and roto Flexible moulded components for large vehicles.
These are all Numerous 5 30% plastics linked by innovation, application of technical knowledge and consumption of polymer.
Market drivers include ongoing demand for lightweighting, for example in The industry is immature in most parts of the world and largely developed during the automotive and large vehicle industries where the 1960s and 1970s.
Companies typically concentrate on serving a particular traditionally metal components are being replaced by geography and market with a specific conversion technology, and while the plastic often metalised components.
In the market industry has started to consolidate, the top five players account for just 10% for temporary waste solutions, key drivers include the of the global rigid plastic packaging market.
The market for flexible plastic need to enhance waste management to avoid litter and packaging is equally fragmented, with the largest five players accounting for plastic leakage into the environment, the demand for 30% of the global flexibles packaging market.
As founders seek to pass their integrated waste management solutions and broader business to the next generation, the new managers have to decide whether to waste solutions including underground bins and invest to cope with changes in the market or divest.
These changes include: containers for hazardous materials.
n demand for packaging that is consistent across many markets: Our response n the cost of investment for innovation: Our technical components proposition has grown n constant pressures to optimise costs resulting from a competitive through acquisitions of Ace, Promens, Strata retail environment: Products, and ESE World.
This has resulted in the Group having a portfolio of branded products and n input material cost volatility and supply issues favouring larger companies services including mould making, materials handling, with power to hedge: horticulture, fish handling tubs, temporary waste n lower demand growth in the developed world: solutions, complex interior and exterior plastic components for the heavy truck industry, body panels n an ability to follow customers globally as customers themselves consolidate for heavy construction machinery and fuel tanks.
and globalise: and The breadth of the manufacturing processes has n increasingly sophisticated packaging solutions requiring multiple been enhanced with roto moulding, reaction injection manufacturing processes.
moulding and vacuum forming for speciality vehicles.
Our Asian precision engineering platform allows the It follows that the opportunities for consolidation are significant.
supply of co-engineered products, drawing on our mould making capability and allowing the Group Our response to supply high-quality metallised finishes, required Since the launch of our strategy, Vision 2020: Focused Growth Strategy, in 2013 for premium products.
For example, RPC has been we have completed 18 transactions ranging in size from bolt-on businesses with able to use its roto moulding capabilities within the one manufacturing site to transformational acquisitions of groups with 40 sites Group to enhance the ESE World range of integrated and global coverage.
In total these acquisitions have added 129 manufacturing waste solutions.
sites across 15 countries, increasing employees by around 18,100.
The synergies arising from these deals have added c. 20p of EPS to the results of the Group.
RPC remains disciplined in its allocation of capital with over 400 potential deals having been rejected as not fulfilling the strict acquisition criteria we have in place.
We maintain a good pipeline of opportunities, both large and small, and expect further growth through acquisitions.
