How we measure performance Focus for 2019 Link to risks The Board has ambitions to return the A decline in government and private sector Sales revenue growth business to higher growth and confidence and spending will lead to margin levels.
cancellations of expected projects or delays to existing expenditure commitments.
We are currently reviewing our routes to market, including our sales channels and Increasing social and political instability, 8.3% sales coverage.
including Brexit, results in both disruption and increased protectionism in key geographic We have centralised our innovation team Return on capital employed markets.
and will accelerate our new product development cycle.
The Growth Acceleration Programme and other change projects lead to business We'll leverage our installed base through disruption or have a negative effect on lifetime management and intelligent asset 29.2% day-to-day operations.
Major in f ield failure of a new or existing Acquisitions will be considered where Rotork product potentially leading to a product appropriate to supplement our capability recall, major on-site warranty programme or and support the above plans for growth.
the loss of an existing or potential customer.
"Failure of an acquisition to deliver the growth Cl or synergies anticipated, either due to unforeseen changes in market conditions, or ""' z l failure to integrate an acquisition effectively."
"z m "" We're simplifying business processes, exiting Increased competition on price or product Adjusted operati ng margin or rationalising underperforming business offering leading to a loss of sales globally or lines, and reviewing our channel partners."
We are reviewing our operations, optimising Failure of a key supplier or tooling failure at a our manufacturing footprint, reducing the supplier causing disruption to manufacturing 21.0% complexity of our global supply chain, at a Rotork factory.
simplifying our organisational structure Failure to provide, maintain and update the and accelerating the introduction of Adjusted EPS growth systems and infrastructure required by the new systems.
"-n z Failure to protect Rotork operat ions, sensitive l z or commercial data, technical specifications 18.9% "" and financial information from cyber-crime."
E m zf V, As noted above, we are engaged in a review The nat ure of Rotork's core business and Cash conversion of our routes to market which will include geographical locations involves potential risks our approach to key account management to t he health and safety of our employees and and how we best service our customers' other stakeholders.
Failure of our staff or third parties who we do 110.7% The key enablers of the programme are business with to comply with law or regulation information technology and systems, or to uphold our high ethical standards and leveraging economies of scale across Rotork values.
"Carbon emissions 0 "" and talent management and development."
":::: ""I: We will continue to drive safety z - improvement and deliver the CSR strategy."
"z 0 ""' :::: Lost time injury rate 0 z 0.32 See full key performance indicators See full risks and uncertainties and definitions on pages 30-31 on pages 26-28 co co ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 17"
