Royal Mail plc | General Logistics Systems GLS General Logistics Systems GLS Reported results The table below sets out a summary of the reported GLS Sterling and Euro results.
GLS results are not subject to adjustment.
Reported Reported Year ended Year ended Underlying 1 Summary results m March 2018 March 2017 change Revenue 2,557 2,118 10% Operating costs 2,366 1,954 10% Operating profit 191 164 10% Margin 7.5% 7.7% 10bps m Revenue 2,899 2,521 10% Operating costs 2,682 2,325 10% Operating profit 217 196 10% Volumes m 584 508 9% GLS continued to perform strongly.
Performance in the year was impacted by the timing of Easter and other public holidays across Europe.
Excluding this impact, underlying revenue and volume movements would each have been two percentage points higher.
Volumes were up nine per cent on an underlying basis, with growth in both domestic and international volumes in most markets.
Revenue increased by 10 per cent, slightly better than volume growth due to price and product mix improvements in several markets.
Revenue in Sterling terms benefited from a 106 million impact from exchange rate movements and a 105 million impact from acquisitions.
These have been excluded from underlying movements.
Including the impact of acquisitions, revenue was up 15 per cent on a constant currency basis.
Revenue growth was achieved in almost all markets and from a broad customer base.
The largest customer accounted for around three per cent of total GLS revenue.
The three major markets, Germany, Italy and France, accounted for 60 per cent of total GLS revenue.
This is down from 63 per cent in 2016-17, reflecting the impact of recent acquisitions and growth in other GLS markets.
Reported Reported Year ended Year ended Underlying 1 Operating costs m March 2018 March 2017 change People costs 608 489 8% Non-people costs 1,758 1,465 10% Distribution and conveyance costs 1,558 1,278 12% Infrastructure costs 148 128 5% Other operating costs 52 59 21% Total 2,366 1,954 10% Total operating costs were up 10 per cent on an underlying basis.
They were broadly in line with volumes.
People costs increased by eight per cent as a result of higher semi-variable costs linked to volumes and higher rates of pay due to wage inflation.
This was especially the case across Central and Eastern European markets.
Distribution and conveyance costs were up 12 per cent.
This was driven by higher volumes and sub-contractor costs due to labour market conditions in many of GLS European markets and the US.
This included around 5 million due to the four per cent minimum wage increase in Germany from 1 January 2017.
We expect these trends to persist in 2018-19, which may place pressure on operating margins.
Infrastructure costs increased by five per cent, principally due to the one-off provision release for IT related costs which benefited the prior year.
Other operating costs decreased by 21 per cent, due to a one-off provision release in the year and higher acquisition costs in the prior year.
Operating profit Operating profit was 191 million with a margin of 7.5 per cent, 10 basis points higher compared with 2016-17 on an underlying basis.
This was slightly better than our expectations due to a stronger revenue performance.
Operating profit in Sterling benefited from a 9 million impact from exchange rate movements, which is excluded from underlying movements.
Germany Germany remains the largest GLS market by revenue.
Revenue grew by six per cent, driven by international volume, improved domestic pricing, winning new customers and growing premium B2C volumes.
1 Movements in revenue, costs, profits and margins are shown on an underlying basis, taking into account non-recurring or distorting items such as the first year impact of acquisitions and foreign exchange translation in GLS and working days and the first year costs of the Apprenticeship Levy in UKPIL.
More details are available in the paragraph entitled Underlying change adjustments.
24 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Italy GLS Italy continued to perform strongly.
Revenue growth of 19 per cent reflected strong B2C volume growth driven by Amazon and other customers.
Given the strong performance over the last three years and the evolving competitive environment, it will be challenging to maintain this rate of growth in the future.
France In GLS France, revenue growth slowed to one per cent 2016-17: eight per cent.
It was impacted by customer losses, lower new customer acquisitions and fewer working days.
Operating losses increased by 4 million to 12 million.
While actions are underway which target a break even result, higher costs of sales, including those associated with a changing mix of parcel size, means that it is unlikely we will achieve this in the short term.
Despite the challenges in the domestic market, GLS France continues to be integral to the GLS network by supporting exports from other markets into France, allowing GLS to provide a comprehensive service across Europe.
Spain Spain is now the fifth largest market for GLS in terms of revenue.
Revenue grew by 13 per cent on an underlying basis, benefitting from nine months incremental contribution from ASM.
The integration of ASM into GLS Spain is progressing well and a number of operational activities are being streamlined.
ASM has exceeded performance expectations since acquisition due largely to strong volume growth and higher network rationalisation opportunities.
We announced the acquisition of Redyser Transporte in February 2018.
Redyser strengthens GLS position as Spains second largest national express parcels network.
It predominantly serves the express B2C parcels segment and delivers around 14 million parcels annually.
It operates through a network of over 200 agencies and franchisees and 12 own operated sites in Spains main cities.
Redyser generated revenue of approximately 45 million in the year ended 31 December 2017 and will be consolidated within our existing Spanish operations.
USA We are pleased with the revenue development in Golden State Overnight GSO, in particular, the growth in interstate traffic.
However, profitability was impacted by local cost pressures.
On 6 April 2017, we announced the acquisition of Postal Express, a regional overnight parcel carrier operating in the states of Washington, Oregon and Idaho.
Postal Express offers overnight parcel delivery mainly to B2B customers across a number of industries.
GSO and Postal Express are being integrated to create an interstate overnight parcel delivery service with full US west coast coverage and to realise operational synergies and commercial benefits.
Postal Express' profitability during the period was impacted by its integration with GSO and yield management activities.
These initiatives are expected to result in improved financial performance going forward.
Other developed European markets including Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Ireland, Netherlands and Portugal Revenue growth was achieved in the majority of the other developed European markets.
There was continued strong volume and revenue growth in Denmark due to changing dynamics in the market, driving higher B2C volumes.
We are planning to increase the number of ParcelShops to support our growth in this market.
Other developing emerging European markets including Croatia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia We saw revenue growth in all developing emerging European markets.
There was strong double digit growth in Croatia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania and Slovenia.
We will continue to invest in our network in these countries to take advantage of their growing parcel markets.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 25
