R Ro oy yal M al Mail plc ail plc | | Ou Our r busines business model s model Our business model Operating in 43 countries, we have a clear vision to be recognised as the best delivery company in the UK and across Europe.
Our business model leverages our resources and relationships to deliver high quality, value for money services for both sending and receiving customers.
Our UK business is unparalleled in size and scope.
GLS provides geographical diversification for our earnings.
It is a growth engine for the Group.
Through this combination, we generate cash to invest appropriately in our UK operation and GLS, and pay dividends to our shareholders.
Operating through our resources and relationships Our networks in 43 countries Our role as the Universal Service Provider means Royal Mail has the capability to deliver to every address across the UK.
Our UK network is unparalleled in both size and scope.
Such a network is expensive to run.
But, it also offers us a commercial advantage: we benefit when we deliver letters and parcels together.
We are improving the UK services we offer.
Over 70 per cent of parcels are now barcoded: one-third can be tracked in some way.
Customers can drop off pre-paid items at 1,200 Customer Service Points: over 340 are now open on a Sunday.
Through Local Collect customers can collect their parcels from 11,400 sites.
Parcelforce Worldwide provides additional fulfilment options.
It provides premium parcel services within the courier express market.
GLS, one of the largest European ground-based deferred delivery networks, offers reliable, high-quality parcel services, complemented by logistics and express services.
As a leading market player across Italy top three, Germany and France top five, GLS is well positioned to capture the expected growth in its key markets.
Although B2B is its core market, GLS is focused on profitable B2C growth too.
It is investing in technology and improvements to its customer experience to achieve this.
Our people As one of the largest employers in the UK, we are proud to provide the best pay and terms and conditions in our industry.
One in every 194 jobs in the UK is provided by Royal Mail.
Achieving our strategic priorities depends on our people.
We rely on them to fulfil the Universal Service and deliver high-quality customer service.
Engaging our people within a fair, rewarding and customer-focused culture is essential for our future success.
We are proud to offer around 18,000 GLS employees secure and fairly paid employment with long-term prospects and career development.
GLS works to promote a culture of openness and transparency.
This year, GLS Denmark was rated as one of the countrys best employers by the Great Place to Work Institute.
GLS France was ranked 11 out of almost 100 freight transport and logistics companies by business magazine, Capital.
Our customers and our Royal Mail and GLS brands We deliver to over 30 million business and consumer addresses across the UK.
Around 80 per cent of addresses are within one kilometre of a Royal Mail parcel access point.
GLS has more than 270,000 customers across Europe.
It is a highly respected brand.
It is one of the leading players of its kind in continental Europe.
1 Research we commissioned found that 74 per cent of online shoppers trust Royal Mail to deliver their online purchases.
Royal Mail ranked first globally in the Transportation Industry Group in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices.
We are also a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index, ranked in the top eight per cent of companies.
Investment in our business We continue to invest in our UK operation and, through GLS, in high growth markets through targeted and focused acquisitions.
We have invested 1.8 billion in our UK business since privatisation.
Now that some of the larger projects rebuilding our legacy IT systems and resizing the UK network are mostly complete, we have reduced our investment spend.
Recent acquisitions by GLS have enabled us to scale up our presence in key European markets and to build a presence in the western US.
GLS is a force for growth for our Company.
1 Delivery Matters: Understanding the needs of online shoppers in the UK in 2017.
14 14 | | Annual R Annual Repor eport t a and Fina nd Financial S ncial St ta at tement ements 2017-18 s 2017-18 S St tr ra at tegic r egic repor eport t | G | Goovverna ernancncee | Fina | Financial ncial ssttaattement ementss | Other | Other inf informa ormation tion Creating value Continually improving our efficiency and productivity in the UK allows us to be more competitive.
This means we are better positioned to grow our existing customer relationships and win new business.
Outputs This, in turn, enables us to fund investment in our growth and maintain fair terms and conditions for our Delivering a high quality, people.
GLS is a growth engine for the Group.
We are investing in carefully scaling up GLS in a number of financially sustainable its existing markets and in new territories like the western United States.
As the returns it generates are Universal Service to typically higher than our UK business, GLS is making an increasingly important financial contribution to maintain our trusted our Group.
It is through the combination of our UK and GLS strategies that we aim to deliver sustainable UK brand.
Progressing the GLS scale up and grow strategy.
This is through growth in Continually improving efficiency Meeting changing customer expectations its existing markets and Automated parcel sorting live and rolling out At GLS, investing in technology solutions to targeted acquisitions in to further UK sites improve customer tracking, e. g. GLS-ONE higher growth areas.
Adopting a strategic approach to costs Increasing the number of parcels we barcode Continuing to invest in and efficiency and meeting our cost and scan.
Over 70 per cent of Royal Mail our business and our avoidance targets parcels now carry a barcode people, through effective Continuously improving productivity The GLS FlexDeliveryService is now available management of our in 20 European countries.
It makes it easier Improving the efficiency of our logistics financial resources.
This for online shoppers to take delivery of goods network: promoting more efficient driving includes a strategic focus purchased through an overseas website using telemetry technology on costs.
Demonstrating the value of letters through Driving the generation of initiatives such as the Strategic Mailing cash in UKPIL and GLS Partnership to support progressive dividends for our shareholders.
Maintaining financial flexibility Engaged, motivated people Investing in new areas to support growth.
Continuing to offer UK employees the best This includes the careful and focused pay and terms and conditions in the industry expansion of GLS outside Europe Ensuring UK employees have a meaningful Using technology to be more cost-efficient stake in the Company through the Free Share offers Ensuring efficient investment spending Taking into account the final 2017-18 The scaling up of GLS in some of its existing dividend, each eligible full-time employee, European markets with the full allocation of 913 free shares, will have received over 863 before tax in dividends since privatisation Investing in our business and our people Annual R Annual Repor eport t a and Fina nd Financial S ncial St ta at tement ements 2017-18 s 2017-18 | | 15 15
