16 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report OUR BUSINESS MODEL INNOVATING RESPONSIBLY IN A GLOBAL MARKET RPC designs and manufactures plastic solutions.
In its Packaging segment, Our innovative and responsible operations RPC works with customers to design plastic packaging for end markets including food, beverage, personal care and healthcare.
Other plastic packaging products Inputs: designed and manufactured by RPC are grouped into the non-food category and include products such as containers for surface coatings e. g. paint pots, and Strategic Innovation Manufacturing vaping accessories.
In its Packaging segment, RPC typically works with and sells and scale n Financial capital n Water to the brand, although in a few instances sells directly to the retailer or the filler.
n Innovation centres n Human capital n Energy In its Non-packaging segment, RPC designs and manufactures a number of n Intellectual different plastic products including temporary storage systems for waste and n Customer n Polymer resin property recycling, and technical components for the automotive and heavy vehicles relationships n Recyclate industries.
The plastic products manufactured in this segment are typically n Technological n Sustainability sold to an intermediary.
For example temporary storage systems for waste and expertise n Biopolymers principles recycling are sold to local authorities while components for the automotive and n Geographical heavy vehicles industry may be sold to an original equipment manufacturer.
coverage RPC also makes moulds, which themselves are used to make plastic components and packaging products.
These moulds are sold both to external customers and also internally within RPC.
Design and Raw material Manufacturing development n Responsible procurement Sustainable solutions, such as: Reduce: n Research & development n Lightweighting n Energy consumption of new materials such n Use of post-consumer recyclate n Waste as biopolymers including compostable materials n Product protection n Water consumption n RPC Circular Grading Tool n Carbon emissions Outputs Competitive advantages n Strong customer relationships focus on multinational customers and smaller accounts innovating with customers throughout every stage of the process n An innovative portfolio of proprietary products n Decentralised organisation structure, reflecting the highly segmented industry structure Innovative Innovative n Entrepreneurial and innovative culture design engineering n Expertise in all five of the major conversion processes and leading design capabilities n In-house mould making n A focus on sustainability initiatives including plastic as an attractive packaging alternative n Scale and flexibility in polymer purchasing Innovative n A leading industry consolidator products Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17 Strategic Report Innovation Plastics and responsibility Central to our customer proposition is innovation.
We work with our customers The responsible disposal of plastics and minimising plastic waste is increasingly from the design stage and throughout the supply chain to deliver innovative, in focus and RPC has taken a proactive stance with customers in designing differentiated and environmentally sustainable solutions.
Key to this is our plastic packaging and products to optimise reuse and recyclability as well as to global network of 32 design and engineering centres which give us the in-depth ensure end-of-life collection.
technical and design skills necessary to produce solutions required by our In addition, customers are increasingly looking to include recycled and customers who serve many different markets and geographies.
We continue environmentally sustainable materials in their plastic packaging products and to invest in technologies and processes allowing us to lead the development of RPC is able to meet these needs by sourcing recycled polymer externally and plastic processing, examples such as electroplating, IML in-mould labelling, through the research and development of products made from biobased and IMF in-mould filming, and nanofiber membrane manufacturing utilising compostable materials.
Through its in-house recycling infrastructure, RPC is able electrospinning technology.
to procure recycled polymer resin internally and ensure that circular economy practices are encompassed by the business.
Read more on page 52 Usage Filling and disposal Retail Recycling distribution collection n Consideration of n Closed loop process n Product protection n Increased shelf-life target demographic reduction in waste to landfill n Efficient transportation n Product protection n Reduction in food waste n Sustainable raw material source n Lightweighting n Product differentiation n Recyclability n Reusability The risks we mitigate Our people As part of our business model we have to mitigate key risks at each stage.
Our people are key to the continuing development of the Group: we have c. 25,000 employees worldwide.
n Polymer price and availability Health & Safety is at the forefront of everything we do and our safety focused n Loss of essential supplies culture makes our operations safe to work in and visit.
Training and development n Safeguarding of physical property is a further focus and we offer opportunities for employees at all levels while promoting equal opportunities.
RPCs decentralised operating structure n Energy costs combined with its global footprint creates additional attractive options for employees to learn and develop.
n Supply of faulty products n Contamination during processes Read more on page 54 Read more on page 28 Raw materials: polymer Polymer resin is the key raw material input and is normally purchased centrally by RPC.
RPC has strong relationships with a number of polymer resin suppliers and takes comfort from the policies and practices these companies have in place to uphold human rights and manage their environmental impact.
Read more on page 56 18 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED Market trend The polymer production industry is highly consolidated, with high fixed costs creating barriers POL YMER to entry.
Purchasing scale is required for a use of polymer to influence both the price being charged and ensure security of supply.
Polymer production has historically been regional RESIN with separate supply chains in Europe, North America, the Middle East and Far East.
However, Polymer resins are made by converting predominantly due to the prevalence of natural chemicals such as Ethylene and Propylene.
gas in the US and capacity additions in the Middle East, coupled with under invested European plants, These are outputs of crude oil and gas refining polymer supply is expected to globalise.
and account for approximately 4%-6% of Polymer prices are both volatile and set by market oil usage.
This resin is our key raw material forces.
While polymer prices have historically been input.
Effective management is therefore correlated to the oil price, in theory this correlation crucial and RPCs polymer resin purchasing should decline as more polymer is produced from natural gases.
strategy focuses primarily on achieving scale and flexibility.
RPC approach Since the launch of Vision 2020, the Groups polymer n Contracts with a pass-through clause provide for the regular re-set of sales prices tonnage consumption has increased by over 350%.
according to movements in polymer prices This scale allows RPC access to global sources of n Good track record of pass-through to customers polymer and an ability to secure a more constant supply of polymer during tight markets.
n Sales prices will catch up with polymer price movements, but with a time lag Scale in polymer purchasing is key to participating n In times of rising prices, there will be a profit headwind due to the purchase price in the global polymer market, and this scale requires being current but revenue being based on prices from previous periods investment in infrastructure e. g. a processing n In times of falling prices, there will be a profit tailwind network and the capacity to store the raw material until it is required.
Through its centrally run polymer purchasing function, RPC has the necessary infrastructure and scale to benefit from a global Polymer headwind Polymer tailwind polymer market.
To manage the volatility in polymer prices, RPC has arrangements with its customers to pass-on polymer price changes and manage price volatility.
In many cases the pass-on of changes in the polymer price to customers is contractual based on c. 65 indices and where no contract exists, prices can often be changed at short notice.
Polymer price volatility is managed further through RPCs flexible approach to purchasing, whereby Time RPC designs products that can be made from more than one grade of a certain polymer.
This allows for Purchase price Sales price security of supply and manages dependence on any one supplier.
RPC purchases more than 1,000 different grades of polymer resin.
The ability to manufacture products from a wide range of different polymer resin grades also enhances product functionality.
British Plastics Federation Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 19 Strategic Report OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP Executive Board members Pim Vervaat Simon Kesterton Chief Executive Group Finance Director Tom Saunderson Darin Evans Frank Doorenbosch Ren Valentin Alfons Bckmann Head of Corporate Group Purchasing CEO RPC bpi group CEO RPC Superfos CEO RPC Bramlage Development Director with support from Alistair Herd Jack Yeung Michael Stegeman David Duffield Jonathan Pitt CEO RPC Promens CEO RPC Ace CEO RPC Bebo CEO RPC M&H Corporate Development Manager Extended Group Executive John Cotterell Andrew Green Gnter Pohlmann Dragan Eric Chavent Robin Moore Stjepanovic Group HR Deputy CEO Division Director Global Account CEO RPC Astrapak Business Partner RPC bpi group RPC Bramlage Managing Director Director RPC Promens Industrial
