Royal Mail plc | Our strategy Our strategy We have a clear vision to be recognised as the best delivery company in the UK and across Europe.
Our strategy to achieve this leverages our strengths in the UK and overseas through GLS.
We aim to generate sustainable shareholder value and deliver our Universal Service commitment.
Our strategic priorities Key initiatives: Winning in parcels Growing Royal Mail Tracked 24 48 to meet customer demand for faster We have maintained our delivery and more tracking information pre-eminent position in the Completed a national rollout of estimated delivery windows using our UK by successfully pursuing PDA technology for customers using Royal Mail Tracked 24 48 faster growing parts of the UK parcels market while making GLS has expanded its FlexDeliveryService to consumers in it easier for consumers, SMEs 20 European countries and marketplace sellers to ShopReturnService, the international return service offered by GLS, is now use Royal Mail services.
GLS available across seven European countries is scaling up and growing either through new services or carefully targeted acquisitions in a number of the countries it operates in, including the western US.
The returns it generates are typically higher than in our UK business.
Defending letters Key initiatives: Letters are important to our Launched Joint Industry Committee JIC to make the case for advertising mail customers.
They account for Applied Mailmark to around 90 per cent of in scope mail almost 55 per cent of our The Strategic Mailing Partnership, a joint initiative with the mailing house UK revenue.
We work with Strategic industry, to improve overall efficiency and operational processes and share customers and supply chain priorities, insight with respect to GDPR implications partners to add value to mail, enabled promote its effectiveness, and Leading industry response to prevent scam mail, including stopping three by... increase its efficiency.
million fraudulent items from reaching customers Enhanced revenue protection measures Growing in new areas Key initiatives: Offering high volume customers later collection and delivery capability enabling We are making the most of them to ship later into the evening for next day delivery of their customers' orders our existing UK assets.
We are increasing our capability GLS acquired Redyser Transporte, a Spanish delivery company.
This acquisition through a range of investments.
will strengthen GLS' position as Spain's second biggest national express parcels GLS is a force for growth for network following the acquisition of ASM Transporte Urgente in 2016 our Company.
We are doing Following its acquisition of GSO 2016 and Postal Express April 2017, GLS so through our 'scale up and now provides a parcel service with full US west coast coverage.
Postal Express grow' strategy for GLS.
It is is being integrated into GSO.
The first GLS branded vans to be deployed in the progressing well.
We are region will do so shortly also increasing our digital capabilities across the Group, Continuing to rollout our UK fleet maintenance services to other businesses, particularly in e-commerce.
employees, friends and family 16 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Enabling our strategic priorities Strategic focus on costs Key initiatives: Exceeded our three year cost avoidance target of 600 million.
Being more efficient and controlling We delivered around 640 million of avoided costs our costs means we are able to be more competitive, which helps Continuing to optimise our network processes and operating us win and retain business, whilst site requirements to reflect changes in customer demand and continuing to provide the best automation capability employment terms and conditions in the industry.
Improving the efficiency of our logistics network, through the use of telemetry Extended Collection on Delivery programme, where colleagues collect mail while out on delivery.
Over 50,000 postboxes are now covered by this programme Reducing costs in central functions.
Examples include senior manager and marketing reviews Technology and innovation Key initiatives: We invest in technology to support Mobile apps for consumers in the UK and through GLS to access our strategic priorities to win in a broader range of services and functionality parcels, defend letters and grow Completed the rollout of our PDA technology across our entire in new areas.
We are investing UK business in our UK business and GLS to Launched GLS-ONE for customers in Belgium and Luxembourg.
improve our digital capabilities, They can now send a parcel using the GLS online portal, app or one customer connectivity and scanning.
of its 5,500 ParcelShops We continue to deploy technology to drive efficiency and increase the pace GLS upgraded its consumer app.
Recipients can track the current of change through our operation.
position of a delivery vehicle and the expected delivery window for their parcel Introduced new functionality to our online postage service Click & Drop, making it quicker and easier to buy online postage and print address labels Developing international shipping solutions using the cross-border capabilities of our subsidiary, Intersoft Around 90 per cent of in scope mail now has a Mailmark.
It has been extended to unsorted mail during the year.
An engaged and motivated workforce Key initiatives: Reached an agreement with the Communication Workers Union Our employees drive the success CWU on pensions, pay, a shorter working week, culture and of Royal Mail Group.
We believe operational changes good employment conditions underpin this.
Over 98.7 per cent Employee engagement increased from 57 points to 59.
Against a of our employees are permanent.
backdrop of significant change for our business, we achieved an Our postman and woman pay above average employee engagement score for the last three years compares very well to the industry.
GLS Denmark was rated as one of the countrys best employers We have a proactive relationship with by Great Place to Work.
GLS France was ranked 11 out of almost our unions and a strategic focus on 100 freight transport and logistics companies efficiency in our UK operations.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 17
