Our business model, combining the OUR BUSINESS MODEL benefits of global expertise and local service, positions us well to generate sustainable value for our stakeholders.
How we create value in our chosen flow control Resources, relationships and and instrumentation sources of competitive advantage applications We provide Reputation for technical expertise Strong balance sheet high quality, technically advanced and innovation Our high cash conversion allows us to Our well-recognised, global brand is invest to deliver further growth and and innovative industrial valve built on our 60-year history and deep value creation, and our model of actuation and flow control understanding of our customers' assembling to order improves our equipment, and a superior evolving needs and the markets we return on capital.
Most of our factories level of service to support our serve, which allows us to lead the receive finished components to our customers' activities wherever evolution of best-in-class actuator and exacting standards from our supply flow control products to better meet chain for assemble to order.
This they are in the world.
We do customer needs to reduce power enables asset-light operations and gives this in a sustainable way with consumption, improve efficiency and us the flexibility and speed to react to corporate social responsibility minimise their environmental impact.
CSR values being entrenched in our business processes.
Leading quality and reliability Broad portfolio and diverse Our products meet or exceed applications We compete international standards and have a The unparalleled breadth of our reputation for quality and reliability.
actuator range and growing portfolio in targeted segments of the of complementary flow control global flow control, automation instruments allow us to meet customer Skilled people and winning culture and instrumentation markets needs in diverse applications, and Key to our success is our ability to across a variety of industries benefit from cross-selling opportunities.
attract, develop and retain talented and geographies where we can people, who thrive in our open culture command above average margins.
that is built on values of respect, Global reach, local presence Many of our products are used in integrity and customer focus.
We are able to provide best-in-class critical applications in challenging solutions to customers and have deep insights into their evolving needs, environments and involve the through leveraging our global expertise supply of fundamental resources and resources, while offering technical such as energy, water and power.
support and aftermarket services through our network of local offices.
12 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 We sell Shareholders Customers through a network of 65 We return money to our We provide innovative solutions shareholders through dividends in response to our customers' regional offices around the and, through the execution of requirements and aftermarket world supplying the full range C 0 our strategy, we grow the value service support.
"These offices of their investment over time. ""'"
z are supported by our four l z r, divisions which are responsible m Employees Communities for product management, We provide development We support local jobs and skills innovation and manufacturing.
opportunities and a rewarding and contribute to, and engage place to work and create a safe positively with, the communities working environment for our in which we operate.
For more details For more details CO see page 40 CO see page 44 Revenue by end user market Suppliers Governments Our suppliers are supported by Through paying taxes in the the procurement of goods and jurisdictions in which we operate, we support the services that we require.
development of public infrastructure and public services.
"Oil and gas 55% 12% Power Water 12% Industrial 18% Other 3% r, 0 s: j': z - z See our divisional 0 reviews on pages 32-35 CO ""' s: 0 z Reinvestment in organic growth and acquisitions ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 13"
