Compliance report Statement of compliance Ongoing processes for the identification, The remediation of known control issues RBS is committed to high standards of evaluation and management of the principal remained an important focus of the Group corporate governance, business integrity and risks faced by RBS operated throughout the Audit Committee and the Board Risk professionalism in all its activities.
period from 1 January 2018 to 14 February Committee during 2018.
For further 2019, the date the directors approved the information on their oversight of remediation Throughout the year ended 31 December Annual Report & Accounts.
These processes of the most significant issues, please refer to 2018, RBS has complied with all of the include the semi-annual Control Environment the Report of the Group Audit Committee and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Certification process which requires senior the Report of the Board Risk Committee.
The Code issued by the Financial Reporting members of the executive and management Group Audit Committee has received Council dated April 2016 the Code except to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of confirmation that management has taken, or in relation to provision D. 2.2 that the Group their internal control frameworks and certify is taking, action to remedy significant failings Performance and Remuneration Committee that their business or function is compliant or weaknesses identified through RBSs Group RemCo should have delegated with the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley control framework.
The Group Audit responsibility for setting remuneration for the Section 404 and the UK Corporate Committee and the Board Risk Committee will Chairman and executive directors.
The policies continue to focus on such remediation activity, considers that this is a matter which should that govern these processes, and reports on particularly in view of the transformation rightly be reserved for the Board and this is an internal controls arising from them, are agenda.
approach RBS has adopted for a number of reviewed by the Board and meet the years.
Remuneration for the executive requirements of the Financial Reporting While not being part of the banks system of directors is first considered by the Group Councils Guidance On Risk Management internal control, the banks independent RemCo which then makes recommendations Internal Control & Related Financial & auditors present to the Group Audit to the Board for consideration.
This approach Business Reporting issued in September Committee reports that include details of any allows all non-executive directors, and not just 2014. significant internal control deficiencies they those who are members of the Group RemCo, have identified.
Further, the system of internal to participate in decisions on the executive RBS operates a three lines of defence model, controls is also subject to regulatory oversight directors and the Chairmans remuneration which provides a framework for in the UK and overseas.
Additional details of and also allows the executive directors to responsibilities and accountabilities across the regulatory oversight are given in the Capital & input to the decision on the Chairmans organisation.
As part of its second line of Risk Management section.
The Board believes this defence role, the Risk function oversees and approach is very much in line with the spirit of challenges the firm-wide management of risk Internal control over financial reporting the Code and no director is involved in and the efficacy of the related controls.
In RBS is required to comply with Section 404 of decisions regarding his or her own addition, the Risk function is responsible for the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and remuneration.
We do not anticipate any developing material risk policies and strategic assess the effectiveness of internal control changes to our approach on this aspect of the frameworks for the business to use.
over financial reporting as of 31 December Code.
Information on how RBS has applied 2018. the main principles of the Code can be found The effectiveness of RBSs internal controls is in the Corporate Governance Report on reviewed regularly by the Board, the Group RBS has assessed the effectiveness of its pages 47 to 82.
A copy of the Code can be Audit Committee and the Board Risk internal control over financial reporting as of found at www.
Internal Audit undertakes 31 December 2018 based on the criteria set independent assurance activities and provides forth by the Committee of Sponsoring RBS has also implemented the reports to the Board and executive Organizations of the Treadway Commission in recommendations arising from the Walker management on the quality and effectiveness the 2013 publication of Internal Control - Review and complied in all material respects of governance, risk management and internal Integrated Framework'.
with the Financial Reporting Council Guidance controls to monitor, manage and mitigate risks on Audit Committees issued in September in achieving the banks objectives.
In addition, Based on its assessment, management has 2012 and April 2016. the Board receives a risk management report concluded that, as of 31 December 2018, at each scheduled Board meeting.
Executive RBSs internal control over financial reporting Under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, management committees in each of the RBS is effective.
specific standards of corporate governance businesses also receive regular reports on and business and financial disclosures and significant risks facing their business and how RBSs auditors have audited the effectiveness controls apply to companies with securities they are being controlled.
Details of the banks of RBSs internal control over financial registered in the US.
RBS complies with all approach to risk management are given in the reporting and have given an unqualified applicable sections of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Capital & Risk Management section.
Act of 2002, subject to a number of exceptions available to foreign private issuers.
Work continued throughout 2018 to Management's report on RBSs internal strengthen the control environment and control over financial reporting will be filed Internal control progress was made across all areas.
with the Securities and Exchange The Board of Directors is responsible for the Additionally, there was significant Commission as part of the 2018 Annual system of internal controls that is designed to management focus on Brexit planning, Report on Form 20-F. maintain effective and efficient operations, readiness for the introduction of the UKs ringcompliant with applicable laws and fencing rules and the ongoing work to regulations.
The system of internal controls is enhance customer due diligence standards.
designed to manage, or mitigate, risk to an While enhancements to the wider control acceptable residual level rather than eliminate environment were made, the journey of it entirely.
Systems of internal control can only improvement remains a continued area of provide reasonable and not absolute focus.
RBS also continues to progress the assurance against material misstatement, embedding of a strong risk culture.
83 Compliance report Disclosure controls and procedures RBS has reviewed its corporate governance The NYSE Standards require that the As required by US regulations, management arrangements and is satisfied that these are compensation committee must have direct including the Chief Executive and Chief consistent with the NYSE Standards, subject responsibility to review and approve the Chief Financial Officer have conducted an to the following departures: Executives remuneration.
As stated at the evaluation of the effectiveness and design of i NYSE Standards require the majority of the start of this Compliance Report, in the case of RBSs disclosure controls and procedures as Board to be independent.
The NYSE RBS, the Board, rather than the Group defined in the Exchange Act rules as at 31 Standards contain different tests from the RemCo, reserves the authority to make the December 2018.
Based on this evaluation, Code for determining whether a director is final determination of the remuneration of the management including the Chief Executive independent.
RBS follows the Codes Chief Executive.
and Chief Financial Officer concluded that requirements in determining the v The NYSE Standards require listed RBSs disclosure controls and procedures independence of its directors and currently companies to adopt and disclose corporate were effective as of the end of the period has 10 independent non-executive directors, governance guidelines.
Throughout the year covered by this annual report.
one of whom is the senior independent ended 31 December 2018, RBS has complied director.
with all of the provisions of the Code subject Changes in internal control ii The NYSE Standards require nonto the exception described above and the There was no change in RBSs internal management directors to hold regular Code does not require RBS to disclose the full control over financial reporting that occurred sessions without management present and range of corporate governance guidelines with during the period covered by this report that that independent directors meet at least once which it complies.
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely a year.
The Code requires the Chairman to vi The NYSE Standards require listed to materially affect, RBSs internal control over hold meetings with non-executive directors companies to adopt and disclose a code of financial reporting.
without the executives present and nonbusiness conduct and ethics for directors, executive directors are to meet without the officers and employees, and promptly disclose The New York Stock Exchange Chairman present at least once a year to any waivers of the code for directors or As a foreign private issuer with American appraise the Chairmans performance and executive officers.
RBS has adopted a code of Depository Shares representing ordinary RBS complies with the requirements of the conduct which is supplemented by a number shares, preference shares and debt securities Code.
of key policies and guidance dealing with listed on the New York Stock Exchange the iii The NYSE Standards require that the matters including, among others, anti-bribery NYSE, RBS is not required to comply with nominating corporate governance committee and corruption, anti-money laundering, all of the NYSE standards applicable to US of a listed company be composed entirely of sanctions, confidentiality, inside information, domestic companies the NYSE Standards independent directors.
The Chairman of the health, safety and environment, conflicts of provided that it follows home country practice Board is also the Chairman of the Group interest, market conduct and management in lieu of the NYSE Standards and discloses Nominations and Governance Committee, records.
This code of conduct applies to all any significant ways in which its corporate which is permitted under the Code since the officers and employees and is fully aligned to governance practices differ from the NYSE Chairman was considered independent on the PRA and FCA Conduct Rules which apply Standards.
RBS is also required to provide an appointment.
The terms of reference of the to all directors.
The Code of Conduct is Annual Written Affirmation to the NYSE of its Group Nominations and Governance available to view on RBSs website at compliance with the mandatory applicable Committee differ in certain limited respects rbs.
from the requirements set out in the NYSE Standards, including because the Group This Compliance report forms part of the The Group Audit Committee fully complies Nominations and Governance Committee Corporate governance report and the Report with the mandatory provisions of the NYSE does not have responsibility for overseeing of the directors.
Standards including by reference to the rules the evaluation of management.
of the Exchange Act that relate to the iv The NYSE standards require that the composition, responsibilities and operation of compensation committee of a listed company audit committees.
In April 2018 RBS be composed entirely of independent submitted its required annual written directors.
Although the members of the Group affirmation to the NYSE, and in June 2018 it RemCo are deemed independent in submitted an interim written affirmation, both compliance with the provisions of the Code, confirming RBSs full compliance with those the Board has not assessed the and other applicable provisions.
More detailed independence of the members information about the Group Audit Committee of the Group RemCo and the Group RemCo and its work during 2018 is set out in the has not assessed the independence of any Group Audit Committee report on pages 54 to compensation consultant, legal counsel or 56. other adviser, in each case, in accordance with the independence tests prescribed by the NYSE Standards.
