KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Financial KPls Growth of the business, quality of earnings and efficient use of resources are crucial target areas for Rotork and we employ a number of performance measures throughout Rotork to monitor them.
The KPls used to monitor the financial performance of the business are set out below.
2.8 14 2 4 14 9 4 14 47.6 - Reasons for choice This is reported in detail for This measure brings together This is used as a measure of We aim to use our capital operating segments and is the combined effects of performance where a target efficiently and reporting a key driver for the business.
procurement, sales and pricing of 85% is regarded as a base this ratio internally helps This measure enables us to as well as the leveraging of level of achievement.
Cash management at Group level track our overall success in our operating assets.
It is also generation is also one of the monitor our adherence to specific project activity and a check on the quality of constituent parts of the senior this philosophy.
our progress in increasing revenue growth.
our market share by product and by region.
How we calculate Increase in sales revenue Adjusted operating profit Cash flow from operating Adjusted operating profit as a year-on-year divided by prior shown as a percentage of activities before tax outflows, percentage of average capital year sales revenue.
We use payments of restructuring employed.
Capital employed adjusted operating profit as charges and the pension is defined as shareholders' this gives a more consistent charge to cash adjustment funds less net cash held, with year on year comparison.
as a percentage of adjusted the pension fund deficit net operating profit.
of related deferred tax asset added back.
The calculation is shown on page 102.
Comments on results Our continued focus on With no acquisitions in 2018, The strongest revenue growth Operational gearing benefit was seen in the downstream oil from revenue growth, a working capital management an increased dividend payment and gas and industrial markets, continued focus on cost has contributed to strong and growth in adjusted operating cash flows which operating profit this has whilst upstream and midstream management and a greater oil and gas and water markets emphasis on productivity resulted in a movement from resulted in an improved grew more modestly.
contributed to an net debt of 12.6m at the return on capital employed.
start of 2018 to net cash of 43.6m at the end of the year.
30 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Non-financial KPls We monitor non-financial areas in our businesses, particularly in the environmental, health and safety and quality control areas, and we place strong emphasis within our organisation on improving our performance here.
"Adjusted EPS growth Lost time injury rates LTIR Carbon emissions 18.9% 0.32 17.0rnC0e 2 18 17.0 lfl6.0 17 19.2 - - 16 0.36 16 25.0 -3. sm Cl - -21.0 15 15 0.42 15 22.8 ""' z 14 0.62 14 19.2 ms. 4 z I' m The measurement of earnings LTIR is used as one measure of This KPI compares this year's per share EPS reflects the effectiveness of our health carbon emissions stated as all aspects of the income and safety procedures."
a function of revenue with statement including last year's and is a broad management of the measure of our impact on Group's tax rate.
the environment.. z z I' V, E Increase in adjusted basic EPS LTIR is the number of Energy usage data scope 1 m z based on adjusted profit after reportable injuries resulting in and 2 is collected and.... V, tax year-on-year divided by the lost time divided by the converted to equivalent prior year adjusted basic EPS.
number of hours worked tonnes of CO and then 2 multiplied by 100,000. reported as a function of revenue.
Further details are contained in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on page 48.
"I' 0 ::::... Further consolidation of sites A small decrease in the Our proactive approach z adjusted effective tax rate is aimed at continuously and upgrades in some of our - z and a decrease in finance identifying weaknesses in facilities have resulted in the 0 our safety processes and overall reduction of our Scope expenses saw earnings ""' :::: per share grow ahead of removing or mitigating risks 1 and Scope 2 emissions."
0 the increase in adjusted when they are identified.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 31 OPERATING REVIEW Revenue 351.9m 8.2% Rotork Controls regions, with North American power and Latin American water providing the two best performances within these end markets.
Service activities continued to Market drivers perform well.
The investment in downstream oil and We saw the most positive growth from the gas in the Far East is being driven by the Far East which, even without the benefit of rising demand in that region for refined the large downstream projects, would have product which has outstripped capacity.
been the fastest growing region.
North The investment is across all aspects of America, Western Europe and Latin America downstream: refining, storage and also made progress.
The UK and Eastern petrochemical.
Europe were broadly flat whilst the Middle Order intake grew 4.9% to East and Africa saw a decline against their 349.2m up 8.0% on an OCC 2017 comparator, which benefited from a number of upstream oil and gas and basis and revenue was 8.2% Growth Acceleration power projects.
Programme During 2018 we led initiatives focused on This resulted in a 1.5% reduction in the lean manufacturing, product line The revised 103 flowline in Bath now order book to 93.6m over the course of rationalisation and supply chain incorporates all the lessons learnt from the year.
Adjusted operating profit was consolidation.
We implemented a new lean introducing mixed-model lean 101.3m which was an 9.1 % increase, assembly methodology in part of our Bath techniques during the year.
This yielded giving an adjusted operating margin of plant which has already delivered quality quality and efficiency improvements and 28.8%, 20 basis points higher than the prior and efficiency improvements in the year - once we implement these changes year.
On an OCC basis adjusted operating and which, once fully established, will be through the other IQ lines in Bath, in margin is the same as the prior year.
Gross rolled out across our other plants.
We have Rochester and China further benefits margin improved 30 basis points to 52.2% reviewed our product ranges and notified will be delivered.
largely due to operational gearing.
customers of 12 product lines which have now been discontinued, with a further three Oil and gas revenues grew strongly in the to follow in 2019.
In most cases these year driven by the large downstream customers have been successfully migrated projects in the Far East which we highlighted to newer product ranges.
The new at the half year results.
In total, oil and gas procurement team has been working on increased from 44% of divisional revenues both our direct and indirect cost base.
to 50%, with downstream increasing from Whilst the impact on our 2018 costs is not 29% of divisional sales to 36%.
Industrial significant, they have been laying the process was the only other end market to groundwork for delivery of savings in 2019. grow and did so both in value terms 17% and as a percentage of the division's sales up 1% to 17%.
"Power and water sales Grant Wood both declined overall but increased in some Managing Director Rotork Controls 32 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Revenue 166.3m 10.8% Rotork Fluid Systems G 0 ::: ""' z East offset by a decline in the Middle East."
"z "" m Downstream grew 34% led by activity in the Middle East."
Water and industrial process both showed modest progress but Market drivers power declined, partly due the sale of Hiller.
Given the project nature of Fluid The Far East grew in nearly all end markets Systems, spend tends to move from and was the best performing region market to market within a region.
In the although is still smaller than North America Far East spend increased in all areas of and the Middle East and Africa overall.
oil and gas: in North America midstream North America, Western Europe and declined but other areas were up: and in Eastern Europe all made progress in the the Middle East upstream projects year with Western Europe's performance completed last year, with downstream Fluid Systems saw strong project strongest in industrial process.
The Middle projects the focus in 2018. activity early in the year and as a East and Africa and UK markets, both declined in the year, largely as a result of result was able to convert a lower upstream business.
large part of this to revenue.
Growth Acceleration Operational improvement initiatives focused Order intake of 154.7m was 0.9% higher on Lucca, Italy during the year.
Introduction Programme on an OCC basis than the prior year but a of lean techniques, consistent with the currency headwind and the sale of the overall methodology being deployed across The largest Fluid Systems factory is Hiller nuclear actuator business meant the Group, were supplemented by a drive based in Lucca, Italy, and this was the reported order intake was 3.3% lower.
From a product prime focus for operational Revenue was 10.8% higher 14.2% OCC perspective there has been a balance improvement activities.
Initiatives to and as a result adjusted operating profit between new and expanded product lines, improve on-time delivery, recognising increased 78.9% OCC 85.6% to 16.1m.
"notably the electro-hydraulic SI range, and the very different types of product Adjusted operating margin increased 370 a rationalisation of the existing product "" going through one factory, to reduce 0 basis points to 9.7% OCC 380bps."
Gross ::: ranges with eight low volume ranges inventory and to introduce more visual margin improved 280 basis points to being phased out.
management tools as part of the lean z - 31.7% as the higher revenue was delivered programme all yielded benefits.
"These z from a lower direct cost base, as well as will be developed in 2019 and carried to 0 benefiting from a small improvement in Peter Matton ""' ::: the other Fluid Systems factories."
Managing Director Rotork Fluid Systems 0 z Oil and gas was the fastest growing end market and is now 68% of Fluid System's sales compared with 67% last year.
Within this, midstream was broadly flat and upstream, the largest element, grew 7% with progress in North America and the Far ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 33 OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED Revenue 85.6m 2.0% Rotork Gears markets.
Upstream activity was lower in most regions.
Industrial process was the other growth market, led by North America, with water and power broadly Market drivers flat.
The Middle East and Africa and Far East were the two regions which grew Increasingly our customers are looking sales whilst Western Europe reported the for shorter delivery lead times and this is largest decline.
All other regions reported reflected in many of the activities being similar activity levels to the prior year.
undertaken on lean and inventory as part of our Growth Acceleration Early in the year we undertook a review of Programme.
Our review of the sales the division's products and took the organisation will also reflect the decision to rationalise the product range in different nature of these customers' Order intake increased 0.9% a number of areas.
The closure of our requirements and how best to serve Valvekits business mid-year was the most OCC 3.8% to 86.
visible result of this but a number of low revenue of 85.6m was 2.0% volume product lines with obvious ahead of last year OCC 4.7%.
replacements were also phased out.
This exercise continues and we expect to Adjusted operating profit was 15.3m, Growth Acceleration consolidate more ranges in 2019 which will 2.7% lower than the prior year but was deliver further inventory reductions and Programme 1.3% on an OCC basis.
Adjusted simplify our product portfolio.
At the same operating margins were 17.9%, 80 basis time the reorganisation of R&D and As part of the Group lean programme, points lower than 2017.
Gross margin coordination at a Group level is allowing us a Gears assembly blueprint has been reduced 160 basis points to 32.2% driven to focus on development of gearboxes that designed and once fine-tuned in Leeds by higher material costs which were the primarily sell to Controls and Fluid Systems will be implemented across the other result of higher warranty costs and material to improve the efficiency of the product Gears factories.
These adverse impacts were pairing and competitiveness of the partially offset by reductions in overheads solution.
Oil and gas sales grew the fastest and David Littlejohns increased from 52% of divisional sales last Managing Director Rotork Gears year to 54%.
"The growth was in midstream in the Middle East and downstream in North America and the Far East whilst Western Europe was lower in both the end 34 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Revenue 107.2m 6.5% Rotork Instruments G 0 ::: ""' z from 12% to 10% of revenue."
"Water and z "" m power delivered modest growth and whilst Industrial sales grew, they declined as a percentage of sales from 19% to 18%."
Market drivers Geographically most regions maintained their share of divisional revenue, growing in In oil and gas we have seen a moderate line with the overall division.
The only recovery within the subsea business as exception was the UK which grew faster, activity for exploration and drilling has benefiting from upstream oil and gas sales.
Downstream, we have also seen the recommencement of projects Our focus on driving efficiency that were on hold through 2017.
The improvements included product industrial process market remained rationalisation, where we have withdrawn strong in 2018 especially in the Far East Order intake was 105.
Sm, over 2,500 SKUs covering more than 20 where we were able to capitalise on our product ranges.
At the same time new 0.9% higher than last year OCC strong product portfolio.
product development plays a major role as 1.
9% and revenue of 107.2m we look to match our customers' changing was 6.5% higher OCC 7.5%.
Our new chemical pump range for the oil and gas market offers major The additional revenue combined with Growth Acceleration efficiency savings, with reduced power tight control of costs ensured adjusted requirements which is ideal for growing Programme operating profit grew 17.7% OCC 17.5% solar applications.
With the reshaped to 24.1 m with adjusted operating margins Group engineering structure, we were able A number of lean initiatives were increasing 220 basis points OCC 190 bps to close a small remote engineering centre, implemented in our key factories to 22.5%.
Gross margin improved 110 driving cost savings without impacting our throughout 2018, allowing us to deliver basis points to 44.3% with the positive ability to innovate.
higher revenues whilst keeping direct impact of operational gearing combined costs flat.
"Lead times and on-time with holding direct costs at the prior year "" delivery were also improved as a result 0 level more than offsetting a small rise in ::: Kiet Huynh of the efficiency gains."
"Managing Director Rotork Instruments z - z Oil and gas remains the largest end market 0 and increased from 46% to 48% of ""' ::: revenue this year."
This growth comes from 0 upstream and midstream oil and gas sales z as downstream reduced in the year, falling ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 35
