Report of the directors The directors present their report together Activities Engaging colleagues with the audited accounts for the year ended RBS is engaged principally in providing a wide Engaging colleagues is crucial to achieving 31 December 2018. range of banking and other financial services.
Every year colleagues are Further details of the organisational structure asked to share their thoughts on what its like Other information incorporated into this report and business overview of RBS, including the to work for RBS via a colleague opinion by reference can be found at: products and services provided by each of its survey.
The results from the 2018 survey are operating segments and the markets in which the most positive ever reported since Page Note they operate are contained in the Business engagement started to be measured in 2002.
Details of the strategy for delivering All key measures have improved and RBS is 14 Sustainability the companys objectives can be found in the now above the global financial norms in all Climate change 33 Strategic Report.
The continued Viability statement 35 strengthening of the culture in RBS was also Business review 36 Results and dividends echoed in this years improved Banking RBS Group ring-fencing 36 The profit attributable to the ordinary Standards Board assessment which provided Board of directors and secretary 47 shareholders of the Group for the year ended further proof of progress across a range of 31 December 2018 amounted to 1,622 measures.
Corporate governance 49 million compared with a profit of 752 million Segmental analysis Note 4 for the year ended 31 December 2017, as set Rewarding employees Share Capital and other equity Note 22 out in the consolidated income statement on RBSs approach to performance management Post balance sheet events Note 35 page 176. provides clarity for employees about how their Risk factors 253 contribution links to RBSs ambition.
In 2018 RBS paid an interim dividend of 241 Group structure million, or 2.0p per ordinary share.
In addition, RBS has made further progress on making During 2018 in preparation for ring-fencing a the company announced that the directors sure employees are paid fairly for the work number of changes were made to the Group have recommended a final dividend of 3.5p they do with simple and transparent pay structure.
Following these changes the per ordinary share, and a further special structures, and in the UK RBSs rates company owns three main subsidiaries, dividend of 7.5p per ordinary share.
continue to exceed the Living Wage.
More NatWest Holdings Limited the parent of the information can be found on page 62 of the ring-fenced group which includes, National The final and special dividends recommended 2018 Annual Report and Accounts.
Westminster Bank Plc, The Royal Bank of by directors are subject to shareholders Scotland plc and Ulster Bank Ireland DAC, approval at the Annual General Meeting on 25 Developing colleagues NatWest Markets Plc the investment bank April 2019.
If approved, payment will be made RBS offers a wide range of additional learning and The Royal Bank of Scotland International on 30 April 2019 to shareholders on the opportunities.
In 2018 the NextGen talent Holdings Limited the parent of The Royal register at the close of business on 22 March development programme was launched for Bank of Scotland International Limited.
The ex-dividend date will be 21 March high potential colleagues at managerial level, 2019.
No dividend was paid in 2017. helping them become the future leaders RBS Further details of the principal subsidiary will need.
undertakings are shown in Note 6 and a full In the context of prior macro-prudential policy list of subsidiary undertakings and overseas discussions, previously RBS partially RBS also has a range of Female branches is shown in Note 10 of the parent neutralised the impact on Core Tier 1 capital Development Programmes supporting women company accounts.
of coupon and dividend payments in relation to reach their full potential, and helping RBS to hybrid capital instruments through equity to become fully gender balanced by 2030.
Following placing and open offers in issuances of ordinary shares, this policy was December 2008 and in April 2009, HM cancelled in 2018.
Approximately 300 million 2018 also saw Sales Excellence, the was raised each year in 2016 and 2017 Treasury HMT owned approximately 70.3% RBS bank-wide sales programme, get through the issue of new ordinary shares, and of the enlarged ordinary share capital of the underway, teaching the tools and techniques during 2018 136 million was raised.
In December 2009, the company that enable those in sales roles to be the best issued a further 25.5 billion of new capital to at ethical, needs-based selling.
More Employees HMT in the form of B shares.
HMT sold 630 information can be found on page 15 of the As at 31 December 2018, RBS employed million of its holding of the companys ordinary Strategic Report and on the Sustainable 67,000 people full-time equivalent basis, shares in August 2015.
In October 2015 HMT Banking pages on rbs.
Details of converted its entire holding of 51 billion B related costs are included in Note 3 on the shares into 5.1 billion new ordinary shares of Youth Employment consolidated accounts.
HMT sold a further In 2018, RBS welcomed 516 people across 925 million of its holding of the companys the Graduate and Apprenticeship schemes as Creating a healthy culture ordinary shares in June 2018. well as around 150 Interns into internship Building a healthy culture that embodies Our programmes.
Values is a core priority for RBS.
At 31 December 2018, HMTs holding in the companys ordinary shares was 62.3%.
Health and wellbeing of colleagues Our Values, which guide the way RBS As a strong component of making RBS a identifies the right people to serve customers NatWest Markets N. V. formerly Royal Bank great place to work, wellbeing has well, and how it manages, engages and of Scotland N. V. renamed in 2018 successfully delivered against three pillars rewards colleagues, are at the heart of Our NatWest Markets N. V. NWM N. V., the RBS physical, mental, and social: and in 2018 built Code the bank-wide Code of Conduct.
Groups banking entity in the Netherlands, momentum on the fourth pillar, financial continues to implement its plan to be wellbeing.
Further details can be found on operationally ready to serve our European page 16 of the Strategic Report and on the Economic Area customers when the UK Sustainable Banking pages on rbs.
leaves the European Union on 29 March 2019, in the event that there is a loss of access to the EU Single Market.
NWM N. V. is expected to become a subsidiary of NatWest Markets Plc, subject to regulatory approvals.
85 Report of the directors Employee consultation Business Disability Forum.
RBS was also At the Annual General Meeting in 2018 RBS recognises employee representatives proud to be named Employer of the Year by shareholders authorised the company to such as trade unions and work councils in a Women in Finance 2018. make market purchases of up to number of businesses and countries, and 1,199,376,674 ordinary shares.
The directors management regularly discuss developments Going concern have not exercised this authority to date.
and updates on the progress of its strategic RBSs business activities and financial Shareholders will be asked to renew this plans with the European Employee Council position, the factors likely to affect its future authorisation at the Annual General Meeting EEC.
RBS has ongoing engagement and development and performance and its in 2019. discussion with those bodies, given the scale objectives and policies in managing the of change taking place across RBS.
financial risks to which it is exposed and its On 6 February 2019 RBS held a General capital are discussed in the Business review.
Meeting and shareholders approved a special Colleague Voice The risk factors which could materially affect resolution to give authority for the Company to In response to changes which have been RBSs future results are set out on pages 253 make off-market purchases of up to 4.99 per made to the UK Corporate Governance Code, to 263.
RBSs regulatory capital resources cent of the Companys ordinary share capital RBS has established a Colleague Advisory and significant developments in 2018 and in issuance from HM Treasury or its Panel the Panel which is chaired by Lena anticipated future developments are detailed nominee at such times as the Directors may Wilson, Non-executive Director.
The purpose in the Capital, liquidity and funding section on determine is appropriate.
Full details of the of the Panel is to promote greater colleague pages 97 to 110.
This section also describes proposal are set out in the Circular and Notice voice in the boardroom and provide an RBSs funding and liquidity profile, including of General Meeting available on additional way for the Board to engage changes in key metrics and the build up of www.
Shareholders will be asked to directly with colleagues.
The Panel consists of liquidity reserves.
renew this authorisation at the Annual existing employee representatives e. g. Unite, General Meeting in 2019.
Financial Services Union FSU, EEC, Having reviewed RBSs forecasts, projections Employee Led Networks, Junior and other relevant evidence, the directors Additional information Management Colleague Focus Groups and have a reasonable expectation that RBS and Where not provided elsewhere in the Report colleagues who have volunteered to be the company will continue in operational of the directors, the following additional involved.
Colleagues from locations outside existence for the foreseeable future.
information is required to be disclosed by Part of the UK and Ireland also sit on the Panel to Accordingly, the financial statements of RBS 6 of Schedule 7 to the Large and Mediumensure a broad, diverse range of views.
In and of the company have been prepared on a sized Companies and Groups Accounts and total, there are approximately 20 colleagues going concern basis.
Reports Regulations 2008. or their representatives who attend each Panel meeting.
The Panel does not duplicate UK Finance disclosure code The rights and obligations attached to the existing methods to inform and consult, in RBSs 2018 financial statements have been companys ordinary shares and preference particular with employee representatives, prepared in compliance with the principles set shares are set out in our Articles of focusing instead on broader strategic issues out in the Code for Financial Reporting Association, copies of which can be obtained facing RBS.
The design of the Panel has been Disclosure published by the British Bankers' from Companies House in the UK or can be built around having two-way dialogue with Association in 2010 and adopted by UK found at rbs.
com about board-andclear outputs from the sessions and follow-up Finance.
The Code sets out five disclosure governance.
Non-cumulative preference to ensure it is viewed as a valuable addition to principles together with supporting guidance.
share details are set out in Note 22 of the existing colleague voice methods.
More detail The principles are that RBS and other major consolidated accounts.
can be found on the Panel on page 14 of the UK banks will provide high quality, meaningful Strategic Report.
and decision-useful disclosures: review and The cumulative preference shares represent enhance their financial instrument disclosures less than 0.008% of the total voting rights of Inclusion for key areas of interest to market the company, the remainder being Building a more inclusive RBS is essential for participants: assess the applicability and represented by the ordinary shares.
The ambition to relevance of good practice recommendations be number one for customer service, trust and to their disclosures, acknowledging the On a show of hands at a General Meeting of advocacy will only be achieved by importance of such guidance: seek to the company, every holder of ordinary shares understanding the needs of all colleagues and enhance the comparability of financial and cumulative preference shares, present in customers.
statement disclosures across the UK banking person or by proxy and entitled to vote, shall sector: and clearly differentiate in their annual have one vote.
On a poll, every holder of RBSs inclusion guidelines apply to all reports between information that is audited ordinary shares or cumulative preference colleagues globally and cover being LGBT and information that is unaudited.
shares present in person or by proxy and Innovative, Gender Balanced, Disability entitled to vote, shall have four votes for every Smart, Ethnically Diverse, all leading to Enhanced Disclosure Task Force EDTF share held.
The notices of Annual General Inclusive Culture.
Detailed information can be and Disclosures on Expected Credit Meetings and General Meetings specify the found on page 16 of the Strategic Report and Losses DECL Taskforce deadlines for exercising voting rights and on the Sustainable Banking pages on recommendations appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in rbs.
The EDTF, established by the Financial relation to resolutions to be passed at the Stability Board, published its report meeting.
RBS has been recognised for work on Enhancing the Risk Disclosures of Banks in Equality, Diversity and Inclusion in 2018 by October 2012, with an update in November retaining a position in the Times Top 50 2015 covering IFRS 9 expected credit losses ECL.
In November 2018, the DECL Employers for Women: being recognised Taskforce, jointly established by the Financial again as a Top 10 Employer for Working Conduct Authority, Financial Reporting Families: being rated as an Exemplary Level Council and the Prudential Regulatory Employer by Carer Positive Scotland: being Authority, published its phase 1 report, further named a Stonewall Global Diversity articulating EDTF 2015 recommendations.
Champion: being Platinum Ranked by RBSs 2018 Annual Report and Accounts and Business in the Community for both Gender Pillar 3 Report reflect EDTF and have regard and Ethnicity work: and being upgraded to to DECL Taskforce recommendations.
Gold Rated Disability Standard for the Authority to repurchase shares 86 Report of the directors There are no restrictions on the transfer of Directors Solicitor For The ordinary shares in the company other than The names and brief biographical details of Affairs of Her certain restrictions which may from time to the current directors are shown on pages 47 Majestys Treasury time be imposed by laws and regulations for and 48. as Nominee for Number of % of total Her Majestys shares % of share voting rights example, insider trading laws.
At the 2018 Treasury millions class held held Annual General Meeting, shareholders gave Howard Davies, Frank Dangeard, Alison authority to directors to offer a scrip dividend Davis, Morten Friis, Robert Gillespie, Ross Ordinary shares 7,509 62.3 62.3 alternative on any dividend paid up to the McEwan, Brendan Nelson, Baroness Noakes, conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in Mike Rogers, Mark Seligman and Lena As at 14 February 2019, there were no 2021.
Wilson all served throughout the year and to changes to the shareholdings shown in the the date of signing of the financial statements.
Pursuant to the UK Listing Rules, certain table above.
employees of the company require the Patrick Flynn was appointed on 1 June 2018 approval of the company to deal in the Listing Rule 9.8.
4 and Katie Murray was appointed on 1 January companys shares.
The information to be disclosed in the Annual 2019.
Report and Accounts under LR 9.8.
4, is set The rules governing the powers of directors, out in this Directors report with the exception including in relation to issuing or buying back All directors of the company are required to of details of contracts of significance under LR shares and their appointment, are set out in stand for election or re-election annually by 9.8.
4 10 and 11 given in Additional our Articles of Association.
It will be proposed shareholders at the Annual General Meeting Information on page 264. at the 2019 Annual General Meeting that the and, in accordance with the UK Listing Rules, directors authorities to allot shares under the the election or re-election of independent Political donations Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act directors requires approval by all shareholders At the Annual General Meeting in 2018, be renewed.
The Articles of Association may and also by independent shareholders.
shareholders gave authority under Part 14 of only be amended by a special resolution at a the Companies Act 2006, for a period of one general meeting of shareholders.
Directors interests year, for the company and its subsidiaries to The interests of the directors in the shares of make political donations and incur political The company is not aware of any agreements the company at 31 December 2018 are shown expenditure up to a maximum aggregate sum between shareholders that may result in on page 75.
None of the directors held an of 100,000.
This authorisation was taken as restrictions on the transfer of securities and or interest in the loan capital of the company or a precaution only, as the company has a voting rights.
There are no persons holding in the shares or loan capital of any of the longstanding policy of not making political securities carrying special rights with regard to subsidiary undertakings of the company, donations or incurring political expenditure control of the company.
A number of the during the period from 1 January 2018 to 14 within the ordinary meaning of those words.
companys employee share plans include February 2019.
During 2018, RBS made no political restrictions on transfers of shares while donations, nor incurred any political shares are subject to the plans.
Note 3 sets Directors indemnities expenditure in the UK or EU and it is not out a summary of the plans.
In terms of section 236 of the Companies Act, proposed that RBSs longstanding policy of Qualifying Third Party Indemnity Provisions not making contributions to any political party Under the rules of certain employee share have been issued by the company to its be changed.
Shareholders will be asked to plans, voting rights are exercised by the directors, members of the RBS Executive renew this authorisation at the Annual Trustees of the plan on receipt of participants Committee, individuals authorised by the General Meeting in 2019. instructions.
If a participant does not submit PRA FCA, certain directors and or officers of an instruction to the Trustee no vote is Directors disclosure to auditors RBS subsidiaries and all trustees of RBS registered.
Each of the directors at the date of approval of pension schemes.
this report confirms that: For shares held in the Companys other Controlling shareholder a so far as the director is aware, there is no Employee Share Trusts, the voting rights are In accordance with the UK Listing Rules, the relevant audit information of which the exercisable by the Trustees.
However, in company has entered into an agreement with companys auditors are unaware: and accordance with investor protection HM Treasury the Controlling Shareholder b the director has taken all the steps that guidelines, the Trustees abstain from voting.
which is intended to ensure that the he she ought to have taken as a director to The Trustees would take independent advice Controlling Shareholder complies with the make himself herself aware of any relevant before accepting any offer in respect of their independence provisions set out in the UK audit information and to establish that the shareholdings for the company in a takeover Listing Rules.
The company has complied companys auditors are aware of that bid situation.
The Trustees have chosen to with the independence provisions in the information.
waive their entitlement to the dividend on relationship agreement and as far as the This confirmation is given and should be shares held by the Trusts.
The total amount of company is aware the independence and interpreted in accordance with the provisions dividends waived during the year ended 31 procurement provisions in the relationship of section 418 of the Companies Act.
agreement have been complied with in the period by the controlling shareholder.
Auditors A change of control of the company following EY LLP are the auditors and have indicated a takeover bid may cause a number of Shareholdings their willingness to continue in office.
A agreements to which the company is party to The table below shows shareholders that resolution to re-appoint EY LLP as the take effect, alter or terminate.
All of the have notified RBS that they hold more than companys auditors will be proposed at the companys employee share plans contain 3% of the total voting rights of the company at forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
provisions relating to a change of control.
By order of the Board the context of the company as a whole, these agreements are not considered to be significant.
Aileen Taylor Company Secretary 14 February 2019 The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc is registered in Scotland No.
