Royal Mail plc | Who we are GLS Who we are GLS is one of the largest ground-based deferred parcel delivery networks in continental Europe.
The GLS network covers We operate in 43 countries around the world.
In the UK, our 41 European countries and nation states and seven US states through a combination Company operates under the Royal Mail and Parcelforce Worldwide of wholly owned companies and partner brands.
GLS provides geographical diversification for our companies.
Following the acquisitions of earnings and is a growth engine for the Group.
It is expanding its Agencia Servicios Mensajera S. A. U. ASM 2016 and Redyser Transporte February presence in European markets and through focused and targeted 2018 in Spain, and Golden State Overnight acquisitions in the western US.
Delivery Services GSO 2016 and Postal Express April 2017 in the US, we have been UK Parcels, International & Letters UKPIL, B2B business, it is gaining market share by focusing on integrating these businesses is the UKs pre-eminent delivery company.
winning new business in both B2B and the into GLS.
As the UKs sole designated Universal premium B2C parcel markets.
1 Service Provider, we are proud to deliver Our shareholders a one price goes anywhere service on Our people Royal Mail is one of the most widely held a range of letters and parcels to over We employ around 159,000 people across stocks in the UK.
We have a large and 30 million addresses including 1.3 million our Group: 141,000 are in the UK.
We are diverse shareholder base that includes many businesses across the country, six days committed to preserving the trust members of our own people.
All eligible full-time of the public have in our hard-working a week.
The Universal Service is vital for employees have received a maximum of employees.
In a survey undertaken by Ipsos economic growth.
It is the physical fulfilment 913 Free Shares, regardless of grade.
MORI, 81 per cent of our customers said arm of the digital economy and is crucial to In total, 12 per cent of the Company they are favourable to us: 88 per cent are the UKs economic future.
2 has been given to eligible colleagues satisfied with the service we provide.
It is one of the the largest free stake made available We are pleased to have reached agreement largest, ground-based deferred parcel to employees as part of any major with the CWU on pensions, pay, a shorter networks in continental Europe, covering UK privatisation.
working week and certain operational 41 countries and nation states in Europe We have a proactive programme of changes.
Under the new Pensions, Pay and and, following recent acquisitions, seven engagement with all of our shareholders, Pipeline agreement 'the agreement', both states in the western US.
It has a replicable including institutional investors in the UK parties will continue to work together to and scalable business model and key and overseas.
transform our operation, to grow our product strengths in business-to-business B2B and portfolio and maintain our pre-eminent business-to-consumer B2C markets.
For more information, see the Chief Executive Officers Review on page seven.
In the most competitive parcels market in Our position Europe, and against a backdrop of structural Our vision is to be recognised as the best GLS employs around 18,000 people.
decline in addressed letter volumes, UKPIL delivery company in the UK and across GLS Denmark was rated as one of the continues to roll out new services and products.
We deliver more parcels in the countrys best employers by Great Place It is adapting its operation to maintain its UK each year than all of our competitors to Work.
GLS France was ranked 11 out of position as the leading UK player in letters and combined.
We want to be the strategic almost 100 freight transport and logistics parcels.
Using our PDA technology, we have partner of choice for the UKs e-retailers.
companies in a list of best French employers rolled out notifications of estimated delivery The service and product improvements we by business magazine, Capital.
windows for our Tracked products.
UKPIL have put in place are delivering real benefits.
parcel volumes and revenue increased over Our customers GDP is a material driver for letter volumes.
the year, due to new contracts won with large Royal Mail Group offers services to We continue to forecast a medium-term four customers, including e-retailers.
suit every customer: consumers, sole to six per cent annual decline in addressed GLS accounts for around 33 per cent of traders, SMEs, large businesses and letter volumes excluding political parties the Groups adjusted operating profit after access operators.
GLS provides B2B and election mailings.
We are demonstrating transformation costs.
Recent acquisitions premium B2C services across continental the relevance and value of letters to all in Spain and the western US mean that its Europe and in the western US, serving our customers.
three major markets Germany, France and 270,000 customers.
GLS has continued to deliver significant Italy now account for 60 per cent of its total We are pleased that Ofcom continued growth in several key European markets.
revenue, compared with 63 per cent in the to note that UK consumers believe they Its scale up and grow strategy has helped prior period.
are getting value for money from postal expand its existing customer relationships GLS has successfully expanded several services.
In February 2018, the regulator and establish new ones in higher growth new B2C services across Europe: found that 77 per cent of residential areas outside the EU.
While it is largely a FlexDeliveryService, ShopReturnService consumers were either fairly or very and ShopDeliveryService.
They have helped satisfied with the value for money of postal 1 Under the Postal Services Act 2011 the Act, Ofcom services.
That is a two percentage point win new contracts and more business from is the regulator for postal services in the UK.
Ofcoms 3 primary regulatory duty for postal services is to increase year-on-year existing customers.
It has introduced a. secure the provision of the Universal Postal Service.
range of IT systems to improve the parcel This includes ensuring that an efficient provider of the process, such as scanning devices and Universal Service can make a reasonable commercial customer tracking systems.
Ofcom has designated Royal Mail as the 2 Ipsos MORI Corporate Image Survey Winter 2017.
3 Ofcom Residential Postal Tracker, February 2018, p. 405.
02 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information UKPIL UKPIL comprises Royal Mails UK business and international parcels and letters delivery businesses under the Royal Mail and Parcelforce Worldwide brands.
Royal Mails network is unparalleled in the UK in its scale and scope.
It supports the provision of services for the collection, sorting and delivery of parcels and letters by Royal Mail.
This includes those services Royal Mail provides as the UKs designated Universal Service Provider.
Parcelforce Worldwide is a leading provider of express parcel delivery services.
UKPIL c. 141,000 Employees 37 Mail Centres c. 1,350 Delivery Offices c. 11,400 Local Collect locations 4 c. 48,000 Vehicles GLS c. 18,000 Employees c. 70 Network hubs UKPIL GLS GLS Network Partners c. 1,300 Depots c. 18,000 Parcel shops 4 Includes c. 2,500 trailers.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 03
