VIABILITY STATEMENT The directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a three In making this statement, the directors have considered each of year period taking account of the Group's current position and the the principal risks, individually and some in combination, and the potential impact of the principal risks as documented above.
A potential impact they could have in severe but plausible scenarios.
robust assessment of the principal risks facing the business was The scenarios contained significant one off financial shocks and conducted through the year with the review of the risk appetite significant profit erosion impacting the Group's revenue.
framework and executive risk summaries contributing to a fuller In particular, the scenarios cover different potential impacts consideration of those risks which might impact the business associated with Brexit, the increasing political protectionism model or future performance.
Whilst the Board has no reason to in respect of trade tariffs, failure of the Growth Acceleration believe the Group will not be viable over a longer period, three Programme and lower investment in the oil and gas markets.
years is considered an appropriate period over which a reasonable The potential impact to Rotork from a no deal Brexit could be expectation of the Group's longer-term viability can be evaluated a loss of revenue due to logistic issues, supply chain disruption and is aligned with our planning horizon at both Group and or permanent cost increases as a result of increased tariffs.
The Board has considered whether it is aware of These events occurring individually or at once have been any specific relevant factors beyond the three year horizon and considered in the modelling of the different scenarios.
confirmed that there are none.
The Growth Acceleration Programme, which has progressed well during the year, is Financial sensitivity modelling was carried out to assess the impact expected to reduce the Group's cost base and improve the of these risks on the Group's three year plan.
Assumptions were Group's longer-term operational and financial performance made concerning market activity levels, the impact of the scenarios and financial position.
on working capital cycles and the mitigating actions that could be Cl taken to reduce the cash and financial impact of the stress-test In coming to this view, the Board has considered the inherent scenarios.
"Given the current position of the Group and the likely ""' z volatility in exchange rates and oil prices, the nature of the industry effectiveness of mitigating actions, the Board has assessed the z m and the business cycles involved."
"The Group works closely with its impact these would have on the business model, future "" customers on projects ranging from several weeks to several years, performance, solvency and liquidity over the period and have a discussing operational plans and longer-term capital expenditure reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue programmes."
"in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over a three year period.. z z "" E m z.... V, 8 :::: z - z 0 ""' :::: 0 z ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 29"
