Our Board 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 N E E Re T T Re S A Ri T A Ri 8 91011 121314 Re G N Ri S A G N Ri Ri A G N S Re A G N Re S T Key A Group audit committee Re Group performance and remuneration committee E Group Executive committee Ri Group Board risk committee G GRG Board Oversight Committee S Group Sustainable banking committee N Group nominations and governance committee T Technology and innovation committee Underlined Committee Chairman N E T Re S 1 Howard Davies 3 Katie Murray 5 Alison Davis Appointed: 14 July 2015 Board, Appointed: 1 January 2019 Appointed 1 August 2011 1 September 2015 Chairman Experience: Katie joined RBS as Director of Experience: Previously, Alison served as a Experience: Howard was chair of the UK Finance in November 2015 and was director of City National Bank, First Data Airports Commission between 2012 and 2015: appointed as Deputy Chief Financial Officer in Corporation, Xoom, Presidio Bank and Director of the London School of Economics March 2017.
Katie has worked in Finance and Diamond foods, and as a non-executive and Political Science from 2003 until May Accounting for nearly 30 years with director and chair of the board of LECG 2011: Chairman of the UK Financial Services experience in capital management, investor Corporation.
She has also worked at Authority from 1997 to 2003: and Deputy relations, financial planning and all areas of McKinsey & Company: AT Kearney: as Chief Governor of the Bank of England from 1995 to financial services.
Katie was previously the Financial Officer at Barclays Global Investors 1997.
Group Finance Director for Old Mutual now BlackRock : and as managing partner of Emerging Markets, based in Johannesburg Belvedere Capital, a private equity firm He is also Professor of Practice at the Paris from 2011 to 2015, having held various roles focused on buy-outs in the financial services Institute of Political Science Sciences Po in Old Mutual from 2002.
Prior to this Katie sector.
and author of several books on financial worked at KPMG for 13 years.
Alison is a graduate of Cambridge University Chartered Accountant having trained in and Stanford Business School.
Scotland and is a member of The Institute of External appointment s : Independent director Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
of Prudential plc and chair of the Risk External appointments: Non-executive Committee: Member of the Regulatory and director, and member of the audit committee External appointments: None.
Compliance Advisory Board of Millennium of Fiserv Inc: and non-executive director and Management LLC: Chair of the International chair of the audit committee of Ooma Inc.
Independent non-executive directors Advisory Council of the China Securities A Ri T 6 Patrick Flynn Regulatory Commission: and Member of the Re T 4 Frank Dangeard Appointed 1 June 2018 International Advisory Council of the China Appointed 16 May 2016 Experience: Patrick Flynn was the Chief Banking Regulatory Commission.
Experience: Frank assumed the role of Financial Officer and a member of the Chairman, NatWest Markets Plc on 30 April E 2 Ross McEwan Executive Board of ING Group Netherlands' 2018.
Previously, Frank served as a nonAppointed: 1 October 2013 largest financial services group from April executive director of Crdit Agricole CIB, Experience: Ross has more than 25 years 2009 to May 2017.
Prior to that, he was Chief EDF, Home Credit, Orange, Sonaecom experience in the finance, insurance and Financial Officer of HSBC Insurance from SGPS, and as Deputy Chairman and acting investment industries.
He became Chief 2007 to 2009 and prior to that, from 2002 to Chairman of Telenor ASA.
During his Executive of The Royal Bank of Scotland 2007, was Chief Financial Officer of HSBC executive career he held various roles at Group in October 2013 and between August South America based in Brazil where he was Thomson S. A. including Chairman and Chief 2012 and September 2013, was Chief responsible for HSBC's banking and Executive Officer, and was Deputy Chief Executive Officer for UK Retail, joining from insurance operations.
Executive Officer of France Telecom.
Prior to Commonwealth Bank of Australia where he that he was Chairman of SG Warburg France Patrick is a Chartered Accountant: a Fellow of was Group Executive for Retail Banking and Managing Director of SG Warburg.
the Institute of Chartered Accountants Ireland: Services for five years.
Prior to this, Ross was and a member of the Association of Executive General Manager with responsibility Frank is a graduate of HEC and IEP in Paris Corporate Treasurers in the UK.
for the branch network, contact centres and and of the Harvard Law School in the US.
Prior to External appointments: None.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia, he was External appointments: Non-executive director Managing Director of First NZ Capital of the Symantec Corporation and Arqiva.
He was also Chief Executive of National Mutual Life Association of Australasia Ltd AXA New Zealand Ltd.
47 Our Board A Ri 7 Morten Friis Appointed 10 April 2014 10 Baroness Noakes, DBE 13 Dr Lena Wilson, CBE Ri A G N S T Experience: Previously, Morten had a 34 year Appointed 1 August 2011 Appointed 1 January 2018 financial services career.
He held various Experience: Baroness Noakes is an Experience: Lena is an experienced CEO with roles at Royal Bank of Canada and its experienced director on UK listed company an international career, who spent a subsidiaries including Associate Director at boards with extensive and varied political and significant proportion of her executive career Orion Royal Bank: Vice President, Business public sector experience.
A qualified chartered with Scottish Enterprise, latterly as Chief Banking: and Vice President, Financial accountant, she previously headed KPMGs Executive from 2009 until 2017.
In 1997, he was appointed as European and International Government Lena held the role of Senior Investment Senior Vice President, Group Risk practices and has been President of the Advisor to The World Bank in Washington DC.
Management and served as the Chief Credit Institute of Chartered Accountants in England She is a visiting Professor at the University of Officer, then Chief Risk Officer, from 2004 to and Wales.
She was appointed to the House Strathclyde and has previously served as a 2014.
He was also previously a Director of of Lords in 2000 and has served on the member of Scotland's Financial Services RBC Bank USA : Westbury Life Insurance Conservative front bench in various roles Advisory Board and as Chair of Scotland's Company: RBC Life Insurance Company: and including as shadow Treasury minister Energy Jobs Taskforce.
In June 2015 she RBC Dexia Investor Services Trust Company.
Baroness received a CBE for services to economic Noakes previously held non-executive roles development in Scotland.
Lena is Chair of the External appointments: Member of the Board on the Court of the Bank of England, Hanson, Colleague Advisory Panel established by RBS of Directors of The Canadian Institute for ICI, Severn Trent, Carpetright, John Laing and during 2018.
Advanced Research: member of the Board of SThree.
Directors of the Harvard Business School External appointments: Non-Executive Club of Toronto: and non-executive director of External appointments: Member of the House Director of Intertek Group plc and member of Jackson National Life Insurance Company.
of Lords Select Committee on the European its audit and nomination committees, and nonUnion and its sub-committee on the internal Executive Director of Scottish Power G S Re N Ri market.
Visiting Professor, 8 Robert Gillespie University of Strathclyde Business School.
Appointed 2 December 2013 S Re Advisory Board member of MCR Pathways.
Experience: Robert had a long career in 11 Mike Rogers investment banking, specialising in corporate Appointed 28 January 2016 Chief Governance & Regulatory Officer advisory work.
He was Director General of the Experience: Mike was previously Chief and Board Counsel: Company Secretary Takeover Panel from 2010 until 2013 and Executive of Liverpool Victoria Group for 10 prior to that held a number of senior years.
Mike has extensive experience in retail management positions at UBS including being banking and financial services.
He joined 14 Aileen Taylor global head of investment banking from 1999 Barclays in 1986 where he undertook a Appointed 1 May 2010 until 2005, chief executive of UBS for EMEA variety of roles in the UK and overseas across Experience: A qualified solicitor, Aileen joined from 2004 to 06 and Vice Chairman of UBS business banking, wealth management and RBS in 2000.
She was appointed Group Investment Bank from 2005 to 2008.
He retail banking and was Managing Director of Secretary in 2010 and extended her remit commenced his career at Price Waterhouse Small Business, Premier Banking and UK further in 2015, becoming Chief Governance where he qualified as a Chartered Accountant Retail Banking.
In 2017 she also and in 1981 joined S. G. Warburg which assumed responsibility for Regulatory Affairs.
subsequently became part of UBS.
External appointments: Non-executive Prior to that Aileen held various legal, Chairman of Aegon UK: Director of Experian secretariat and risk roles including Head of External appointments: Independent board plc: and Chairman of its Remuneration External Risk Retail, Head of Regulatory director at Ashurst LLP: chairman of the Boat Committee.
Risk Retail Direct and Head of Legal and Race Company Limited: director of Social Compliance Direct Line Financial Services.
A G N Re Finance Limited: and professor of practice, 12 Mark Seligman Durham University Business School.
Aileen is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Appointed 1 April 2017: Senior Independent Bankers in Scotland and a member of the Director since 1 January 2018 A European Corporate Governance Council and G N Ri 9 Brendan Nelson Experience: Mark, is a former senior the GC 100.
She is also a member of the Appointed 1 April 2010 investment banker with broad financial FCAs Listing Authority Advisory Panel.
Experience: Brendan is a non-executive services knowledge, has substantial FTSE director of NatWest Markets Plc and chair of 100 Board experience gained in various its audit committee.
Previously Brendan was industry sectors, including as a Committee global chairman, financial services for KPMG.
Chair and Senior Independent Director.
He held senior leadership roles within KPMG, During his executive career, he held various including as a member of the KPMG UK senior roles at Credit Suisse BZW including board from 1999 to 2006 and as viceDeputy Chairman, CSFB Europe and chairman from 2006 until his retirement in Chairman, UK Investment Banking, CSFB : 2010.
He was Chairman of the Audit and previously SG Warburg ultimately as Committee of the Institute of Chartered Managing Director, Head of Advisory.
He has Accountants of Scotland from 2005 to 2008 also previously served as a non-executive and President of the Institute of Chartered Director of BG Group plc and as Deputy Accountants of Scotland 2013 14.
External appointments: Non-executive director External appointments: Senior Independent and Chairman of the audit committee and Director of Kingfisher plc and non-Executive member of the remuneration, nominations & Director and Chairman of the audit committee governance committee and chairmans of Smiths Group plc.
committees of BP plc: and member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
