02 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report INVESTMENT PROPOSITION O ur markets are GR OW ING and so are we The global rigid and flexible plastic packaging market is forecast to grow at an average annual rate FY 2012 13 of 3.7% between 2017 and 2022, increasing its share revenue of the global packaging market versus competing 982m materials by 1.4%pts.
Plastic packaging market growth drivers: n Rising and aging population n Increasing number of smaller and single person households in developed economies FY 2017 18 revenue n Rise in emerging market incomes 3,748m n Busier lifestyles and convenience packaging n Growing importance of lightweighting, sustainability and the circular economy n Move to e-commerce Our market place page 13 A global footprint: worldwide excellence FY 2012 13 17 countries FY 2017 18 34 countries Smithers Pira 2017 Countries with an RPC operation Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 03 Strategic Report W e are experts at sustainable INNO V A TION Innovation is a key differentiator for RPC.
We have 32 design and innovation centres of excellence that enable us to devise novel plastic solutions for our customers which consumers will want to buy.
Our design and development work includes a proactive approach to sustainability.
Combined with our expertise in all five polymer conversion processes, this allows us to work with our customers throughout the product lifecycle.
Innovating for sustainability see case study onpage 59 32 focused design and innovation centres B2Nature Compostable RPC Circular Grading Tool Secure Flip Sports Closure coffee capsules The RPC unique Circular Grading Tool.
Used to rate the Next generation sports cap that breaks new ground with its recyclability of plastic products, leading to new and combination of enhanced ease of use and maximum product This material can be industrially composted within improved designs.
safety and integrity, along with a contemporary design.
12weeks, while still delivering long-term protection of its contents and being able to withstand the high pressurised operation of the brewing process.
04 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report INVESTMENT PROPOSITION CONTINUED A successful S TR A TE G Y combining acquisitive and organic growth Vision 2020: Focused Growth Strategy 1.
Continuing focus on organic growth 2.
Selective consolidation in Europe Plastic continues to advance at the expense of competing With a limited number of consolidators, further acquisition materials.
Innovative, sustainable solutions built on excellence opportunities exist in a segmented market place.
RPC continues to in design and engineering, positions RPC for organic growth seek opportunities that either enhance and strengthen its presence ahead of GDP through the cycle.
inexisting markets or represent attractive complementary markets.
2.9% Europe c. 63bn 1.8% RPC c. 3bn GDP RPC 5 year CAGR 5 year CAGR weighted according to RPCs like-for-like revenue destination of revenue 3.
Pursuing added value opportunities outside ofEurope innon-packaging markets Packaging markets outside Europe are forecast to grow faster RPC can leverage its core competencies of design and engineering withmulti-national customers indicating an increasing demand together with a competitive buying position of the main raw materials forRPCs leading design and engineering capabilities.
used, in a number of selected non-packaging markets.
World class in-house mould making allows RPC to deliver technically challenging projects for its customers.
FY 2017 18 868m non-European FY 2012 13 revenue by destination 52m non-European revenue by 17x destination increase Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 05 Strategic Report O ur strategy has delivered STRONG PERFORMANCE over five years Our Vision 2020 strategy has delivered strong growth in revenue, profit, cashgeneration and returns.
Revenue Adjusted Operating profit Adjusted basic earnings Cash generated m m per share p from operations m 36% 38% 16% 45% RONOA Operating profit Basic earnings per share Dividend per share % m p p 150bps 85% 66% 17% Adjusted operating profit, Adjusted basic earnings per share and RONOA are considered Alternative Performance Measures APMs.
Definitions and reconciliations of all APMs can be found on pages 47 to 51.
Our customers We work with both large blue chip customers and smaller accounts, and using our scale, design and engineering capabilities are able to follow our customers globally.
Why customers choose RPC: n Innovation in product design, engineering and material science n Breadth of product ranges and conversion technologies n Scale and global geographical footprint n Security of supply n Ability to invest in and manage global turn-key projects n Sector focused management teams providing best-in-class speed to market Our responsibility RPC is committed to minimising the environmental impact of its products and manufacturing processes, and to incorporate environmental sustainability into its overall business strategy.
S Str tra at tegic R egic Report eport Go Gov vernanc ernance e Financial S Financial Sta tat tements ements Shar Shareholder Inf eholder Informa ormation tion RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 07 Strategic Report CASE STUDY A RISING ST AR in design What he particularly likes about his job is the ability The nurturing of new talent is essential to see a project through from concept to completion.
to RPCs continuing success and growth.
Many designers in an agency dont often get to see how their original sketches pan out, particularly as Named the UK packaging industrys Rising Star there may have to be many changes along the way for 2017 at the prestigious UK Packaging Awards, in order for an initial design to be manufactured Ed Arnold of RPC Design is part of the companys successfully, he explains.
With RPC Design and next generation who will continue to embrace its this is what gives us a lot of credibility we know entrepreneurial spirit that encourages innovation.
that what we design, the company has to be able Ed joined the design team at RPC after graduating to make.
So we are able to reign in our creativity from Northampton University in 2014 with a First ourselves with a dose of realism as to what is possible Class honours degree in Product Design.
his enthusiasm, inquisitiveness, capacity to learn and Thats not to say that current practices should go maturity have all contributed to him becoming an unchallenged and Eds willingness to bring fresh ideas indispensable member of the team, working on major to the design process was one of the key reasons he projects for important clients.
was selected to receive his award.
Eds interest in design came from the creative side, As the judges commented, He has clearly made but he quickly gained an understanding of the an impact, and is not afraid to challenge as a new complexities of designing for RPCs different plastic member of a first-class team.
manufacturing processes such as injection moulding, blow moulding and thermoforming.
Ongoing training has therefore formed a vital part of Eds career development and as he explains, There is always budget for training and equipment at RPC, so I have always had the support I needed to increase my knowledge.
Awards During the last year we have continued to win awards that recognise our design capabilities, manufacturing and technical skills, and commitment to devising sustainable solutions.
