REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Report of the Directors Share capital The directors submit their report which incorporates the Details of the Company's share capital including the rights and management report required under the Disclosure Guidance and obligations attached to each class of shares and the ordinary shares Transparency Rules for listed companies and the audited accounts issued during 2018 are summarised in note 17 of the financial for the year ended 31 December 2018 as set out on pages 92 to statements.
O. Sp ordinary shares represent over 99.9% of the 135.
In compiling this report, the directors have consulted with the Company's total share capital and 1 9.5% cumulative preference management of the Group.
shares represent less than 0.1 % of the Company's total share capital.
Directors There are no securities of the Company carrying special rights with The directors in office at the date of this report all of who served regard to the control of the Company.
during the year and their biographies and other details, are set out on pages 52 to 53.
At the Company's last AGM held on 27 April 2018, the shareholders authorised the Company to make market purchases Directors' indemnification and insurance of ordinary shares limited to just under approximately 10% of its The Company's articles of association provide for the directors and issued ordinary share capital at that time and of certain issued officers of the Company to be appropriately indemnified, subject preference shares, and to allot shares within certain limits to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company approved by shareholders.
These authorities expire at the 2019 purchases and maintains insurance for the directors and officers of AGM and appropriate renewals will be sought.
the Company in performing their duties, as permitted by section 233 Companies Act 2006.
The Company did not acquire any of its own shares in 2018.
Powers of the directors The Company's articles of association contain customary As set out in the Company's articles of association, the business of restrictions on the transfer of shares as applicable only in certain the Company is managed by the Board who may exercise all the limited circumstances e. g. in relation to transfers to a minor.
Save powers of the Company.
for those provisions, there are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company other than certain Appointment and removal of directors restrictions which may be required from time to time by law, for The Board may appoint a director, either to fill a vacancy or as an example, insider trading law.
In accordance with the Company's additional director.
Any director appointed by the Board must share dealing code, directors and certain employees are required retire at the next AGM of the Company and put themselves to seek the prior approval of the Company to deal in its shares.
forward for re-appointment by the shareholders.
In accordance with the recommendations of the Code, each member of the The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders Board submits them self for re-election on an annual basis.
that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
The Company's articles of association contain limited In addition to any power of removal conferred by the Companies Act restrictions on the exercise of voting rights e. g. in relation to 2006, the Company may by ordinary resolution remove any director disenfranchised shares following the issue of a notice to shareholders before the expiration of their period of office and may, subject to the under section 793 Companies Act 2006. articles of association, by ordinary resolution appoint another person who is willing to act as a director in their place.
The Company's share schemes each contain provisions providing voting rights to the scheme trustee.
Political donations No political donations were made during the year.
The Group has Amendments to the Company's articles of association a policy of not making political donations in any part of the world.
The Company's articles of association may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Dividend The directors recommend a final dividend of 3.70p per ordinary Significant agreements - change of control share 2017: 3.35p for the year, payable on 22 May 2019 to The Company is not aware of any significant agreements to which shareholders on the register on 12 April 2019.
An interim dividend it is party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of for 2018 of 2.20p per ordinary share 2017: 2.05p was paid on control of the Company following a takeover.
There are no 21 September 2018. agreements between the Company and its directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment Information required in the Report of the Directors set that occurs because of a takeover bid.
out in the Strategic Report Information relating to the likely future developments of the Greenhouse gas emissions Company and its subsidiaries, and information relating to the The disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions required by research and development activities of the Company and its law are set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on subsidiaries, is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 51. page 51.
Use of financial instruments Disabled persons and employee involvement An explanation of the Group policies on the use of financia l The disclosures concerning the Group's policies on the instruments and financial risk management objectives are employment of disabled persons and employee involvement are contained in note 26 to the accounts.
Post-balance sheet events Substantial shareholders There have been no important post-balance sheet events.
As at 31 December 2018, the following notifiable interests in issued share capital had been received by the Company under the Disclosure Existence of branches outside the UK Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR 5 of the UK Listing Authority.
The Company has no branches outside of the UK.
It should be noted that these holdings are likely to have changed since notified to the Company.
However, notification of any change is not required until an applicable threshold is crossed.
84 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Number of voting The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting rights direct and % of voting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company's Identity indirect rights transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Liontrust Investment Partners LLP 870,576,249 5.02 financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that Standard Life Aberdeen pie 870,535,628 4.93 the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
B lackrock Inc 870,471,954 6.30 They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Fiera Capital Corporation 34,102,377 3.92 Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc 43,259,363 4.97 and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 43,432,258 4.99 AXA Investment Managers 43,395,000 4.99 The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Mondrian Investment Partners Ltd 42,677,169 4.91 the corporate and financial information included on the APG Asset Management NV.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Corporate governance The Company's Corporate Governance Report can be found on Directors' responsibility statement pages 54 to 59.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 1.
The financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs Disclosure of information to auditors as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Report liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company of the Directors confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditors a whole: are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that they 2.
The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any and performance of the business and the position of the relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's company and the undertakings included in the consolidation auditor is aware of that information.
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and 'Going concern' basis of preparation 3.
The Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company's operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, performance, business model and strategy.
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In forming this view, the directors have Directors' statement pursuant to the Disclosure considered trading and cash flow forecasts, financial Guidance and Transparency Rules commitments, the significant order book with customers spread Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on across different geographic areas and industries and the significant pages 52 to 53 confirm that, to the best of each person's net cash position.
knowledge and belief: The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the Statement of directors' responsibility for preparing the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view Annual Report and financial statements of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Directors' responsibilities.
Group and Company: The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and z The Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and z r, development and performance of the business and the position regulations.
of the Group and Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and Company law requires the directors to prepare such financial E Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the Annual statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are m z Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance... V, balanced and understandable and provide the information with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted necessary for shareholders to assess the Company's by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and performance, business model and strategies.
have also chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity company law, the directors must not approve the financial of the corporate and financial information included on the statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair Company's website.
Legislation in the UK governing the view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or preparation and dissemination of financial statements may loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
"statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that 8 :::: directors: External auditor z Properly select and apply accounting policies: - Upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee and approval Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner z of the Board, a resolution to appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor, and 0 that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable ""' to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration, are to :::: information: be proposed at the forthcoming AGM."
Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 0 z specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to On behalf of the Board understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity's financial position and financial performance: and Helen Barrett-Hague Make an assessment of the company's ability to continue as a Group General Counsel and Company Secretary going concern.
