STRATEGIC PRIORITIES 1 2 3 Focused on our customers We are committed to delivering great service and outcomes for our customers.
OUR FOCUS OUR PROGRESS Digital platforms for convenience, RSA is committed to treating customers and migration for our major Home exibility and speed fairly.
This year we established a new distribution deals will be live in 2019.
Unity UK Customer Committee to further has supported very positive feedback, Increase customer satisfaction strengthen the voice of the customer evidenced by a strong retention rate of and retention in our decision-making.
85% for our Nationwide customers, the Sharpen customer acquisition tools first partner to migrate to the platform.
In Personal Lines, we are improving Enhance IT capability retention and sales ef ciency by investing We continue to sustain positive customer in digital: an IT-hub is being established satisfaction: in Denmark, Codan has made in Malm to build capabilities for the impressive gains in 2018, improving from 1 future with a primary objective of creating a CSAT score of 77 to 81: our Johnson an effortless customer experience in business in Canada is performing well Scandinavia: Auto Express was launched on loyalty measures and customer 2 in Canada to fast track simple claims: and satisfaction with an agent NPS of 70: in the UK, we migrated c. 600,000 af nity and in the UK, our intermediated brand and M customers over to Unity our new Nationwide has maintained strong 2 digital servicing platform.
16 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2018 rsagroup.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS We make insurance easy by putting our customers at the heart of our business.
Case study Sorting out pet prescriptions in under half an hour It used to take over three weeks to process simple repeat prescription claims.
In 2018, we introduced a process to automate them, which means that customers can now process a claim in as little as In July 2018, we announced an exciting 12 minutes, from registering the claim to approval new distribution partnership between of the payment.
Were now focusing on maximising Johnson and Scotiabank, one of the adoption across all our af nity partners.
They cited Johnsons commitment to customers as a key factor in selecting RSA.
In Canada, where the broker channel makes up 67% of the business, RSA 12 minutes 3 PRO was launched in May and is on track to drive a channel shift to 60% Average processing time for pet repeat prescription claims digital interaction by the end of 2021.
4 Our UK GRS segment upgraded RSAred which uses real-time data and our insight to give customers greater visibility and control over risks.
1 Industry-wide customer satisfaction measure as at 2017 and 2018.
3 Web-based application that enables direct submissions and servicing by brokers for SME policies.
4 Web-based application that allows customers to manage risk engineering data in real time.
17 STRATEGIC PRIORITIES CONTINUED 1 2 3 Disciplined, expert underwriting We are investing in our underwriting tools and capabilities, so we can constantly improve our understanding and pricing of the evolving risks that our customers face.
OUR FOCUS OUR PROGRESS E levate underwriting disciplines The 2018 underwriting result was heavily Our large loss triage process shows that impacted by adverse weather and underwriting quality was signi cantly Ongoing portfolio re-underwriting large losses, which were 2.6% higher in improved in 2018, notwithstanding that we Invest in tools and technology 1 aggregate than the 5 year average.
have more work to do to reach our targets.
O ptimise reinsurance However, we are con dent that we are Our three-year aggregate reinsurance taking the right actions.
We are exiting cover was renewed at the beginning of underperforming lines of business and 2018 on competitive terms and protects us improving underwriting, pricing accuracy well from frequency in super-large losses.
and risk management in areas where We seek to capture any changes in sustained pro tability can be achieved.
weather patterns or trends in our pricing.
We are already starting to see the Premiums in our most pro table lines are bene ts of this disciplined approach.
growing, with Swedish Personal Lines Attritional ratios in Danish Personal Lines 2 2 up 8%, Johnson up 6% and 123. ie Motor have improved 1.1% in the year and 2 up 2%.
the UK Household attritional loss ratio has improved 4.1% compared with 2017, following rating and claims indemnity actions.
18 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2018 rsagroup.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS We are harnessing data analytics and AI to underpin our expert underwriting Case study Identify and Evaluate I&E Caption: Veliqui volor untibusdam est landebi untibusdam align eum.
eLearning module The I&E phase of underwriting is where the underwriter determines the overall quality of the case based on an evaluation of the information provided.
Throughout 2018, the RSA Technical We have successfully rolled out Radar Live Academy has signi cantly increased the number to all Swedish Personal Lines and 85% of training sessions delivered on I&E.
This enables In addition, we have developed a mandatory more complex algorithms in rating and eLearning module with real case examples to signi cantly increases speed to market.
ensure we are reaching all underwriters globally.
We have delivered capability All underwriters will undertake this training on enhancements to our people, with twice as an annual basis starting in early 2019.
By better many employees trained in 2018 compared understanding the nature of the risk, we can better with 2017.
We introduced a mandatory support our customers by ensuring they have the training module relating to a key element most appropriate risk mitigation plans in place.
We also developed RSAs first Group-wide technical induction programme.
19 STRATEGIC PRIORITIES CONTINUED 1 2 3 Managing our cost base ef ciently Running an ef cient, productive business helps us to remain competitive, invest for the long term and achieve sustained value for our shareholders.
OUR FOCUS OUR PROGRESS Deploy lean, robotics and process In 2018, Group written underwriting UK & International controllable expense redesign controllable costs of 1,343m were ratio up due to premium contraction 1 down 2%.
after pricing actions but down c. 3 points Optimise overheads and procurement since 2013.
RSA have achieved the Group target of Site consolidation and outsourcing 450m savings a year early and will now Cost mix changing: Product development Automation and IT improvements move cost ef ciency into business as and IT costs increasing in the short term, but usual mode.
offset by savings elsewhere in the value chain.
In 2018, the Group earned underwriting Lean management showing material controllable cost ratio of 20.4% was 0.6% improvements in ef ciency across the lower than 2017 and has improved by over Group: now implemented in c. 95% of 1 4 points since 2013. our Canadian operations.
2 Scandinavia earned controllable expense Selective outsourcing BPO : Outsourced ratio down 2 points versus 2017: costs still voice calls in UK Motor and BPO projects higher in Norway.
implemented in Canada and Scandinavia for the first time.
Controllable expense ratio improved in Canada as well, despite the costs of capability investments coming through.
20 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2018 rsagroup.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Case study Our people have helped us save costs Scandinavias by implementing more ef cient business Ca Cap pt tiio o on: n: five five elliiqu qui v i v volo olor r processes BPO journey un un nt tibu ibusdam s sdam e est st lande la andeb b bii un unfit ntibu ibus sda sdam m a ali lig gn n e eu um m.. Our Scandinavian operations established a dedicated BPO management function to identify operational expenditure savings.
Working towards a target run rate saving of c. 7m, the business has standardised processes to lower the cost base and Improved digital and online self-service engage staff in a cost-saving culture.
capabilities driving lower call volumes: use of Johnson self-service facilities increased 34% year-on-year: Claims Automation in the UK is powered by nearly 30 robots generating an overall FTE saving of 18 : and online sales in Sweden rose by 53%.
c. 7m Site consolidation programmes optimising Run rate saving in Denmark geographical footprint: Canadian operations consolidated into two major hubs and five key branches and relocations in Europe have facilitated premises cost savings.
Zero based budgeting ZBB is being implemented across regions to drive deeper understanding and stronger control of our cost base.
ZBB is building a culture of ongoing cost management and continuous improvement.
1 At constant FX Group and ex.
