REGIONAL REVIEW Focus on SCANDINAVIA PERFORMANCE 86.8% 1.8bn Combined ratio Net written premiums 3.9% -0.9% Patrick Bergander CEO, Scandinavia A strong year in Scandinavia our trusted brands have continued to thrive, as we invest in areas where we see growth.
BRANDS TYPE OF BUSINESS Personal: A G A.
Motor 20% C. PA and other 20% B E Personal and Commercial: D. Comm.
Property 17% E. Liability 8% F. Comm.
Motor 12% G. Marine and oth 3% er D C FINANCIAL SUMMARY 2018 net written premiums Underwriting result COR 1 m % change 2018 m 2017 m 2018 % Personal 1,081 6 222 240 78.9 Commercial 736 4 16 75 97.9 Total 1,817 2 238 315 86.8 28 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2018 rsagroup.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Norway was impacted by higher weatherOur operations in Scandinavia related frequency, Motor claims in ation, STRATEGY AND OUTLOOK RSA is the only international insurer operating mid-sized Commercial Property losses within the top five in Scandinavia.
In Sweden, and underperforming schemes currently in Our strategy we operate as Trygg-Hansa, and in Denmark remediation.
Large losses were elevated at and Norway as Codan.
Since 2014, our focus on improving 8.9% compared to the five year average of pro tability and reducing costs has Our business is split into approximately 6.1% 2017: 5.7%.
This was dominated by resulted in a stronger, more stable 60% Personal and 40% Commercial Lines.
the exited Interconnector segment and by Scandinavian business, despite a We distribute mainly direct to customers, but a Commercial Property re in Denmark.
disappointing Commercial Lines also leverage strong agency relationships.
Written controllable expenses were down 1 8% year-on-year, with 10% cost reductions Scandinavian market Moving forward, we will focus absorbing 2% in ation.
The earned controllable context and risk pro le investment for growth in our most cost ratio of 21.1% improved by 2 points.
pro table segments and portfolios, Overall, the Scandinavian economy is strong, targeting improvements in four Sweden generated an underwriting pro t despite individual challenges within each of 1 key areas: customer experience: of 251m 2017: 245m and a combined the countries we operate in.
In Sweden, there excellence in underwriting and ratio of 75.7% 2017: 75.3%.
The movement was robust GDP growth of 2.5% during 2018, claims: continued cost ef ciency: was mainly driven by the weather loss ratio while Denmark and Norway grew at lower but and innovation and agility.
which was 0.6 points higher than last year.
Denmark produced a combined ratio of Against this backdrop, insurance markets 1 Outlook 99.0% 2017: 90.3%.
The Commercial remained resilient, with incumbents Lines ratio deteriorated by 15.6 points due to Our 2018 result is just outside the maintaining a competitive position against elevated large losses, and, to a lesser extent target combined ratio of 85% but we market challengers despite increased a lower prior year result.
Norway recorded an see scope for further improvements competition in Commercial Lines.
1 underwriting loss of 19m 2017: 4m loss as we build the appeal of our brand, re ecting a deterioration in attritional customer service levels, operational Customer demand for online access claims, higher large losses and higher excellence and underwriting skills.
to insurance has increased, prompting operating costs.
We expect our Scandinavian widespread digitisation.
The popularity of operations to achieve medium-term tech-enabled cars and electric vehicles in Responding to customer needs growth in line with local economies.
Scandinavia puts upward pressure on claims costs, though we expect this to be Our brands in Scandinavia are well-known offset by reducing frequency of claims.
and trusted, providing a strong trading basis on which to expand our business across Financial performance the region.
However, customers demands are changing as they seek to interact with Scandinavia delivered operating pro t of 1 us online.
Recognising the need to adapt, 306m, down 19%.
The combined ratio we are upgrading our digital capabilities of 86.8% was 3.9 points higher than last and increasingly allowing customers to buy year and just above our 85% best-in-class and manage policies online and via mobile.
Personal Lines continued to deliver In late 2018, we established an IT-hub in excellent performance with a combined ratio Malm, Sweden, to increase our technical of 78.9% 2017: 77.0%, however, Commercial capabilities and accelerate our digital Lines increased by 7.3 points to a combined transition.
The Interconnector segment of Tech Lines contributed 4.7 points to the As a result of this strategy, we have seen a Commercial Lines combined ratio and is substantial growth in digital sales in Sweden.
being exited, while a property re in Denmark Trygg-Hansa customers are now able to added 1.6 points.
self-serve online, with customer visits to the online portal increasing 53% year-on-year.
Regional net written premiums of 1,817m More customers than ever now rate their were down 1% at reported FX and up 2% at engagement with us as effortless, recording constant FX, with Personal Lines premiums 1 1 a better than the industry score 72% vs up 6%.
Swedish Personal Lines grew by 8% Sales go digital 69% overall benchmark.
We gather daily Online became the largest sales and policies-in-force PIFs were 2% higher channel during 2018 for Swedish customer feedback to guide us on where we year-on-year.
Commercial Lines premiums 1 Personal Lines.
were down 4% with volumes down 8%.
A non-recurring 2017 risk, together with a We have also used digital tools to target 1 Read some of our other success 2017 large scheme exit, accounted for 3% sustainable customer base growth in stories here: rsagroup.
com of the reduction in Commercial Lines Sweden, rolling out live pricing tool Radar casestudy premiums both in Norway.
Live for our Personal Lines customers.
By enabling us to assess and segment The current year attritional loss ratio of risks in a more sophisticated way, the tool 63.3% was 0.7 points worse than 2017. has helped us offer more competitive While Sweden was in line with 2017, prices and reduced the time it takes us Danish Commercial Property increased.
29 REGIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED Focus on CANADA PERFORMANCE 98.5% 1.7bn Combined ratio Net written premiums 4.6% 2.0% Martin Thompson President and A year dominated by adverse weather, CEO, RSA Canada but solid foundations provide optimism for the future.
BRANDS TYPE OF BUSINESS Personal: F A E A.
Propert 13% y Commercial: D. Liability 6% C E. Comm.
8% Motor B F. Marine and oth 3% er Personal and Commercial: FINANCIAL SUMMARY 2018 net written premiums Underwriting result COR 1 m % change 2018 m 2017 m 2018 % Personal 1,153 6 29 75 97.4 Commercial 499 3 4 23 100.9 Total 1,652 6 25 98 98.5 30 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2018 rsagroup.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Net written premiums of 1,652m were Our operations in Canada Digital innovation 1 up 6% at constant FX 2017: 1,565m.
RSA is the sixth largest general insurer in We have also expanded our digital In Personal Lines, policy counts were up 1% Canada.
We operate across all provinces, capabilities to maintain our high retention and Johnson, our direct and af nity business, with a broad offering of products and channels levels.
Chat volumes increased 107% continued to grow organically up 4%.
Volumes 5 to both Personal and Commercial customers.
85K with high FCR and NPS 52 NPS also increased by 1% in Commercial Lines.
Our portfolio is balanced at around 70% for WebChat in 2018.
Our Retention remained strong, with both Johnson For brokers, we have had positive feedback Johnson brand is market leading, with an and Personal broker improving over last year on our digital tool, RSAPro, which enables 2 agent NPS of 70. to 90% and 89% respectively.
We held our brokers to service their clients remotely pricing discipline in both Auto and Household, Our multi-channel distribution model means and provides on-the-spot communication achieving rate above our plans and last year.
we are in a good position to take advantage with RSA underwriters.
This has driven of shifting consumer behaviour.
Today, improvements to underwriting as well as Written controllable expenses were down 1 af nity partnerships and direct channels cost ef ciencies, and Commercial Lines 2% excluding in ation.
deliver the majority of our Personal Lines customers score their interaction with RSA premiums, though broker distribution highly at 74%.
Underwriting discipline remains an important channel here as well In our ongoing efforts to balance and respond as in Commercial Lines.
to weather impacts, we are advancing a tighter pricing strategy and implementing Canada market context more sophisticated predictive models.
and risk pro le In 2018, we made good progress in the STRATEGY AND OUTLOOK The Canadian market remains competitive, implementation of our Radar Live tool, which with modest economic growth.
Despite online enables the use of more complex algorithms Our strategy and digital entrants driving pricing pressures, in rating and signi cantly increases speed to rate is hardening in both Personal and Our business in Canada is well market with new prices.
More than 85% of our Commercial Lines as claims costs increase.
balanced by province, customer, Personal Lines business now uses this tool.
However, we face Regulation in Canada differs by region: challenges such as continued weather in a number of our larger provinces, auto Strong partnerships volatility, rising claims costs and the insurance pricing is tightly regulated, creating Our Personal insurance brand Johnson is burden of operating in an increasingly a more challenging and less dynamic pricing a market leader in the af nity space and a regulated environment.
It is also clear environment for all insurers.
brand refresh completed in 2018 will help that, while we have made great strides Weather events have increased in severity us to cut through to stand out and elevate in cost and underwriting discipline, and frequency.
Property damage from our positioning.
Johnson secured a national there is more to be done.
severe weather has been the leading cause white-label partnership to underwrite Home In order to maintain momentum on of insurance claims in 2018.
Auto Lines have risks with InsureLineBrokers, a partner positive premium and underwriting seen rising repair costs impact on pro tability.
to Dominion Lending Centres and one of trends, we will concentrate on three Canadas largest mortgage broker networks.
key areas: we will look to expand our Financial performance We also secured an important partnership with successful af nity partnerships through In 2018, our Canadian business delivered Scotiabank, one of Canadas leading retail Johnson, we will focus on our pricing, 1 operating pro t of 84m, down from 153m financial services providers, making Johnson underwriting and analytics, and we in 2017.
The combined ratio of 98.5% was the exclusive service provider for their Home will continue to enhance our digital 4.6points higher than last year.
Adverse weather and Auto insurance products from April 2019. capabilities, improving ef ciency and was the dominant feature, while large losses customer experience.
The combined ratio improves A customer first approach 3 to 96.7% proforma for net GVC recoveries Outlook We continued to invest in customer experience and for new 2019 reinsurance additions.
to secure long-term customer loyalty.
For our Our investment in our relationships with The weather loss ratio increased by 3.1points Personal Lines customers we have continued brokers, customers and employees to 6.8%, compared to a five year average of to offer support at their times of greatest need: will continue to be the foundation of 4.7%.
Insured damage for severe weather in May we rallied to provide additional call our success.
We continue to target 4 events in 2018 reached $1.9bn for the industry, and online support for customers affected a best-in-class combined ratio, the fourth-highest loss year on record.
The large by windstorms in Ontario that saw us handle underpinned by steady growth and loss ratio was 9.4% for 2018, compared to a 40,000 calls, a quarter of which were out continued cost effectiveness over the five year average of 6.4%: losses increased in of hours.
H2 mainly in the Property classes.
The attritional For brokers, we have worked to simplify our loss ratio of 58.1% increased by 1.3 points.
claims process and this year we piloted a new claims management tool, Claims Point, using our Guidewire software, which reduces wait times and provides customers with immediate access to claims details without having to wait 1 At constant FX.
Please refer to pages 185 and 186 for further details.
4 Source: Catastrophe Indices and Quanti cation Inc. 5 First Contact Resolution.
31 REGIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED Focus on UK & INTERNATIONAL PERFORMANCE 101.4% 3.1bn Combined ratio Net written premiums -1.2% -3.1% Scott Egan Despite a challenging year for UK&I, CEO, UK & International we have refocused on lines of business Scott Egan was appointed CEO of RSAs UK & International where we can grow and thrive.
BRANDS TYPE OF BUSINESS Personal: A A.
Motor 16% Commercial: F C. Pet 9% B D. Comm.
Property 21% E. Liability 10% E Personal and Commercial: F. Comm.
com 32 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2018 rsagroup.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Our operations in UK & International UK financial performance Underwriting and pricing improvement RSAs UK & International division spans The UK generated an underwriting loss of Personal and Commercial Lines, with 106m in 2018 2017: 116m loss.
London High quality underwriting and pricing is Personal Lines accounting for just under half Market portfolio exits, together with a number critical for all insurers.
In 2018, we undertook of annual premium in 2018. of domestic exits, would have improved the a series of immediate actions and initiated a 2018 underwriting result by 120m had they long-term investment programme to improve In the UK, our Commercial Lines business is been in effect for the full year.
split between our Commercial Risk Solutions ratio would have improved by 4.6 points to business CRS, which supports UK-based In Household, we tightened claims handling 2 99.4%.
Net GVC recoveries were 25m, but businesses and schemes, and Global Risk processes and applied rate to address this would be zero proforma for portfolio exits, Solutions GRS, which caters for large and escape of water in ation, helping to return so has no impact on the proforma numbers.
multinational customers and risks written attritional losses to healthier levels.
In through the London Market and European Net written premiums were down 2% Commercial Lines, we took a more robust branches.
Headline approach with our partners and brokers on premiums were dampened by 44m due rate and underwriting terms, to ensure that In late 2018, we refocused our GRS portfolio to higher reinsurance costs.
Personal Lines we remain competitive but sustainable in to concentrate on a core set of Specialty premiums were up 2% as reported or up 4% our pricing.
Recognising an unacceptable Lines, exiting business experiencing excluding reinsurance changes.
Household underwriting performance, in November we persistent volatility and poor pro tability.
Our Nationwide announced we would move away from broad also established an of ce in Luxembourg as partnership is doing well and generated servicing of the London Market, focusing the headquarters for our European branches, premiums of 170m in its first year of trading: our international Specialty and Wholesale enabling us to minimise disruption to our retention was 85% and NPS scores remain portfolio on core lines where we have or EU-based customers as a result of Brexit.
strong claims 63: sales and service 65. see the potential to achieve a pro table In Personal Lines, we are best known to On the wider book, we held our discipline on leadership position.
customers through our direct insurance rate to mitigate the escape of water issues Finally, we mobilised an important brand, MORE TH N, which has strength in which presented in H2 2017.
However, rate long-term programme to improve our Pet and Household insurance, and is a leading of between 3% and 19%, depending on the underwriting capability through enhanced insurer of young drivers through our telematics channel, drove a decrease in retention and data infrastructure, integration and storage, product, SM RT WHEELS.
improved portfolio management and more some of the UKs major retailers, banks and Commercial Lines premiums were down advanced real-time pricing models.
building societies make up the balance of our 6% excluding reinsurance changes.
has been positive in all major classes: for In Ireland, we are a leading Personal and example, Motor achieved rate of 5% and Commercial insurer distributing through Marine achieved 6%.
However, this has af nity partners, brokers and our direct to meant a trade-off with top line volumes consumer business, 123. ie.
down 9% in ongoing soft market conditions.
The decrease in premiums also re ected Our Middle East operations, of which we our exit from certain large schemes as we own 50%, cover Bahrain, the United Arab restructure our delegated authority book, Emirates, Oman and Saudi Arabia.
60% of underwriting decisions on some large the business is in Personal Lines.
individual risks notably in Property and Marine and the restructuring of Specialty and UK & International financial Wholesale.
The latter is expected to reduce performance premiums written through the London Market UK & International delivered an operating pro t by c. 150m per annum versus 2017.
The combined The combined ratio of 104% improved by ratio 101.4% improved by 1.2 points, despite 0.3 points in 2018.
The weather loss ratio a 0.9 points increase in weather costs.
Storm Emma cost c. 45m and subsidence claims increased UK market context and risk pro le as a result of the unusually hot and dry In the UK and Ireland, Personal insurance summer weather.
While large losses reduced is price-sensitive as a result of comparison Protecting our customers by 1.2points, they remained elevated websites and a growing number of digitalOur use of data to identify farmed in Specialty and Wholesale particularly only entrants.
Motor insurance is particularly motor injury claims was recognised Marine.
Excluding the impact of reinsurance at the British Insurance Awards.
In addition, the digital capabilities changes, the attritional loss ratio of 48.5% required to support policy administration and reduced by 0.3points in 2018.
Improvements claims to meet with customer expectations Read some of our other in Household and Pet were dampened by success stories here: are increasing.
increases in Marine and Motor.
com casestudy The UK Commercial market has experienced prolonged soft conditions, increasing the importance of brand reputation, strong broker relationships and differentiating focused expertise for successful players.
2 Proforma for UK exits and or reinsurance, see fide nition on pages 185 and 186.
33 REGIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED Adapting to a digital world Focusing on customer needs Ireland financial performance We continue to invest signi cantly in our Digitisation is also affecting our product mix Irelands performance improved strongly in digital capability and services, with an as customers seek support in new areas.
2018, generating an underwriting pro t of emphasis on reducing complexity for our Re ecting increasing demands for support 30m 2017: 9m, and reporting a combined customers and our employees.
beyond risk transfer and protection, we ratio of 90.2% 2017: 97.0%.
The attritional released an improved version of our awardloss ratio of 57.6% was 2.8 points better, while In 2018, we continued the implementation of winning risk management software, RSAred.
the large loss ratio improved by 1.7 points.
our new digital policy-servicing platform Unity, The service allows Commercial customers, Prior year development was a favourable which brings Personal Lines customer policies brokers and RSA underwriters to manage 3.7%, compared to adverse development and servicing onto one easy-to-use platform.
risk engineering data in real time, and offers of 0.2% in 2017.
Initially launched alongside our Nationwide the ability to benchmark against peers.
Building Society partnership, Unity will be Middle East financial performance expanded across our Personal insurance In Personal Lines we have begun using smart The Middle East delivered an underwriting products in 2019, with a particular focus on data technology to help our Household pro t of 33m 2017: 25m and another our MORE TH N business.
customers minimise escape of water, the record combined ratio of 83.4% 2017: most costly category of home claims that we Unity enables online claims tracking, video 87.7%.
The attritional loss ratio improved process.
We have partnered with LeakBot calling and self-serve claims settlement, by 2.5 points.
to identify leaks before they become more helping to meet customer expectations for serious, minimising potential damage to homes fast digital service and freeing up employee and associated claims costs.
We have trialled time for higher value and specialist work.
the tool with 2,000 customers to gather insight We are also progressing wider digitisation and feedback ahead of a wider roll out in 2019. of claims processes and improvements to Recognising the risks that our customers STRATEGY AND OUTLOOK management information to deliver bene ts need to protect against are changing, we for customer service and productivity.
strengthened our support for those facing Our strategy For example, our online pet insurance cyber risks, releasing an end-to-end product platform now allows owners to claim for We will continue to improve our for global businesses, which offers proactive their animals repeat prescriptions, turning customer proposition and develop our risk management support, full loss cover and a process which once took weeks into a technical insurance capability, focusing post-event crisis management.
simple transaction that can be completed our attention more rigorously on scaling in minutes, improving customer experience our most pro table portfolios and direct Active in our communities and reducing operating costs.
Our ongoing investments Our relationship with the communities we in digital and data infrastructure are work in is important to our business and required to improve our productivity, to our people.
Our network of champions adapt and succeed in markets that will across all of ces support the valuable link to remain highly competitive.
Over the our local communities, working closely with next plan period, we must redouble local groups and charitable organisations.
our efforts to streamline and automate manual processes, replace our legacy Volunteering is at the heart of our community technology and draw on new pricing investment work in the UK, with colleagues and underwriting tools to deliver donating 5,080 hours during the year and consistent and sustained pro tability.
This year, we highlighted the value of skills-based and Outlook practical volunteering opportunities in our first Digital investment and actions to dedicated Community Action Month, which reshape our UK Commercial portfolio, inspired 330 colleagues to get involved and combined with a relentless focus on give their time to worthy causes.
quality of execution, should return Our five-year partnership with the School for the business to better pro tability in Social Entrepreneurs continues to encourage 2019.
Our medium-term ambition entrepreneurship and provide valuable for a sustainable best-in-class mentoring opportunities.
We highlighted combined ratio of 94% in UK & some of the milestones of this partnership in International remains.
Pulling the plug on escape of water our recent impact report, published on our Were researching new ways to detect website.
We also recognise the importance and alert homeowners to leaks before of supporting the next generation in the they become oods.
To that end, we Read some of our other continue to partner with Enabling Enterprise, success stories here: hosting eight events across the country in rsagroup.
com casestudy 2018, positively impacting 215 young people and highlighting the opportunities available in the insurance industry to children of all ages.
34 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2018 rsagroup.
