STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Group Audit Committee Report The role and responsibilities of the Committee Committee composition, are set out in our terms of reference which skills and experience are available on the Companys website and The Committee comprises five non-executive summarised on page 49. directors and the Board is satis ed that the Committee has competence relevant to the The Groups IT infrastructure continues to insurance sector and at least one member be the focus of transformation and both the has recent and relevant financial experience Group Audit and Board Risk Committees as required by the Code.
received updates on enhancing general IT controls and the steps taken to ensure The members possess diverse experience, compliance with the 2018 General Data knowledge and skills, which enables them I am con dent that the Protection Regulation GDPR.
collectively to act as an effective Committee.
Committee is well briefed The Committee provided oversight of the Details of membership and attendance at and continues to ful l its implementation of the GDPR and continues Committee meetings are shown on page 52 duties to shareholders to review the process and procedures the and biographies are available on pages 46 Company has adopted in this respect.
During the year, the Committee received Alastair Barbour FCA I am con dent that the Committee is well brie ngs on a number of items, including Non-executive director and Chairman briefed and continues to ful l its duties to reporting developments, the key aspects of of the Group Audit Committee shareholders and other stakeholders through IFRS 17 and its likely impact on the Group, an enquiring approach and high-quality 27 February 2019 the recommended transitional approach for management challenge throughout the year.
the Group under IFRS 16, the FRC Financial Areas of activity in 2018 Corporate Reporting Review and the Signi cant issues preliminary findings of the CMAs review of the R eserving Management reports key accounting matters, audit market.
financial controls assurance and financial Accounting judgements and estimates The Committee also visited the Liverpool results to the Committee at least quarterly.
Internal financial controls of ce to meet the UK Finance team where it When considering the 2018 Annual Report Regulatory reporting had the opportunity to meet with the Group and Accounts, the Committee focused on the Finance and UK Finance Centre of Excellence International Financial Reporting signi cant judgements and estimates which teams, receiving presentations on a variety of Standards IFRS : IFRS 9 Financial could be material to the financial statements.
important topics, including finance systems Instruments, 16 Leases and 17 These included the matters set out below.
infrastructure, finance operations, accounting Insurance Contracts Insurance liabilities valuation regulatory change i. e. IFRS 9, 16 and 17 and the undertaking and development of the The Committee has ensured that Financial Control Framework the Framework.
management exercised appropriate Review of the year judgement and control in estimating insurance The Committee found the visit extremely I am pleased to present the Group Audit contract liabilities, including assessing the useful in further building its understanding and Committee Report for 2018.
The Committee impact of claims trends and other in uencing review of the end-to-end finance processes, oversees and, as we believe appropriate, factors consistent with previous years.
The up to and including the production and challenges the integrity of the Companys key judgements underpinning the valuation of controls of the Annual Report and Accounts, financial statements and the robustness of insurance liabilities were reviewed, including: the continual developments across the the Groups systems of internal control and finance teams and how the Framework financial and regulatory risk management.
The level of margin held to make allowance operates in practice.
for speci c risks and uncertainties that are The Committee is also responsible for the not allowed for in establishing the actuarial As reported in the Board Risk Committee oversight and monitoring of the objectivity and best estimate Report on page 64, members of the Group operation of both the external auditor and the The level of reserves held for areas with Audit Committee attended a meeting of the internal audit function.
greater inherent uncertainty, e. g. abuse, Canadian Audit and Risk Committee as part The signi cant issues the Committee deafness, UK professional and financial of the Boards site visit to Toronto.
considered in relation to the 2018 Annual risk, Danish workers compensation and Report and Accounts are set out later in this Canadian general liability report together with key activities during the year.
57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED GROUP AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The eligibility of claims for recovery under The Committee concluded that the changes Key activities during the year the Group volatility reinsurance cover proposed by management in relation to In addition to the signi cant issues set out morality assumptions were appropriate The results of the internal reserving above, the Committee undertook the following and supported the conclusion that the assurance programme which provides key activities during the year: assumptions used overall were reasonable independent validation of reserves set at Considered whether it was appropriate and within an acceptable range of other a regional level and which in 2018 covered to adopt the going concern basis of companies with schemes of a similar duration.
UK Personal and Commercial and Swedish accounting for the 2018 Annual Report The Committee will continue to review Motor.
and Accounts and the basis on which the movements in the pension scheme valuation The Committee received quarterly reports viability statement is made, recommending on a quarterly basis, together with a deep dive on the Solvency II Technical Provisions and to the Board that both were appropriate.
assessment of all key valuation assumptions reviewed the bridge from IFRS results as well The viability statement, included in the on an annual basis.
as quarterly and annual movements.
The Strategic Report on page 40, helps Committee satis ed itself that the calculations Goodwill and intangible asset valuation demonstrate how the Groups prospects had been conducted according to the and viability have been assessed.
The Committee reviewed the key Groups Basis of Preparation.
assumptions supporting the assessment of The Committee considered whether the The Committee also received and considered the carrying value of goodwill and intangibles.
2018 Annual Report and Accounts were detailed written and verbal reporting from This included review of the reasonableness fair, balanced and understandable, and KPMG setting out its observations and of future pro t projections and the whether the disclosures were appropriate.
conclusions in respect of the reported appropriateness of the discount rate used.
Taken as a whole, the Committee is insurance contract liabilities based on its audit The Committee approved an impairment satis ed that the 2018 Annual Report procedures as further described in its report to the carrying value of the Norwegian and Accounts are fair, balanced and on pages 98 to 105. business to the value of 7 million in 2018. understandable and provide the information The Committee will continue to review necessary for shareholders to assess the The Committee was satis ed that carrying value assessments on an annual Companys position and performance, management exercised appropriate basis with a review for any indications of business model and strategy.
judgement and control in estimating insurance impairment performed at the half year.
Received quarterly updates on relevant contract liabilities re ecting available and accounting standards that could impact reliable information when setting the IT systems and controls the financial statements to ensure that new reserves and that an appropriate margin for The Groups IT infrastructure, including accounting standards were understood uncertainties was maintained.
retained legacy systems, is complex and and appropriately re ected in the financial financial reporting is dependent on the Deferred tax asset valuation statements.
The Group has not made operational and financial IT systems operating any signi cant changes to its accounting The Committee reviewed the key assumptions correctly and the control environment in policies during 2018. supporting the UK deferred tax asset.
This is a key area of forecasts presented by management were Reviewed and challenged management focus for both Group Audit and Board Risk assessed and, in particular, the longer-term on the appropriateness and application Committees and during the year they received pro t projections were challenged given of Alternative Performance Measures in updates from accountable management, recent performance of the UK business.
The press releases, analysts brie ngs, quarterly, both in Finance and Technology, on progress Committee is satis ed that the assumptions interim reports and the Strategic Report.
to enhance IT general controls, the oversight supporting the valuations are appropriate Reviewed the quarterly Solvency II balance of IT testing processes and improvements in and that the asset is reasonably stated.
The sheets and technical provisions prepared documentation and standards, together with Committee will continue to monitor the UK by management and monitored the regular reporting from internal audit on the deferred tax asset on a quarterly basis with Groups Solvency and Financial Condition results of its reviews and testing.
reference to the actual performance of the UK Report providing appropriate challenge business versus pro t projections.
With respect to financial reporting controls, to key judgements and the adequacy of the Committee received updates from KPMG disclosures.
Pension and post-retirement obligations on its assessment of general IT controls, At the half year and year end, considered The Committee reviewed reports on the including information on areas where and discussed KPMGs findings and valuation of the pension schemes.
The additional controls or substantive testing opinions in relation to the key risk areas, pension schemes are sensitive to changes was required and the conclusions reached in judgements, changes to the audit plan and in key assumptions, therefore management support of the audit.
After consideration and materiality, and discussed the underlying completed an assessment as to the discussion with management and KPMG, reasons.
appropriateness of the assumptions used the Committee concluded that the financial Considered KPMGs wider comments on versus benchmark data and external expert results as prepared were appropriate and governance, financial reporting processes reviews, and reported the findings to the reliable.
and ef ciencies as well as information Committee.
This included an assessment of systems and controls, and separately its the additional provision required following reporting on the Solvency II balance sheet, the UKs High Court ruling on equalisation annual Solvency and Financial Condition of Guaranteed Minimum Pensions for men Report and observations on key areas of and women.
judgement in relation to Solvency II.
58 58 RSA RSA A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 18 8 rsa rsag gr ro oup up.. c com om STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Received regular reports from the Group The Financial Control Framework Group Internal Audit and UK Regulatory Compliance Director The Framework is an integral element of the Group Internal Audits GIA primary purpose is on progress towards delivery of regulatory Groups Internal Control System and aims to keep RSA safe and improving.
Speci cally, requests, the outcome of site visits and to embed and promote a strong culture of GIA helps the Board and executive updates on regulatory developments and financial control across the Group, delivering a management to protect the assets, reputation issues.
The Committee reviewed and consistent and robust approach to mitigating and sustainability of the Group.
GIA does approved the 2019 Compliance Plan which the risks of material financial misstatement this by assessing whether all signi cant risks sets out the work to be undertaken in the through the design, operation and validation are identi ed and appropriately reported by upcoming year to ensure compliance with of key financial controls, thereby providing an management and the second line of defence regulatory requirements and maintenance acceptable degree of assurance around the to the Board and executive management: of an open, constructive and cooperative financial control environment.
assessing whether they are adequately relationship with the Groups regulators.
controlled and by challenging executive The primary focus of the Framework is the Monitored compliance with the Groups management to improve the effectiveness of production of information for the Group reserving policy by each business to ensure governance, risks management and internal Annual Report and Accounts.
In addition, the that the Groups reserve margin remained controls.
Framework mitigates material risks at the local adequate and that the uncertainty operational level.
GIA is an independent and objective function considerations were appropriate.
The Group Chief The Committee received quarterly updates Received quarterly reports from Group Auditor is a member of the Group Executive on the assessment and testing of controls as Internal Audit on audits conducted, Committee and has a primary reporting line part of the Framework, including any control progress made in dealing with the issues to the Chairman of the Committee, with a fide ciencies and the action taken.
raised as well as any thematic issues secondary reporting line to the Group Chief arising and the underlying causes.
Regional Chief Auditors report Internal Control in closing any actions arising are given directly to the Group Chief Auditor, while particular scrutiny.
The Internal Control System forms part of the recognising local legislation or regulation.
System of Governance as set out on page 55.
Considered the semi-annual assessment GIAs scope of activities is unrestricted, and its The Board has overall responsibility for the of the effectiveness of the governance, risk audit universe extends to all legal entities, jointeffectiveness of the Groups Internal Control and control framework in each region from ventures and other business partnerships, System, which is designed to identify and the Group Chief Auditor.
It mitigate, rather than eliminate, the potential Reviewed and considered the includes first line of defence control validation risk of failure to achieve business objectives arrangements for monitoring and reporting and second line of defence assurance and can only provide reasonable not of whistleblowing activities.
Alastair activities, as well as the risk and control culture absolute assurance against material financial Barbour has oversight of whistleblowing of the Group.
Implementation and arrangements in accordance with the maintenance of the Internal Control System is GIA operates a six-monthly rolling riskPRAs Senior Insurance Managers Regime delegated to senior management.
based audit plan, allowing for a frequent and a senior manager in Group Human and dynamic risk assessment that includes To continually assess the effectiveness of Resources has also been appointed as the emerging and systemic risks.
The Committee the Internal Control System, the Committee FCA Whistleblowing Champion.
may request additional audits as required.
received regular reports from the Group Chief Reviewed the procedures for detecting Auditor, external auditor and the Group Chief On an annual basis, GIA hosts an informal fraud and the systems and controls for the Risk Of cer on the integrity of the control meeting for members of the Committee prevention of bribery and received reports environment and Regulatory Compliance and the Regional Audit Committee Chairs, on any non-compliance.
Framework and discussed the findings, providing further opportunity for detailed Held private meetings with the Group Chief recommendations and proposed control discussion concerning GIA plans for the Auditor, the Group and UK Regulatory improvements set out in these reports.
The Group Chairman and Compliance Director, the Group Chief Committee reviewed the effectiveness of members of the Committee, together with the Financial Of cer, the external auditor and the Internal Control System during 2018 chairmen of the regional audit committees the Group Chief Actuary without members and concluded that it was appropriate and in Canada, Scandinavia and Ireland, of management being present.
operated effectively during the year.
attended the 2018 meeting in November.
The Held regular private meetings of Committee considerations raised at that meeting were The Committee considers that an effective members to discuss issues on which included in the development of the audit plans and appropriate ongoing process for to concentrate with management and for 2019.
Rolling audit plans were approved by identifying, evaluating and managing the advisers in the subsequent meeting.
the Committee in May and December 2018. signi cant risks faced by the Group was in Amended the Committee Terms of place during 2018 and for the purposes of In December 2018, the Group Chief Auditor Reference, available at www.
com, approving the Annual Report and Accounts.
also provided the Committee with an to re ect the requirements of the new Code.
See page 42 for more information on the assessment of the skills and capabilities The Committee was subject to an internal Groups Risk Management Framework.
required to conduct the audit work for 2019, effectiveness evaluation as part of the wider and whether the budget is suf cient to review of the Board and its committees recruit and retain staff with the expertise and during 2018, see page 54. experience necessary to provide effective challenge throughout the Group and to executive management.
59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED GROUP AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED GIA operates an ongoing Quality Assurance Auditor independence and objectivity Fees and non-audit services QA programme that is outsourced to are safeguarded by a number of control The audit fee for 2018 was discussed and Deloitte.
Deloitte reports a summary of measures, including: considered before being approved by the the QA results annually to the Committee.
Committee on behalf of the Board.
Limiting the nature and value of non-audit Further, GIA performs an annual assessment services performed by the external auditors All permitted non-audit services should be of compliance with professional standards as set out in the non-audit services policy authorised in advance and must be approved of which the results were reported to Ensuring that employees of the external by the Committee.
The Committee has the Committee in December 2018.
The auditors that have recently worked on the delegated the approval of smaller preCommittee was satis ed that GIA was audit are not appointed to senior roles approved engagements up to the value of operating effectively, suf ciently resourced within the Group 50,000 to the Group Financial Controller and that the risk to their independence and or alternatively the Group Chief Financial objectivity was low.
Providing a business conduct helpline that Of cer.
These engagements are then noted employees can use to report any concerns GIA is governed by an Internal Audit Charter and rati ed by the Committee at the following The rotation of the lead engagement which sets out the functions role, mandate meeting.
partner at least every five years: Daniel and authority, and includes independence Cazeaux took over as the Groups audit If an engagement requires Committee and objectivity criteria.
An updated Charter engagement partner in 2018 approval but work needs to commence was approved by the Committee in July 2018. before the next meeting at which approval Private meetings with KPMG without could be sought, the Chairman of the External auditor management present to provide the Committee and the Group Financial Controller opportunity for open dialogue and to raise The Committee is responsible for overseeing may approve the engagements up to any matters in con dence.
relations with the external auditors, 50,000 and 20,000 respectively.
These including the proposed external audit are then reported to the following Committee Audit quality plan and the approval of fees, and makes meeting for rati cation.
To maintain audit quality, the Committee recommendations to the Board on their reviews the strategy and plan for the audit of appointment or re-appointment.
In line with FRC guidance, the non-audit the financial statements prior to approval, to services policy caps such fees at 70% of the KPMG was appointed as the Groups make sure that KPMG has identi ed all key average total audit fee paid in the previous external auditor in 2013 and has been rerisks and developed robust audit procedures three years calculated.
The Committee is appointed at each subsequent AGM.
satis ed that the auditors independence and are no contractual obligations restricting objectivity was not compromised by providing the Companys choice of external auditor Auditor performance non-audit services.
nor limitation of liability in the terms of their The Committee undertakes a thorough appointment.
The non-audit fees for 2018 were 1.5 review of the perceived quality, effectiveness, million, 0.9 million of which related to The Company has complied with the objectivity and independence of the external audit-related assurance services in respect Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies auditor on an annual basis.
The views of Solvency II reporting.
The Committee Market Investigation Mandatory Uses of and opinions of the Committee, senior considered that KPMG is best placed to Competitive Tender Process and Audit management and members of the Group complete the Solvency II assurance work Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 for financial reporting team were sought via a given its knowledge and understanding of the year ended 31 December 2018.
the business and IFRS reported position.
Full intention of the Committee that the Company details of the remuneration paid to KPMG In assessing the mindset, professional will tender the external auditor appointment at during 2018, including for non-audit services scepticism and degree of challenge to least every 10 years.
and the ratio to audit fees, is provided in the management, the Committee took into notes to the financial statements on page 131. account the observations, recommendations Auditor independence and conclusions drawn by KPMG at the and objectivity half year and year end.
The Committee also The Committee attaches considerable considered its findings and opinions in relation importance to the work, opinions and findings to the key risk areas, judgements made, any of the external auditor wich participates in changes to the plan and to materiality and all Committee meetings.
The Committee discussion of the underlying reason.
has provided clear guidance to KPMG on On the basis of the review, the Committee the expectations of it as auditor: that the is satis ed with the work of KPMG: that its Committee on behalf of shareholders, not performance re ected the relevant skills, management, is KPMGs client.
KPMG is rigour, perseverance and robustness expected to challenge appropriately, raise expected and that it is objective and issues and concerns with the Committee independent.
Accordingly, a resolution to reas soon as is appropriate and, on material appoint KPMG LLP and giving authority to the matters, indicate its agreement to the position directors to determine its remuneration will be taken by management, or to explain why it submitted to shareholders at the 2019 AGM.
does not, and the implications.
60 60 RSA RSA A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 18 8 rsa rsag gr ro oup up.. c com om STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Group Investment Committee Report western economies.
Against this background, instruments continues to be very carefully a number of countries also saw a small managed and has been targeted so that it increase in in ation pressures, although overall maintains the strong underlying credit quality headline levels of Consumer Price Index remain of the Groups investment portfolios.
The pace at relatively modest levels.
of new investments moderated during 2018 in re ection of market conditions and further new Although economies have retained positive investments will only be made over the coming momentum from last year, the growing risks year if they meet the Groups stringent criteria and uncertainties created by a range of factors, for both quality and projected return.
including trade wars and Brexit, are leading the market to generally predict slowing growth for In re ection of the growing risks to global The Groups investment the coming year.
economies and markets, the Committee portfolios continued to reviewed alternatives to further reduce In re ection of the more cautious economic exposure to negative market movements with concentrate on high-quality outlook, returns from financial markets were a focus on strategies in relation to credit and assets focussed on delivering relatively subdued.
Equity markets and nonin ation exposure.
No substantive changes in government bonds in particular traded back from income while maintaining a low policy however resulted from these reviews, their highs in 2018 as expectations for growth and risk structure.
re ecting the protection already provided by the future earnings reduced.
In contrast, after trading high-quality nature of the existing asset position.
Joseph Streppel lower in the first half of the year, government Non-executive director and Chairman of bonds rallied into the year end as expectations of In response to the growing focus on the Group Investment Committee future interest rates hikes lessened.
Environmental, Social and Governance ESG factors, a review of the approach to ESG 27 February 2019 Activity and performance investment was undertaken.
The Committee During the year, the Committee managed discussed the options available for ESG-linked Areas of activity in 2018 all aspects of investment policy and strategy initiatives and approved the use of third-party for the Group and provided oversight of ESG rating agency input to provide additional Further net investments within illiquid the operation of the Groups investment screening and data on the Groups investment credit investments portfolios within established strategy and risks holdings as well as providing access to research Review of investments strategy of the frameworks.
There were no signi cant changes and data on broader market developments.
Groups main fide ned bene t pension to the Groups investment portfolios with a schemes The Committee continued to also review the continued focus on high-quality investments.
investment strategy of the fide ned bene t Review of the approach to Environmental, Bonds and cash continued to represent the pension schemes.
While pension investment Social and Governance investment substantial majority of assets c. 90% while strategy is ultimately the responsibility of the equities and property represent just 4%.
scheme trustees the Group actively monitors Areas of focus in 2019 Bond investments continue to be managed and inputs to the strategy process.
During Continued review of strategy and and monitored to ensure that they provide 2018, the Group engaged with the two main opportunities to drive optimisation of an appropriate match against both the UK schemes in the triennial funding valuation returns while maintaining the core high currency and term of the underlying insurance and, partly in re ection of this, focus on quality low risk investment portfolio liabilities.
The Group has also maintained its investment actions was relatively modest.
The structure commitment to high-quality assets with c. 72% Group, however, continues to work with the of bonds having credit ratings of AA or higher trustees to consider options for further fide-risking and just 2% rated lower than BBB.
The core of the schemes investment strategy over time.
Review of the year high-quality matching policy has meant that Looking forward Market review the Group is well protected against the volatility caused by political and market developments, No signi cant changes to Group strategy Despite some signi cant headwinds and including Brexit.
are targeted at this time with the Group uncertainties, 2018 saw the continuation of continuing to retain its core, high-quality, low generally positive global economic conditions.
There has continued to be a focus on net risk investment structure.
Given the highly Growth in North America remained relatively investments within illiquid credit instruments.
uncertain nature of the global economic and strong, enabling both the US and Canada These investments, which include infrastructure political environment, however, it is recognised to further tighten monetary policy.
European loans, loans backed by property and trade that market conditions may change signi cantly growth, while still positive, was more subdued receivables, have been targeted to take over the course of the coming year and the although still suf cient to enable a small rise in advantage of the additional yield offered for Committee will continue to review the risks and UK interest rates.
illiquidity relative to traditional quoted bonds.
opportunities that arise from such movements.
The total Group commitments to these This stronger growth saw a continued assets now stand at c. 1.8bn with c. 1.4bn of tightening of labour markets with investments deployed.
Investment into these unemployment levels falling further in most 61 CORPOR CORPORA AT TE E GO GOVE VERNANCE RNANCE CONTINUED Group Nomination and Governance Committee Report Board.
Taking into account the aggregated Russell Reynolds Associates formerly The view of the strengths of current Board Zygos Partnership.
Isabel Hudson and I members, the Committee considered interviewed a short list of two candidates, the current balance of skills, experience, and, following positive feedback on both independence and knowledge on the Board candidates, interviews were conducted in the context of succession planning and the with Alastair Barbour and Kath Cates, and strategic priorities of the Group and agreed on Stephen Hester and Scott Egan.
a combination of skills and market experience The Board is committed to the progressive that any future candidates for a non-executive refreshment of the Board.
Russell Reynolds director role on the Board should ideally bring.
Associates were appointed to undertake a The Board values the breadth Executive succession planning is also search for a new non-executive director to of perspective that diversity regularly reviewed by the Committee to take over from Joseph Streppel, who decided ensure that a pipeline of talented individuals not to seek re-election at the 2019 AGM.
This can bring and the bene cial across the Group is being maintained.
search included candidates from Canada and impact it can have on Board Individuals identi ed as possible future Scandinavia.
Following due consideration effectiveness and throughout candidates to join the Executive Committee and discussion with Committee members, the Group more broadly.
team have tailored development plans and a short list of four potential candidates were the Committee also seeks to ensure they interviewed by Alastair and myself and then Martin Scicluna are given appropriate opportunities to meet two of the candidates were interviewed Chairman and Chair of Group Nomination with Board members.
A gender lens is now by other Committee members.
Following and Governance Committee applied to succession plans as a way of these interviews, a preferred candidate 27 February 2019 highlighting progress against our targets as was identi ed and this candidate met with set out below.
Isabel and Martin Strobel, and Stephen and Areas of activity in 2018 Scott.
Following a recommendation from the Development themes and activities for Committee, Sonia Baxendale was appointed possible future candidates to join the Succession planning as a Non-executive Director to the Board and Executive Committee are reviewed annually Board and committee composition as a member of the Group Audit and Group by the Committee, and an assessment of the Investment Committees with effect from The changes introduced in the new UK strength of the succession pipeline has also 1March 2019.
Corporate Governance Code been introduced to highlight areas where action may be needed.
Sonia brings extensive senior banking and Areas of focus in 2019 Canadian financial services experience Board and Committee composition to the board.
Her experience serving at Diversity and inclusion operating board level for one of the top five During the year formal processes were Implementation of the changes required banks in Canada and portfolio of nonundertaken by the Committee to strengthen to support our compliance with the executive positions in listed and privately the experience and skills on the Board and principles of the new Code held businesses, together with a wide range its committees resulting in the appointment of audit, finance, human resources, risk of two new Directors, Charlotte and Sonia, management and governance experience, and a change in role for Scott Egan from CFO Review of the year was considered to bene t and complement to Chief Executive of our UK & International It has been a busy year for the Committee: the current experience of the Board.
overseeing the changes being introduced by The Committee also made recommendations the new UK Corporate Governance Code, New board appointments in relation to executive director appointments.
our continued work on succession planning, and role changes Following the departure of Steve Lewis, the search and selection process for our Following a recommendation from the Scott Egan was appointed as the new Chief new Directors, Charlotte Jones and Sonia Committee, Charlotte Jones was appointed Executive of our UK & International division.
Baxendale, and the search for a new Group as a non-executive director to the Board and Korn Ferry were appointed to conduct Chief Financial Of cer CFO.
as a member of the Group Audit Committee a search for the CFO role.
A shortlist of and of the Board Risk Committee with effect candidates was produced against an agreed Succession planning from 1 April 2018.
A formal and rigorous candidate pro le.
Two candidates were Succession planning has remained an area process for this appointment was undertaken.
interviewed by several Board members of focus for the Committee.
The Committee Based on a candidate pro le agreed by the and, following a recommendation from the discussed the results of a self-assessment Committee, a long list of potential candidates Committee, Charlotte Jones was appointed questionnaire that the non-executive directors was produced by the executive search rm, as Group CFO.
Charlotte brings signi cant completed on the current experience of the 62 62 RSA RSA A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 18 8 rsa rsag gr ro oup up.. c com om STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS financial services and technical financial and in 2019 are customers, employees and Diversity accounting expertise from the banking and regulators.
The current level of engagement As well as considering the balance of skills, asset management sectors, together with a with other stakeholders would continue.
experience, independence and knowledge on wide range of commercial, investment, risk the Board, the Committee also, as a matter A detailed Board stakeholder engagement management and regulatory experience.
of Board policy, recognises the importance plan was discussed and agreed by the of diversity of gender, social and ethnic Following a recommendation by the Committee for recommendation to the Board.
backgrounds, and of cognitive and personal Committee, the Board approved the In addition to direct engagement with the strengths.
appointment of Enrico Cucchiani to the Board workforce, regular updates to the Board on Risk Committee with effect from 1 June 2018. themes and subjects being raised by the The Board values the breadth of perspective workforce in the various forums such as town that such diversity can bring and the bene cial Korn Ferry and Russell Reynolds Associates halls, employee intranet, the Groups social impact it can have on Board effectiveness are accredited by the Davies Review under networking platform or works councils have and throughout the Group more broadly: and the Enhanced Code of Conduct for Executive been reviewed, enhanced and included in the remains committed to maintaining a diverse Search Firms.
Neither of these rms have any plan.
Board and overseeing the development of a other connection with the Group.
Following on from this, the Committee Independence received an in-depth update on employee Signi cant focus has been given to the workforce engagement and culture.
The The independence of the non-executive diversity and inclusion agenda during 2018 Committee discussed the various ways directors is considered at least annually along following the approval of a Group-wide by which the views of the workforce with their commitment and performance Diversity and Inclusion Policy in 2017 and the were canvassed and concluded for on the Board and its Committees.
The establishment of a Group and three regional recommendation to the Board that the most Board took into consideration the Code and diversity and inclusion councils.
The Company effective way of understanding the views of indicators of potential non-independence.
also signed the Women in Finance Charter in the workforce was to enhance management 2017 through which the Group is committed Isabel Hudson is a member of one of the reporting of workforce issues as well as to achieving a 33% representation of women Groups fide ned bene t pension schemes maximising Board interactions with the in our management group by 2020.
The relating to her previous employment with workforce.
Board is committed to improving diversity on Royal Insurance, which ended in 1993. the Board and at senior management level The Committee also has responsibility for the Taking into account a number of factors, and aspires to meet the recommendations oversight of regulated subsidiaries.
Following including the size of the pension bene t and its of the Hampton Alexander Review: 33% of the implementation of Group-wide regulated relative immateriality to her overall retirement Board and a minimum 33% representation of subsidiary guidance in 2017, the Committee planning, it remains the Committees view women in senior management positions by has received updates from the regional chairs that Isabels pension entitlement in no way 2020.
Group-wide gender data was provided of the Scandinavian and Canadian businesses compromises her independence of character to the Hampton Alexander Review in July on matters including board composition, and judgement.
2018, demonstrating the commitment to good governance and their strategic priorities.
Particular attention is given to any nongovernance and transparent reporting.
executive director appointment over six years Other activities As at the date of this report, women make taking into account the need for progressive up 30% of the Board at the date of the 2019 The Committee reviews compliance against refreshing of the Board.
The Committee AGM this gure will be 40% and 32.8% of the Code twice a year and concluded gave detailed consideration to the expertise the Companys senior management group.
that the Company has complied with the and contribution that Martin Scicluna and Across each region we continue to invest Principles and Provisions of the 2016 Code Alastair Barbour bring to the Board and its in strengthening the pipeline of female throughout the year.
committees when considering their reemployees for senior leadership positions appointment.
The Committee was satis ed The Committee has reviewed the time and have developed a framework of initiatives that they continue to make a signi cant commitment of the non-executive directors designed to help retain, develop and promote contribution to the proceedings of the Board and considers that they each devotes female employees and improve diversity and and its committees and that their proposed suf cient time to discharging their duties.
See page 39 for more re-election would provide valuable continuity The Committee considered the new details.
as work on refreshing the Board progresses.
external appointments of Martin Scicluna as chairman-designate of J Sainsbury Charlotte Jones is not considered to be Governance plc, Alastair Barbour and Martin Strobel independent following her appointment as The Committee has also focused on the and in each case was satis ed that the CFO.
Charlotte will act as a non-independent changes being introduced in the new UK external appointments could be approved non-executive director until she assumes the Corporate Governance Code and monitored on the basis that they did not give rise to a role of CFO.
the implementation of the changes required to con icts of interest and would not impact Following due consideration, the Committee support our compliance with the principles of the directors time commitment to the concluded that all directors proposed the new Code.
for re-election continue to be effective, In response to the new Code and the The Committee reviewed and discussed demonstrating commitment and making reporting required under s. 172 of the the results of the Board and committee valuable contributions to the Board and Companies Act, the Committee received a evaluation prior to the Senior Independent that each non-executive director remains paper on the outcome of an exercise to map Director presenting the results to the Board.
Therefore, the Board is the Groups stakeholders to the Boards Further information relating to the Board proposing the re-elections as set out in the activities and discussed the level of direct and evaluation process and results is included 2019 Notice of Annual General Meeting, indirect engagement with these stakeholders.
on page 54. noting that Joseph Streppel would not be The key priorities for stakeholder engagement seeking re-election.
63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Board Risk Committee Report standardising IT risk reporting, enhancing information.
Speci c customer deep dives management summaries received by the have been received in relation to complaints Committee and developing the Committees handling, renewal pricing, and meeting understanding of key topics e. g. cyber-related customers demands and needs under the risks, the Internal Solvency Model through site Insurance Distribution Directive IDD.
visits, deep dives, brie ngs and training.
Effective management of insurance risk is key Supporting the Boards engagement with to the Groups performance and longer-term stakeholders has also been a key focus success.
In 2018, the focus was on enhancing during the year.
Members of the Committee underwriting and portfolio management visited the Johnson business in St Johns, capabilities across the Group and monitoring The Committee has continued Canada to meet management and receive of the programme to develop these to play a pivotal role in the detailed brie ngs on business performance, capabilities.
At the Committees request, customers and partners, IT, brands and a quarterly progress update is received in oversight of our key risks whilst digital.
Members of the Committee also each meeting alongside regular insurance engaging stakeholders on attended a meeting of the UK Customer risk reporting.
A deep dive on external speci c topics.
Committee to better understand key delegation of authority was also received.
Other insurance risk deep dives covered large Martin Strobel losses, cyber risk and high-risk policies.
Non-executive director and Chairman As part of the Boards three-day site visit of the Board Risk Committee to Toronto, Committee members attended IT and cyber security have been a key area a meeting of the Canadian Audit and Risk of focus over the last few years and will 27 February 2019 Committee to better understand the key continue to be, given the pace and nature of risks of our Canadian operations and how technological change, and the cyber threat Areas of activity in 2018 they are mitigated.
With the same purpose landscape.
These are extremely complex Canadian site visit, including Johnsons of better understanding the key risks facing areas and have received signi cant attention our business, I also attended the UK and from the Committee during the year.
This Attended the UK Customer Committee International Risk and Control Committee.
included a deep dive on UK cyber risk Oversight of UK Customer risk appetite This meeting included a deep dive into the and cyber risk training, which helps inform Cyber risk deep dives IT cyber exposure of the UK business.
discussions on the cyber strategy for the Group.
Also, the Committee stabilised the Oversight of Internal Model The composition of the Committee format of IT risk appetite reporting through the enhancements was enhanced during the year with the year making it easier to understand quarterappointment of Charlotte Jones in April 2018 Areas of focus in 2019 on-quarter changes and the progress of key and Enrico Cucchiani in June 2018. actions.
Scandinavia site visit Key areas of focus The year saw real progress in key areas of IT Further stakeholder engagement The Committee has a pivotal role in ensuring security, resilience and incident management, Monitoring Brexit developments the key risks to the Group are identi ed and and the ever-growing importance of data 2019 Internal Model change application understood, are effectively managed within means this topic received increasing attention.
risk appetite and appropriately re ected in the Data management capabilities have been Customer risk oversight Internal Model.
The key risk areas facing the identi ed as of strategic importance and will Cyber risk oversight Group are re ected in the rolling agenda and be an area of focus for the Committee in 2019. speci c areas of concern are subject to deep During the first half of the year, the Committee dives during the year.
The risk management provided oversight of the risks associated with Review of the year section of the Strategic Report includes the the Groups GDPR compliance programme.
Committee enhancements key risk areas on page 43.
This topic remained on the agenda during the second half of the year as the Committee After taking over as Chair at the start of 2018, Customer risk in the UK has been a monitored the risks from transition to business I undertook a full review of the effectiveness substantial focus of the Committee in 2018 as usual.
of the Committee and agreed a set of with a programme of work informed by enhancements.
While the Committee was an external benchmarking activity.
The The Internal Capital Model the model and considered effective, there were areas enhancements introduced and monitored in regulatory capital requirements of the Group where additional consideration or focus is each committee meeting included oversight are key topics at each meeting, with regular appropriate.
Many of the speci c topics are of a newly created UK Customer Committee updates on current position, including model covered below, including additional focus and a new customer risk appetite statement sensitivities.
The Committee oversaw an on delivering good customer outcomes, supported by enhanced management external review of the model and signi cant 64 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2018 rsagroup.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS enhancements following recommendations The Groups risk strategy and appetite was Actuarial Function Reports were from the Internal Model Governance reviewed as part of the annual refresh with provided by Group Actuarial in relation to Committee and subsequent approval by the minor changes in relation to capital surplus Reinsurance, Underwriting and an outline Board.
The Committee received a standlimits and reputational risk measures of the actuarial functions contribution to the alone training session that covered the key recommended to the Board for approval.
model design principles and addressed Emerging risk analysis is used to anticipate Group Risk Policies are reviewed on an questions raised through the year, including future risk issues that might arise and annual cycle and any major changes are dependencies between risks and model to support development of stress and communicated to the Committee for its use.
This will help inform future decisionscenario testing plans.
Each year several comment and approval.
making, especially in relation to regulatory risks are selected for more detailed The Terms of Reference for the Committee, model change approval processes in 2019. analysis, which this year included hard available at www.
com, were Additional model change activities will take Brexit, accelerating climate change and amended during the year to re ect the place in Scandinavia, which the Committee systemic risks arising from reinsurance.
additional responsibility for oversight of the will monitor but approval will be provided The Committee requested a new emerging UK Customer Committee and the review locally.
risk associated with the changing use of of potential internal con icts of interest consumer data be added.
As for every insurer, the continuing between overseas subsidiaries and UK development of the regulatory landscape, The annual stress and scenario testing regulated entities as escalated by the market studies and regular engagement process was reviewed by the Committee.
transaction review and approval processes.
means regulatory risk and compliance In addition to the European Insurance and Looking forward matters remain a key area of focus.
Conduct Occupational Pensions Authority stress regulation received more attention this year test, reverse stress testing was performed Following on from my effectiveness review at with the Committee focusing on customer on the impact of 1 in 10 and 1 in 20 the start of the year, further enhancements are risk, renewal pricing and IDD.
Compliance insurance variances, and stress testing on planned for 2019 with a continued focus on with the Senior Managers and Certi cation three other scenarios: increasing medical the customer, increasingly robust prioritisation Regime was discussed with consideration of costs, major regulatory changes and major of the agenda to ensure crucial areas are the implications for both the Committee and data errors.
As a result of this discussion, given suf cient time, oversight of longsenior management.
the Committee requested further insight standing actions that are challenging to close on the insurance variations as part of their given their scale, complexity or nature, and Following discussion of people risk and the brie ng on the internal model design.
a greater representation from subject matter impact of change on the control environment, experts from across the Group on key topics.
The Groups risk strategy and appetite was the Committee requested additional updates reviewed as part of the annual refresh, with on this subject.
An update was received on During 2019, the Board will visit Scandinavia minor changes in relation to capital surplus actions agreed in 2016 to ensure the control to spend time with the regional first, second limits and reputational risk measures environment is sustained during change.
The Committee recommended to the Board for approval.
Additionally, an update on major change will use this visit to gain greater insight into the projects underway across the Group was The Committee reviews the reinsurance regional business, its activities, and local risk presented, giving a view of the top change strategy each year ahead of renewal, and at and governance matters.
risks and the level of oversight by the risk the start of the year a debrief is provided on Model change applications will be reviewed function.
The update included a change risk completion of the renewal process.
and approved ahead of regulatory model checklist, informed by lessons learnt from past The Committee discussed a draft of change processes being initiated in 2019. programmes, that can be used to support the the Chief Risk Of cers annual risk and Committees oversight activities.
Summaries In relation to the new responsibility for governance review, which is conducted to of major change projects will be reported on a oversight of the UK Customer Committee support the Remuneration Committees regular basis going forward.
and Customer Compliance, the Committee consideration of risk matters when agreeing will devote time and Committee members executive variable pay awards.
This process Other activities during 2018 will continue to attend the UK Customer is a key link between the two committees Committee in 2019 in order to understand The Committee received quarterly updates and helps the Committee consider the and oversee the measures taken to further from the Group Chief Risk Of cer on the effectiveness of the risk framework and the improve customer outcomes.
key risks that potentially impact the Group, strength of risk culture within the Group.
including an assessment of whether The Group Capital Report and the Group The Committee will also continue to oversee risks are within appetite and whether any ORSA were presented and approved.
the evolution of the Brexit scenario and ensure mitigating actions are necessary.
In approving the ORSA, the Committee that the necessary measures are taken Regional Chief Risk Of cers from requested edits to clarify the potential for to mitigate any risks during this period of Scandinavia, UK & International and volatility in certain capital measures.
Canada presented to the Committee to Committees oversight of the ongoing brief them on key regional matters, outline ORSA process includes consideration of their top risks and relay their insights and a range of papers, such as risk updates, best practice activities for consideration.
capital updates, stress tests and model results.
Papers are clearly agged as being The approach to Solvency II model part of the ORSA process.
validation was also enhanced, with more deployment of top-down tools analysing Minor revisions to the Group Recovery Plan the outputs.
The model validation plan was were reviewed and approved.
agreed, and the final report approved, on completion.
Model governance updates have been discussed and agreed during the year.
