BUSINESS MODEL We protect our customers against risk WHAT WE DO AND HOW WE CREATE VALUE The resources we rely on Financial: 4.7bn of capital is employed within RSA to support customers and generate shareholder returns.
Expertise: Our intellectual capital is found in the PRODUCTS THAT underwriting expertise of our people, enhanced through PROTECT OUR ongoing technical training and capability building.
1 CUSTOMERS Relationships and partnerships: Our relationships with brokers and partner organisations help us to distribute 53% of our business.
People: We have 12,244 employees worldwide, whose skills we value and invest in.
Technology: We use technology to digitise and automate our operations and services, so we can support our customers and remain competitive.
STRONG CAPITAL Data: Advancements in data and analytics help us to BASE improve our pricing speed and accuracy, as well as the ef ciency of our operations.
4 What makes RSA different PROACTIVELY PRUDENT A balanced portfolio: We have MANAGING INVESTMENTS complementary leadership positions in CLAIMS the major general insurance markets of Scandinavia, Canada and the UK, together with our international business.
We are well balanced between personal and business customers, across our geographies, product lines and distribution channels.
This scale and breadth help us manage the impact of volatility on the Group more effectively.
Our strategy Best-in-class ambition: We have an 1 Products that protect our Our strategy is to concentrate outward looking, high performance culture, customers: Our business is on the regional insurance markets aiming to consistently invest in our people built around our customers.
where we are strongest and and their development.
The collective drive We constantly challenge ourselves sustain a platform of financial of our workforce supports our ambition to serve them better and address strength that enables our and potential to continue improving and their evolving needs.
We do this through a benchmark alongside the best in our focus on improving operational 2 Ef cient multi-channel chosen markets.
delivery and investments in our distribution: Ef cient access to Brand quality and customer franchise: people and capabilities.
our chosen customers is key to With over 300 years of experience, we continuing to develop our business.
Our strategy is executed within have developed trusted and recognisable We distribute our products in a robust risk management see brands in our markets, supporting our strong two ways: directly to customers, pages 40 to 43 and governance customer franchise.
and through brokers and af nity framework see page 55. partnerships.
06 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2018 rsagroup.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS The value we create for our stakeholders VALUE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS We aim to be proactive and digitally 2 enabled, providing tailored products that address evolving customer requirements and concerns.
EFFECTIVE PRODUCT DISTRIBUTION 80% Customer retention VALUE FOR OUR WELL PEOPLERESERVED Our People Principles help us build a culture of high performance, working together effectively to sustain the capabilities we require to succeed.
c. 90% Percentage of RSA employees who believe there is good collaboration and teamwork VALUE FOR OUR COMMUNITIES We are committed to making a positive impact on the communities in which we operate.
UNDERSTANDING RISK AND PRICING 3 APPROPRIATELY 1.8m 8,200 Value of Volunteer hours To serve customers well, community in our local 3 Understanding risk and pricing 1 we need to be resilient contribution communities appropriately: To make sure that ourselves.
This means 1 Payments to charities, employee fundraising, our prices and terms are accurate, having a strong capital value of volunteering and gifts in kind competitive and sustainable, we are base and being wellalways working to better understand reserved.
Those funds are the risks our customers face.
prudently invested in lowVALUE FOR OUR risk assets, and reserves 4 Proactively managing claims: INVESTORS are available to pay claims We are committed to settling claims We seek to deliver value to our when the worst happens.
We carefully shareholders by generating manage our indemnity spend to attractive sustainable returns.
keep the cost of claims ef cient.
