MARKET CONTEXT Responding to changing market dynamics and insurance themes Well placed to support customer and industry needs now and into the future GLOBAL MACRO TRENDS RSA PERSPECTIVE Protectionism is straining global relations Our balanced regional footprint enables us to be resilient POLITICAL More protectionist policies are straining relations between to macro-political risks, and most of our business is countries.
These rising tensions, overlaid with existing local and locally incorporated.
tensions in Russia, the Middle East and Asia, could impact Our international Commercial Lines business is only on global growth, introduce economic or financial shocks, modestly exposed to trade volumes.
Our new Luxembourg hub helps insulate our UK business from the potential operational risks of Brexit.
Growth in global economies remains good, Global insurance volumes are relatively insensitive ECONOMIC but with some signs of slowing to normal uctuations in GDP growth.
The global economy continues to show good growth, We are focused on a small number of core, mature projected to reach 3.5% in 2019 according to the markets.
Our businesses are diversi ed and low risk, International Monetary Fund.
However, growth patterns are and we maintain a well-matched approach to becoming less predictable and the tightening of financial investments, which provides some resilience against conditions and ongoing global tensions are affecting the negative economic developments.
The US is expected to continue to grow well, while Europe, China and emerging economies are showing signs of slowing.
Some central banks are tightening domestic monetary policy.
Societal changes are driving changes in consumer RSAs core values and social purpose are to protect our SOCIAL expectations and business needs customers against risk and ensure that the products Societal change continues apace as developments in and services we offer them meet their changing needs.
technology and growing interconnectivity drive changes Our telematics, cyber insurance and commercial e-trade in customer behaviour.
Consumers now expect a propositions are examples of how we are adapting our seamless digital service, with quick responses and offer to match customer demand.
Our business serves a mainstream customer base in personal insurance across the age spectrum.
Our focus In addition, urbanisation and an aging population have is on building our digital approach while continuing to driven changes in the demographics of those seeking differentiate our support for vulnerable customers.
We are also building our digital and product proposition in the commercial space to ensure that we address the changing needs of business.
Our telematics proposition provides affordable insurance for young drivers.
Digitisation, big data and new technologies are We are continuing to invest for our customers through better TECH creating opportunities and threats for incumbents customer journeys and new products or digital interfaces.
Digitisation and the growing availability and complexity We are working to become more competitive through of data is enabling operational improvements, shifting harnessing big data and advanced modelling capability customer expectations, and introducing new areas for to assess and price risk more ef ciently.
Developments in data analytics, arti cial We are also evolving our technical capability strategy and intelligence and automation can provide new opportunities staff development programmes to build the skills required for more sophisticated risk management and ef cient to address these new opportunities.
customer services, but also provide challenges as the RSA takes the protection and integrity of customer data insurance industry seeks to keep up with innovations.
very seriously and has a strong framework in place to Traditional products and business models are being understand potential threats, as well as to manage and challenged as new entrants focus on bespoke propositions, mitigate potential risks.
10 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2018 rsagroup.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS KEY INSURANCE THEMES AND HOW WERE RESPONDING Disruptors Automation Climate change and extreme weather New entrants and disruptive New technologies are enabling technology are changing business ef ciency gains through increased Climate change poses short-term models and the value chain: automation and self-service: physical risk and mid-term transition risk: Global Fintech investment has been high for Automation and robotics are increasingly driving Catastrophic weather and wild res have increased several years.
UK Personal Lines has already ef ciency and supporting an enhanced customer in frequency and intensity.
seen disruption with aggregators enabling experience.
For example, automation can enable Signi cant action is needed to achieve targets set consumers to seek the lowest possible price at self-service, while robotics can be used to 1 by the 2015 Paris Agreement, and this may incur the touch of a button.
With the level of investment in the US and Automation is also affecting customer needs, RSAs reinsurance treaties ensure our exposure Europe, the expectation is that disruptors will gain e. g. vehicles we insure become autonomous to weather events remains within appetite.
or commercial customers become reliant on We also promote preventative action and invest technology for their operations.
RSA continues to track new technologies and in risk pooling schemes to preserve access RSA continuously invests in technology, to innovate, particularly connected products like to insurance.
increasing data analytics capabilities, increasing Sm rt Wheels, LeakBot or PitPat.
pricing sophistication and digitising operations.
We work to reduce our own environmental impact, support our customers to respond to RSA is actively investing in and supporting climate change and use our expertise to assist innovation through projects like the UK GATEway transition to a low-carbon economy.
We are Project, which explores the potential impact of a specialist in insurance for renewable energy autonomous vehicles on our cities.
Economic Post-Brexit transition Cyber risk Sterling has continued to remain weak Leaving the European Union could The cyber insurance market is rapidly and, despite some build in in ationary extend economic uncertainties and expanding as the frequency, severity pressures, yields remain low: introduce new challenges, especially and sophistication of attacks increases: if disorderly: The continuation of the low yield environment RSA takes protection and integrity of customer mandates a higher focus on underwriting discipline data very seriously.
We have a strong framework Brexit continues to generate uncertainty, with and cost management for all insurers.
in place to understand potential threats, and to potential for economic shocks, capital impacts, manage and mitigate potential risks.
claims in ation and supply chain disruption.
Weaker sterling bene ts our income statement while balance sheet and capital exposure to FX is We have planned for a range of potential impacts The Group has extended its suite of cyber well-matched.
on customers, compliance, strategy and structure, products for business, and continues to engage including those associated with a no-deal Brexit.
Our business is alert to in ationary pressures in with customer demand.
terms of both claims and operational costs.
Sensitivities to potential macroeconomic shocks We have strengthened our cyber underwriting are considered in the Risk and Capital Section of We seek to re ect emerging in ation quickly in capability, including recruiting a new Group Cyber Financial Report pages 118 to 126. pricing or management of claims supply chain.
Scenario analysis indicates capital measures remain Cautious reinsurance arrangements ensure inside risk appetite even in adverse outcomes.
RSA has some protection against volatility Creation of RSA Luxembourg helps to insulate our and large losses, as industry experience and European operations from disruption.
We are con dent in our preparations and continue to monitor developments to re ne our plans, although some impacts cannot be meaningfully anticipated and mitigated at this stage.
1 The Paris Agreement is an agreement within the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change UNFCCC to combat climate change and to accelerate and intensify the actions and investments needed for a sustainable low-carbon future.
