10 MARKET CONTEXT The UK motor insurance market is undergoing a great deal of change across regulation, technology, pricing and distribution.
Sabre continues to monitor these developments closely, and is well placed to navigate this increasingly dynamic and competitive marketplace Competition and pricing Some commentators feel this is an ambitious With PCWs providing more choice and timescale given the new technology required making it easier than ever to purchase motor to support the changes.
Taken at face-value, 13bn insurance, the majority of consumers now these reforms would decrease claims spend select a policy on the basis of price, with industry predictions centre on a 30 per policy some consideration for brand.
This makes APPROXIMATE VALUE OF THE UK saving.
This, for the majority of underwriters, the mass market strongly price-competitive.
PRIVATE MOTOR INSURANCE MARKET would result in a near 10% reduction in While Sabre is active in the mass market and premium.
For Sabre it would be about half industry-wide price movements naturally this amount given higher average premium.
have an impact, because the majority of its Sabre does not operate in this way, seeking Sabre believes there are several reasons business covers more non-standard risks to maintain pricing consistency between to be cautious about these potential savings.
where its competitors are less active, it is new business and renewals, and so does not These include possible lawyer response, somewhat insulated.
expect to be disadvantaged by this review.
potential new claims types and the possibility Historically, motor insurance pricing has of new types of claims management company Claims trends increased and decreased in waves over a involvement.
Sabres approach will be to In addition to pricing trends, the profitability number of years, with decreases in pricing reflect benefits in pricing if and when we of underwriters is driven by claims experience.
being driven by new capacity entering the are sure they truly exist.
In recent years, the UK motor insurance market or regulatory change, and increases market has seen sustained claims inflation Alongside increasing personal injury claims, arising when such decreases lead to stemming from increases in costs associated UK private motor insurers have also been unacceptable losses in market profitability.
with both personal injury claims and damage faced with increasing costs associated with This is set against a general increase in the to vehicles.
Whilst advanced safety features cost of claims, known as claims inflation.
incorporated in modern vehicles have resulted Personal injury claims costs have been The last significant upturn in motor insurance in a decline in accident frequency, the cost of growing for a number of reasons in recent pricing was in mid-2016, when, reducing repairing vehicles in the event of accidents years and the UK Government has recognised industry profitability, continued claims has increased.
It announced in 2015 inflation, increases to insurance premium tax its intention to reform whiplash claims.
The Leveraging its proprietary data and advanced and costs associated with the implementation announcement was followed by the launch pricing techniques, Sabre accurately prices of Solvency II were impacting insurers.
As of a consultation on the topic in November its policies based on the expected cost of such, prices began to rise.
These premium 2016, which led to a bill being introduced to claims and of servicing the policy.
As such increases continued into 2017 with a reduction the UK Parliament the following year.
The the business is able to control and protect in the Ogden Discount Rate in February 2017, reforms sought to introduce a tariff of fixed its profit margin through a consistent which increased lump-sum payouts to injured compensation for whiplash injuries and Combined Operating Ratio.
claimants, providing further impetus for price block claims that were not supported by increases.
At the very end of 2017 and into Distribution trends medical evidence.
2018, prices appeared to decrease across Distribution within the insurance market the industry.
This was in part driven by a Having been delayed by the UK general election continues to evolve.
Over the past decade, notable decrease in the volume of small held in June 2017, it was announced in the the nature of private motor insurance personal injury claims, ahead of market Queens Speech of June 2017 that the reforms distribution in the UK has undergone reforms which were due in 2019, but would be incorporated as part of a new Civil meaningful change.
PCWs which allow which may now come in to force in 2020.
It is expected that the reforms will users to compare tailored quotes from be implemented in April 2020.
The key details a variety of insurers have increased in Recently, the industry regulator has of this Bill sets out that regulations are to be prominence significantly as a distribution launched a review into the pricing practices made in a number of areas including: channel, owing to the convenience, choice of insurers, with particular focus on retail and transparency that they provide.
Introducing a tariff for damages for claims price optimisation and differential pricing In addition, direct sales through insurer up to 24 months pain and suffering of new business and renewals.
and broker websites have increased as Banning settling claims without Some insurers and brokers price new distribution has continued to move online.
medical evidence business at very low levels of profitability, In concert, the small claims track for PI and seek to increase prices for renewals claims will be increased from 1k to 5k.
to achieve an acceptable multi-year profit.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements 11 The United Kingdoms Departure from the European Union The United Kingdom UK is expected to depart from the European Union EU during 2019.
The exact timing, and the nature of the circumstances under which this occurs, remains uncertain.
Sabre has considered the impact on its business under a range of scenarios, which can be broadly considered as an orderly exit in which a transition period is agreed and enacted, and a more disorderly exit in which the UK leaves the EU with no deal.
Although there are some issues common to both types of exit, Management believes a no deal scenario to be more disruptive, and as such has concentrated its analysis and planning on such a scenario.
Sabres business is conducted entirely within the UK.
All of Sabres products are sold in the UK, primarily to UK citizens or those intending to drive primarily within the UK.
As Sabres policyholders are entitled to drive overseas while OGDEN DISCOUNT RATE maintaining their cover, Sabre does have some small exposure to overseas counterparties as a result of accidents The Ogden discount rate represents an assumption of the abroad.
Given the UK focused nature of risk-free interest rate that claimants could earn on lump-sum Sabres operations, Management believes payouts and is used in determining the size of such payouts.
the Group is well insulated from many of The rate is currently set at -0.75%.
Sabre continues to reserve the more disruptive impacts of the UKs for claims at this level, however we are aware that the rate may exit from the EU.
All of Sabres assets increase ie reduce the total cost of large claims during 2019. are held within the UK.
It is unlikely that such a change would have a material impact on Sabres result.
We have, however, identified a number of operational and economic consequences which would impact Sabre.
These are: Claims costs may be adversely impacted through trade tariffs, disruption to just-in-time supply chains and increased care costs The increasing prominence of PCWs and Digitisation and technology due to a shortage of care staff.
online sales has reduced the popularity of Sabre continues to monitor and plan for Policyholders driving within the EU other insurance policy distribution channels, technological advancements that could would be required to obtain a green and sales through branches, over the bring change to the motor insurance market, card to evidence their cover.
We have telephone and via banks building societies for example: implemented sufficient processes and have declined as a proportion of total sales.
Advanced safety features in modern cars resource to manage such requests automated emergency braking, forward Insurance brokers and direct insurers have should they arise.
We have also collision, blind spot and lane departure had to adapt to these changing distribution communicated this requirement warnings.
These can potentially reduce the channels to maintain their relevance and to our customers in advance frequency of claims and severity of injury now primarily distribute products online of the UKs departure.
when accidents do occur, which should and through PCWs, alongside insurance reduce severity of liability claims over time, The wider UK economy may shrink in underwriters going direct to the consumer.
but the cost of repair for cars with these the event of a disorderly exit.
While the In this context, brands and retail price features is typically higher than those Group is committed to monitoring the optimisation abilities have grown in without, so the cost of repairing vehicles soundness of its financial counterparties, importance: on PCWs, where multiple in the medium term may rise.
which are considered very low risk under quotes can be compared at once, price and such circumstances, we recognise that Autonomous cars.
While they are unlikely brand recognition are key differentiators an economic downturn can have an to be viable for some time, reports suggest for consumers.
Motor purchasing autonomous vehicles will insurance is a compulsory product Sabre operates a robust multi-channel become possible at some point between for drivers, and as such the Groups distribution network, selling both through 2020 and 2025.
That said, it is unclear what addressable market is unlikely to be brokers and direct through its three consumer level of automation these cars will feature affected.
The impact on costs of such brands.
This provides resilience and positions and therefore the impact on the motor a downturn is broadly neutral.
We might the Group well to take advantage of the insurance market is more difficult to predict.
expect a cost benefit through reduction numerous opportunities presented by the in miles driven offset by an increase changing environment.
in the propensity for fraud.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
