04 KNOWLEDGE and experience An experienced senior leadership team supported by an expert and committed management group, delivering a track record of market-leading underwriting profitability OUR TEAM The Group employs a team of circa 160 individuals operating from a single owned site in Dorking, Surrey, supported by third party providers performing selected outsourced functions.
The Group benefits from a claims team of over 75 employees with more than 600 years of collective experience.
DORKING Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements 05 FLEXIBILITY Our streamlined operating model gives us flexibility in our business.
We outsource certain areas where we can leverage partners size, scale and expertise.
This means we also benefit from a flexible pool of resources.
159 c. 348k LONG-TERM GROWTH EMPLOYEES IN-FORCE POLICIES The Group increased its gross written premium GWP and in-force policy count significantly over the past decade ended 31 December 2018.
Our primary focus is maintaining our 600 profitability, but we also anticipate growth across the insurance cycle.
We believe that volume should be an output of disciplined YEARS COMBINED EXPERIENCE profitable underwriting, and not a target.
IN THE CLAIMS TEAM Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 06 DIVERSIFIED multi-channel distribution strategy Sabre has a diversified, multi-channel distribution strategy, selling policies through a broad network of over 1,000 valued insurance broker partners across the UK and Direct Brands BROKERS Account for approximately 70% of gross written premium in the year ended 31 December 2018.
Sabre sells primarily through insurance brokers.
The brokers themselves have grown as the Price Comparison Websites PCWs have grown.
Our broker partners add a combination of strong consumer brands, distribution expertise, retail pricing skills and customer relationships.
Combined with our underwriting and claims skills, this is a powerful combination.
67% BROKERS BUSINESS SPLIT 1,100 APPROXIMATE NUMBER OF BROKERS IN THE UK 67% Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements 07 DIRECT BRANDS Accounting for approximately 33% of GWP in the year ended 31 December 2018.
Trading primarily through the Go Girl brand on PCWs, Sabre has a meaningful direct portfolio.
This gives strategic optionality and direct line of sight into the retail market.
Go Girl was launched in November 2011 to target female drivers and is primarily promoted via PCWs.
33% Insure 2 Drive was launched in DIRECT BRANDS BUSINESS SPLIT November 2010 offering general motor insurance and is almost 33% entirely promoted via PCWs.
Drive Smart was launched in August 2013 offering telematics car insurance which involves a device being fitted into the customers vehicle to monitor a number of aspects of their driving behaviour.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
