62 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors Report for the period ended 31 December 2018 recruitment of Directors and recommending appointments for approval comprises the report set out on pages 62 to 64 and Directors and by the Board of Directors.
Further details regarding the appointment Officers Statement on page 65 together with the following sections and replacement of Directors is set out in the Governance and of this Annual Report which are included by reference: Nomination Committee reports on pages 36 to 39 and 44 to 45 of this Annual Report, respectively.
The Strategic Report set out on pages 1 to 31 which includes: Powers the Chairmans Letter on pages 8 to 9: Subject to the provisions of the Articles, the Companies Act and the CEOs Review on pages 14 to 17: and related legislation, and any directions given by special resolution of the the Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 22 to 26: shareholders, the business of the Company shall be managed by the the Viability Statement on pages 27: Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company including the Companys powers to borrow money and to issue new shares.
the CFOs Review on pages 28 to 29: and the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 30 to 31.
Executive Directors service contracts Executive Directors are employed under the terms of their service The Chairmans Governance Letter and the Governance Report contracts.
Details of the effective dates of the service contracts for on pages 33 to 39 and including the reports of the Audit and Risk, the current Executive Directors as well as their compensation are set Nomination and Remuneration Committees on pages 46 to 61. out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 61 and the Corporate structure and principal activity contracts are available for inspection by shareholders at the Companys The Companys principal and only trading subsidiary is a motor registered office.
Sabre Insurance Group plc is a public company Non-executive Director appointments limited by shares and was incorporated in England and Wales on Non-executive Directors are appointed pursuant to a letter of 21 September 2017 with registered number 10974661.
Its registered appointment, except in the case of Matthew Tooth, who was appointed office and principal place of business is at Sabre House, 150 South pursuant to the terms of the Relationship Agreement.
Matthew Tooths Street, Dorking, Surrey RH4 2YY.
The Company has no branches.
appointment ceased with effect 18 June 2018.
Such appointments are The Company is the holding company of the Sabre Group of companies.
for an initial period of three years, which is renewable.
A Non-executive Details of the Companys subsidiaries are set out in Note 3 of the Directors appointment is terminable by the Non-executive Director or Parent Company Financial Statements contained in this Annual Report.
the Company by giving written notice.
Details of the effective dates of Directors the letters of appointment for the current Non-executive Directors as The Directors who served throughout the year are as follows: well as their fees are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report and the terms of appointment are available for inspection by shareholders Executive Directors at the Companys registered office.
Geoff Carter Chief Executive Officer Adam Westwood Chief Financial Officer Directors indemnities Non-executive Directors Each of the Companys Directors has been granted a qualifying third Patrick Snowball Chairman party indemnity pursuant to which the Company agrees to indemnify Catherine Barton the Directors against any liabilities that they may incur as a result of Ian Clark their office as Director, to the extent permitted by the Companies Act.
Andy Pomfret appointed 28 February 2018 Directors and Officers Liability Insurance Rebecca Shelley Directors and Officers liability insurance is provided for all Directors Matthew Tooth resigned 18 June 2018 of the Company.
The members of the Board of Directors, their biographical details and Compensation for loss of office the dates of their appointment are set out on pages 34 and 35 of this The Company does not have arrangements with any Director that Annual Report.
would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting Appointment and replacement of Directors from a takeover, except that provisions of the Companys share plans The appointment and replacement of Directors is governed by the may cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest on a Companys Articles, the Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act takeover.
Further information is provided in the Directors Remuneration and related legislation.
Prior to the disposal of their entire shareholding Report on pages 46 to 61 of this Annual Report.
in the Company, funds advised by BC Partners had an agreement the Articles of Association Relationship Agreement with Sabre, which allowed them to appoint The Company may alter its Articles by special resolution of the a Non-executive Director to the Board as discussed on page 64 of this shareholders at a general meeting of the Company.
are available on the Companys website at www.
The Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by ordinary Share capital resolution of the shareholders or by the Board.
The Board has decided Shares to comply with best corporate governance practice, and all Directors The Company has one class of ordinary voting shares in issue.
will seek re-election at each AGM.
In addition to any powers of removal As at 31 December 2018, the issued share capital of the Company conferred by the Companies Act, the Company may by special comprised 250,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.001 each, all of which resolution remove any Director before the expiration of his period of are fully paid ordinary shares.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for overseeing the Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements 63 Rights and obligations attaching to shares conclusion of the 2019 AGM.
No shares have been bought under this The rights and obligations attached to the Companys shares are authority.
The Board is proposing to renew this authority at the 2019 governed by the Articles and prevailing legislation.
Each ordinary share AGM, however the Company does not have any current intention ranks equally and carries the same rights to receive all shareholder to purchase any of its own ordinary shares.
documentation including notices of general meetings, attend, speak Directors interests in shares and vote at general meetings, and participate in any distribution of The Directors who held office as at 31 December 2018 had the income or capital.
All shareholders entitled to attend and vote at a following interests including family interests in the ordinary shares general meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend, speak and of the Company: vote in their place.
None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights 31 December 31 December with regard to control of the Company and there are no specific Name of Director 2018 2017 restrictions on voting rights, save where the Company is legally entitled Catherine Barton 0 0 to impose such restrictions for example, where the shareholder is in Geoff Carter 1,965,372 1,965,372 default of an obligation to the Company.
Major shareholders have the Ian Clark 265,761 265,761 same voting rights per share as all other shareholders.
Andy Pomfret 43,478 n a Restrictions on transfer Rebecca Shelley 0 0 There are no restrictions on the transfer or holding of shares in the Patrick Snowball 105,288 105,288 Company other than i as set out in the lock up arrangements Matthew Tooth n a 0 described below: ii as set out in the Articles: and iii certain Adam Westwood 842,303 842,303 restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct The Directors, as employees and potential beneficiaries, have an Authority the Listing Rules whereby Directors and certain officers interest in 278,705 shares held by the Sabre Insurance Group Employee and employees of the Company require approval to deal in the ordinary Benefit Trust at 31 December 2018. shares in accordance with the Companys share dealing policies and As at the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual the Market Abuse Regulation.
Report, 27 March 2019 the Sabre Insurance Group Employee Benefit Lock up arrangements Trusts held 874,396 ordinary shares.
It is anticipated that these ordinary In connection with the Listing, certain shareholders of the Company shares will be used to satisfy awards made under the Companys entered into lock up agreements with the Company which provide employee incentive plans.
Further details regarding the Companys for lock up periods of either 180 or 365 days or, in the case of one employee incentive plans can be found in the Directors Remuneration employee, up to three years from the date of Listing.
During the Report on pages 46 to 61 of this Annual Report.
relevant lock up period these individuals agreed not to dispose, lend, There were no changes in the interests of Directors between mortgage or assign any securities in the Company.
Additionally, certain 31 December 2018 and 27 March 2019, As in line with the Companys shareholders entered into lock up agreements with the underwriting Remuneration Policy, half of the value received under the Groups banks for a period of 180 days from the date of the Listing.
Certain of Bonus Plan by Geoff Carter and Adam Westwood for the year ended the underwriting banks may waive the restrictions in respect of these 31 December 2018 will be deferred into shares, held in Sabre Insurance lock up periods after the 90th day but before they expire.
Further Group Employee Benefit Trust.
details regarding the lock up agreements outlined above can be found in Part 12 of the Prospectus.
Major interests in shares Information on major interests in shares notified to the Company Power to allot and purchase shares under the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTRs By a resolution passed at the annual general meeting the Meeting of the UK Listing Authority is published via a Regulatory Information of the Company on 24 May 2018, the Company was granted a general Service and on the Companys website www.
co. uk investors authority to allot shares up to the lower of i an aggregate nominal regulatory-news.
amount of 83,333 and ii 33.33% of the Companys ordinary share capital.
At the Meeting, the Company was also granted authority to allot At 31 December 2018, the Company had been notified, in accordance shares up to the lower of i an aggregate nominal amount of 166,666 with Chapter 5 of the DTRs, of the following voting rights in respect of and ii 66.67% of the Companys ordinary share capital by way of a 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company.
rights issue to ordinary shareholders in proportion to their existing Number of % of shareholdings with such amount to be reduced to the extent that the Ordinary voting general authority is utilised if any.
The Company also received Shareholder Shares rights authority to allot shares for cash on a non pre-emptive basis up to Aviva plc and its subsidiaries 21,635,858 8.65 the lower of i an aggregate nominal amount of 12,500 and ii 5% Prudential PLC 13,426,259 5.37 of the Companys ordinary share capital.
As at the date of this report, Companies owned by Old Mutual plc 12,870,464 5.14 no shares have been issued under these authorities.
These authorities Kayne Anderson Rudnick Investment 9,982,298 3.99 will expire at the conclusion of the 2019 AGM and, accordingly, the Management, LLC Board is proposing to renew these authorities at that AGM.
During the period between 31 December 2018 and 27 March 2019, The Company was granted authority by its shareholders at the General being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Annual Meeting to purchase up to the lower of i 25,000,000 ordinary shares Report, the Company was notified that on 1 March 2019 Kayne and ii 10% of the Companys maximum ordinary share capital Anderson Rudnick Investment increased their holding to 10,132,344 immediately following the Listing.
This authority will expire at the ordinary shares which equals 4.05% of the voting rights.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 64 D DIRE IREC CT TO ORS RS RE REP PO ORT RT CO CON NT TIIN NU UE ED D Relationship Agreement Post-balance sheet events In connection with the Listing, CIE Management IX Limited, BC European There are no post-balance sheet events required to be disclosed Capital IX Limited and BC Partners Holdings Limited together, the funds in the financial statements.
advised by BC Partners and the Company entered into a relationship Charitable and political donations agreement on 23 November 2017 the Relationship Agreement, the The donations made by the Group to the charities referred to on page 31 purpose of which was to ensure the Company is capable of carrying on of this Annual Report amounted, in aggregate, to 4,512 2017: 1,500. its business independently of the funds advised by BC Partners and its The Group made no political donations during the year 2017: 0. associates.
The Relationship Agreement continued until the funds advised by BC Partners and its associates cease to own, in aggregate, at least The Annual General Meeting the AGM 10% of the ordinary shares in the Company or the voting rights attaching The 2019 AGM will be held at 10am on 23 May 2019.
Full details about to such shares, and therefore ended on 5 September 2018, when BC the 2019 AGM, including the venue and explanatory notes, will be European Capital IX Fund Limited sold their shareholdings in the Group.
contained in the Notice of AGM which will be sent to shareholders in a separate document.
The Notice of AGM will set out the resolutions The Relationship Agreement entitled the funds advised by BC Partners to be proposed at the AGM and an explanation of each resolution.
to nominate one person to be a Non-executive Director of the Company All documents relating to the AGM will be available on the Companys for so long as the BC Partners Group held in aggregate at least 10% of website at www.
the ordinary shares and set out the terms and conditions upon which any such person may be appointed, removed or replaced as a Director The AGM is the Companys principal forum for communication with of the Company.
Under the terms of the Relationship Agreement, shareholders and the Directors will be available to answer shareholders for as long as Matthew Tooth or another person was appointed as a questions at the meeting.
Non-executive Director by the BC Partners Group, the Company paid Independent auditor BC Partners LLP or as it may direct a fee at the rate equal to the The auditor of the Company, Ernst & Young LLP EY, has indicated basic Non-executive Director fee payable from time to time to the their willingness to continue in office, and resolutions to appoint EY and Companys independent Non-executive Directors 60,000. to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration will be proposed at Further details regarding the Relationship Agreement can be found the 2019 AGM.
in Part 12 of the Companys Prospectus which is available on the Statement of disclosure of information to the auditor Companys website www.
Each of the Directors who held office at the date of the approval of Results and dividends this Annual Report confirms that, so far as they are each aware, there The audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 are set is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are out on pages 71 to 100.
The Group profit for the year after tax was unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought 49.6m 2017: 45.3m.
to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys The Directors recommend a final dividend of 6.8 pence 2017: 0 pence auditors are aware of that information.
and a special dividend of 6.0 pence 2017: 0 pence.
The total dividend for the year, including the proposed final and special dividends, This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance is 20 pence 2017: 0 pence.
with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act.
Significant agreements and change of control Supplier payment policy Since the termination of the Relationship Agreement, there are no The Groups policy is to agree payment terms with suppliers when material contracts other than contracts entered into in the ordinary entering into each transaction to ensure that suppliers are made aware course of business to which the Group is a party.
if the terms of payment and abide by the terms of payment.
Trade creditors of the Group consolidated at 31 December were 21 days The Group is not a party to any material agreements that would take 2017: 14 days purchases, based on the average daily amount invoiced effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Group by suppliers during the year.
Going concern Employees and communities The Board has considered the business activities of the Group and the Less than 250 individuals were employed by the Company in each week factors likely to affect its future performance as well as the Groups during the financial year to which this Annual Report relates further principal risks and uncertainties, including the Directors statement on details regarding the Companys employees are set out in the Corporate the viability of the Group over a three-year period which is set out in the Social Responsibility report on pages 30 and 31 of this Annual Report.
Strategic Report on page 27 of this Annual Report and, on the basis of Environment and emissions these considerations, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Information on the Groups greenhouse gas emissions is set out in Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for at least the next the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 30 and 31 of this 12 months from the date of this report and that therefore it is appropriate to Annual Report.
adopt a going concern basis for the preparation of the financial statements.
Research and development By order of the Board The Group does not undertake any material activities in the field of research and development.
Financial instruments and risk management The Groups financial risk management objective and policies, including Anneka Kingan information about its use of financial instruments, are contained in Note 3 Company Secretary to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 79 of this Annual Report.
27 March 2019 Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
