Governance Directors Report Management report The Directors Report, together with the Strategic Report set out on pages 1-51 form the Management Report for the purposes of Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule DTR 4.1.
Statutory information contained elsewhere in the Annual Report Information required to be part of this Directors Report can be found elsewhere in the Annual Report as indicated in the table below and is incorporated into this report by reference.
Information Location in Annual Report Likely future developments in the business of the Company or its subsidiaries Pages 1-51 Corporate social responsibility Pages 20-21 Greenhouse gas emissions Pages 22-23 Employees employment of disabled persons, employee engagement and policies Pages 20-21 Corporate Governance Statement Pages 52-82 Directors details including changes made during the year Pages 62-64 Related party transactions Note 34 on page 199 Diversity Pages 20 and 68 Share capital Note 28 on page 194 Going concern and viability statement Page 54 Fair, balanced and understandable statement Page 54 Employee share schemes including long-term incentive schemes Note 31 on page 196 Financial instruments: information on the Groups financial instruments and risk Notes 2.3, 17 and 18 on management objectives and policies, including our policy for hedging pages 141-153, 172-176 and 177-182 Additional information Pages 208-211 Disclosure table pursuant to Listing Rule LR 9.8.
4C The following table provides references to where the information required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4C R is disclosed: Listing Rule Listing Rule requirement Disclosure 9.8.
4 1 Interest capitalised by the Group and any Note 16 on page 171 related tax relief 9.8.
18R Group Chief Financial Officers Review, page 51 9.8.
4 5 Directors waivers of emoluments Directors Remuneration Report, pages 83-121 9.8.
4 6 Directors waivers of future emoluments Directors Remuneration Report, pages 83-121 9.8.
4 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Directors Report on page 125 9.8.
4 8 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash by Not applicable any unlisted major subsidiary undertaking 9.8.
4 9 Parent Company participation in a placing by a listed Not applicable subsidiary 9.8.
4 10 Contract of significance in which a director is or was Note 34 on page 199 materially interested 9.8.
4 11 Contract of significance between the Company Not applicable or one of its subsidiaries and a controlling shareholder 9.8.
4 12 Waiver of dividends by a shareholder Directors Report on page 126 under paragraph Rights attaching to shares 9.8.
4 13 Waiver of future dividends by a shareholder Directors Report on page 126 under paragraph Rights attaching to shares 9.8.
4 14 Board statement in respect of relationship agreement Not applicable with the controlling shareholder Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 122 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Results and dividends A Director may be appointed by ordinary resolution The Group made a profit after taxation of 137.5m for of the shareholders in a general meeting following the financial year ended 31 January 2018.
The Board nomination by the Board or a member or members paid an interim dividend of 3.0p per share and proposes entitled to vote at such a meeting.
In addition, the to pay, subject to shareholder approval at the 2018 Directors may appoint a Director to fill a vacancy or AGM, a final dividend of 6.0p net per share in respect as an additional Director, provided that the individual of the year ended 31 January 2018. retires at the next AGM.
The Directors have adopted a long-term sustainable A Director may be removed by the Company in certain dividend policy which is reviewed by the Board on circumstances set out in the Companys articles of an annual basis.
This will reflect the growth of the association or by an ordinary resolution of the Company.
business while retaining sufficient profits to fund Directors indemnities and insurance investment and ensure that there are sufficient capital As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force reserves.
Any decision to declare and pay dividends is under which the Company has agreed to indemnify made at the discretion of the Directors and depends the Directors, to the extent permitted by law and the on, among other things, applicable law, regulation, Companys articles of association, in respect of all restrictions, the Groups financial position, regulatory losses arising out of, or in connection with, the capital requirements, working capital requirements, execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities, finance costs, general economic conditions and other as Directors of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
factors the Directors deem significant from time No amount was paid under any of these indemnities to time.
or insurances during the year other than the applicable Political donations insurance premiums.
Directors and officers liability No political donations were made during the year.
insurance is in place as at the date of this report, at an amount which the Board considers adequate.
This Directors interests is subject to an annual review.
A list of the Directors, their interests in the long-term performance share plan, contracts and ordinary share Share capital and interests in voting rights capital of the Company are given in the Directors The Companys share capital including movements Remuneration Report on pages 83-121. during the year is set out on page 194.
At the date of this report the Companys issued share capital Rules on appointment and replacement of Directors comprised a single class of share capital which is All Directors will seek re-election at the AGM in divided into ordinary shares of 1p each.
As at accordance with the Companys articles of association 31 January 2018, 1,120,295,419 ordinary shares of 1p and the recommendations of the Code, with the each have been issued, are fully paid up and quoted exception of Andrew Goodsell, who has resigned from on the London Stock Exchange.
the Board with effect from 30 April 2018, and Patrick OSullivan whose election will be put to the shareholders at the AGM.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 123 Governance Directors Report continued In accordance with DTR 5.1, the Company has been notified of the following interests in the Companys total voting rights as at 31 January 2018: Date of disclosure Ordinary Percentage Nature 1 Name to Company shares of capital of holding Pelham Long Short Master Fund Ltd 14 05 2015 69,056,048 6.22% Equity swaps Majedie Asset Management Limited owned by Majedie UK Income Fund, Majedie Asset Management UK Income Fund, Majedie Asset Management UK Equity Fund, Majedie UK Equity Fund, Majedie Institutional Trust and Discretionary Clients 03 12 2015 68,956,717 6.17% Indirect Royal London Asset Management Limited owned by 01 11 2016 56,154,560 5.0227% Direct HSBC Global Custody Nominees UK Ltd Artemis Investment Management LLP on behalf of 23 03 2017 111,601,253 9.98% Indirect discretionary funds under management Aggregate of Standard Life Aberdeen plc affiliated 09 01 2018 56,279,151 5.02% Indirect investment management entities with delegated voting rights on behalf of multiple managed portfolios The above includes, Aberdeen Asset Investments Limited, Standard Life Investments Limited, Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited and Ignis Investment Services Limited Note: 1 Since the date of disclosure to the Company, the interest of any person listed above in ordinary shares may have increased or decreased.
No requirement to notify the Company of any increase or decrease arises unless the holding passes a notifiable threshold in accordance with DTR 5.1 Information regarding other interests in voting rights provided to the Company pursuant to the FCA DTRs is published on the Companys website and a Regulatory Information Service.
Notification was also received by the Company during the year that Legal & General Group plc and Janus Henderson Group plc previously Henderson Group plc had notifiable interests but these ceased to be notifiable interests and are not included in the table above.
As at 11 April 2018, the Company had been notified, in accordance with the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules that the following shareholders held, or were beneficially interested in, 3% or more of the voting rights in the Companys issued share capital: Date of disclosure Ordinary Percentage Nature Name to Company shares of capital of holding Deutsche Bank AG 20 03 18 78,359,162 6.99% Direct, right to recall and swaps J P Morgan Chase & Co. 22 03 18 58,599,782 5.23% Indirect and owned by J P Morgan Securities plc cash-settled equity swaps Setanta Asset Management Ltd 10 04 18 38,172,845 3.4074% Indirect Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 124 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Change of control significant agreements and a maximum price of the higher of 105% of the A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate average mid-market quotations for five business days upon a change of control of the Company including prior to purchase or the price of the last individual trade following a takeover bid, for example: insurance, and highest current individual bid as derived from the commercial contracts and distribution agreements.
London Stock Exchange trading system.
There are a number of contracts and arrangements The Company did not exercise this authority during throughout the Group for which the legal risk arising the year ended 31 January 2018.
The above authority out of a change of control is closely managed as part will expire at the forthcoming AGM and a special of the contractual governance process.
Inevitably, resolution to authorise the Company to make market there may be certain operational contracts that could purchases representing 10% of current nominal share provide for a period of disruption or higher operational capital will be proposed.
The authority to repurchase charges if a change of control clause was invoked.
the Companys ordinary shares in the market will be However, at the current time, we are not aware of any limited to 1,120,295.41 and will set out the minimum critical or material contracts that pose such a threat.
and maximum price which will be paid.
The Groups corporate debt is unsecured and in place The Directors of the Company were also granted for general purposes.
It consists of a 250m, seven year authority at the 2017 AGM to allot relevant securities public listed bond at 3.375%, a five year, 300m term up to a nominal amount of 3,722,958.
This authority loan and a 150m five-year revolving credit facility, will apply until the conclusion of the 2018 AGM, at which may be extended by up to two years.
which shareholders will be asked to grant the Directors authority for the purposes of section 551 of the Act to 12-year Export Credit Agency backed funding is in place to finance 80% of the cost of the Groups two new ships.
allot relevant securities i up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,730,583: and, ii comprising equity These facilities will be drawn as ship builds complete and are secured by way of a charge over the assets financed.
securities as defined in the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 7,461,167 after deducting from In the event of a change of control, the facilities would either require repayment or renegotiation.
Further details such limit any relevant securities issued under i in connection with a rights issue.
These amounts will on banking facilities are shown in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements on page 192. apply until the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2019 or, if earlier, 31 July 2019.
The rules of the Companys employee share plans In July 2017, the Company issued 2,290,014 new generally provide for the accelerated vesting and or release of share awards in the event of a change ordinary shares of 1p each for transfer into an employee benefit trust to satisfy employee incentive of control of the Company.
The new shares were admitted to The Company does not have any agreements trading on 10 July 2017.
This increased the Companys with Directors or employees which would pay issued share capital to 1,120,295,419 ordinary shares compensation in the event of a change of control.
of 1p, of which no shares are held in treasury.
Conflict of interest Special resolutions will also be proposed to give the Each Director is obliged to disclose any potential Directors authority to make non pre-emptive issues or actual conflict of interest in accordance with the wholly for cash in connection with rights issues and Companys conflict of interest policy.
The policy and otherwise up to an aggregate nominal amount of declarations made are subject to annual review and 560,147.70 and to make non pre-emptive issues Directors are required to update any changes to wholly for cash in connection with acquisitions or declarations as they occur.
Internal controls are in specified capital investments up to an aggregate place to ensure that any related party transactions amount of 560,147.70. are conducted on an arms length basis.
Rights attaching to shares Authority to allot purchase own shares The Company has a single class of ordinary shares in A shareholders resolution was passed at the AGM issue.
The rights attached to the shares are governed on 22 June 2017 which authorised the Company to by applicable law and the Companys articles of make market purchases within the meaning of section association which are available at http: corporate.
693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act up to saga.
co. uk media 1195  1,118,005.41 representing 10% of the aggregate association.
nominal share capital of the Company following Admission.
This is subject to a minimum price of 1p Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 125 Governance Directors Report continued Ordinary shareholders have the right to receive notice, Branches outside the UK attend and vote at general meetings: and receive a The Company does not have any branches outside copy of the Companys report and accounts and a the UK.
dividend when approved and paid.
On a show of hands, Post-balance sheet events each shareholder present in person, or by proxy or an There were no post-balance sheet events.
authorised representative of a corporate shareholder, shall have one vote.
In the event of a poll, one vote is Auditor attached to each share held.
KPMG LLP has confirmed its willingness to continue in office as auditor of the Company and resolutions for The notice of the AGM Notice states deadlines for its re-appointment and for the Audit Committee to exercising voting rights and for appointing a determine its remuneration will be proposed at the proxy proxies.
No shareholder owns shares with special rights as Disclosure of information to the auditor to control.
Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as each The Saga Employee Benefit Trust is an Employee of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit Benefit Trust the Trust which holds property the information as defined by section 418 3 of the Act Trust Fund including inter-alia money and ordinary of which the Companys auditor is unaware and the shares in the Company in trust in favour or for the Directors have taken all the steps they ought to have benefit of employees of the Saga Group.
The Trustee taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any of the Trust has the power to exercise the rights and relevant audit information and to ensure that the powers incidental to, and to act in relation to, the Trust Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Fund in such manner as the Trustee in its absolute Annual General Meeting discretion thinks fit.
The Trustee has waived its rights The AGM will be held on 21 June 2018 at 11am at to dividends on ordinary shares held by the Trust.
Enbrook Park, Sandgate, Folkestone, Kent CT20 3SE.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in The Notice contains an explanation of special business note 31 to the consolidated financial statements.
to be considered at the meeting.
Restrictions on the transfer of shares A copy of the Notice will be available on our website, Other than where imposed by law or regulation, or http: corporate.
where the Listing Rules require certain persons to obtain clearance before dealing, there are no Directors responsibilities restrictions regarding the transfer of shares in the Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreement and Parent Company financial statements for each which would result in a restriction on the transfer of financial year.
Under that law they are required to shares or voting rights.
prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as Articles of association adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by Any amendment to the Companys articles of the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare association may only be made by passing a special the Parent Company financial statements in resolution of the shareholders of the Company.
accordance with UK accounting standards, including Research and development FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
The Group does not undertake any material activities in the field of research and development.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 126 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Under company law, the Directors must not approve Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors the financial statements unless they are satisfied that are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or Corporate Governance Statement that complies with loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and that law and those regulations.
Parent Company financial statements, the Directors The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and are required to: integrity of the corporate and financial information select suitable accounting policies and then apply included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the them consistently: UK governing the preparation and dissemination of make judgements and estimates that are financial statements may differ from legislation in reasonable, relevant, reliable and prudent: other jurisdictions.
for the Group financial statements, state whether Each of the Directors, who were in office at the date of they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs this report, whose names and responsibilities are listed as adopted by the EU: on pages 58 and 62-63, confirm that, to the best of for the Parent Company financial statements, state their knowledge: whether applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures the financial statements, prepared in accordance disclosed and explained in the Parent Company with the applicable set of accounting standards, give financial statements: a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial assess the Group and Parent Companys ability position and profit or loss of the Company and the to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as undertakings included in the consolidation taken as applicable, matters related to going concern: and a whole: and use the going concern basis of accounting unless the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the they either intend to liquidate the Group or the development and performance of the business Parent Company or to cease operations, or have and the position of the issuer and the undertakings no realistic alternative but to do so.
included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate and uncertainties that they face.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that provides the information necessary for shareholders to its financial statements comply with the Companies assess the Groups position and performance, business Act 2006.
They are also responsible for such internal model and strategy.
control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from By order of the Board material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and hence to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
V Haynes Company Secretary 11 April 2018 Saga plc Company no.
08804263 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 127
