IN CONVERSATION WITH STEVE HARE There were particular recovery signs in the UK&I, Firstly, youve recently been appointed as withsequential increases in recurring revenue growth thenew CEO tell us how that feels?
inevery month in H2 18, exiting the year at 7% growth.
First and foremost, Im very humbled by the Boards The migration of customers to cloud connected solutions decision to appoint me as CEO and I see it as a great has been particularly successful in H2 18, with five times honour to lead Sage.
as many cloud connected contracts signed compared tothe first six months of the year and half of Sage 50 Over the past few months, I have spent a lot of time customers in the UK&I now migrated to a cloud withcolleagues and customers and partners and have connected solution.
reflected on where we have been successful and where we need to focus more of our attention.
This analysis has In Enterprise Management, weve implemented a given me confidence that we know what we need to do singleCRM system which is driving improved accuracy tobecome a great SaaS business.
offorecasting and visibility of pipeline, laying the foundations for FY19 and showing the importance What have been your highlights of FY18?
ofexpanding the single CRM system to all products andregions.
Undoubtedly the success of our cloud connected solutions, which were rolled out in our major geographies in FY17 but gained significant traction this year, both in You mention creating a great SaaS business terms of migrating our existing customers to Sage where is Sage currently on this journey?
50cloud and Sage 200cloud and in attracting Sage has made significant progress over the past few newcustomers.
We now have 46% of revenue on subscription and434m of Sage Business Cloud ARR.
In FY19 we need to accelerate this transition to a SaaS business, by focusing on three key areas: customer We know what we need to do to success, colleague success and innovation.
If we frame become a great SaaS business every decision we make through these three lenses, I am confident we will succeed in this acceleration.
What is the benefit of creating a We now have 270,000 cloud connected contracts SaaSbusiness?
with a third of Sage 50 customers migrated to a cloud Moving towards a SaaS model will transform the connected solution, all on subscription.
From virtually no relationship we have with customers.
Increased revenue in FY16, cloud connected ARR is now 280m, interaction throughout the year will allow us to growing at 66% and we see much more potential understand their business and needs better, forgrowth as we roll out these solutions in meaningwecan add more value.
theyarelikely to stay with Sage longer, buy more and feel happierdoing so.
There were some encouraging regional highlights in the year too.
After a challenging few years, North America There are already areas of the business where this grew at 12%, reflecting success in the cloud connected modelis evident.
Sage Intacct, for instance, has a strategy and continuing momentum in Sage Intacct.
trulySaaS business model, which enables it to deliver There are strong signs of recovery in France, with Q4 18 growth of 8% reflecting its strongest quarter since Q1 16, and in the smaller regions, Central Europe, Canada and Australia all delivered double digit growth.
A highlight in FY18 is the success You faced some challenges in the first half of our cloud connected solutions ofthe year.
Tell us what they were and how youve tackled them in H2?
There was some inconsistent execution in driving recurring revenue, especially in the UK&I and also some volumeretention rates around 90%, value retention Enterprise Management slippage, resulting in us revising ratesabove 105% and a lifetime value of customer our full year organic growth guidance from around 8% manytimes in excess of the customer acquisition costs.
The acquisitions of Sage Intacct and Sage People have provided Sage with best-in-class models to emulate in These issues were addressed in the second half of the the transition of the business, as well as key talent with year, where we had a renewed focus on driving highexperience of doing so.
quality subscription and recurring revenue, resulting instrong momentum in recurring revenue as we exitedFY18.
18 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
STRATEGIC REPORT What should we look forward to in FY19?
As I mentioned earlier, Sages vision is to become a great Highlights during FY18 SaaS business, for customers and colleagues alike.
In order to achieve this vision, in FY19 we will sharpen ourfocus on customer success, colleague success and innovation to unlock the potential for significant value creation at Sage.
In order to do this, my key priorities are First, focus on innovation and accelerating the capability of Sage Business Cloud by: Increasing R&D resource on Sage Business Cloud products and emerging technology: Expanding the availability of Sage Business Cloud within our chosen markets, delivering the Sage , starting with Australia andthe UKI: Enhancing the service fabric of Sage Business Cloud to improve user experience, migration pathways, micro-services and connectivity of ecosystem.
Secondly, improving customer relationships and enhancing colleague experience by investing in best-inclass SaaS systems, tools and training to enhance data and improve customer insight.
Together these initiatives are anticipated to require an accelerated investment to operating expenses of around 60m in FY19, with approximately two thirds of this investment allocated to product and innovation.
Cloud connected contracts Finally, simplifying our product portfolio to allow further focus on the c. 1.5bn of products that are in, or have apathway to, Sage Business Cloud, whilst identifying value creation paths for the remaining c. 350m of other 270,000 products, either under Sages ownership, in partnership or through an exit.
Cloud connected ARR Guidance for FY19 Full year guidance for FY19 is based on the continuing operations of the business, on an IFRS15 like-for-like basis 280m and at constant exchange rates.
On this basis, we expect FY19 recurring revenue growth of between 8% to 9% Cloud connected withSSRS and processing revenue expected to be flat to mid-single digit decline, driven by our focus on ARR growth subscription and recurring revenue.
As the business accelerates the pace of transition towards subscription, the organic revenue growth rate may decrease in theshort-term.
66% We expect FY19 organic operating margins to be broadly stable before the impact of the investment of around 60m I have mentioned.
Including this impact, organic operating margin will be in the range of 23% to 25%, maintaining strong free cash flow as a proportion of revenue.
Over time, this model will drive a sustainable acceleration in recurring revenue growth whilst enabling strong returns on investment.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 19 IN CONVERSATION WITH STEVE HARE Sage has shown stronger performance in the second half ofFY18.
The renewed focus on high-quality subscription and recurring revenue has generated momentum in H2 18 and as we exit the year.
In FY19, in my new role as CEO, I will ensure the business continues to put customers, colleagues and innovation at the heart of everything we do to accelerate the transition to a SaaS business.
Increased investment in the business, especially in innovation, is necessary to do this and will lead to an acceleration in high-quality sustainable recurring revenue growth.
I am also committed to continuing to embed a culture which encourages continuous two-way interaction with leadership and colleagues, valuing the individual and  working environment.
Steve Hare Chief Executive Officer @SteveHare Championing customer success p. 26 At Sage, customer success not only means helping our customers be successful in running their own business, but also being successful in getting the most out of our solutions.
Advancing colleague success p. 30 Fulfilled colleagues who love what they do deliver outstanding service to our customers: its that simple.
Delivering innovative technology p. 34 We want Sage Business Cloud to besimple, smart and open.
20 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
ENTERPRISE MANAGEMENT MORE THAN ERP.
Calvin Johnson Lykki, Canada sage.
com NO MORE TRAWLING THROUGH RECEIPTS.
Samantha Jameson, Founder Soapsmith, London, UK sage.
