OUR KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The measurement of progress in delivering our strategy is essential.
Our KPIs are designed specifically to align to our five strategic pillars and to focus management conversations on future outcomes and performance improvements.
KPIs help us map out specifically how we are doing against our strategy.
Renewal rate by value 1 Description: The annualised recurring revenue ARR 101% fromrenewals, migrations, upsell and cross-sell of active customers at the start of the year, divided by the opening FY17: N A ARRfor the year.
Performance: The first year of calculation, demonstrating growth from the existing customer base, even after attrition.
FY18 Sage Business Cloud ARR Description: Sage Business Cloud ARR is the ARR of cloud native and cloud connected revenue in the last month of the 434m reporting period.
FY17: 288m Performance: Sage Business Cloud ARR continues to grow, showing sequential growth in each quarter of FY18.
FY17 FY18 Software subscription penetration Description: Software subscription penetration is the amount 46% of organic software subscription revenue as a percentage of total organic revenue.
FY17: 39% Performance: Our progressive move to software subscription continues to gain momentum with growth of 7% in the subscription penetration rate.
FY17 FY18 1 See pages 210 to 212 for glossary of terms.
24 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
39% 288m 46% 434m 101% STRATEGIC REPORT General & administration G&A expenseratio Description: Our G&A expense for the period expressed 12.9% as a percentage of our total organic revenue for the period.
2 FY17: 13.8% Performance: We continue to strive for efficiencies as wemove to asingle, united operating model.
InFY18 we havereduced our G&A cost asaproportion of revenue by80bps.
FY17 FY18 Sage Foundation days Description: The numbers of days colleagues volunteer to 24,000 work with charitable causes.
FY17: 23,000 Performance: The success of Sage Foundation has continued to gain traction in its third year, leading to an additional 1,000 voluntary days organised by the Sage Foundation.
FY17 FY18 Underlying cash conversion Description: Underlying cash conversion is underlying 1 96% cashflow from operating activities divided by underlying operatingprofit FY17: 95% Performance: The increase in underlying cash conversion to 96% demonstrates the quality of our earnings.
FY17 FY18 Free cash flow as a percentage of revenue Description: Free cash flow as a percentage of 19% underlyingrevenue.
FY17: 15% Performance: The increase in free cash flow as a percentage of revenue to 19% demonstrates the quality of our revenue.
STRATEGIC REPORT oning CUSTOMER SUCCESS Successful customers are at the heart of every great SaaSbusiness.
At Sage we are focused on optimising our customers success on Sage solutions, and providing them with products that make their lives easier, freeing up their time, whilst always keeping them safe.
That relationship is built on trust: it is also built on aregular two-way dialogue, where we listen to our customers and provide a service and experience tailored for them.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 27 CUSTOMER SUCCESS MEANS Customer for life on subscription When engaging with our customers, we The popularity of these frequently hear that success to them means solutions has driven cloud saving time and increasing productivity.
connected ARR from virtually Thats why we took our traditionally on-premise zero in FY16 to 280m in FY18, Sage 50 and Sage 200 products and created with further growth anticipated cloud connected offerings.
This provides our in FY19 and beyond.
Their customers with the freedom and automation volume renewal rates are ofthe cloud, whilst retaining the power and hightoo, with Sage 50cloud Blair Crump, trustof the solution theyknow best.
approaching 90% and Sage President ofSage, 200cloud in excess of 90%, outlines the inline with the renewal success of our cloud connected strategy performance for cloud nativesolutions, such asSageIntacctand SagePeople.
Cloud connectivity a way to offer our customers more 50cloud 200cloud Working flexibly Customers can now Faster payments Integrations with access their data remotely ontheir mobile Paypal, Go Cardless and Stripe enable or tablet through MicrosoftOutlook faster payments, meaning customers increase efficiency and reduce Increased insight With Sage Dashboard, agedreceivables all of a customers key data will be in one place, updated in real time, enabling them Cost savings Being able to log their to make better strategic decisions records remotely will reduce customers travel time and expense Bank grade security Customers can work safe in the knowledge that their datais secure and backed up with Microsoft One Drive Heres what market data tells us customers are saying of business of business of business email users owners say owners say primarily rely that automation trust is the 50% on a tablet or 89% & productivity are 73% cornerstone other mobile the top purchase of digital devices drivers for new technology technology Source: Gartner vs Storage Review & Odin 2015 SME Report.
28 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
STRATEGIC REPORT CUSTOMER SUCCESS MEANS Winning in the market Success for many Sage Business Cloud, toa large ecosystem of customers is finding we can take a customer best-in-class partners atrusted partner to on a journey from a who will help them run helprun their business, smallstart-up to a their entire business, automating processes, largeenterprise, with powered by the Sage improving efficiencies Accounting, Payroll, Business Cloud platform.
and enabling better People, Payments and strategic decision Banking all in one place.
Our customers are Ron McMurtrie, making.
recognising the benefits Chief Marketing Officer, Sage Business Clouds of Sage Business Cloud, explains what it takes Sage has a reputation architecture is API driven, demonstrated by to win in the market asa trusted advisor which has enabled us to sequential growth in andexcels at customer connect to hundreds of every quarter of FY18, service, a key competitive strategic partners, from ending the year with differentiator as we target Paypal and Stripe to anARR of 434m, new customer acquisition Microsoft.
Through ourcustomers access Unleashing the power of subscription: the Sage Intacct case study In order to drive significant new customer acquisition, we need both the cloud solutions and the business model capable of scaling worldwide.
In July 2017, Sage acquired INTERNATIONALISATION SageIntacct, a sophisticated Sage Intacct is a truly cloud native, SaaS solution.
The processes, systems, and powerful cloud Financial technology and cloud expertise within the business are optimised to drive Management Solution targeted significant new customer acquisition in the cloud.
Sage will internationalise at fast-growing businesses in SageIntacct, starting with its English-speaking geographies, from FY19 onwards.
Services, Technology and Not-for-profit verticals.
The product services thousands of medium and large sized customers with award winning customer satisfaction.
Sage Intacct is currently available in the USA where it hascontinued to grow strongly under Sages ownership: FY18 ARR growth: 30% This move is a significant step forward in Sages FY18 net increase in contracts: 29% strategy to drive new customer acquisition at scale, in the cloud, and will leverage Sage Intaccts highly effective business model as a key component of Sages SaaS engine.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 29 ADV ANC COLLEAGUE SUCCESS Colleague success and customer success are intrinsically linked.
Engaged colleagues who love what they do deliver outstanding service to our customers.
At Sage we want to build a culture of colleague success where every colleague has the opportunity to reach their full potential, feels valued and rewarded and knows the role they personally play in creating a great SaaS business at Sage.
30 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
STRATEGIC REPORT ING The Sage Group plc.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 31 CAPACITY FOR GROWTH COLLEAGUE SUCCESS MEANS ENGAGEMENT AND EFFICIENCY Steve Hare shares some of the actions taken over the year tocreate a better working experience forcolleagues to drivehigher levels Steve Hare Chief Executive Officer ofengagement and greater efficiency During FY18 we have focused on colleague experience, improving Perform how it feels to work at Sage.
A better working experience for our colleagues drives higher levels of engagement and more efficiency, allowing colleagues to focus on our customers success.
INCREASE IN For example, in FY18, the UK&I team successfully implemented PRODUCTIVITY thePerform approach, training its renewals teams to transform their approach to customer success, leading to an improvement in retention rates in the UK&I, a 70% increase in productivity anda 22% reduction in the number of related Sage invoices 70% outstanding after 30 days.
On an investment of 1.3m, the project had a seven month payback period and generated annualised returns of 2.4m.
Sage plans to invest in rolling out similar projects REDUCTION IN to other geographies in FY19, with similar payback period and OUTSTANDING returns expected.
INVOICES For the second year running we opened Sage Save and Share, our voluntary all-colleague Sage share ownership plan.
Over aquarter of Sage colleagues now invest in a Sage share plan, drivingengagement and a shared purpose within the business.
22% In FY19 we are introducing the LEAD programme to revolutionise our approach to performance management.
Look, Evaluate, Assist and Deliver provides a framework for managers to have a continuous conversation with colleagues on their performance and development with a shift in focus from historic performance to future development.
32 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
STRATEGIC REPORT ONE SAGE COLLEAGUE SUCCESS MEANS HIGH-PERFORMANCE CULTURE Amanda Cusdin talksabout creating a winning culture one where colleagues feel valued, respected and listened to Amanda Cusdin, Chief People Officer This year we launched quarterly pulse surveys to gather INTERNAL colleague feedback, with key issues identified and solutions APPLICATIONS quickly actioned to drive continual improvements to colleague FOR ROLES experience.
As a result of survey feedback, we have made simplifications to internal processes and changes to , as Steve has outlined.
42% In June we launched How to excel your career@Sage, an initiative aimed at promoting our internal vacancies and helping VISITS TO OUR colleagues find relevant development materials on Sage Learning.
LEARNING AND In the first week of the campaign we had a 42% increase in DEVELOPMENT internal applications for roles and a 76% increase in visits to INTRANET PAGES Sage Learning.
After launching Sage Learning in FY17, we embedded the platform fully in FY18 and now all colleagues at Sage have access to 12,000 76% courses and have completed over 50,000 training days for their own professional development.
Sage Foundation continues to gather momentum as colleagues completed 24,084 volunteer days in FY18 1.9 days per colleague.
Sage Foundation continues to be a significant differentiator for usin the market and is cited as one of the reasons for joining by many of our new hires.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 33 DELIVERING INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGY Innovating for tomorr world 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
STRATEGIC REPORT At Sage, we spent around 190 million on R&D in FY18.
We are committed to increasing this investment further in FY19 to ensure that we are constantly one step ahead of thecurve.
Data shows that nearly all of themarket growth is coming from consumer spend on cloud software and weve made shifts over the past couple ofyears to ow s ensure our R&D is more heavily weighted to investing in Sage Business Cloud.
Weve created Sage Business Cloud to be simple, smart and open.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 35 DELIVERING INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGY Klaus-Michael Vogelberg, Chief Technology Officer, outlines his strategy to revolutionise business SIMPLE SMART OPEN 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
STRATEGIC REPORT WITH SAGE BUSINESS CLOUD, WERE CREATING A SIMPLE AND SINGLE POINT OF CONTACT WITH THE CUSTOMER.
WERE ENABLING A SMARTER WAYOF WORKING, LEVERAGING OFF THE LATEST TECHNOLOGY.
AND WERE DEVELOPING AN OPEN PLATFORM WHERE WE WORK WITH BEST-IN-CLASS PROVIDERS OF MICROSERVICES THAT MAXIMISE VALUE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS.
In FY18 the Group delivered Sage The remaining 354m revenue comprises Business Cloud revenue of 377m, driven customers using products for which by cloud native and cloud connected management does not envisage a path products.
Based on a review of existing toSage Business Cloud, either because products and roadmaps, a further 1bn the product addresses a segment ofSages revenue base today comes from outsideSages core focus, or due to customers using products with a clear thecomplexity and expense involved in a pathway to the Sage Business Cloud.
A significant number of these products have strong brands, market Execution on this migration strategy and position and commercial success and attracting new customers through Sage Sage intends to identify value creation Business Cloud will be managements paths for these products.
primary operational focus for FY19 andbeyond.
Our customers want smarter ways into Sage 50 is significantly increasing ofworking.
Through our AI powered automation, saving customers a day a expense app, which uses Optical month in admin and halving debtor days.
Character Recognition, we are reducing A recent customer had a three-month the amount of time our customers spend payback on implementation of Sage on administrative tasks.
Take a photo of Intacct, saving $60k in headcount costs, your receipt and throw it away the reduced their invoicing time from 12 machines will do the rest.
hours to six hours and shortened their Sage Business Cloud is starting to make monthly close from 10 days to six.
Truly areal difference to our customers.
ofadmin tasks are related to invoice payments.
The integration of Go Cardless Sage Business Cloud is an open In FY18 weve continued to use our plug-in-and-play platform that gives partnership with Microsoft to roll out our customers access to hundreds Office 365 integration with Sage 50cloud ofISVs.
This allows us to scale our and Sage 200cloud into our wider innovation with our partners and our geographies, following the successful global developer community, all for the launch in our core geographies in FY17.
