Governance Proposed Remuneration Policy This section of the Report sets out the Companys proposed new policy on remuneration for Executive and Non-Executive Directors, to be approved by shareholders at the AGM on 21 June 2018.
The structure of incentives remain largely unchanged from that approved by shareholders in 2015, but include a number of key enhancements.
Once approved, the Policy may operate for up to three years.
The Remuneration Policy has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the UKs Companies Act 2006 the Act and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations, the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
As previously, the Committee has built in a degree of flexibility to ensure the practical application of the Policy over this period.
Where such discretion is reserved, the extent to which it may be applied is described.
The Remuneration Policy remains to attract, retain and motivate its leaders and ensure they are focused on delivering business priorities within a framework designed to promote the long-term success of Saga, aligned with shareholder interests.
Changes to the Policy Element Changes to Policy Rationale Pension Reduce maximum from 20% to 15% Unchanged for current Executive Directors.
bring benefits into line with wider employees for new Executive Directors.
Maximum for new joiners reduced to 10% of salary.
CEO: 15% of salary: CFO: 15% of salary.
Annual bonus Formally introduce minimum level of The current Policy allows for deferral of up to 50% deferral of one third of the bonus.
of the bonus with no minimum level of deferral.
This change ensures that the current operation of one third deferral remains in place for the duration of the proposed Policy.
LTIP Introduction of two year post-vesting Whilst the current Policy contains discretion to apply holding period.
a two year post-vesting holding period, this has not been applied for past awards.
To ensure greater and sustained alignment of incentives to shareholder value a two year holding period will now be applied to future LTIP grants.
Shareholding Increase shareholding requirements The Committee recognises the importance of aligning requirements for executives by 50% of salary: the long-term interests of Executive Directors with shareholders.
Recruitment Removal of provision of sign-on This change ensures that the Policy continues to be policy compensation in exceptional in line with corporate governance best practice.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 112 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Proposed Remuneration Policy table Element and Performance conditions link to strategy Operation Maximum and recovery provisions Salary Provides a base level An Executive Directors basic The Committee A broad assessment of individual and of remuneration to salary is set on appointment ensures that business performance is used as part support recruitment and reviewed annually or when maximum salary levels of the salary review.
and retention of there is a change in position are positioned in line No recovery provisions apply.
with companies of a with the necessary similar size to Saga When determining an appropriate experience and and validated against level of salary, the Committee expertise to deliver an appropriate considers: the Groups strategy.
comparator group, so that they are pay increases to other competitive against the market.
employees: remuneration practices within The Committee the Group: intends to review the any change in scope, role and comparators each responsibilities: year and will add or the general performance remove companies of the Group and each from the groups as it individual: considers appropriate.
the experience of the relevant In general salary Director: and increases for the economic environment.
Executive Directors will be in line with Individuals who are recruited or the increase for promoted to the Board may, on employees.
However, occasion, have their salaries set larger increases may below the targeted policy level be offered if there until they become established in is a material change their role.
In such cases in the size and subsequent increases in salary responsibilities of may be higher than the general the role which covers rises for employees until the significant changes target positioning is achieved.
in Group size and or complexity.
The Company will set out in the section headed Implementation of Remuneration Policy, in the following financial year, the salaries for that year for each of the Executive Directors.
Pension Provides a minimum The Company provides a The maximum No performance or recovery level of benefits pension contribution allowance value of the pension provisions applicable.
to support a low in line with practice relative to contribution allowance fixed cost and a its comparators to enable the is 15% of basic salary performance-based Company to recruit and retain p. a. for current Remuneration Executive Directors with the Executive Directors Policy.
experience and expertise to and limited to 10% deliver the Groups strategy.
of salary for newly appointed Executive This allowance will be a nonDirectors.
consolidated allowance and will not impact any incentive The Company calculations.
will set out in the section headed Implementation of Remuneration Policy, in the following financial year the pension contributions for that year for each of the Executive Directors.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 113 Governance Proposed Remuneration Policy continued Element and Performance conditions link to strategy Operation Maximum and recovery provisions Benefits Provides a minimum Benefits include family private The maximum is the No performance or recovery level of benefits health cover, death in service cost of providing the provisions applicable.
to support a low life assurance, a car allowance, relevant benefits set fixed cost and a subsistence expenses and staff out adjacent.
performance-based discounts in line with other Remuneration employees.
The Committee recognises the need to maintain suitable flexibility in the benefits provided to ensure it is able to support the objective of attracting and retaining personnel in order to deliver the Group strategy.
Additional benefits which are available to other employees on broadly similar terms may therefore be offered such as relocation allowances on recruitment.
Annual Bonus The Annual Bonus The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration The Annual Bonus Plan is based Plan provides a will determine the maximum Committee will on a mix of financial and strategic significant incentive annual participation in the Annual determine the operational conditions and is to the Executive Bonus Plan for each year, which maximum annual measured over a period of one Directors linked to will not exceed 150% of salary.
participation in the financial year.
The financial measures achievement in Annual Bonus Plan will account for no less than 50% of delivering goals that The Company will set out in the for each year, which the bonus opportunity.
are closely aligned section headed Implementation will not exceed 150% with the Companys of Remuneration Policy, in the of salary.
The Remuneration Committee strategy and the following financial year, the retains discretion in exceptional creation of value nature of the targets and their Percentage of bonus circumstances to change performance for shareholders.
maximum earned for measures and targets and the levels of performance: weightings attached to performance Details of the performance In particular, the measures part-way through a conditions, targets and their level Annual Bonus Threshold 20%: performance year if there is a of satisfaction for the year being Plan supports significant and material event which Target 60%: reported on will be set out in the the Companys causes the Committee to believe the Maximum 100%.
objectives original measures, weightings and allowing the targets are no longer appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee setting of annual can determine that part of the Discretion may also be exercised in targets based on bonus earned under the Annual cases where the Remuneration the businesses Bonus Plan is provided as an Committee believes that the bonus strategic objectives award of shares under the DBP.
outcome is not a fair and accurate at that time, reflection of business performance.
meaning that The maximum value of deferred The exercise of this discretion may a wider range shares is 50% of the bonus result in a downward or upward of performance earned and the minimum will movement in the amount of bonus metrics can be be one third of the bonus earned resulting from the application used that are earned.
The main terms of of the performance measures.
relevant and these awards are: achievable.
Any adjustments or discretion applied minimum deferral period by the Remuneration Committee will be fully disclosed in the following of three years: years Remuneration Report.
the participants continued employment at the end of the The Remuneration Committee is of deferral period unless he she is the opinion that given the commercial a good leaver.
sensitivity arising in relation to the detailed financial targets used for The Remuneration Committee the annual bonus, disclosing precise may award dividend equivalents targets for the Annual Bonus Plan in on those shares to Plan advance would not be in shareholder participants to the extent that interests.
Actual targets, performance they vest.
The Remuneration achieved and awards made will be Committee has the discretion published at the end of the to apply a holding period of two performance periods so shareholders years post vesting for deferred can fully assess the basis for any bonus shares.
payouts under the annual bonus.
Both the Annual Bonus Plan and the DBP contain malus provisions.
In addition, the Annual Bonus Plan contains clawback provisions.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 114 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Element and Performance conditions link to strategy Operation Maximum and recovery provisions LTIP Awards are Awards are granted annually to Maximum value of Awards vest based on performance designed to Executive Directors in the form 200% of salary p. a. against stretching targets, measured incentivise the of a conditional share award or based on the market over a three year performance period.
Executive Directors nil cost option.
These will vest value at the date The Committee will review and set over the longer-term at the end of a three year of grant set in weightings and targets before to successfully period subject to: accordance with the each grant to ensure they remain implement the rules of the Plan.
The Committee may Companys the Executive Directors 25% of the award will change the balance of the measures, strategy.
continued employment at the vest for Threshold or use different measures for date of vesting: and performance.
satisfaction of the of the award will performance conditions.
vest for maximum No material change will be made to performance.
the type of performance conditions A two year holding period will Straight-line vesting without prior shareholder consultation.
apply following the three year between these points.
vesting period for LTIP awards The Remuneration Committee granted to the Executive retains discretion in exceptional Directors.
Upon vesting, sufficient circumstances to change performance shares can be sold to pay tax.
measures and targets and the weightings attached to performance The Remuneration Committee measures part-way through a may award dividend equivalents performance period if there is a on awards to the extent that significant and material event which these vest.
causes the Remuneration Committee to believe the original measures, weightings and targets are no longer appropriate.
Discretion may also be exercised in cases where the Remuneration Committee believes that the outcome is not a fair and accurate reflection of business performance.
The exercise of this discretion may result in a downward or upward movement in the amount of the LTIP vesting resulting from the application of the performance measures.
Details of the performance conditions for grants made in the year will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration and for future grants in the section headed Implementation of Remuneration Policy, in the future financial year.
The LTIP contains clawback and malus provisions.
Minimum shareholding requirement The Committee has adopted formal shareholding requirements that will encourage the Executive Directors to build up over a five year period and subsequently hold a shareholding equivalent to a percentage of base salary.
Adherence to these guidelines is a condition of continued participation in the equity incentive arrangements.
This policy ensures that the interests of Executive Directors and those of shareholders are closely aligned.
In addition, Executive Directors will be required to retain 50% of the post-tax amount of vested shares from the Company incentive plans until the minimum shareholding requirement is met and maintained.
The following table sets out the minimum shareholding requirements: Shareholding requirement percentage of Role salary Group Chief Executive Officer 250% Other Executive Directors 200% The Committee retains the discretion to increase the shareholding requirements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 115 Governance Proposed Remuneration Policy continued Element and Performance conditions link to strategy Operation Maximum and recovery provisions Non-Executive Director fees Provides a level of The Board is responsible for The fees for Non-Executive No performance or recovery fees to support setting the remuneration of Directors and the Chairman provisions applicable.
recruitment and the Non-Executive Directors.
are broadly set at a retention of NonThe Remuneration Committee competitive level against Executive Directors is responsible for setting the the comparator group.
with the necessary Chairmans fees.
In general the level of fee experience to advise Non-Executive Directors increase for the Non-Executive and assist with are paid an annual fee Directors and the Chairman establishing and and additional fees for will be set taking account of monitoring the chairmanship of committees.
any change in responsibility Groups strategic The Company retains the and will take into account objectives.
flexibility to pay fees for the the general rise in salaries membership of committees.
The Chairman does not receive The aggregate fee for the any additional fees for Non-Executive Directors and membership of committees.
the Chairman will not exceed 2,000,000.
Fees are reviewed annually based on equivalent roles in The Company will pay the comparator group used reasonable expenses incurred to review salaries paid to the by the Non-Executive Executive Directors.
Directors and Chairman and may settle any tax incurred Non-Executive Directors and in relation to these.
the Chairman do not participate in any variable remuneration or benefits arrangements.
Illustration of application of Remuneration Policy The charts below show an estimate of the remuneration that could be received by Executive Directors under the proposed new Policy set out in this Report.
Assumptions used in determining the level of pay out under given scenarios are as follows: Group Chief Executive Officer Lance Batchelor Group Chief Financial Officer Jonathan Hill m m 5.0 2.5 4,619,416 2,316,451 30% 27% 4.0 2.0 1,679,727 3,239,846 38% 27% 3.0 1.5 1,403,813 43% 30% 2,688,018 1,212,795 14% 2,274,147 15% 27% 32% 2.0 1.0 31% 36% 32% 23% 32% 22% 23% 26% 27% 23% 521,398 1.0 0.5 825,599 36% 30% 100% 42% 23% 100% 37% 31% 25% 18% 0.0 0.0 No share No share 50% share No share 100% share No share No share 50% share No share 100% share price growth price growth price growth price growth price growth price growth price growth price growth price growth price growth Minimum Target Minimum Target Maximum Maximum Share price growth LTIP Bonus Fixed element Share price growth LTIP Bonus Fixed element Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 116 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Element Minimum On-Target Maximum Fixed Elements Base salary for FY 2018 Benefits paid for FY 2017 Pension in line with Policy at 15% of salary Annual Bonus Nil 60% of Maximum being 90% of salary 100% of the Maximum being 150% for the Group CEO and 75% of salary of salary for the Group CEO and 125% for the Group CFO.
of salary for the Group CFO.
LTIP Nil 60% of Maximum being 120% of 100% of the Maximum being 200% salary for the Group CEO and 90% of of salary for the Group CEO and 150% salary for the Group CFO.
For the additional scenario, a 50% For the additional scenario, a 100% share price growth assumption over share price growth assumption over 3 years has been shown.
Scenario charts show Minimum, Target and Maximum scenarios in accordance with the regulations with no share price growth assumed.
For illustrative purposes additional scenarios are shown with various share price growth assumptions for the vesting of the LTIP.
Dividend equivalents have not been added to deferred share bonus and LTIP share awards for any scenario.
Discretion within the Directors Remuneration Policy The Committee has discretion in several areas of Policy as set out in this Report.
The Committee may also exercise operational and administrative discretions under relevant plan rules as set out in those rules.
In addition, the Committee has the discretion to amend Remuneration Policy with regard to minor or administrative matters where it would be, in the opinion of the Committee, disproportionate to seek or await shareholder approval.
Malus and clawback Malus is the adjustment of the annual bonus payments or unvested LTIP awards because of the occurrence of one or more circumstances listed below.
The adjustment may result in the value being reduced to nil.
Clawback is the recovery of payments made under the annual bonus or vested LTIP awards as a result of the occurrence of one or more circumstances listed below.
Clawback may apply to all or part of a participants payment under the annual bonus or LTIP award and may be effected, among other means, by requiring the transfer of shares, payment of cash or reduction of awards or bonuses.
The circumstances in which malus and clawback could apply are as follows: the discovery of a material misstatement resulting in an adjustment in the audited accounts of the Group or any Group company: the assessment of any performance condition or condition in respect of an annual bonus payment or LTIP award was based on error, or inaccurate or misleading information: the discovery that any information used to determine the annual bonus payment or LTIP award was based on error, or inaccurate or misleading information: action or conduct of a participant which amounts to fraud or gross misconduct: or events or the behaviour of a participant have led to the censure of a Group company by a regulatory authority or have had a significant detrimental impact on the reputation of any Group company provided that the Board is satisfied that the relevant participant was responsible for the censure or reputational damage and that the censure or reputational damage is attributable to the participant.
Annual Bonus cash Annual Bonus deferred shares LTIP Malus Up to the date of the cash To the end of the 3 year To the end of the 3 year payment.
Clawback 2 years post the date of n a 2 years post vesting.
The Committee believes that the rules of the Plans provide sufficient powers to enforce malus and clawback where required.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 117 Governance Proposed Remuneration Policy continued Loss of office policy When considering compensation for loss of office, the Committee will always seek to minimise the cost to the Company whilst applying the following philosophy: Remuneration element Treatment on cessation of employment General The Committee will honour Executive Directors contractual entitlements.
Service contracts do not contain liquidated damages clauses.
If a contract is to be terminated, the Committee will determine such mitigation as it considers fair and reasonable in each case.
There are no contractual arrangements that would guarantee a pension with limited, or no abatement on, severance or early retirement.
There is no agreement between the Company and its Directors or employees, providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of an Executive Directors office or employment.
Salary, These will be paid over the notice period.
The Company has discretion to make a lump sum benefits payment in lieu.
and pension Good leaver reason Other reason Discretion Cash bonus Performance No bonus The Committee has the following elements of discretion: conditions will be payable for to determine that an Executive Director is a good leaver.
measured at the year of It is the Committees intention to only use this discretion bonus measurement cessation.
in circumstances where there is an appropriate business date.
Bonus will case which will be explained in full to shareholders: and normally be proto determine whether to pro-rate the bonus to time.
rated for the period The Remuneration Committees normal policy is that worked during the it will pro-rate bonus for time.
It is the Remuneration financial year.
Committees intention to use discretion to not pro-rate in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders.
Good leaver reason Other reason Discretion Deferred All subsisting Lapse of any The Committee has the following elements of discretion: share awards deferred share unvested to determine that an Executive Director is a good leaver.
deferred It is the Committees intention to only use this discretion in share awards.
circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders: to vest deferred shares at the end of the original deferral period or at the date of cessation.
The Remuneration Committee will make this determination depending on the type of good leaver reason resulting in the cessation: and to determine whether to pro-rate the maximum number of shares to the time from the date of grant to the date of cessation.
The Remuneration Committees normal policy is that it will not pro-rate awards for time.
The Remuneration Committee will determine whether or not to pro-rate based on the circumstances of the Executive Directors departure.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 118 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Good leaver reason Other reason Discretion LTIP Pro-rated to time Lapse of any The Committee has the following elements of discretion: and performance unvested LTIP to determine that an Executive Director is a good leaver.
in respect of each awards.
It is the Committees intention to only use this discretion subsisting LTIP in circumstances where there is an appropriate business award.
case which will be explained in full to shareholders: to measure performance over the original performance period or at the date of cessation.
The Committee will make this determination depending on the type of good leaver reason resulting in the cessation: to determine to vest shares at the end of the original performance period or at the date of cessation.
The Committee will make this determination depending on the type of good leaver reason resulting in the cessation: to determine whether to apply the holding period post cessation at all, in part or in full: and to determine whether to pro-rate the maximum number of shares to the time from the date of grant to the date of cessation.
The Remuneration Committees normal policy is that it will pro-rate awards for time.
It is the Remuneration Committees intention to use discretion to not pro-rate in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders.
Other There are no other contractual provisions other than those set out above agreed prior to contractual 27 June 2012. obligations The following definition of leavers will apply to both the Annual Bonus and the LTIP.
A good leaver reason is defined as cessation in the following circumstances: death: ill-health: injury or disability: retirement: employing company ceasing to be a Group company: transfer of employment to a company which is not a Group company: and at the discretion of the Committee as described above.
Cessation of employment in circumstances other than those set out above is cessation for other reasons.
Change of control policy Name of Incentive Plan Change of control Discretion Cash awards Pro-rated to time and The Committee has discretion regarding whether to pro-rate the bonus to performance to the time.
The Committees normal policy is that it will pro-rate the bonus for date of the change time.
It is the Committees intention to use its discretion to not pro-rate in of control.
circumstances only where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders.
Deferred Subsisting deferred The Committee has discretion regarding whether to pro-rate the award to share awards share awards will vest time.
The Committees normal policy is that it will not pro-rate awards for on a change of control.
The Committee will make this determination depending on the circumstances of the change of control.
LTIP The number of shares The Committee has discretion regarding whether to pro-rate the LTIP subject to subsisting awards to time.
The Committees normal policy is that it will pro-rate the LTIP awards will vest LTIP awards for time.
It is the Committees intention to use its discretion to on a change of control, not pro-rate in circumstances only where there is an appropriate business pro-rated to time and case which will be explained in full to shareholders.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 119 Governance Proposed Remuneration Policy continued Recruitment and promotion policy The Companys principle is that the remuneration of any new recruit will be assessed in line with the same principles as for the Executive Directors, as set out in the Remuneration Policy table.
The Committee is mindful that it wishes to avoid paying more than it considers necessary to secure a preferred candidate with the appropriate calibre and experience needed for the role.
In setting the remuneration for new recruits, the Committee will have regard to guidelines and shareholder sentiment regarding one-off or enhanced short-term or long-term incentive payments as well as giving consideration for the appropriateness of any performance measures associated with an award.
The Companys detailed policy when setting remuneration for the appointment of new Directors is summarised in the table below: Remuneration element Recruitment policy Salary, benefits Salary and benefits will be set in line with the policy for existing Executive Directors.
and pension Maximum pension contribution will be 10% of salary.
Annual bonus Maximum annual participation will be set in line with the Companys policy for existing Executive Directors and will not exceed 150% of salary.
LTIP Maximum annual participation will be set in line with the Companys policy for existing Executive Directors and will not exceed 200% of salary.
Maximum variable The maximum variable remuneration which may be granted is 350% of salary excluding the remuneration value of any buy-outs.
Buy Out of Where the Committee determines that the individual circumstances of recruitment justify incentives the provision of a buyout, the equivalent value of any incentives that will be forfeited on forfeited on cessation of an Executive Directors previous employment will be calculated taking into cessation of account the following: employment the proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the Executive Directors cessation of employment: the performance conditions attached to the vesting of these incentives and the likelihood of them being satisfied: and any other terms and conditions having a material effect on their value lapsed value : The Committee may then grant up to the same value as the lapsed value, where possible, under the Companys incentive plans.
To the extent that it was not possible or practical to provide the buyout within the terms of the Companys existing incentive plans, a bespoke arrangement would be used.
Relocation In instances where the new Executive Director is required to relocate or spend significant time policies away from their normal residence, the Company may provide one-off compensation to reflect the cost of relocation for the Executive Director.
The level of the relocation package will be assessed on a case by case basis but will take into consideration any cost of living differences housing allowance and schooling.
Where an existing employee is promoted to the Board, the policy set out above would apply from the date of promotion but there would be no retrospective application of the policy in relation to subsisting incentive awards or remuneration arrangements.
Accordingly, prevailing elements of the remuneration package for an existing employee would be honoured and form part of the ongoing remuneration of the person concerned.
These would be disclosed to shareholders in the remuneration report for the relevant financial year.
The Companys policy when setting fees for the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors is to apply the policy which applies to current Non-Executive Directors.
Service contracts and letters of appointments The Remuneration Committees policy for setting notice periods is that a six month period will apply for Executive Directors unless the Remuneration Committee determines that 12 months would be more appropriate in the circumstances.
The Remuneration Committee may in exceptional circumstances arising on recruitment, allow a longer period, which would in any event reduce to either six or 12 months following the first year of employment.
The Non-Executive Directors of the Company do not have service contracts.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed by letters of appointment.
Each independent Non-Executive Directors term of office runs for a three year period.
The Company follows the UK Corporate Governance Codes recommendation that all directors of FTSE 350 companies be subject to annual re-appointment by shareholders.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 120 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Executive Directors Notice periods Compensation provisions Date Nature of From for early Name appointed contract Company From Director termination Lance Batchelor 2 May 2014 Rolling 6 months 6 months None Jonathan Hill 7 April 2015 Rolling 6 months 6 months None Non-executive Directors Appointment Original of current Notice period Name appointment term Arrangement unexpired term Andrew Goodsell 05 12 2003 05 07 2015 Letter of 3 months appointment 3 months transitioned to NonExecutive 01 07 2015 Ray King 29 05 2014 29 05 2017 Letter of 3 months appointment 26 months Bridget McIntyre 01 01 2016 plc Letter of 3 months 01 01 2016 appointment 26 months plc SSL 3 months 17 01 09 2016 months SSL Orna NiChionna 29 05 2014 29 05 2017 Letter of 3 months appointment 26 months Gareth Williams 29 05 2014 29 05 2017 Letter of 3 months appointment 26 months The Board allows Executive Directors to accept appropriate outside Non-Executive Director appointments provided the aggregate commitment is compatible with their duties as Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors concerned may retain fees paid for these services, which will be subject to approval by the Board.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group Each year, prior to reviewing the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the members of the Executive Team, the Remuneration Committee considers a report prepared by the Group HR Director detailing base pay and share schemes practice across the Company.
The report provides an overview of how employee pay compares to the market and any material changes during the year, and includes detailed analysis of basic pay and variable pay changes within the UK.
While the Company does not directly consult with employees as part of the process of reviewing executive pay and formulating the Remuneration Policy, the Company does receive an update and feedback from the broader employee population on an annual basis using an engagement survey which includes a number of questions relating to remuneration.
The Company does not use remuneration comparison measurements.
The Group aims to provide a remuneration package for all employees that is market competitive and operates the same core structure as for the Executive Directors.
The Group operates employee share and variable pay plans, with pension provisions provided for all Executive Directors and employees.
In addition, any salary increases for Executive Directors are expected to be generally in line with those for UK-based employees.
See pages 100-105 for our new section on fairness, diversity and wider workforce considerations.
Consideration of shareholder views The Remuneration Committee takes the views of the shareholders seriously and these views are taken into account in shaping remuneration policy and practice.
Shareholder views are considered when evaluating and setting remuneration strategy and the Remuneration Committee welcomes an open dialogue with its shareholders on all aspects of remuneration.
The Committee consulted its major shareholders and the main shareholder representative bodies IA, ISS and Glass Lewis on the proposed new Remuneration Policy.
The Committee is grateful for the time taken to consider the Committee proposals and provide feedback.
At the end of the consultation the majority of shareholders consulted indicated they were supportive of the new Remuneration Policy.
Gareth Williams Chair, Remuneration Committee 11 April 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 121
