NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT Every day, we support and enable the success of our customers, colleagues and partners around the world.
Those who look deeper, reach higher and strive harder.
They are thepeople that fuel the global economy and drive worldwide progress.
It is our responsibility to ensure we do the right thing for theircontinued success.
OUR PEOPLE p. 40 Striving to be our best in an environment which embraces colleague experience, diversity, inclusion and wellbeing BUSINESS BUILDERS p. 44 Championing small businesses andentrepreneurs SAGE FOUNDATION p. 46 Giving back to the community through voluntary work andfundraising ETHICS & GOVERNANCE p. 50 Placing ethical business conduct atthe centre of all our activities andmonitoring our progress THE ENVIRONMENT p. 51 Committed to managing our use of resources and proactively managing ourenvironmental impact 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
STRATEGIC REPORT ESG in a nutshell We take corporate responsibility Money raised towards Board diversity seriously.
Heres a dashboard of $1m challenge Female Male our progress: $788,787 25% 75% 2017: $275,000 2017: 25% 75% Number of working days this year Combustion of fuel thatSage colleagues have and operation offacilities spentvolunteering tonnes CO e 2 24,000 1,489 2017: 23,000 2017: 1,338 Energy intensity: Emissions reported Electricity, heat, above normalised to tonnes of CO e steam and cooling 2 per total 1m revenue purchased for own use 13.97 11,343 2017: 10.76 2017: 11,783 Non-financial information statement Ethics & Governance Human rights pg.
50 Environment Social Direct and indirect GhG emissions pg.
41 Direct and indirect energy consumption pg.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 39 NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT: OUR PEOPLE Our People Amanda Cusdin Chief People Officer 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
STRATEGIC REPORT Sage continues to place colleague success, diversity, inclusion and wellbeing at the heart of what we do, makingSage a place where colleagues can reach their fullpotential and bring their whole selves to work.
Another of our key focuses has been enabling Leadership development and andempowering our colleagues to bring customer talent management success to life and delight our customers.
We have Through a mix of continued talent management, engagement initiatives across Sage designed to leadership development and talent acquisition encourage our colleagues to connect with wehave developed the skills and capability of our customers and celebrate successes: leadership team.
In November 2017 we brought Board gender Laurent Dechaux into the leadership team as closed loop calls where all our colleagues can diversity Southern Europe Managing Director, in September call back customers to listen to their feedback 2018 we welcomed Sabby Gill as our Northern and resolve their issues 6 75% Europe Managing Director and at the start of magic moments which give our colleagues the Male October 2018 we promoted Andreas Zipser opportunity to give acts of random kindness internally into the role of Central Europe totheir customers if they spot an opportunity ManagingDirector.
2 25% during a conversation Female For our senior leadership we delivered two CX engagement campaigns across all our modules of face to face leadership development geographies asking colleagues to share covering feedback and coaching, change theirstories.
management, building trust and planning and execution.
In FY19 we will continue to deliver We have also focused on the way we reward our development programmes for our senior colleagues, making improvements to the benefits leaderson a regular basis.
and rewards we offer our colleagues around the 1 SMT gender world.
In particular this year we won several diversity We have continued our focus on leadership industry awards in the US for the innovative development within our manager population of communications programme to launch our annual 116 67% c. 2,000 people managers at Sage.
FY19 will see us continue the Male are invited to take part in our five-module training work on our benefits and rewards throughout the course Leading@Sage.
Currently 65% of Sage family, with South Africa due to launch their managers at Sage have completed the training.
58 33% Female This is coupled with our all colleague learning Finally, we continually want to improve the places platform Sage Learning, which launched in where our colleagues work to make them more 2016and has been further developed during fun and engaging and in FY18 we opened or moved FY18to provide topical and relevant training into five new offices which all have a One Sage feel toourcolleagues which supports their and provide more space for collaboration and personaldevelopment.
Total Colleague experience workforce and engagement gender diversity Our focus on colleague success this year has led us to simplify our processes, target our communications more thoughtfully and enable 6,444 50% We continually want our colleagues to engage with each other and Male oursenior leaders on a more regular basis.
to improve the places 5,716 44% In FY18 we launched quarterly pulse surveys to our colleagues work Female check our progress on these key initiatives and to make them fun receive more frequent, in the moment feedback 843 6% from our colleagues on what were doing well and Prefer not to say and engaging the changes they want to see.
1 SMT refers to c. 150 leaders in Sage including Executive Committee and Executive Team members.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 41 NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT: OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED Our Sage Foundation continues to gather momentum Diversity and inclusion ascolleagues completed 24,084 volunteer days in FY18 Building on the progress from FY17 when we 1.9 days per colleague, supporting charities close to increased our senior leadership gender balance theirhearts and in their local communities.
to30% female from 26% in FY16, we have now made further progress to bring this to 36%, which Kids@Sage days were back in FY18!
Over 350 children is higher than the industry standard.
We have also came to work at Sage with their parents for one day.
Year-end created a strong pipeline of diverse talent which These days provide education and fun by building a colleague will ensure we continue to grow the diversity of stronger connection between work and family life for count split by our leadership team in FY19.
Our Women@Sage colleagues and introducing technology to children at region network remains strong and we delivered an anearly age which will help to enhance talent pipelines engaging programme of speakers during for technology apprentices and graduates.
International Womens week to hear voices 13,003 andshare experience from across Sage and All Colleagues Globally we have 190 graduates and apprentices externally in support of women in technology.
particularly focused in Product Development and IT.
Thisyear we focused on the diversity of our emerging In FY18 we have been recognised externally for 4,320 talent intakes and achieved 60% female apprentices ourwork on diversity, winning the Global Diversity Central & 48%in FY17 and 50% female graduates 8% in FY17.
award at the Employers Network for Equality & Southern Weare aiming to recruit 150 new graduates and Inclusion enei, two awards at the National Centre Europe apprentices during FY19.
Feedback from our emerging for Diversity Awards 2018, including Technology talent is that they feel supported with tools for their Company of the Year 2018, the Chartered Institute personal development and excited by the opportunities of Professional Developments North East of 3,158 at Sage.
England HR&D award Excellence in Employability International and Diversity, and Sage featured in a Glassdoor blog as one of the13 Companies Committed to 2,858 Diversity & Hiring Now.
Northern Alongside our external accolades, we have Europe Our values captured the hearts and minds of our colleagues with our internal diversity awards, where we 2,667 opened up awards for five categories Inclusive North America Leader, Mentor of the Year, Inspirational Women Customers first of the Year, Making a Difference and Unsung Star.
Our customers are at the heart ofeverything We received over 900 nominations from colleagues wedo: they are why we are here and we across the business, which shows howpassionate wouldntexist withoutthem.
our colleagues are about diversityand inclusion atSage.
We are passionate about making our playing field Velocity as equal as possible in terms of gender, ethnicity, We are action oriented and agile: we keepthings sexuality, disability and more.
To help us achieve simple, deliver at pace andoverachieve.
this we continue to have unconscious bias training for all colleagues and during FY18 we launched a more detailed unconscious bias Internal training pilot in the UK.
hire rate Innovate We create new ways of doing things and deliver Weve seen a renewed energy behind our Pride@ 25% innovative solutions which our customers need Sage network and across the UK&I, Brazil and tohelp their businessgrow.
North America, Sage has 15 thriving Pride@Sage networking groups that meet regularly to plan and prepare for a variety of activities in support of their LGBTQ colleagues and customers, such as Pride Do the right thing parades, building Sage Foundation opportunities Our colleagues are aligned and we trust each other and developing transgender awareness.
to do the right thing to enable our customers tosucceed.
In FY18 we put a focus on raising awareness ofmental health.
In February we held Wellbeing Week which was dedicated to colleague wellbeing, where we gave tips to colleagues on how to Make a difference Colleague maintain work-life balance and ran activities training days promoting wellbeing.
We have launched our Sage is a great place to work and our colleagues healthy mind first aiders programme in three make a difference tolocal communities by 3.9 regions and have trained 26 colleagues to be relentlessly supporting our customers and days per ableto respond to mental health queries theirbusinesses to besuccessful.
42 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
STRATEGIC REPORT Brooke Heywood MarketingApprentice In 2018 I joined the Global Communications team at Sage, aged 18, straight from school after completing my A-Levels.
With several university offers in my back pocket, I decided thatthis wasnt the route for me and followed my desire to start a career in marketing as soon as possible.
I had no previous experience of the corporate environment, but on the same day Ireceived my A-level results, the Sage Talent Team called and offered me a role in their Corporate Communications team as Product PR Apprentice and Ican honestly say, I havent looked back.
We have captured My first year at Sage has been quite the hearts and minds aride and I have embraced every opportunity as a new learning of our colleagues with experience.
Ive managed Internal our internal diversity Communications events such as Kids@ Sage day in our London Bridge office, awards developed a video sharing our vision ofArtificial Intelligence in business, attended the House of Lords Select committee on AI and co-managed Viresh Harduth VP New Kerry Sinclair EVP theofficial Sage Partners social media Customer Acquisition account.
In truth there is no quick way Information Technology to summarise the wealth of experience I joined Sage in 2013, as the Pricing I joined Sage Software Limited in 1987 and learnings I have gained.
Each day Strategist for Africa, Australia, Middle asan apprentice in our Sales team brings new challenges and the fastEast and Asia, having previously worked andspent a long time working with our paced environment keeps me excited in the Banking sector.
Over five years customers and partners in a Sales & tocome to work.
Ihave had opportunities across the Services role.
The company was growing Group, working with amazing people fast and it was a really exciting time for As an apprentice I never thought that from all Regions and being exposed to me and a huge learning opportunity.
Iwould be working hand-in-hand with Global initiatives that have resonated Working with the original founders, I was Senior Leaders at Sage, but it has inthe Africa and Middle East A&ME given many fantastic opportunities to become somewhat normal.
I have been able to utilise my get involved in a huge range of projects, Ihave to pinch myself as a reminder of Actuarial Science background while across different areas of our business.
incorporating new methodologies at As our acquisition plans accelerated, Sage.
It has been five years of learning, Iwas involved in a lot of the review work Key to my success has been working interaction and ownership.
with the new companies and looking with colleagues who are dedicated forsynergies across the business, tohelping me develop new skills and Five years and four roles on, I head the whicheventually landed me in IT in progress my career this has been an Sales division for the New Customer terms ofintegrations.
invaluable part of my journey, which is Acquisition for Start-up in the A&ME just beginning.
Through my various roles at Today I am the Executive Vice President Sage I have been exposed to all areas of IT for our Enterprise Application ofthe business from Sales to Functions.
Delivery teams across the world.
I lead This exposure and the environment at ateam of highly skilled IT professionals Sage have enabled me to develop and who work across 23 countries.
Success shape my career path.
for us comes from bringing to life the art of the possible through technology and The ability to work on new projects enabling our business plans.
For me a andinteract with a diverse team across key part of the role is translating that Sales, Finance, Marketing and Product, vision to our people and bringing our provides me with my job satisfaction.
teams together behind these shared Inan ever-changing landscape, I enjoy goals.
I am personally passionate the ability to adapt and the challenge aboutdiversity, especially women in ofachieving new goals.
One of my key technology and work across various motivators is that I want to work in an platforms, including our Women@Sage environment that allows me to have an networks to support a diverse and impact, while being exposed to new healthy balance of females in a ideas and driven people and I feel technology world.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 43 NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT: BUSINESS BUILDERS Shining a light on the Heroes of the global economy With small businesses creating two thirds of all new jobs and making up 99% of all businesses in most countries, one thing is for certain when Business Builders do well, we all do.
With millions of Business Builders around the world, it is in all of our interests to champion their causes and help drive customer success.
Sage is giving entrepreneurs the world increased at more than ten times the Building a competitive over a voice: campaigning for change rateof those in Northern Ireland and andethical AI economy that creates the ideal environment for themost productive authority in the We believe that no-one should be businesses to flourish, and representing UKproduces 26 times more turnover leftbehind by the Fourth Industrial Business Builders at the top table.
Revolution and the UK risks losing Sageis committed to three priorities: outwith a low uptake of digital skills.
Globally, in early 2018, we launched the commissioning regular pieces of Productivity Tracker which tracked the research that assess the small business As an industry leader in Artificial growing loss in productivity as a result landscape: holding events and panel Intelligence, our customers trust us ofunnecessary admin for small and discussions that allow entrepreneurs toinnovate in an ethical way, which is medium businesses.
Available in eleven totalk directly to each other and why in 2017, we established five core markets, the tracker shows that globally politicians: and campaigning to change principles towards the ethical creation of we are losing 13,780 per second due to policy for the better, particularly now as AI.
Building on that in 2018, we launched unproductive, admin-heavy tasks and we head towards Brexit.
Here are just a the Roadmap for Ethical Business, built that equates to over 430bn or 5% of few of the ways weve supported the with experienced Business Builders and total time lost each year.
heroes of the economy this year.
Our framework highlights four areas for creating a Brexit Introducing Sage Sessions competitive, ethical AI economy: Sage has been working hard to ensure createa governance framework: make In FY17 we took Sage Summit on the that the voice of small and medium your AI accountable: build trust through road, to eight different cities around businesses is heard by government in transparency: and empower your theworld.
This year, we improved our their Brexit preparations.
Industrys next challenge will event programme, which became Sage the referendum, we have been a vocal be to move the global conversation away Sessions where local business leaders participant on Brexit, achieving 70% from AI as a threat or replacement come together to drive business forward.
earned share of voice in tier 1 titles forhumans, and towards encouraging against our key competitors.
As the end organisations to approach AI as a deal has been an unknown throughout complement to humaningenuity.
the year, Sage has been championing the importance of businesses views Shining a light on the Sage is giving throughout the process and helping productivity gap organisations gain the clarity they need, entrepreneurs the In October 2017, Sage, in collaboration whatever flavour of Brexit we ultimately with Nesta, launched the State of Small get.
We have also been calling on world over a voice Business report, which sought to explore government to not get completely the causes of low UK productivity.
We distracted by the Brexit process and to found that there are striking differences remain focused on delivering greater in SME growth and productivity at a local education and skills as well as an open, level across the UK.
For example, the digital Britain.
number of SMEs in London have 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
STRATEGIC REPORT Supporting business in managing regulatory change Small and medium businesses around the world are facing the twin challenge of the digitisation of tax and the ever continuing changes to legislation.
Sage has worked around the world to help businesses understand these changes and minimise the time they have to spend managing their tax affairs.
The biglegislative change this year was theintroduction of the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR in Europe, which came in to force in May 2018.
Sage was very active in arming its customers with the information they needed to prepare GDPR for their business.
Its communication campaign secured over120 pieces of coverage globally.
Furthermore, we have run education campaigns in the UK around Making TaxDigital: in Brazil for the eSocial regulations: in France for the new We believe that no-one should be left taxation laws: and in South Africa for the annual address from the President and behind by the Fourth Industrial Revolution Finance Minister.
Sage will continue to support small and medium businesses Sage launched the Sage FutureMakers to navigate change and fight to minimise Labs to bring AI educational work the impact these changes have on our Business Builders.
experience direct to under 18s across fiveUK and Irish cities The Sage Group plc.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45 NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT: SAGE FOUNDATION 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
STRATEGIC REPORT Sage Foundation This year, Sage Foundation hasevolved from anambitious start-up to a philanthropic programme focused onsustainable growth, innovation andimpact.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47 NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT: SAGE FOUNDATION CONTINUED We have seen a truly inspiring response were offereda more in-depth one-day 24,000 from colleagues embracing what Sage course, with around 15 attendees being The number of working days this Foundation means to them in FY18.
Our year that Sage colleagues have colleagues gave backover 24,000 days in message is clear: AI careers are open spent volunteering volunteering an increase of 8% on last toall.
We now intendto expand the year.
Critically, the value of our colleague initiativeglobally.
volunteering was equivalent to an investment of over 2,400,000 to Building on a successful FY17 ourcommunities around the world.
$788,787 Young people: Amount of money raised We remain focused on helping three A Place to Call Home to date for $1m challenge groups that often face barriers finding We are delivering on the findings of their place in tomorrows workforce.
ourFY17APlace to Call Home report Sage believe that our communities will onyouth homelessness.
Work has truly thrive when more women, young begunto deliver two projects near to people and military veterans have fair ourNewcastle headquarters, working access to education, work and exclusively with young people at risk entrepreneurial opportunities.
Our non-profit The number of grants awarded partners are working with 10 families in Here are just a few examples of the to not-for-profits this year the most deprived areas of the North innovations we have driven in FY18 East and 33 young people, to access todeliver on our mission: family mediation and counselling services.
We are also training 80 Women: Introducing rAInbow professionals to be able to spot the Previewed for the first time at the United earlysigns of family breakdown.
By Community Nations AI for Global Good Summit, funding and evaluating this type of Sage Foundations mission is to Sage Foundation worked in partnership workwe will provide an evidence base createroutes into education, work with South African charity, Soul City, for others to follow and recognise that andentrepreneurship for young people, tobuild and fund an AI companion to prevention is part of the key to ending women and military veterans.
Every support women who are victims of youth homelessness.
second of volunteering, each donation, domestic violence.
In the era of #MeToo, or product licence is an opportunity to many have woken up to the scale of Military veterans: unlock potential.
But, we are finding #SageServingHeroes answers not hashtags.
The goal is Sage Foundation remains committed notto replace human connection but Sage Foundation: doing tohelping military veterans transition provide help when talking to a human is business the right way into meaningful civilian employment, not possible, or comfortable.
Free to use, This year, Sage Foundation has build professional skills, or start their available 24 7, and accessible via social evolvedfrom anambitious start-up own businesses.
Once again, we are media, rAInbow provides information to a philanthropic programme focused extremely honoured to partner with onthe victims rights, in addition to on sustainable growth, innovation theInvictus Games Sydney 2018. emotional support.
Additionally, this year Sage UK were inthe South African market in early FY19.
proud signatories of the Armed Forces In response to the needs of our local Covenant and recognised as one of just Young people: Sage communities and non-profit partners, 50 organisations in 2018 to be given FutureMakers Lab inFY18 Sage Foundation reaffirmed aGold Award for their outstanding itsmission, more clearly focusing on Driven by our core belief that AI will support of the Armed Forces community.
building a workforce fit for tomorrow.
replace, but itmust also create we have This was in recognition of work such as This is being achieved by providing started to build a talent pipeline through our Sage Military Mentoring Programme.
moreroutes into education, work and Sage FutureMakers Lab.
The programme Our programme supports work-based entrepreneurship for young people, was designed to showcase the exciting volunteers to mentor veterans women and military veterans.
Just as opportunities a career in AI may provide.
Sage wehave since 2015, Sage Foundations Free to attend, the sessions educated provides training, to ensure veterans mission is powered by 13,000 Sage over 150young people on the diverse excel in a work environment, through colleagues leading from the front, who range of skills required for a future aone-day workshop centred on inturn are inspiring the wider Sage career in AI, including ethical design learningabout organisational culture, eco-system to support not-for-profits aspart of the course curriculum.
After mentorship, and the veteran life.
these initial courses, 30 young people 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
$1 Million Challenge In 2016, Sage CEO Steve Hare pledged to lead Sage inraising $1 million through active colleague, partner or customer led challenges.
In just a year and a half, we are over three quarters of the way there: raising more than $788,787.
Over1,500 runners, including many customers andpartners, joined events in South Africa, the UK, Canada and Brazil.
Steve also continued to lead the way and ran his first ever half marathon this year!
From the Hackney Half, the London to Newcastle Sage Life Cycle, across to the Vancouver Sun Run and the huge contributions from Relay for Life in the US, then over to South AfricasSage Foundation Hotlegs campaign and not forgetting Australias 3Peaks Challenge the challenge is part of what makes Sage Foundation unique for colleagues.
Spotlight on North America During a one-week period more than 3,000 colleagues in eight different Sage offices came together for a fast-paced in-office volunteer activity.
In total they packaged 105,000 meals.
During the month of JulySage North American colleagues joined togetherwithSage Exco leaders and dozens ofotherSage executives to package meals with RiseAgainst Hunger and support global school feeding programmes.
Network of colleagues After an extensive search for the best Sage colleagues out there, in FY18, over 3,040 colleagues were recruited to become Sage Foundation Ambassadors.
The colleagues were handpicked because they demonstrated their commitment to gothe extra mile for Sage Foundation and our localcommunities.
They were the first to benefit fromanew programme which will train, support andcritically, recognise their hard work.
Each Ambassador benefits from personal and professional development opportunities and receives an increase in match-funding allowance to award to non-profits or theirchoice.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49 ETHICS & GOVERNANCE Human Rights Sage expects all colleagues, partners andsuppliers to adhere to international standards on human rights, including with respect to child and forced labour, land rights and freedom of association among other elements.
Our full expectations are included in our Partner and Supplier Codes of Conduct, which are available on our website at www.
We conduct due diligence on all new partners and suppliers and they are contractually obliged to adhere to our Code of Conduct.
Anti-bribery & Corruption Sage has a well embedded anti-bribery andcorruption policy and associated whistleblowing procedures designed to ensure that colleagues and other parties including contractors and third parties are able to report any instances of poor practice REALISE safely through an independent organisation.
All reports received via this or any other reporting mechanism are thoroughly investigated and reported to the Audit & YOUR AMBITION.
Risk Committee, which reviews each caseand its outcomes.
None of our investigations during FY18 have identified BE SAGE.
any systemic issues or breaches of our obligations underTheBribery Act 2010.
Governance & Oversight We recognise that assurance over our business activities and those of our partners and suppliers is essential.
During 2018 we monitored and reported on the completion of our mandatory Code of Conduct training for all colleagues and took disciplinary action for non-completion where necessary.
You can read more about our compliance and assurance activities over the principal risks associated with ethical business conduct from page 60 onwards.
Tax Strategy We publish our tax policy on our website andare committed to managing our tax affairs responsibly and in compliance with relevant legislation.
Our tax policy is aligned to our Code of Conduct and Sages Values & Behaviours and is owned and approved by the Board.
50 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
STRATEGIC REPORT NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT: ENVIRONMENT DOING Proactively managing BUSINESS our impact We are committed to managing our use of resources and proactively managing THE RIGHT ourenvironmental impact.
We aim to reduce the energy ourbusiness uses and make the most of recycling WAY opportunities.
Wecomply with local laws as a minimum standardand Sagecontinues to participate in the global Carbon Disclosure Project, annually disclosing our approach and performance to investors.
Wecontinue to reviewand develop our approach to managing ourenvironmental impact and associated emissions.
Sage has reported on all Scope 1 and 2 Greenhouse gas emissions emission sources which we are deemed This section includes our mandatory to be responsible for with the exception reporting of greenhouse gas emissions of our offices in the United Arab pursuant to The Large and MediumEmirates and Nigeria.
We do not have sized Companies and Groups Accounts responsibility for any emission sources and Reports Regulations 2008 as that are beyond the boundary of our amended.
This data is included here operational control.
toprovide a complete picture of our approach to environmental corporate We have collected data on energy in our responsibility.
buildings, air conditioning, refrigerant consumption and business car travel, Reporting period because we believe these encompass the most materialemissions to our Our Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Report business.
Going forward we will review reporting period is 1October 2017 to this, toensure that we continue to 30September 2018.
This reporting capture significant business emissions.
yearhas been established to align withour financial reporting year.
Global greenhouse gas emissions data for period Organisational boundary 1 October 2017 to 30 September 2018 andresponsibility FY18 tonnes FY17 tonnes CO e CO e 2 2 We report our emissions data using Scope 1: Combustion of fuels and operation of facility 1,489 1,338 anoperational control approach to Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased define our organisational boundary for own use 11,343 11,783 which meets the definitional requirements of The Large and Scope 3: Company business travel vehicles, hotel Medium-sized Companies and Groups stays and air travel 13,104 5,391 Accounts and Reports Regulations Total emissions 25,936 18,512 2008 as amended in respect of those Companys chosen intensitymeasurement: 13.97 10.76 emissions for which we are responsible.
Emissions reported above normalised to tonnes Adopting the operational control ofCO e per total GBP 1,000,000revenue 2 approach means that Sage reports on all sources of environmental impact Large increase in Scope 3 emissions due to the scope of the reporting expanding to now include over which it has operational control.
hotel stays and air travel which were not available for reporting in 2016 17.
There is also more comprehensive vehicle data available for business use mileage The Sage Group plc.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51 NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT: ENVIRONMENT CONTINUED Carbon emissions Reducing carbon and waste Total CO by type 2 We have continued to make a concerted Scope of reported emissions effort to reduce our carbon footprint, 6% Emissions data from all our global through reducing our consumption 50% Groupoperations within scope has andpurchasing alternative sources beenreported, including operations offuel and generation, specifically: inAustralia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Increased use of bioethanol for Canada, France, Germany, Ireland, business travel fuel Malaysia, Morocco, Poland, Portugal, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, 44% All waste is diverted from landfill at Switzerland, the United Arab Emirates, North Park, Manchester and Dublin the United Kingdom and the United Investing in new technology with States.
However, emissions could not lower energy consumption including bereported for our offices in the United laptops andworkstations Arab Emirates and Nigeria, where energy usage is not itemised on invoices.
Further installation of LED lighting Combustion of fuels and operation Wewill be working with our suppliers of facilities across theGroup Electricity, heat, steam and cooling inthese locations to capture this Selected office moves to more energy purchased for own use information in the 2018 19 reportingyear.
Company business travel rail, private efficientbuildings vehicles, hired vehicles, contracted Energy efficiency integrated into our taxi services and air travel Intensity ratio office redevelopment plans In order to express our annual Increased renewable energy sourcing emissionsin relation to a quantifiable through our contracts with suppliers factor associated with our activities, we have used revenue in our intensity ratio Self-generation including solar panels calculation as this is the most relevant and hydroelectricplant installations indication of our growth and provides for Reducing business travel and a good comparative measure overtime.
encouraging sustainable travel practices across our operations Carbon Disclosure Project Building optimisation at our We once again took part in the Carbon ownedsites Disclosure Project CDP during the year under review by reporting our Scope 1, 2 Sum of CO tonnes 2 and 3 emissions for the financial year ending 30 September 2018.
This external submission also includes our approach to governance, risk management and stakeholder engagement on climaterelated issues.
Our GhG emissions data are classified as direct Scope 1, or indirect Scope 2 & 3 emissions.
Scope 1 emissions are those from sources the Group owns or controls.
Scope 2 emissions are associated with our consumption of electricity, heat, steam and cooling.
Scope 3 emissions occur at sources which we do not own or control and areconsequences of our actions.
International North America Southern Europe Northern Europe Combustion of fuels and operation of facilities Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use Company business travel rail, private vehicles, hired vehicles, contracted taxi services and air travel 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
1 6,092 5,994 233 2,413 377 1,147 1,992 3,796 108 846 2,938 STRATEGIC REPORT Total CO e by type 2 FY18 tonnes CO e 2 Scope 1: Combustion of fuels and operation of facilities 1,489 Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 11,343 Scope 3: Company business travel vehicles, hotel stays and air travel 13,104 Total emissions 25,936 Region Scope 1 emissions Scope 2 emissions Scope 3 emissions Generated from the gas Generated from the Relates to business travel andoil used in all buildings useofelectricity in all undertaken by all colleagues where the Group operates: buildingsfrom which usingrail, private vehicles, hired emissions generated from theGroup operates.
vehicles, contracted taxi services Group-owned vehicles and air travel.
usedfor business travel: and fugitive emissions arising from the use of airconditioning and chiller refrigerant plant toservicethe Groups propertyportfolio.
International 1 6,092 5,993 North America 233 2,413 377 Southern Europe 1,147 1,992 3,796 Northern Europe 108 846 2,938 Grand Total 1,489 11,343 13,104 Methodology The methodology used to calculate our In some cases, we have extrapolated total emissions is based on the Environmental emissions by using available information Reporting Guidelines: including mandatory from part of a reporting period and greenhouse gas emissions reporting extending it to apply to the full reporting guidance June 2013 issued by the year.
For example, this has occurred where Department for Business, Energy & supplier invoices for the full reporting year Industrial Strategy BEIS.
We have also were not available prior to the publication used BEIS 2018 conversion factors for the ofthis years Annual Report and Accounts.
UK, combined with the most recent IEA For further details, our methodology international conversion factors 2016 document can be found at fornon-UK electricity within our http: www.
