OUR INVESTMENT CASE UNLEAS THE PO SUBSC More and more of our customers are opting for the experience of consuming our services on subscription, providingmutual benefits for our customers and for Sage.
For customers For Sage The latest upgrades, deployed through the cloud Deeper understanding of customers needs Increased quality of service through better understanding Increased retention rates ofthe customers business More opportunities for growth through Bespoke packages for business needs, providing up-sell and cross-sell enhancedvalue Higher lifetime value of customer Lower initial capital outlay and predictability of cash flows Increase in Net Promoter Score NPS inFY18 Software subscription penetration 6.1 points 46% Renewal by volume on cloud connectedsolutions around 90% 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
STRATEGIC REPORT HING WER OF RIPTI N Discover howwe are unleashing thepower of subscription totarget themarket opportunity The Sage Group plc.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 7 OUR INVESTMENT CASE THE RIGHT MARKET 1 Operating globally across small, medium and large businesses gives Sage accessto a significant Total Addressable Market TAM, set to beworth $33billion in 2019, comprising 92 million businesses.
Included in this TAM is the single-largest software category in the world, Accounting and Financials.
A opportunity $33bn Competition Forecasted Segment Growth 2019 Competition remains financial software.
fragmented and varies Sageis particularly across the Small, strong in theMedium $33bn Medium and Large and Large business Large $31bn business segments.
segments, which $16bn Large Competition is strong account for 90%ofthe $15bn inthe Small business addressable market and segment, where players are subjectto complex compete to acquire regulatory regimes.
businesses yet to adopt 7% Catalysts for market growth Market growth Medium The market in which saving users time and Medium $14bn 15% Sage operates is growing money, andmaking $13bn Cloud growth at 7%, driven by growth financial software more in the cloud of 15%: and more fundamental 2% On-premise growth on-premise software toa business.
Sage uses these latest Constant technological advances in technology Small businesses advances in the cloud, to provide a suite of with 0-9 employees artificial intelligence AI solutions that allow Medium businesses Small Small with 10-199 employees and automation are customers to run Large businesses $3bn $3bn speeding up the pace their entire business with 200-1999 employees ofsoftware adoption, through Sage.
2018 2019 Source data IDC Custom Solutions Market Model 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
STRATEGIC REPORT A GLOBAL NETWORK 2 OF 3 MILLION CUSTOMERS A deep knowledge of local legislation has allowed Sage to scale globally, serving 3 million customers, with a reputation for compliance, trust and excellent customer service.
Sages core markets Cloud adoption rates by geography UK & Ireland Cloud adoption rates vary by geography.
The USA, which represents 55% of the 21% TAM, is the most cloud adoptive region.
of Group organic Adoption in other geographies is slower revenue inFY18 but all are trending towards the cloud, withalmost 50% of market spend set to beon cloud financial software by 2020.
US UK & I France 42% 58% 57% 43% 64% 36% % consumer spend on cloud 2019 % consumer spend on-premise 2019 Source data IDC Custom Solutions Market Model USA 25% of Group organic revenue in FY18 France 16% of Group organic revenue inFY18 Targeting the available market opportunity Transitioning to better, increasing Across Sages Continuing to innovate a high performing retention rates and globalnetwork, Sage and partner with best SaaSbusiness on driving greater value.
customers move more inclass technology subscription will With 46% of Sages than 3tn of money partners, as well as enableSage to develop revenue currently through their further investment a closer relationship driven by software accounting software internally in R&D, withthese 3 million subscription, there each year, making means Sage can customers.
As a result, isstill significant Sagean attractive targetfurther Sage will be able to opportunity for growth.
proposition for ISVs growththrough new service customer needs and strategic alliances.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 9 OUR INVESTMENT CASE AND THE RIGHT PROPOSITION 3 Accounting Financials Sage Intacct SAGE Technology Sage Business Cloud delivers a suite Cloud native solutions: Sage Accounting, ofcloudservices including Accounting, Sage Financials, Sage People and Sage Financials, Enterprise Management, People, Intacct provide a fully functional and flexible Payroll, Payments and Banking, as well as cloud native solution with open APIs, giving market-place apps that can be provisioned them access to a wide ecosystem of partners tocreate bespoke offerings for customers, and ISVs.
Sage Enterprise Management, for our larger These cloud services comprise both businesses, can be deployed on-premise or cloud connected versions of our traditionally inthe cloud, providing a sophisticated and on-premise solutions and cloud native deeply functional solution for end-to-end solutions, built from the ground up, in business processes.
Our cloud connected solutions, Sage 50cloud 434m and Sage 200cloud, provide the power and productivity of the desktop, with the Sage Business Cloud revenue, growing at freedomand security of the cloud.
51% 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
STRATEGIC REPORT Enterprise People Payroll Payments & management Banking BUSINESS CLOUD CLOUD NATIVE CLOUD CONNECTED PRIVATELY HOSTED LARGE BUSINESSES Intacct Enterprise Management 200 1,999 employees 200K businesses 200cloud People MEDIUM BUSINESSES 10 200 employees 4m businesses Financials 50cloud SMALL BUSINESSES 1 9 employees Accounting 88m businesses The Sage Group plc.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 11 1 A COMPELLING 2 invest 3 PROPOSITION HIGH-QUALITY STRONG 12 RECURRING CASH FLOW REVENUE Software subscription penetration Underlying cash conversion 46% 96% Recurring revenuegrowth Free cash flow as a percentage ofrevenue 6.7% 19% Recurring revenuepenetration 79% 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
STRATEGIC REPORT Download our investor and capital markets day presentations and transcripts for expanded detail on our investment proposition online @ sage.
com investors ment EFFICIENT SUSTAINABLE 34 ALLOCATION DIVIDEND OFRESOURCES Organic operating profit margin Ordinary dividend 27.8% 16.5p G&A expense as a percentage Ordinary dividend growth of revenue reduced by 90 bps to 7% 12.9% Investment in Sage Intacct andSagePeople 200bps The Sage Group plc.
