Governance Relations with shareholders Relations with shareholders Wider communication We plan a shareholder communication strategy for We also: the year, to ensure that we maintain a relationship arrange face-to-face presentations of full year and with our shareholders based on trust and to help them half year results at which the Group Chief Executive understand how we plan to grow the business Officer and management team are available for and the effect of decisions made.
discussions: We understand the importance of maintaining open hold telephone briefings for analysts in conjunction and regular dialogue with our shareholders many of with key financial announcements: whom are our loyal customers.
We welcome feedback organise face-to-face and telephone meetings for at any time during the year and the AGM provides the analysts with the management team: opportunity for our shareholders to meet the Board and hold presentations with bank sales teams: and senior management of the Group.
conduct tours of Sagas operations for analysts.
Lance Batchelor, Group Chief Executive Officer, and The Director of Investor Relations reports on all Jonathan Hill, Group Chief Financial Officer, lead shareholder and wider market matters and provides communications with our shareholders assisted by our regular updates to the Chairman and Non-Executive Director of Investor Relations.
In addition, the Chairman Directors by way of face-to-face briefings, email and Senior Independent Director met with major updates and an Investor Relations Report, which is shareholders and provided feedback to the Board.
discussed at each Board meeting.
This includes reference to the views of key shareholders, including Saga has a diverse shareholder register which is formed their concerns.
The Board is provided with analyst and of both institutional and retail ownership, the latter broker briefings.
numbering over 170,000, and a number of analysts who follow the Company.
We set ourselves the target of We recognise that our brokers play an important part providing information to our shareholders that is timely, in communicating our message to our shareholders.
This includes a clear explanation of Our corporate brokers, J. P. Morgan Cazenove and Numis Securities Limited, attend Board meetings key strategic events and developments, results and announcements of acquisitions.
twice a year to discuss market sentiment towards the Company from both an institutional investor and Shareholder communication competitor perspective.
J. P. Morgan Cazenove is a joint In addition to the AGM, we: financial adviser with Goldman Sachs International, which also has direct access to the Board and provides have regular meetings with key shareholders: regular feedback.
arrange face-to-face presentations of full year and half year results by the Group Chief Executive The Board is kept fully up to date on the views of Officer and Group Chief Financial Officer: shareholders and analysts through: hold telephone briefings in conjunction with key financial announcements: broker attendance at Board meetings to provide honest feedback: publish live and post-event webcasts of key presentations: composition of the shareholder register: share price performance monitoring: add presentations to our website to allow shareholders to gain an insight into how our trading feedback from investor meetings, including key questions and concerns: performance links to strategy: hold investor road shows, investor days, briefings recommendations and expectations of sell-side analysts: and ad hoc meetings on request, where calendar and regulatory requirements allow: peer group news: and feedback from our professional and other external conduct tours of Sagas operations: notify our shareholders of key financial calendar advisers and market participants.
information: Annual General Meeting publish details of live webcasting services for key The AGM will be held on 21 June 2018 at 11am at presentations: and Enbrook Park, Sandgate, Folkestone, Kent CT20 3SE.
make past key presentations available via our The incoming Chairman and Chairs of all Committees corporate website.
will be available to answer questions during the formal business of the meeting.
The notice of the AGM contains an explanation of business to be considered at the meeting.
A copy will be available on Sagas website, http: corporate.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 82
