GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report together with the The cash generated from operations, available cash auditedconsolidated financial statements for the year resources and committed bank facilities and their ended30 September 2018.
The Annual Report and Accounts maturities, which, taken together, provide confidence that contains statements that are not based on current or Sage will be able to meet its obligations as they fall due.
historical fact and are forward-looking in nature.
Please Further information on the available cash resources and referto the Disclaimer on page 132. committed bank facilities is provided in note 14 to the financial statements: and Strategic Report The financial position of Sage, its cash flows, financial risk management policies and available debt facilities, which are The information that fulfils the reporting requirements relating described in the financial statements, and Sages business to the following matters can be found on the following pages activities, together with the factors likely to impact its of the Strategic Report: future growth and operating performance, which are Subject matter Page set out in the Strategic Report on pages 54 to 59.
Future 19 In conversation with developments SteveHare Viability statement Greenhouse gas emissions 51-53 Environment section The full viability statement, and the associated explanations Important events since the 76 Appointment of made in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate financial year end ChiefExecutive Officer Governance Code April 2016, can be found on page 68.
Research and development Corporate governance statement During the year, we incurred a cost of 192m 2017: 179m in The Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR respect of research and development.
Please see page 160 for require certain information to be included in a corporate further details.
governance statement in the Directors report.
This information can be found in the Corporate governance reporton pages 80 to 102, which is incorporated into Political donations thisDirectors report by reference and, in the case of the No political donations were made in the year.
information referred to in DTR 7.2.
Directors and their interests Disclosure of information under A list of Directors, their interests in the ordinary share capital ListingRule9.8.
4 of the Company, their interests in its long-term performance Information on allotments of shares for cash pursuant to the share plan and details of their options over the ordinary Group employee share schemes can be found on page 189 sharecapital of the Company are given in the Directors within the notes to the Group financial statements.
No Director had a materialinterest in any significant contract, other than a Results and dividends service contract or contract for services, with the Company orany of its operating companies at any time during the year.
The results for the year are set out from page 134.
Full details of the proposed final dividend payment for the year ended The names of all persons who, at any time during the year, were 30September 2018 are set out on page 194.
The Board is Directors of the Company can be found on pages 76 to 77. proposing a final dividend of 10.85p per share following the payment of an interim dividend of 5.65p per share on 1 June As at the date of this report, indemnities which are qualifying 2018.
The proposed total dividend for the year is therefore third-party indemnity provisions under the Companies Act 16.5p per share.
2006 are in place under which the Company has agreed toindemnify the Directors of the Company to the extent Going concern permitted by law and by the Companys articles of association, in respect of all liabilities incurred in connection with the After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable performance of their duties as a Director of the Company expectation that Sage has adequate resources to continue orits subsidiaries.
Copies of these indemnities are available inoperational existence for the foreseeable future, a period for review at the Companys registered office.
ofnot less than 12 months from the date of the financial statements.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the goingconcern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Inreaching this conclusion, the Directors have had due regardto the following: The Sage Group plc.
