Strategic Report Target market overview Fundamentals of our target demographic High Affinity Customers Leveraging our customer insight and rich proprietary Our rich proprietary data helps us identify customers data, we have maintained our position as the UKs who are more likely to have an affinity with the brand leading provider of products and services tailored over time, and to deploy marketing resources effectively to the needs of people aged 50 and over.
by targeting and rewarding those customers who are, or have the propensity to be High Affinity This segment accounts for 75% of the UKs household Customers HACs.
wealth and 50% of the UKs household expenditure and is the fastest growing, most affluent and influential We have identified a core group of c. 470k HACs who demographic in the UK.
Needs are increasingly form around 25% of our customer base, and who have changing as the people in this demographic continue contributed c. 80% of customer value over the last to work longer and lead more active lives.
This group has the following key understanding of these needs to create differentiated characteristics, all of which deliver greater lifetime products and services to support our customers, to value to Saga.
They: keep doing as they enter new life chapters, rich buy premium versions of what Saga sells: in possibilities.
have higher retention levels: and The ideal member of Saga is predominantly within have a higher propensity to buy multiple products three very specific mosaic classifications whose across the Group, holding an average of 2.4 core characteristics are: products each.
over 50: Having invested in customer insight tools, we have 1 within ABC1 households: and developed an understanding of the journeys by which having above average wealth.
these customers have developed a high affinity for Saga and the reasons why certain customers have not.
This has helped us improve the efficiency and Note: effectiveness of our direct marketing model to better 1 Refer to the glossary on page 210 for definition and explanation identify and target existing or potential HACs and convert them to customers with a long tenure and 35% of the 40% of the multiple product holdings.
population population 2013-2033 1993 2003 2013 2023 2033 growth 40 29.1m 30 26.7m 73% 12% 22.4m 10% 20.0m 18.1m 8% 39% 20 11% 8% 10% 7% 9% 8% 9% 19% 17% 77% 10 18% 18% 15% 0 Age group 50-65 65-75 75 Source: Centre for Economic and Business Research Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 12 c. 7m increase Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Macro conditions Saga as a regulated business While macro events out of Sagas control have the Regulation continues to evolve and Saga strives to potential to create a headwind, the Groups target maintain good relationships and levels of communication customers tend to be more resilient during times of with its regulatory bodies to ensure that it is always economic uncertainty.
In many instances, they benefit in a position to adapt quickly to changes that could from pensions, savings and pools of acquired assets.
This reliable stream of unearned income is a notable Vulnerable customers characteristic of ABC1 households.
We recognise that some of our customers need more Additional factors which enhance the economic attention than others.
There are dedicated teams stability of this group include: throughout the business to ensure that vulnerable customers are identified and given what help they need.
low levels of debt: fewer fixed costs: and Competition for customers inherited wealth.
Saga competes for business with many providers within the sectors in which it operates.
Whilst our brand as the Operating different businesses across different sectors over 50s specialist in the UK is particularly strong, we helps protect the wider organisation in the event of a do not have a monopoly.
We do, however, have the downturn in a particular sector.
advantage of focusing on this demographic, which means that everything we do can be tailored to the Regulatory and political change specific needs that are characteristic of our customer Sagas members are the most politically engaged base.
This gives us a competitive advantage against in the UK, and are therefore highly influential.
Sagas peers who offer their products to all age ranges.
insight into the most important issues for its target demographic enhances its competitive advantage.
The Company leverages this to create products and services that either take advantage of, or protect against, regulatory change.
Where appropriate, Saga engages on these issues on behalf of its customers.
Read more about our business model on p14 Read more about strategy on p18 Read more about risk on p24 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 13
