Growing our Retail Insurance and Travel Our membership programme strengthens our businesses ability to focus on rewarding, retaining and To support our return to sustainable profit growth, growing our target customer base.
We will we are rebalancing the business towards growing continue to look at ways to expand and improve customer numbers through targeted marketing.
the proposition for our 500k members and As the largest part of the Group, our Retail enhance both engagement and retention.
Broking business remains a vital tool in acquiring We will continue to invest in increasing our data and retaining customers.
Our panel of third-party capabilities to gain insight into the evolving needs underwriters allows us to offer competitive and behaviours of our customer base.
Leveraging insurance products to a broad section of our this knowledge, we will seek to offer more target demographic without taking any differentiated products within our Insurance and underwriting risk.
We will focus on generating growth in our Retail Possibilities provides the unique opportunity to gain Insurance business through optimised pricing, greater insight into the needs and behaviours of our differentiated product propositions and increased target customers, and leads to opportunities to efficiencies within our call centres and back office functions.
develop our membership programme further.
We will continue to roll out the Adobe Marketing The Travel business remains at the heart of the Cloud tool to help us identify customers with Saga brand.
We will focus on increasing our tour passenger numbers through existing propositions the characteristics of HACs and will focus our marketing activities on this segment.
in which we have a differentiated product and new propositions in segments in which we have Our goal continues to be to grow the number of a competitive advantage.
products held by HACs by 20% by 2022.
Read more about risk on p24 Read more about our target market on p12 Read more about KPIs on p16 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 18 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 3.
Investing for future growth We will continue building demand for our new ships and preparing for operational delivery.
We will launch our new retail insurance platform for motor insurance and develop the next phase for home insurance.
We will accelerate the development of our new travel reservation system.
We will continue to focus on delivering improvements to the customer experience and on improving the efficiency of our Insurance and Travel businesses to attract new customers, increase cross-sell, retain and grow HACs.
Maintaining our efficient operating model We will build a stronger focus on operational efficiency and performance excellence to ensure that we run the business in the most efficient way, allowing us to price competitively.
We will continue to focus on growing policy and passenger numbers organically whilst carefully assessing capital allocation.
This will lead to a higher quality of earnings over time.
We will drive efficiencies across the Group, facilitated by the new claims platform and the first phase of the broking policy platform.
Developing our people Our people are central to everything we do because they ensure that our customers receive the Saga experience.
We continue to invest in their development.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 19
