GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report together with the The cash generated from operations, available cash auditedconsolidated financial statements for the year resources and committed bank facilities and their ended30 September 2018.
The Annual Report and Accounts maturities, which, taken together, provide confidence that contains statements that are not based on current or Sage will be able to meet its obligations as they fall due.
historical fact and are forward-looking in nature.
Please Further information on the available cash resources and referto the Disclaimer on page 132. committed bank facilities is provided in note 14 to the financial statements: and Strategic Report The financial position of Sage, its cash flows, financial risk management policies and available debt facilities, which are The information that fulfils the reporting requirements relating described in the financial statements, and Sages business to the following matters can be found on the following pages activities, together with the factors likely to impact its of the Strategic Report: future growth and operating performance, which are Subject matter Page set out in the Strategic Report on pages 54 to 59.
Future 19 In conversation with developments SteveHare Viability statement Greenhouse gas emissions 51-53 Environment section The full viability statement, and the associated explanations Important events since the 76 Appointment of made in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate financial year end ChiefExecutive Officer Governance Code April 2016, can be found on page 68.
Research and development Corporate governance statement During the year, we incurred a cost of 192m 2017: 179m in The Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR respect of research and development.
Please see page 160 for require certain information to be included in a corporate further details.
governance statement in the Directors report.
This information can be found in the Corporate governance reporton pages 80 to 102, which is incorporated into Political donations thisDirectors report by reference and, in the case of the No political donations were made in the year.
information referred to in DTR 7.2.
Directors and their interests Disclosure of information under A list of Directors, their interests in the ordinary share capital ListingRule9.8.
4 of the Company, their interests in its long-term performance Information on allotments of shares for cash pursuant to the share plan and details of their options over the ordinary Group employee share schemes can be found on page 189 sharecapital of the Company are given in the Directors within the notes to the Group financial statements.
No Director had a materialinterest in any significant contract, other than a Results and dividends service contract or contract for services, with the Company orany of its operating companies at any time during the year.
The results for the year are set out from page 134.
Full details of the proposed final dividend payment for the year ended The names of all persons who, at any time during the year, were 30September 2018 are set out on page 194.
The Board is Directors of the Company can be found on pages 76 to 77. proposing a final dividend of 10.85p per share following the payment of an interim dividend of 5.65p per share on 1 June As at the date of this report, indemnities which are qualifying 2018.
The proposed total dividend for the year is therefore third-party indemnity provisions under the Companies Act 16.5p per share.
2006 are in place under which the Company has agreed toindemnify the Directors of the Company to the extent Going concern permitted by law and by the Companys articles of association, in respect of all liabilities incurred in connection with the After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable performance of their duties as a Director of the Company expectation that Sage has adequate resources to continue orits subsidiaries.
Copies of these indemnities are available inoperational existence for the foreseeable future, a period for review at the Companys registered office.
ofnot less than 12 months from the date of the financial statements.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the goingconcern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Inreaching this conclusion, the Directors have had due regardto the following: The Sage Group plc.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 129 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Employment policy Rights and obligations attaching to shares The Group continues to give full and fair consideration Voting toapplications for employment made by disabled persons, In a general meeting of the Company, subject to the having regard to their respective aptitudes and abilities.
The provisions of the articles of association and to any special policy includes, where practicable, the continued employment rights or restrictions as to voting attached to any class of of those who may become disabled during their employment shares in the Company of which there are none : and the provision of training and career development and promotion, where appropriate.
On a show of hands, a qualifying person being an individual who is a member of the Company, a person authorised The Group has continued its policy of employee involvement toact as the representative of a corporation or a person by making information available and consulting, where appointed as a proxy of a member shall have one vote, appropriate, with employees on matters of concern to them.
except that a proxy has one vote for and one vote against Colleagues regularly receive updates on the financial and aresolution if the proxy has been appointed by more economic factors affecting the Group.
Many colleagues are thanone member and has been given conflicting stakeholders in the Company through participation in share votinginstructions by those members, or has been option schemes and a long-term performance share plan.
givendiscretion as to how to vote: and Further details of colleague engagement are given on pages40 to 43.
On a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he or sheis the holder.
Major shareholdings At 30 September 2018, the Company had been notified, in No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or accordance with the DTRs, of the following interests in its class meeting in respect of any shares held by them if any call ordinary share capital: or other sum then payable by them in respect of that share remains unpaid.
Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
% of 1 Name Ordinary shares capital Nature of holding Blackrock, Inc. 64,068,202 5.90 Direct and Indirect Deadlines for voting rights Lindsell Train Limited 54,140,022 5.01 Direct Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in Fundsmith LLP 53,635,451 5.00 Direct respect of the resolutions to be considered at the Annual Aviva Investors 54,011,329 4.98 Direct and Indirect General Meeting to be held on 27 February 2019 will be set outin the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
1 % as at date of notification.
The DTRs require notification when the %voting rights held by a person reaches, exceeds or falls below an Dividends and distributions applicable threshold specified in the DTRs.
2 In the period from 30 September 2018 to the date of this report we Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the received further notifications from Aviva Investors indicating that Company may, by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to theholdings of Aviva Investors stood at 4.09% of capital.
3 Information provided to the Company under the DTRs is publicly bepaid to the members, but no dividend shall exceed the available via the regulatory information service and on the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate Share capital dividend, whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
All dividends The Companys share capital is as set out on page 209.
The shall be apportioned and paid pro-rata according to the Company has a single class of share capital which is divided amounts paid up on the shares.
4 into ordinary shares of 1 77p each.
Liquidation If the Company is in liquidation, the liquidator may, with the authority of a special resolution of the Company and any other authority required by the statutes as defined in the articles ofassociation : Divide among the members in specie the whole or any part of the assets of the Company: or Vest the whole or any part of the assets in trustees upon such trusts for the benefit of members as the liquidator shall think fit.
130 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
GOVERNANCE Transfer of shares Amendment of the Companys articles ofassociation Subject to the articles of association, any member may transfer all or any of his or her certificated shares by an Any amendments to the Companys articles of association instrument of transfer in any usual form or in any other form may be made in accordance with the provisions of the which the Board may approve.
The Board may, in its absolute Companies Act 2006 by way of special resolution.
discretion, decline to register any instrument of transfer of a certificated share which is not a fully paid share although not Appointment and replacement of Directors so as to prevent dealings in shares taking place on an open Directors shall be not less than two and no more than 15 and proper basis or on which the Company has a lien.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed The Board may also decline to register a transfer of a bythe Board holds office only until the next Annual General certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is: i left Meeting and is then eligible for election by the shareholders.
atthe office, or at such other place as the Board may decide, The Board may from time to time appoint one or more for registration: and ii accompanied by the certificate for Directors to hold employment or executive office for such theshares to be transferred and such other evidence if any period subject to the Companies Act 2006 and on such as the Board may reasonably require to prove the title of the terms as they may determine and may revoke or terminate intending transferor or his or her right to transfer the shares.
The Board may permit any class of shares in the Company to be held in uncertificated form and, subject to the articles of Under the articles of association, at every Annual General association, title to uncertificated shares to be transferred Meeting of the Company, every Director shall retire from bymeans of a relevant system and may revoke any such office but shall be eligible for election or re-election by the permission.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated shareholders.
The Company may by special resolution or by share may be refused where permitted by the statutes ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given asdefined in the articles of association.
remove, and the Board may, by unanimous decision remove, any Director before the expiration of his or her term of office.
The office of Director shall be vacated if: i he or she resigns: Repurchase of shares ii he or she has become physically or mentally incapable of The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last acting as a director and may remain so for more than three Annual General Meeting on 28 February 2018 to buy back up months and the Board resolves that his or her office is to 108,310,042 ordinary shares.
The minimum price which must vacated: iii he or she is absent without permission of the be paid for each ordinary share is its nominal value and the Board from meetings of the Board for six consecutive months maximum price set out in the resolution is the higher of an and the Board resolves that his or her office is vacated: amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market iv he or she becomes bankrupt or makes an arrangement quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London orcomposition with his or her creditors generally: v he or Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days sheis prohibited by law from being a director: or vi he or she immediately before the purchase is made and an amount is removed from office pursuant to the articles of association.
equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest current independent bid Powers of the Directors for ordinary shares on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out in each case exclusive of expenses.
Share The business of the Company will be managed by the Board repurchases are used from time to time as a method to which may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject control the Groups leverage and decisions are made against tothe provisions of the Companys articles of association, strict price, volume and returns criteria that are agreed by theCompanies Act 2006 and any ordinary resolution of theBoard and regularly reviewed.
In the year under review, the Company made no Shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust sharerepurchases.
The trustee of The Sage Group plc Employee Benefit Trust hasagreed not to vote any shares held in the Employee In the year under review no treasury shares were cancelled.
Benefit Trust at any general meeting.
If any offer is made to Total share awards of 707,190 were made out of shares held shareholders to acquire their shares the trustee will not be bythe Employee Benefit Trust.
16,907 of these shares were obliged to accept or reject the offer in respect of any shares transferred from treasury to the trustee of the Employee which are at that time subject to subsisting awards, but will Benefit Trust at nil cost, and the remainder were purchased have regard to the interests of the award holders and will inthe market by the trustee of the Employee Benefit Trust.
havepower to consult them to obtain their views on the offer.
Subject to the above the trustee may take action with respect to the offer it thinksfair.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 131 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Wherea holder of notes accepts the offer to prepay, the Significant agreements prepayment shall be 100% of the principal amount of the The following significant agreements contain provisions notes together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other and any applicable net loss and, in each case, including the rights in the event of a change of control of the Company: deduction of any applicable net gain and shall still be made on the proposed payment date.
No prepayment under a Under a note purchase agreement dated 20 May 2013 change of control shall include any premium of any kind: relating to US$150 million senior notes, Series E, due 20 May 2020, US$150 million senior notes, Series F, due 20 May 2023 Under the terms of all three agreements above, a change and US$50 million senior notes, Series G, due 20 May 2025 of control occurs if any person or group of persons acting between Sage Treasury Company Limited and the note in concert gains control of the Company: holders and guaranteed by the Company, on a change of The platform reseller agreement dated 31 January 2015 control of the Company, the Company will not take any relating to the Companys strategic arrangements with action that consummates or finalises a change of control Salesforce.
com EMEA Limited contains a change of unless at least 15 business days prior to such action it controlright enabling Salesforce to terminate the shallhave given to each holder of notes written notice agreement in the event there is a change of control containing and constituting an offer to prepay all notes on infavour of a direct competitor of Salesforce.
com adate specified in such offer which shall be a business day EMEALimited.
The agreement contains post termination occurring subsequent to the effective date of the change of requirements upon Salesforce to support a transition for control which is not less than 30 days or more than 60 days upto a specified period: and after the date of the notice of prepayments.
Where a holder In respect of the platform reseller agreement with of notes accepts the offer to prepay, the prepayment shall Salesforce.
com EMEA Limited, change of control occurs be100% of the principal amount of the notes together with where a corporate transaction results in the owners of the accrued and unpaid interest thereon and shall be made on subject entity owning less than 50% of the voting interests the proposed prepayment date.
No prepayment under a in that entity as a result of the corporate transaction.
change of control shall include any premium of any kind: Under a dual tranche US$719 million and 135 million Financial risk management five-year multi-currency revolving credit facility agreement dated 7 February 2018 between, amongst others, Sage The Groups exposure to and management of capital, liquidity, Treasury Company Limited and Lloyds Bank plc as facility credit, interest rate and foreign currency risk are shown in agent and guaranteed by the Company, on a change of note 14 to the financial statements.
Our approach to risk control, if any individual lender so requires and after having management generally and our principal risks can be found consulted with Sage Treasury Company Limited in good onpages 60 to 73 of the Strategic Report.
faith for not less than 30 days following the change of control, the facility agent shall, by not less than 10 business Disclaimer days notice to Sage Treasury Company Limited, cancel the The purpose of this Annual Report and Accounts is to provide commitment of that lender and declare the participation of information to the members of the Company.
The Annual that lender in all outstanding loans, together with accrued Report and Accounts has been prepared for, and only for, the interest and all other amounts accrued under the finance members of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
documents, immediately due and payable, whereupon The Company, its Directors and employees, agents or advisers thecommitment of that lender will be cancelled and all do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person such outstanding amounts will become immediately towhom this document is shown or into whose hands it dueand payable: maycome and any such responsibility or liability is Under a note purchase agreement dated 26 January 2015 expresslydisclaimed.
relating to 55 million senior notes, Series H, due 26 January 2022, 30 million senior notes, Series I, due 26 January 2023 The Annual Report and Accounts contains certain forwardand US$200 million senior notes, Series J, due 26 January looking statements with respect to the operations, 2025 between Sage Treasury Company Limited and the performance and financial condition of the Group.
By note holders and guaranteed by the Company, on a change their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since of control of the Company, the Company will not take any future events and circumstances can cause results and action that consummates or finalises a change of control developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
unless at least 15 business days prior to such action it Theforward-looking statements reflect knowledge and shallhave given to each holder of notes written notice information available at the date of preparation of this containing and constituting an offer to prepay all notes on AnnualReport and Accounts and the Company undertakes the date specified in such offer which shall be a business noobligation to update these forward-looking statements.
day occurring subsequent to the effective date of the Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts should be change of control which is not less than 30 days or more construed as a profit forecast.
than 60 days after the date of notice of prepayments: 132 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
GOVERNANCE Statement of Directors responsibilities Directors statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Directors as at the date of this report, whose names and and Accounts, including the Directors Remuneration Report functions are listed in the Board of Directors on pages 76 to 77, and the Group and parent Company financial statements, confirm that: inaccordance with applicable law and regulations.
To the best of their knowledge, the Groups financial Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with statements for each financial year.
Under that law the IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the Directors have prepared the Group financial statements in assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards theGroup: and IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and the To the best of their knowledge, the Directors report and the parent Company financial statements in accordance with Strategic Report include a fair review of the development United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and performance of the business and the position of the United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Group, together with a description of the principal risks Under company law, the Directors must not approve the anduncertainties that it faces.
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give atrue and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company Each Director as at the date of this report further andthe Group and of the profit or loss of the Group and confirmsthat: theCompany for that period.
So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit In preparing these financial statements the Directors are information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: required to: and The Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to Select suitable accounting policies and then apply have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself themconsistently: aware of any relevant audit information and to establish Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
andprudent: This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in State whether IFRS as adopted by the EU, and applicable accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject Companies Act 2006. toany material departures disclosed and explained intheGroup and parent Company financial In addition, the Directors as at the date of this report consider : and that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, Prepare the financial statements on the going concern balanced and understandable and provides the information basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys and Company will continue in business.
theGroups position and performance, business model andstrategy.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain By Order of the Board theCompanys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Groups financial statements, Article 4 of the International Accounting Vicki Bradin Standards Regulation.
They are also responsible for Company Secretary safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group andhence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 20 November 2018 anddetection of fraud and other irregularities.
Company number 02231246 The Sage Group plc.
