Strategic Report Strategy The strategic focus of the Group is to be one of the worlds leading providers of outsourced alternative asset and corporate services by continuing to build scale in established and emerging markets.
The Group will continue to focus ondeveloping its client base of alternative asset managers, financial institutions, global corporates and family offices.
The Group continues to be successful in growing both organically and inorganically.
New business is sourced from our strong relationshipswith market intermediaries, cross-selling to existing clients and from developing new client relationships.
Organic growth The key drivers of the Groups organic growth strategy include: cross-selling to existing clients between product offerings, geographies and delivering new client wins through direct building out SANNEs presence in existing asset classes, referrals, intermediary referrals and direct targeting.
This withaparticular focus on the alternative assets space: includes inter-product initiatives to sell ancillary corporate development of core bespoke asset-led offerings to drive services to existing clients: increased revenue opportunities: expansion of the global network by building scale in key market share development through the deepening of existing jurisdictions to support operational growth and diversification client relationships by offering the most comprehensive and to capitalise on high growth markets: and product and jurisdictional range: expansion of existing services to ensure that the Group can development of our technology platforms and solutions continue to provide a one-stop shop solution to clients in tobothincrease the efficiency of our processes as well eachasset class, as well as continuing to differentiate SANNE as enhance our service levels to clients: from its competitors across the globe.
indd 16 08 04 2019 11:49:41 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 A Annual Repor nnual Report and A t and Accoun ccounts f ts for the y or the year ended 2018 ear ended 2018 St Stock code: SNN ock code: SNN sannegr sannegroup oup.. com com Inorganic growth LIS and CP acquisition together LIS The Groups acquisition strategy is underpinned by managements LIS is a leading third party Alternative Investment Fund Manager track record in sourcing, executing and integrating acquisitions.
AIFM with assets under administration in excess of 8.3 billion.
The Group has a highly selective and disciplined approach to It is authorised to deliver management company services to both acquisitions, seeking to add value to SANNE without an adverse alternative investment funds and open-ended mutual funds impact on the existing business.
It provides alternative asset and corporate focused administration services to more than 60 clients and administers Assessments are made as to the long-term strategic rationale of in excess of 100 fund structures.
LIS is regulated under the acquisition opportunities based on a number of factors, including supervision of Commission fide Surveillance du Secteur Financier.
the ability to: Founded in 2011, together LIS and CP employ more than 80 people, the majority of whom are based in Luxembourg with a small build operational scale in existing and or complementary operation in Dublin.
jurisdictions: The acquisition completed on 6 February 2018.
The integration of strengthen SANNEs existing service delivery platform and LIS and CP continues to progress.
deliver operational capability to support SANNEs growth story: acquire a skilled workforce to support SANNEs people-led approach: AgenSynd acquisition benefit from cost synergies rationalisation of systems and AgenSynd is one of the leading loan agency businesses in Europe.
central functions and cross-selling opportunities within the It employs around 20 people across Madrid and London and in its combined business: representative sales office in Paris.
The acquisition of AgenSynd has been a great opportunity for SANNE to augment our existing deliver an alternative, lower cost outsourced platform: and book of loan agency work and increase the strength and depth further strengthen client relationships in cases where there are of the management team tackling the agency market.
It has also common clients allowed the Group to expand our Continental European footprint.
The transaction completed on 1 September 2018.
The Group continued to be active in the year, with the completion of two deals during 2018, LIS in February and AgenSynd in September.
These acquisitions have delivered greater geographic diversity and a more comprehensive product offering in the Groups more established markets.
