Strategic Report Marketplace SANNE is a global business that operates in a highly fragmented Against this backdrop, a material factor driving the increasing industry and serves a number of end markets with significant demand for the Groups services is the growing level of regulation opportunities for growth, including alternatives, corporates and being applied by authorities to the alternatives industry.
and regulation such as AIFMD, CRS, FATCA and GDPR for example, create a considerable increase in workload for funds and asset The diversified nature of the business provides a degree of hedging managers that is complicated and costly to deal with in-house.
Despite c. 85% of the Groups Factoring in the evolving nature of the regulatory landscape, revenues in 2018 arising from clients operating in the alternatives the rate of technological change, the substantial penalties sector, within this sector SANNE serves a range of niches such for failing to comply, the added complexity brought about by as private equity funds, debt funds, capital markets structures, different approaches and obligations across jurisdictions, and real estate funds and hedge funds.
This broad mix of investment the option of outsourcing to specialist, regulated administrators strategy along with a wide spread of this activity across many with an international footprint and expertise, such as SANNE, geographic regions means SANNE is not significantly impacted becomesincreasingly compelling.
by strong trends in any one particular area.
For instance, the emergence of specialist asset classes such as private debt offer Taking each geographic region in turn, SANNE continues to win new investment opportunities for institutional investors.
business from new and existing clients in EMEA, supported by itsincreased operational capacity across Belgrade, Mauritius The global alternatives market continues to exhibit strong andCape Town.
growth as investor bases have evolved, reacting to more choice, diversification and sustainable, longer-term returns.
According The North American region continues to grow in importance to 1 to a recent report by Boston Consulting Group, growth is set theGroup.
The region continues to be the worlds largest market to continue, with global alternative assets under management foralternative asset management.
At present, only a small expected to reach US$17 trillion by 2022, compared to US$12 proportion of services to administer North American private capital trillion in 2017, a compound annual growth rate of 8%.
Even AUM is thought to be outsourced to third party administrators.
with this growth, the same report estimates that assets under Albeit the rate of outsourcing is thought to be rising all the time administration in alternative investment strategies will still only driven by regulatory change, evolving reporting requirements and represent 16% of global assets under administration versus 15% in the need for increased investment in technology infrastructure, 2 2017.
PwC, in a separate report, attributes the expected growth providing a significant growth opportunity for SANNE.
in the industry to a  shift to individual The Group has also seen significant growth across Asia-Pacific, retirement plans, the increase of high-net-worth individuals inpart facilitated by the additional capacity brought in following from emerging markets, and new market entrants in the form theacquisition of IFS in Mauritius at the beginning of 2017. of sovereign and public pension funds.
In addition, a market 3 Emerging markets continue to see strong growth in allocations to report in 2018 from EY note that private equity funds, as a subalternative assets under management in recent years and the scale set of the alternatives space, are enjoying particular tailwinds that SANNE now has in these markets will ensure that increasing with one-third of investors expecting to increase their allocations market share is a key focus in this region.
This increase has been of funds to private equity in the coming years, while only 1 in 10 driven by economic reform, increased freedom of trade and GDP foreseereductions.
Significant market drivers Demand for alternative Regulation Outsourcing Globalisation Wealth Creation Consolidation investment strategies Higher returns An increasing Demand for Clients are Continuing The industry is driving demand for specialists due increasingly growth in GDP still fragmented sustainable services driven to increasing global and and middle and there is long term by greater operational demand a classes in still scope growth in asset regulation complexity global provider developing for further allocation countries consolidation 1.
Global Asset Management 2018, The Digital Metamorphosis: The Boston Consulting Group Sources http: image-src.
Alternative investments: Its time to pay attention: https: www.
At the tipping point, Disruption and the pace of change in the alternative asset management industry, 2018 Global Alternative Fund Survey: https: www.
pdf 30 Sanne Group Plc AR2018 - Front.
indd 30 08 04 2019 11:49:50 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 2018 Stock code: SNN sannegroup.
com 31 Sanne Group Plc AR2018 - Front.
