Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Viability Statement The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code requires the Company to issue a viability statement stating whether the Board believes that the Group is able to continue to operate and meet its liabilities, taking into account its current position and principal risks.
In accordance with the Code, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Company over a three year period to 31 December 2021, taking account of the Groups current position and prospects, the Group's strategic plan, and the Group's principal risks and the management of those risks, as detailed in the Strategic Report on pages 4 to 39.
This longer-term assessment supports the Boards statements on both viability.
Additionally the Directors are satisfied that the adoption on going concern is appropriate as set out on page 56.
Period for Assessment The Directors have concluded that the three-year period is appropriate for this assessment being consistent with the period covered by the Groups strategic plan and the cyclical nature of property markets.
In assessing viability the Directors considered a number of factors including the resilience of the Group, taking account of its current position and prospects, the Groups strategic plan, the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business and the Boards risk appetite as detailed in the Strategic Report on pages 4 to 39.
The strategy and associated principal risks which underpin the Groups three-year plan, are reviewed by the Directors at least annually.
The Directors also satisfied themselves that they have the evidence necessary to support the statement in terms of the effectiveness of the internal control environment in place to mitigate risk.
The assessment process and key assumptions Sensitivity analysis was undertaken on the three year plan, including financing projections, to flex the financial forecasts under a variety of scenarios, which involve applying different assumptions to the underlying forecast both individually and in aggregate.
These scenarios assess the potential impact from several macro-economic risks, including Brexit in the UK and a severe global economic downturn analogous to that experienced during the Global Financial Crisis in 2008 09.
The results of this sensitivity analysis showed that the Group would be able to withstand the impact of such scenarios over the period of the financial forecast.
Performance against the three year plan is monitored on an ongoing basis, including regular Board briefings provided by the Heads of the Principal Businesses on the progress made by those businesses.
These reviews consider both the market opportunity and the associated risks.
These risks are considered within the Boards risk appetite framework.
Confirmation of longer-term viability Based on the assessment explained above and in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue to operate and meet its liabilities as they fall due, over the three-year period ending 31 December 2021.
The Directors also considered it appropriate to prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis as explained in Note 2.1 to the accounts.
