Savills plc Report and Accounts 2018 Our business explained Our business model illustrates in simple terms how we create shareholder value through improving the strength of our premium brand, and through the delivery of profits and dividends to shareholders.
We treat every client as an individual and take time to understand what they need and how we can best service them.
Our resources Our business and relationships model Defensive, scale business Outstanding people Property Investment and facilities management Consultancy management Local knowledge Entrepreneurial approach 4% 17% 33% Intellectual property Market intelligence Brand and reputation Revenue Long-term client by business relationships Client care programmes High quality servicer Financial Commercial Residential transactions transactions Prudent capital structure 36% 10% Strong cash generation Cyclical high-margin businesses 06 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements We have built our brand and reputation on our personal approach to business, our We firmly believe that our people are key the quality of our people, relationships, people are fundamental to our business to delivering excellent service to our clients resources and processes.
Savills has a and we encourage an open and supportive and achieving our objectives: they give us strong and well embedded culture, culture in which every individual is a unique perspective of the markets in founded on an entrepreneurial approach respected.
We strive to provide an which we operate and connect our clients and underpinned by our values and environment in which our people can with real estate opportunities and market operational standards.
All that we do is flourish and succeed.
This allows us to intelligence.
To be the real estate adviser of underpinned by strong governance, a recruit, motivate and retain talented choice in our markets, and deliver superior disciplined approach to risk management people and build on our status as an financial performance, we aim to employ and high standards of responsibility, which employer of choice.
people of the highest quality supporting supports the sustainable development of the delivery of the highest standards of We work hard to ensure that our people our business.
More detail of our client service.
By choosing Savills, our enjoy working at Savills, promoting their governance structure, policies and clients have access to over 37,000 staff personal and professional development.
practices can be found later in this with a broad range of experience, skills We encourage them to develop their Annual Report on pages 40 to 88. and local knowledge, based in offices in careers within the Group, nurturing the key real estate locations across the globe We are committed to delivering a high entrepreneurs and leaders of the future and benefit from our extensive market quality service and creating long-term to share in the success of the business.
Because of Our value creation Our values Shareholders Pride in everything we do Dividends Take an entrepreneurial approach to business 31.2p Help our people fulfil their true potential Underlying profit Always act with integrity 143.7m Underlying earnings Clients per share 77.8p Governance High quality service Client relationship Client care Board oversight Client relationship High standards management team People of governance Developing talent Employee engagement Disciplined Inclusion and diversity Community approach to risk Reducing Risk mitigation to limit environmental impact exposure to any one market Carbon emission reduction or economy Business and geography Community investment diversification Community engagement programmes 07 Underpinned by
