Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 B.
Effectiveness B5 Provision of information and support the Code is the standard against which To enable the Board to discharge its duties, B1 The Boards Composition we measured ourselves in 2018 and the each Director received appropriate and The Board is made up of a majority of Board fully supports the principles set timely information, including detailed Independent Non-Executive Directors, out in the Code.
The Main Principles have papers in advance of Board meetings.
been applied as follows: Each Director has access to the advice The Board has determined that each A.
Leadership and services of the Group Legal Director Non-Executive Director is independent & Company Secretary and through him A1 The Boards Role in character and judgement, commits have access to independent professional The Board met formally eight time sufficient time and energy to the role, advice in respect of their duties at the during the year with specific focus on and continues to make a valuable Companys expense.
strategy, performance, leadership an contribution to the Board and its risk, governance and finance.
There is a Committees, including Charles McVeigh, B6 Board and Committee performance schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
evaluation During 2018, the Boards annual evaluation A2 Clear Division of Responsibilities The Nomination & Governance was led by the Chairman and facilitated by Committees primary objective is to The roles of the Chairman and Group the Group Legal Director & Company review the composition of the Board.
Chief Executive are clearly defined.
The process and key findings are In making appointments to the Board, Chairman is responsible for the leadership explained on page 55 of the Annual Report.
the Nomination & Governance and effectiveness of the Board, and the Committee assesses the balance of Group Chief Executive is responsible for B7 Re-election of the Directors skills, knowledge, independence, leading the day-to-day management of the All Directors are subject to election by experience and diversity required in Group within the strategy set by the Board.
All Directors order to maintain an effective Board.
will stand for re-election by Shareholders A3 Role of the Chairman B2 Board appointments at the AGM on 8 May 2019.
Directors The Chairman sets the Boards agenda, biographies are set out on pages 42 to 45 The Nomination & Governance Committee manages the meeting timetable in of the Annual Report, enabling leads the appointment of new Directors to conjunction with the Group Legal Director Shareholders to take an informed decision the Board.
& Company Secretary and promotes a when determining their re-election.
culture of open and constructive dialogue B3 Time commitment during meetings.
C. Accountability On appointment, Directors are notified of The Chairman, on appointment, met and the time commitment expected of them.
C1 Financial and business reporting continues to meet the independence The Strategic Report is set out on page The Non-Executive Directors have ensured criteria set out in B.
4 to 39 of the Annual Report and provides that they have sufficient time to carry out information about the performance of the A4 Role of the Non-Executive Directors their duties.
Group, the business model, strategy and The Chairman promotes an open and the principal risks and uncertainties.
B4 Development constructive environment in the To ensure a full understanding of Savills boardroom and actively invites the The Directors going concern statement is and its businesses, on appointment each Non-Executive Directors views.
The given on page 56 of the Annual Report.
new Director undergoes a comprehensive Non-Executive Directors provide objective, and tailored induction programme which constructive and rigorous challenge to introduces the Director to the Groups management and meet regularly in the businesses, its operations, strategic plans, absence of the Executive Directors.
key risks and its governance policies.
The induction also includes one to one meetings with the Heads of the Principal Businesses and an introduction to each Group businesss development strategy.
63 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2018 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code continued C2 Risk management and internal control C3 Audit Committee and Auditors C4 Tenure of Auditor The Board sets out the Groups risk The Board has satisfied itself that Liz At the 2018 AGM, shareholders approved appetite and, through the Audit Hewitt has recent and relevant financial the re-appointment of PwC as the Committee, annually reviews the experience and is confident that the Companys External Auditor.
effectiveness of the Groups risk collective experience of the members The Audit Committee has assessed management and internal control enables it to be effective.
The fact that a whether suitable accounting policies have systems.
person has been identified as having recent been adopted and whether management and relevant financial experience does not The Directors carried out a robust have made appropriate judgements and impose additional duties, obligations or assessment of the principal risks including estimates.
The main areas of judgement responsibilities on that Audit Committee those that would threaten the business considered by the Committee during 2018 member.
The Committee also has access to model, future performance, solvency or are presented on page 60 of the Annual the financial expertise of the Group and its liquidity.
Those risks and how they are Report.
The Audit Committee keeps under external and internal auditors and can seek being managed or mitigated is set out in review the independence and objectivity of further professional advice at the the Annual Report at pages 24 to 28. the External Auditor, including the review Companys expense, if required.
of audit fee proposals and non-audit fees.
Taking account of the Companys current The Group Legal Director & Company The Committee reported on how the position and principal risks, the Directors Secretary ensures that it receives effectiveness of PwC was assessed for the assessed the viability of the Group over a information and papers in a timely manner 2018 financial year on page 61 to 62 of the three-year period.
The Directors have a to enable full and proper consideration of Annual Report.
reasonable expectation that the Group will agenda items.
These agenda items are be able to continue in operation and meet D. Remuneration agreed in advance in its annual meeting its liabilities as they fall due over the activity plan.
D1 Levels and components of three-year period.
The viability statement is remuneration set out on page 29 of the Annual Report.
The main roles and responsibilities of the The Groups focus and business policy is Audit Committee are set out in written The Board monitors the Groups risk founded on the premise that staff in the Terms of Reference which are available on management and internal control systems real estate advisory sector are motivated our website.
The Committee is authorised and, at least annually, carries out a review through highly incentive-based and to investigate any matter within its Terms of the effectiveness of the Groups systems therefore variable remuneration consistent of Reference and has access to the services of internal control, covering all material with the Groups partnership style culture, of the Group Legal Director & Company controls, including financial, operational which also ensures that the Groups reward Secretary and, where necessary, the and compliance.
The activities of the Audit arrangements are consistent with and authority to obtain external legal or other Committee are summarised on pages 59 sensitive to the cyclical nature of real independent professional advice in the and 60 of the Annual Report.
The Groups Remuneration Policy is The Committee has responsibility for designed to deliver these objectives and to reviewing the Groups whistleblowing provide the reward potential necessary for arrangements, including ensuring that the Company to attract, retain and appropriate arrangements are in place for motivate the high-calibre individuals on employees to be able to raise, in confidence, whom its continued growth and matters of alleged impropriety, and for development depend.
Reflecting this ensuring that appropriate follow-up actions philosophy, the salaries for the Executive are taken.
Directors, Group Executive Board The Audit Committees role is to assist the members and senior fee-earners are set Board in discharging its duties and significantly below market medians for responsibilities for financial reporting, similar businesses, with a greater emphasis internal control and in making on the performance-related elements of recommendations to the Board on the profit share and or, outside of the UK, appointment of the independent External commission in the total reward package.
The Committee is responsible for the scope and results of the audit work, its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the External Auditors.
64 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Committee is mindful of its E. Relations with Shareholders responsibility to reward appropriately, but E1 Shareholder engagement and dialogue not excessively, and rigorously assesses The Group Chief Executive Officer and competitive positioning in setting Group Chief Financial Officer lead a remuneration and determining targets to regular programme of meetings and ensure that reward properly reflects presentations with analysts and investors, performance, that it supports the delivery including presentations following the of our strategic and operational objectives publication of the Companys full and half and that it is fair to management and year results.
This programme maintains a Shareholders alike.
continuous two-way dialogue between The Remuneration Policy was reviewed in the Company and Shareholders, and helps 2016 17 and approved by Shareholders at to ensure that the Board is aware of the 2018 AGM as required by the Directors Shareholders views on a timely basis.
The Board also normally receives feedback twice each year from the Companys D2 Procedure corporate brokers on investors and the The Remuneration Committee is principally markets perceptions of the Company.
responsible for determining Company policy on senior executive remuneration The Chairman and the Senior Independent and for setting the remuneration Director are also available to meet with arrangements of the Executive Directors Shareholders if so required.
and reviewing those of the members of the E2 Constructive use of the general Group Executive Board.
The Committee meetings excluding the Non-Executive Chairman also determines the level of fees payable to The AGM provides the Board with a the Non-Executive Chairman.
valuable opportunity to communicate with private Shareholders and is generally The Committee is advised by FIT attended by all of the Directors.
Remuneration Consultants LLP, who provide an independent commentary on The Notice of Meeting and related papers matters under consideration by the for the AGM are sent to Shareholders at Committee and updates on market least 20 working days before the meeting.
developments, legislative requirements and best practice, and internally by the Group Legal Director & Company Secretary.
The Remuneration Committees terms of reference are available on our website.
An overview of what the Committee has done during the year is provided on pages 66 to 84 of the Annual Report.
