Savills plc Report and Accounts 2018 Non financial information Savills is committed to being a good We focus on those key areas where we The table below, and the information it corporate citizen in all aspects of its believe we can make a difference and our refers to, is intended to help stakeholders operations and activities.
The Company, localised approach provides the flexibility understand our position on key nontherefore, holds itself accountable for required to have meaning and impact at financial matters.
its social, environmental and economic a local level.
At Savills, we learn through impacts on the people and places where experience and we actively encourage our it does business.
All of our businesses businesses to share their experiences and are required to comply with local legal develop best practice to ensure that we standards as an absolute minimum.
continue to improve as an organisation.
We endeavour to manage our impact in The Non-Financial Reporting requirements a responsible and sustainable manner.
To are contained in sections 414CA and 414CB fulfil this aim the Group actively embraces of the Companies Act 2006.
The nona range of policies and practices that aim financial information provided in our to foster a positive approach towards Strategic Report summarises the material corporate responsibility as an integral issues Savills has identified in line with the part of our day-to-day activities.
Developing Reinforcing Environment Our People Culture Across our global business, Savills It is our vision to We are committed to is committed to be the real estate doing the right thing in reducing the impact advisor of choice in the right way and this is that our operations our selected markets reflected in the Savills have on the natural and deliver superior Code of Conduct.
By actively financial performance seeking to reduce our and this can only be environmental impact, achieved through the Page we are able to achieve dedication, commitment increased operational and excellence of our 36 efficiencies and savings, people.
both internally and for our clients.
Page Page 32 36 30 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements To support greater collaboration among This enables us to understand where we Our Clients client relationship teams, we launched a have met or exceeded expectations as well Our clients expect us to consistently deliver new internal collaboration platform in 2018, as areas in which we can do better.
Ultimately the highest standards of client care allowing and encouraging Savills client this approach provides a complete insight through professional, motivated and high teams to share information in an efficient into our clients priorities so we can refine the calibre people.
Therefore, encouraging our manner across teams and borders.
We are Savills client experience through our people to create and nurture strong also continuing the implementation of our approaches and make the appropriate skills, long-term relationships with our clients is CRM platform in Europe.
Our goal is to expertise and resources available.
It also fundamental to our client care strategy and ensure greater visibility of client intelligence means we can better service our clients we are committed to ensuring that our and increased collaboration among client needs and be more proactive in offering people have the right tools, training and relationship teams across the UK and solutions which may involve other specialist motivation to deliver an exceptional and EMEA regions.
personal client experience which is tailored to our clients requirements and needs.
We As part of the client relationship As we build upon our client relationship do this by ensuring we have specialist management CRM programme, it is management programme we are teams who can deliver the best quality and the responsibility of our dedicated committed to continually evolving and timely advice throughout the property client relationship leads to gain a deep improving.
A key area for 2018 and going life-cycle, and who can at the same time understanding of our clients businesses forward is the focus on the next generation work collaboratively within a client through regular dialogue and to share of client relationship leads, encouraging relationship team to ensure our clients also this knowledge with the wider client engagement with the fundamentals of receive a joined up and consistent service.
We also commission CRM and the importance of developing independent client reviews to better their own long-term relationships.
Our Corporate Responsibility Our Business structure Principles Social Matters Group Chief Executive and the Board Pride in Everything We Do We believe that the community engagement Responsibility for Our Corporate programmes that we Responsibility programme sits with have developed have a the Group Chief Executive and the positive impact on the Board areas where our people live and ensure that Savills is firmly engaged with the communities Take an we serve.
Corporate Responsibility Entrepreneurial Approach Steering Group to Business Page Our CR Steering Group, comprising 38 senior representatives from our businesses and central teams, co-ordinate Our Corporate Responsibility strategy Help our People Fulfil Their True Potential Corporate Responsibility Strategy The strategy is implemented and delivered at country level focusing on the key aspects of corporate Always Act resonsibility which we believe are With Integrity key to the success of our business and where we believe we can make the most difference 31 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2018 Non financial information continued OUR PEOPLE Our People Strategy Our people strategy highlights are set out below.
Our people strategy remains focused on supporting delivery of the highest standards of client service through motivated and engaged people.
Inclusion and Diversity We believe that a positive culture is Encourage an open and supportive culture in which every individual is respected essential to high quality client service.
This positive culture is encapsulated in our business philosophy and our values.
Our reputation has been built on our people and we believe that staff whose Employee Engagement behaviours reflect in our business Engage with our people to communicate our vision and strategy philosophy deliver the excellent client service that we strive to provide.
Our business philosophy also captures our commitment to ethical, Developing Talent professional and responsible conduct and our entrepreneurial, valueStrive to provide an environment in which our people can flourish and succeed enhancing approach.
Employee engagement Developing talent We continue to focus on employee We firmly believe in the value of developing future talent from within the Group and engagement through a number of areas we want people to grow their careers at Savills.
We work hard to help nurture the of focus.
For example, in the UK we are entrepreneurs and leaders of the future.
improving the capability of our leaders and We continue to invest significantly in the development of all our people, for whom we managers through our key programmes recognise that career development and progression is very important.
We have improved the clarity of our reward and We deliver training and development in all areas including management and leadership, benefits through the use of for example client and business skills and professional and technical skills.
We recognise that personal in the UK of a new Total Reward Statement, development occurs in many ways and we encourage all our staff to attend conferences, so that all our employees clearly see the internal events, and participate in projects to supplement their Continuous Professional full reward package.
We take employee Development CPD.
wellbeing seriously and have an established wellbeing programme, and we are For example, in the UK, the format of our training varies from one-hour masterclasses, committed to the Time to Change pledge.
webinars, and video content, to two-day pitching courses and management and leadership workshops.
We encourage and support all our staff to complete their CPD and all our internal courses programmes have CPD points associated with them.
All of this is supported by a dedicated training team, who offer individual career development advice and a dedicated page on the Company intranet which pulls together all the information our people need to plan their personal development.
In order to manage individual development and ongoing learning, we have launched a Learning Management System LMS in the UK.
The LMS is mobile compatible, allows individuals to track and manage their development, watch video podcasts and download course materials.
In Asia, we are progressively extending our CPD programme, tailoring it as appropriate to best meet local requirements.
We have also extended our CPD programme across the US.
32 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Times Graduate Employer of choice for Property for the 12th year in a row Our graduates are our future leaders.
Graduates are surrounded by experienced professionals and team members from whom they can seek advice and learn.
With responsibility from the day they join the business, in teams which highly value their contribution, our graduates are involved in some of the worlds most high-profile transactions and developments.
We look for graduates with entrepreneurial flair and diverse skills.
In the UK In 2018 ranked 83 in the Times Top 100 Graduate Employers Ranked No.
1 in Rate my Placement for our summer scheme programme.
In the US, we are continuing to run our Young Leaders Programme, now in its second year.
Savills Studley Academy, a multi-year business mentorship programme aimed at harnessing the talent of the rising stars, is now in its fourth year.
In 2018, in Asia Pacific, we ran our first Inspire course, a two-year course for our next generation leaders of the business.
The programme is split into four, three day workshops spread over the two year period.
A key part of the programme is for the candidate spending time with the Asia Pacific Executive Committee to discuss strategic intent and present ideas for growth.
Each candidate is assigned a lifetime mentor from within the business to help guide and support them through the programme and beyond.
33 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2018 Non financial information continued We believe that creating an inclusive and INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY diverse culture supports the attraction and We look to create an inclusive culture in retention of talented people and supports which difference is accepted and valued.
We respect our We believe that our inclusive approach people for who they are, their knowledge, gives us a competitive advantage and skills and experience as individuals and as underpins the success of our business by valued members of the Savills team.
We giving us the ability to select our people work together to bring out the best in each from the highest quality individuals in the other and to sustain the strong working widest available pool of talent.
relationship ethic that has nurtured our can do attitude.
As at 31 December 2018 our As an organisation committed to diversity total global workforce of 38,367 colleagues in its workforce, we will continue to comprised 20,982 males and 17,385 strengthen our policies, processes and females.
Of these, 213 were senior practices to develop our diversity and executives 186 males, 27 females inclusion plans within the Groups markets comprising members of the Group and geographies, in alignment with our Executive Board and Board members of corporate goals.
We will continue to the corporate entities whose financial endeavour to improve the representation information is incorporated in the Groups of women at Board and senior levels within 2017 consolidated accounts in this Annual the organisation and to sustain an inclusive Report.
During the year, the Companys culture in which all talent can thrive.
Board of Directors comprised nine members six males and three female.
We believe that we have created a culture in which those skills, experience and The UK Government has introduced perspectives are nurtured and encouraged.
legislation that will require employers As an example of our commitment to with 250 or more UK employees to diversity, in the UK we are focused on disclose information on their gender increasing the diversity of our business in pay gap.
The gender pay picture for order to reflect the needs of our clients and Savills UK, calculated in accordance have achieved the RICS Equality Mark.
We with the published requirements has are fully engaged in a diversity programme been published on the Savills UKs Changing the Face of Property which website.
We are pleased to see that in focuses on improving diversity across social 2018 our gender pay gap has reduced.
and economic background, disability, LGBT, age and gender.
We have also improved our maternity policy, introduced mentoring and coaching for women and held a number of events with clients and keynote speakers.
In addition, we proactively review our promotions to ensure that the numbers going forward for promotion, by gender, are in line with the make-up of the division.
For the LBGT network, we have held a number of events, participated in the London Pride March and we are now listed on the Stonewall Diversity Index.
UK Savills Diversity Group Our Diversity Group in the UK is now in its fourth year.
The objective is to highlight the diversity of our business and ensure that we are communicating clearly and effectively about our people and our clients.
We are continuing with a number of significant activities for our Diversity group including the unconscious bias training led by the UK Executive Committee, which is now part of all development programmes including Company induction.
Wellbeing and mental health also continue to be key areas of focus.
34 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other established initiatives we continue to be involved in include: Savills with schools Our current graduates attend a local state secondary school to deliver presentations about careers in property.
This highlights the variety of roles in real estate as well as opportunities for students to engage on an individual basis.
We also launched a programme for our main city offices to partner with a local state school to provide a long-term partnership and offer work experience.
We hope that this will lead to an increased awareness of property as a career and a potential source of future apprenticeship applicants.
Changing the Face of Property CTFOP We continue to be a member of the CTFOP group, a collaboration of employers, governing bodies and education providers who work together to raise awareness of the industry, and drive equality.
We attend the Skills London as well as a number of career fairs, and supported the Trailblazer Apprenticeship scheme with RICS.
We also ran a number of internal diversity events for our Gender and LGBT groups.
We also participated in the London Pride March with the rest of the CTFOP companies.
Careers in property Savills Graduate team collate a guide to the real estate industry, looking at careers in the industry from governing bodies, educational institutions and employers to provide candidates with a comprehensive guide to joining the industry.
This is currently shared with all UK university careers services in the UK.
We also support the Property Needs You and Urban Plan campaigns in schools.
Apprenticeships Savills Surveying Apprentices join teams across the UK.
After six years in the business they will gain their BSc in Real Estate and their full MRICS status.
35 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2018 Non financial information continued The Modern Slavery Act came into force A practical example is our responsible CULTURE in 2015.
We believe the risk of slavery or approach to energy efficiency initiatives.
Savills has a strong and well embedded human trafficking in the recruitment and Within the UK, we procure certified culture, founded on an entrepreneurial engagement of our employees is low.
To renewable green tariff energy where approach and underpinned by our values ensure it remains low, we have provided feasible and within our operational control.
All that we do training on modern slavery for our HR In addition, Savills has piloted shortening IT is underpinned by strong governance, a team and taken steps to make sure our run times within some of our office space, disciplined approach to risk management staff and supply chain partners are aware the positive results of which are now being and high standards of responsibility, which of the Act and its requirements.
Our reviewed for possible roll-out as a wider supports the sustainable development of current Modern Slavery and Human initiative.
Savills have commissioned several our business.
Trafficking Statement is available on the energy efficiency audits to be undertaken Savills website.
during the year ahead to further this agenda We recognise our responsibility as a global across selected properties which consume corporate citizen and we are committed Savills has a zero tolerance approach to significant energy.
Globally we also have a to doing the right thing in the right way bribery and other forms of corruption.
policy to consider the sustainability and this is reflected in the Savills Code of Our Code of Conduct sets out our credentials of the space we let and aim to Conduct.
The Code, which underpins commitment to operate responsibly occupy energy efficient spaces, which our social, ethical and environmental wherever we work in the world, to work support the health and wellbeing of our commitments, clearly sets out the professionally, fairly and with integrity people where at all possible.
standards of behaviour that we expect and to engage with our stakeholders to our employees to demonstrate and adhere manage the social, environmental and Our Hong Kong offices have undertaken to in their day to day working life at Savills.
ethical impact of our activities in the several initiatives this year regarding their As an absolute minimum, our people different markets in which we operate.
office waste and have been awarded the policies comply with local legislation in We empower and support our employees Wastewise Certificate Excellence Level the jurisdictions in which we operate.
We to always make the right decisions Label: and received a bronze award from fully support the principles of UN Global consistent with this policy.
Our corporate the environmental protection department Compact, the UN Declaration of Human conduct is based on our commitment to for their recycling initiatives regarding Rights and the International Labour act responsibly at all times.
We will uphold Electrical and Electronic Equipment.
laws relevant to countering bribery and The UK offices have also increased their Any breaches of our Code of Conduct corruption in all the jurisdictions in which average recycling levels and have set a new may be reported in accordance with the we operate.
target of 70% recycling, for the offices Companys whistle-blowing procedure.
where they have control of waste.
ENVIRONMENT Greenhouse gas emissions Safe working practices form an integral Our Greenhouse Gas GHG Emissions part of our day-to-day business and we Statement includes all emission sources 255 Savills aim to find practical solutions to health and required under the Companies Act 2006 safety risks.
To this end, our safety strategy Strategic Report and Directors Reports teams in the is focused on priorities such as reducing Regulations 2013 for the financial year to occupational exposure to workplace 31 December 2018.
UK have now hazards, maintaining regulatory compliance and seeking to continuously Methodology achieved this develop and strengthen our health and We report our GHG Emissions using safety arrangements.
the revised edition of the GHG Protocol ISO14001 2004 Corporate Accounting and Reporting Across our global business Savills is Standard.
Our GHG emissions reporting committed to reducing the impact that our accreditation.
boundary is based on the operational operations have on the natural environment control approach.
Reported Scope 1 and to minimising the risk of injury and ill emissions relate to emissions from business health to staff and others who are affected travel by company owned or leased by our businesses by providing safe and vehicles and the combustion of fuels within healthy working environments.
This includes our occupied offices.
Scope 2 emissions measuring and being accountable for our are reported using both market-based and global environmental actions.
By actively location-based methodologies and relate seeking to reduce our environmental to electricity use in our occupied offices.
impact, we are able to achieve increased operational efficiencies and savings, both internally and for our clients.
262 offices 2017: 242 36 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements To coordinate the global collection of GHG Performance emissions data, a network of Environmental Savills is confident in making continued steady reductions to our corporate environmental Reporting Nominees ERN has been footprint in the coming years.
To that end, the Group Executive Board, in October 2017, established, reporting to the Group Legal resolved to adopt a global objective of a 5% total global reduction target over a three Director & Company Secretary.
Specialist year period, calculated against 2016 reported GHG emissions figures, normalised by third party verified environmental reporting utilising the Full Time Equivalent FTE year average employee numbers.
Applying this software has been adopted to manage data performance indicator, the emissions intensity for 2018 is 17% lower than the equivalent quality review and verification process.
The year on year reduction between 2018 and 2017 was 10%.
This year we have continued our efforts Our total quantity of reported aggregate Scope 1 and 2 emissions increased by 4% in to track and reduce our carbon impact.
2018, reflecting the greater overall data coverage and an increase in the number of The 2018 data-set has benefited from an office-based staff overall.
Looked at separately, when comparing to 2017 our Scope 1 increase in our reporting coverage from emissions for 2018 decreased by 13%, predominately due to changes in the management our subsidiary offices by 8%, reporting for of our business operations and reduction in business travel by company owner or leased the first time from Indonesia, Luxembourg, vehicles.
However, Scope 2 emissions increased by 11%, mostly due to more offices Malaysia, Portugal, South Korea and our reporting data during 2018.
Our decision to switch all UK direct electricity supplies to offices in Middle East.
The data thus now certified renewable energy has resulted in a decrease in the UK market-based Scope 2 covers 262 offices, compared to 242 emissions figure by 876 tonnes CO e, yet this decrease has been outweighed to some 2 locations in 2017. extent as the residual emissions for other global regions, which were higher.
The full impact of the UK switch to procure energy on a certified renewable tariff will be During the last six years, our GHG accounted for in 2019. emissions data coverage has increased significantly resulting in an increasingly tCO e 2 accurate reflection of the GHG emissions % change 2016 associated with our operational activity.
1 Global GHG Emissions 2018 vs 2016 2017 baseline We have therefore made a decision to update our reporting baseline year from Scope 1 Direct 2,162 -14% 2,479 2,518 2013 to 2016 to enable a more meaningful Scope 2 Indirect, location-based 6,697 4% 6,050 6,450 year-on-year comparison and to track 3 our performance against a new 2016 Total Scope 1 and 2 8,858 -1% 8,530 8,968 companywide emissions target Scope 2 Indirect, market-based 6,299 nr nr see below.
Office-based employees Through the ERN network, reported FTE yr. av.
adjusted 9,970 20% 8,621 8,342 greenhouse gas emissions have been 234 GHG Intensity Ratio 0.89 -17% 0.99 1.08 collated using actual activity data wherever possible.
In those instances where activity data was not found to be wholly reliable or MWh readily available, we have calculated the % change 2016 relevant emissions by using a range of Global Energy Use 2018 vs 2016 2017 baseline standard carbon accounting measures, Total energy use 27,079 nr nr including extrapolating data and use of comparator indicator based estimation floor area.
To allow easier comparison Notes between reporting locations and year on 1 E missions factors based on Defra DECC Guidelines 2018 and other globally recognised methodologies.
year results, a standardised per capita 2 T otal Scope 1 and 2 emissions, divide by total full-time equivalent office-based employees intensity ratio has also been applied.
emissions intensity ratio relates to Scope 1 3 T otal Scope 1 and 2 emissions and GHG Intensity ratio calculated using location-based Scope and 2 location-based emissions per average 2 emissions.
number of full-time equivalent office-based 4 The office-based employee year average calculation has been restated for 2016 and 2017. employees.
It is normalised to take into account office moves during the year.
-17% 10% year-on-year Emissons intensity for 2018. reduction between Lower than the equivallent baseline year 2018 and 2017 2017: 140.5 37 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2018 Non financial information continued Social Matters Caring Company Our offices and our people are actively involved in their communities through 10 consecutive years our support of charitable causes and other social and business organisations, including making financial, in kind and time contributions.
In recognition of Savills Guardians efforts in support of charitable We are a membership of FTSE4Good, causes, Savills Guardian continues evidencing our commitment to meeting to hold the Caring Company 10 globally recognised corporate consecutive years logo as responsibility standards.
acknowledgement of Savills Guardians participation in the Caring Company Scheme.
T he FTSE Group confirms that Savills plc has been independently assessed according to the FTSE4 Good criteria, and has satisfied the requirements to remain a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Created by the global index company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is an equity index series that is designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met stringent environmental, social and governance criteria, and are positioned to capitalise on the benefits of responsible business practice.
Savills Corporate Sevens Charity Tournament Hong Kong The tournament attracts many of the citys major companies for a day of competitive rugby and fundraising in support of various childrens rugby charities.
We are enormously proud of this event and staff willingly give their time and energy to participate in the games and help with the considerable amount of organisation involved.
38 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements US Savills Studley is dedicated to promoting been a philanthropic partner for JDRF has grown to become our industrys leadership, volunteerism and support of since 1983.
Savills Studleys Adam Singer premier fundraiser.
We also participated charitable organisations.
The Company founded the Games in 1990.
The Games in the Lee National Denim Day, which contributes to not-for-profit is a day-long Olympics-style event in Savills Studley have been involved with organisations nationally and on which commercial real estate firms in the since 2005.
Across all offices a local level, with employee-led Washington, DC region compete to raise nationwide, we encourage strong initiatives that focus on childrens health, funds for T1D diabetes research.
Since employee participation in the fundraiser wellness and education: cancer research the Games began, the continuing and our local branches hold their own and community-based projects that partnership between the firm and JDRF fundraising activities.
The firm has has raised more than $9m.
The event Graduates UK Supporting the charity YoungMinds Savills Graduate Charity Committee have been supporting the charity YoungMinds which works to improve the wellbeing and mental health of children and young people.
The charity helps young people, their parents, the professionals who work with them and the policy makers in the Government to improve mental health for children and young people in the UK.
As part of its commitment to the charity, Savills held fundraising events as part of YoungMinds #HelloYellow week, championing the wellbeing and mental health of young people.
