Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors report In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules LR 9.8.
4C, the information to be included in the Annual Report and Accounts, where applicable, under LR 9.8.
4, is set out in this Directors Report.
Operations The Company and its subsidiaries together the Group operate through a network of offices and associates throughout the Americas, the UK, Continental Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa and the Middle East.
Results for the year The results for the Group are set out in the consolidated income statement on page 97 which shows a reported profit for the financial year attributable to the shareholders of the Company of 76.7m 2017: 80.1m.
Dividend An interim dividend of 4.8p per ordinary share amounting to 6.6m 2017: 6.3m was paid on 3 October 2018.
It is recommended that a final dividend of 10.8p per ordinary share amounting to 14.8m is paid, together with a supplemental interim dividend of 15.6p per ordinary share amounting to 21.4m and to be declared by the Board on 14 March 2019 and paid on 13 May 2019 to shareholders on the register at 12 April 2019.
More details of the proposed dividend and the Companys performance can be found in the Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5.
Principal developments The principal developments of the business are detailed in the Strategic Report on pages 4 to 39 and incorporated into this Report by reference.
The principal risks and uncertainties are detailed on pages 24 to 29 and incorporated into this Report by reference.
Directors Biographical details of the current Directors are shown on pages 42 to 45.
All the Board members served throughout the year save for Mark Ridley who was appointed as Deputy Group Chief Executive with effect from 1 May 2018 and Stacey Cartwright and Florence Tondu-Mlique who were appointed as Independent Non-Executive Directors with effect from 1 October 2018.
Jeremy Helsby retired as Group Chief Executive at the year-end.
As at 31 December 2018 the Board comprised the Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
Charles McVeigh, who has served on the Board since 2000, will retire at the conclusion of the Companys AGM in May 2019.
Liz Hewitt, who served on the Board since 2014, will also retire at the conclusion of the AGM.
Interests in the issued share capital of the Company held at the end of the period under review and up to the date of this Report by the Directors or their families are set out on pages 77 and 78 of the Remuneration Report.
Details of share options held by the Directors pursuant to the Companys share option schemes are provided in the Remuneration Report on pages 78 and 79.
It is the Boards policy that the GEB Members should retain at least 105,000 shares value at 31 December 2018: 742,350 in the Company and that the Group Chief Executive Officer and Group Chief Financial Officer hold shares to the value of five times their respective base salaries 1,445,000 and 1,105,000 respectively.
Directors interests in significant contracts No Directors were materially interested in any contract of significance.
Statement of Directors responsibilities In accordance with the Code and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR DTR4, the Directors Responsibilities Statement is set out on page 88 and is incorporated into this Report by reference.
Corporate Governance Statement In accordance with the Code and DTR 7.2.
9R, the Corporate Governance Statement on page 40 is incorporated into this Report by reference.
Management Report This Directors Report, on pages 85 to 86, together with the Strategic Report on pages 4 to 39, form the Management Report for the purposes of DTR 4.1.
85 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report continued Additional Information Disclosure Pursuant to regulations made under the CA 2006 the Company is required to disclose certain additional information.
Those disclosures not covered elsewhere within this Annual Report are as follows: Share capital and major shareholdings The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2018 comprised 142,923,604 2.5p ordinary shares, details of which may be found on pages 156 and 157.
The Company has only one class of share capital formed of ordinary shares.
All shares forming part of the ordinary share capital have the same rights and each carries one vote.
Votes may be exercised for general meetings of the Company, by members in person, by proxy or by corporate representatives in relation to corporate members.
The Articles provide a deadline for the submission of proxy forms electronically or by paper of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the general meeting or the adjourned meeting as the case may be.
There are no unusual restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares.
The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is: i lodged at the registered office of the Company or any other place as the Board may decide accompanied by the certificate for the shares to be transferred and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: or ii in respect of only one class of shares.
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a share whether certificated or uncertificated, whether fully paid or not, in favour of more than four persons jointly.
As at 31 December 2018 the Company had been notified of the following interests in the Companys ordinary share capital in accordance with DTR 5: Number of Shareholders shares % Heronbridge Investment Management LLP 7,249,840 5.07 Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited and or acting for its affiliates as discretionary investment manager on behalf of multiple managed portfolios 7,189,327 5.07 Merian Global Investors UK Limited 7,184,549 5.02 Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited 6,723,563 5.00 Aggregate of Standard Life Aberdeen plc affiliated investment management entities with delegated voting rights on behalf of multiple managed portfolios 7,068,920 4.98 Old Mutual Plc 6,685,646 4.71 Note: On 22 February 2019, BlackRock, Inc. disclosed a shareholding of 5.04% and then on 6 March 2019 disclosed a shareholding of less than 5%.
No other changes to the above have been disclosed to the Company in accordance with DTR 5, between 31 December 2018 and 14 March 2019.
As at 31 December 2018, the Savills plc 1992 Employee Benefit Trust the EBT held 5,502,275 ordinary shares and the Savills Rabbi Trust held 1,386,356 ordinary shares.
Any voting or other similar decisions relating to these shares held in trust are taken by the trustees, who may take account of any recommendation of the Company.
In December 2017 the EBT Trust Deed was amended so that future Savills plc dividends will be waived in full.
The Savills Rabbi Trust does not currently waive Savills plc dividends.
For further details of the trusts please refer to note 2.21 to the Financial Statements.
Purchase of own shares In accordance with the Listing Rules, at the AGM on 8 May 2018 shareholders gave authority for a limited purchase of Savills shares of up to 10% of the issued share capital of the Company.
During the year, no shares were purchased under the authority.
The Board proposes to seek shareholder approval at the AGM on 8 May 2019 to renew the Companys authority to make market purchases of its own ordinary shares of 2.5p each for cancellation or to be held in treasury.
Details of the proposed resolution are included in the Notice of AGM circulated to shareholders with this Annual Report and Accounts the AGM Notice.
Change of control There are no significant agreements which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of change of control of the Company except that under its banking arrangements, a change of control may trigger an early repayment obligation.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles are governed by relevant statutes and may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders in a general meeting.
The Companys rules about the appointment and replacement of its Directors are contained in the Articles.
The powers of the Directors are determined by UK legislation and the Articles in force from time to time.
Unless determined by ordinary resolution of the Company, the number of Directors shall be not less than three and not more than 18.
A Director is not required to hold any shares in the Company by way of qualification.
However, as more fully described on page 83, in accordance with Board policy, the members of the GEB which includes the Executive Directors are expected to build-up and 86 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements maintain a shareholding in the Company.
The Board may appoint any person to be a Director and such Director shall hold office only until the next AGM when he or she shall then be eligible for re-appointment by the shareholders.
The Articles provide that each Director shall retire from office at the third AGM after the AGM at which he or she was last elected.
A retiring Director shall be eligible for re-election.
However, in accordance with the Code, all Directors of the Company are subject to annual re-election.
Annual General Meeting The AGM is to be held at 33 Margaret Street, London W1G 0JD at 12 noon on 8 May 2019: details are contained in the AGM Notice circulated to shareholders with this Report.
Half Year Report Like many other listed public companies, we no longer circulate printed Half Year reports to shareholders.
Instead, Half Year results statements are published on the Companys website.
This is consistent with our target to reduce printing and distribution costs.
Political contributions The Company made no political contributions during the year 2017: nil.
Employees policies and involvement The Directors recognise that the quality, commitment and motivation of Savills staff is a key element to the success of the Group: see pages 32 to 35 for more information as to employee engagement.
The Group provides regular updates covering performance, developments and progress to employees through regular newsletters, video addresses, the Groups intranet, social media and through formal and informal briefings.
These arrangements also aim at ensuring that all of our staff understand our strategy and to build knowledge on the part of employees of matters affecting the performance of the Group.
The Group also consults with employees so as to ascertain their views in relation to decisions which are likely to affect their interests.
Employees are able to share in the Groups success through performance-related profit share schemes see page 82 for more details and for UK employees including Executive Directors, share plans which include a Sharesave Scheme and a Share Incentive Plan SIP.
The Sharesave Scheme is an HMRC-approved save-as-you-earn share option scheme which allows participants to purchase shares out of the proceeds of a linked savings contract at a price set at the time of the option grant.
Participants may elect to save up to 500 per month and options may normally be exercised in the six months following the maturity of the linked threeyear savings contract.
The potential for extending the Sharesave Scheme internationally remains under consideration.
The SIP is also HMRC-approved and through which participants may make regular purchases of shares up to the current statutory limit of 150 per month from pre-tax income.
Shares under the SIP normally vest after five years and are free from income tax and national insurance contributions.
Human rights and equal opportunities We support the principles of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Core Principles of the International Labour Organization.
It is Group policy to provide employment on an equal basis irrespective of gender, sexual orientation, marital or civil partner status, gender reassignment, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion or belief, disability or age.
In particular, the Group gives full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy wherever practicable to provide continuing employment and to provide training and career development and promotion to disabled employees.
Independent Auditors In accordance with section 489 of the CA 2006, a resolution for the re-appointment of  LLP as Auditors of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Whistleblowing The Group encourages staff to report any concerns which they feel need to be brought to the attention of management.
Whistleblowing procedures, which are published on the Groups intranet site, are available to staff who are concerned about possible impropriety, financial or otherwise, and who may wish to ensure that action is taken without fear of victimisation or reprisal.
Greenhouse gas emissions Details of the Groups global greenhouse gas emissions for the financial year under review can be found on page 37 and are incorporated into this Report by reference.
By order of the Board Chris Lee Group Legal Director & Company Secretary 13 March 2019 Savills plc Registered in England No.
