171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt2 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt2 10 12 2018 12:30 Page 17 Directors Report The directors submit their report and the audited financial forward for re-election at the AGM.
Notwithstanding that the statements of the Company for the year ended 30 September Chairman is a director or chairman of four listed companies 2018. as set out on page 15, the board has noted that his directorships are solely non-executive and he continues to demonstrate the time commitment to discharge fully and effectively his duties as a director.
It therefore recommends Revenue and dividend that shareholders vote in favour of each directors re-election.
The net revenue return for the year, after finance costs and taxation, was 16,885,000 2017: 9,537,000, equivalent to a revenue return per ordinary share of 10.08 pence Share capital 2017: 5.69 pence.
As at the date of this report, the Company had 167,570,716 The board has recommended the payment of a final dividend ordinary shares of 10p in issue.
No shares were held in for the year ended 30 September 2018 of 9.50 pence per treasury.
Accordingly, the total number of voting rights in the share 2017: 5.60 pence payable on 31 January 2019 to Company at the date of this report is 167,570,716.
Details of shareholders on the register on 28 December 2018, subject changes to the Companys share capital during the year to approval by shareholders at the AGM on Wednesday, under review are given in note 13 to the accounts on page 40.
Substantial share interests Directors and their interests The Company has received notifications in accordance with The directors of the Company and their biographical details the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure Guidance can be found on pages 15 and 16.
All directors held office and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2R of the below interests in 3% or throughout the year under review with the exception of more of the voting rights attaching to the Companys issued Anthony Fenn who retired on 30 January 2018.
directors share interests in the Company are set out in the Ordinary % Remuneration Report on page 24. shares as at of total Notwithstanding the provisions of the Companys articles of 30 September voting association and the UK Corporate Governance Code in 2018 rights respect of the periodic re-election of directors, the board Investec Wealth & Investment considers that shareholders should be given the opportunity Ltd 19,780,775 11.80 to vote on the re-election of all of its members on an annual basis.
Accordingly, all directors will retire at the forthcoming City of London Investment AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Management Ltd 16,699,874 9.97 Re-appointment as a director is not automatic and follows a Standard Life Aberdeen plc 8,626,487 5.15 formal process of evaluation of each directors performance Schroders plc 8,483,022 5.06 and directors who have served for more than six years are subject to particularly rigorous assessment of their Wells Capital Management, Inc 8,255,649 4.93 independence and contribution.
Lazard Asset Management LLC 7,387,117 4.41 The board does not believe that length of service, by itself, necessarily affects a directors independence of character or There have been no notified changes to the above holdings judgement.
Directors who have served for more than nine since the year end.
years on the board may therefore continue to offer themselves for re-election at the AGM.
However, the boards stated policy is that directors will usually retire after nine Key service providers years.
The board has assessed the independence of the directors, all of whom are considered to be independent in The board has adopted an outsourced business model and character and judgement.
has appointed the following key service providers: Having reviewed the composition, structure and diversity of Manager the board, succession planning, the independence of the The Company is an alternative investment fund as defined by directors and whether each of the directors has sufficient the AIFM Directive and has appointed Schroder Unit Trusts time available to discharge their duties effectively, the Limited SUTL as the Manager in accordance with the terms Nomination Committee and the board considers that each of an alternative investment fund manager AIFM director is able to discharge their duties effectively.
The AIFM agreement, which is governed by the In particular, the board, having taken all relevant matters into laws of England and Wales, can be terminated by either party account, considers that all directors continue to demonstrate on 12 months notice or on immediate notice in the event of commitment to their roles, provide valuable contributions to certain breaches or the insolvency of either party.
As at the the deliberations of the board, and remain free from conflicts date of this Report no such notice had been given by either with the Company and its directors.
The board also considers party.
the level of external interests of each director being put Annual Report and Accounts 17 for the year ended 30 September 2018 Governance 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt2 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt2 10 12 2018 12:30 Page 18 Directors Report SUTL is authorised and regulated by the FCA and provides The Company, the Manager and the depositary may portfolio management, risk management, accounting and terminate the depositary agreement at any time by giving company secretarial services to the Company under the AIFM 90 days notice in writing.
The depositary may only be agreement.
The Manager also provides general marketing removed from office when a new depositary is appointed by support for the Company and manages relationships with key the Company.
investors, in conjunction with the Chairman, other board members or the corporate broker as appropriate.
The Registrar Manager has delegated investment management, Equiniti Limited has been appointed as the Companys administrative, accounting and company secretarial services registrar.
Equinitis services to the Company include share to another wholly owned subsidiary of Schroders plc, register maintenance including the issuance, transfer and Schroder Investment Management Limited.
The Manager has cancellation of shares as necessary, acting as agent for the in place appropriate professional indemnity cover.
payment of any dividends, management of company meetings including the registering of proxy votes and The Schroders Group manages 439.1 billion as at scrutineer services as necessary, handling shareholder 30 September 2018 on behalf of institutional and retail queries and correspondence and processing corporate investors, financial institutions and high net worth clients actions.
from around the world, invested in a broad range of asset classes across equities, fixed income, multi-asset and alternatives.
Corporate governance statement With effect from 1 April 2017 the Manager has been entitled The board is committed to high standards of corporate to a fee of 0.90% per annum on the first 300million of governance and has implemented a framework for corporate assets, 0.80% per annum on the next 300 million and 0.75% governance which it considers to be appropriate for an per annum on assets in excess of 600 million.
The fee investment trust in order to comply with the principles of the continues to be charged on the value of the Companys assets UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The disclosures under management, net of current liabilities other than shortin this statement report against the provisions of the Code, as term borrowings.
The Code is published by the UK The management fee payable in respect of the year ended Financial Reporting Council and is available to download from 30 September 2018 amounted to 6,991,000 2017: www.
The board has noted the publication of a further revised UK The Manager is also entitled to receive a fee for providing Corporate Governance Code, in July 2018, which applies to administrative, accounting and company secretarial services financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
For these services, in the year ended board is considering the Companys governance framework 30 September 2018 it received a fee of 103,000 2017: in light of the new provisions.
The fee continues to be subject to annual adjustment in line with changes in the Retail Prices Index.
Compliance statement Details of amounts payable to the Manager are set out in note 16 on page 41 of this report.
The UK Listing Authority requires all companies with a listing on the premium segment of the London Stock Exchange to The board has reviewed the performance of the Manager disclose how they have complied with the provisions of the during the year under review and continues to consider that it Code.
This corporate governance statement, together with has the appropriate depth and quality of resource to deliver the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 23 and superior returns over the longer term.
The Manager is the viability statement and going concern statement set out supported by significant depth of knowledge and experience on page 14, indicate how the Company has applied the Codes in Asia, with regional resources and local analysts.
Thus, the principles of good governance and its requirements on board considers that the Managers appointment under the internal control.
terms of the AIFM agreement is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
The board believes that the Company has, throughout the year under review, complied with all provisions set out in the Code except those relating to executive directors, as the Depositary Company, in line with most investment companies, has HSBC Bank plc, which is authorised by the Prudential delegated management functions to third-party service Regulation Authority and regulated by the FCA and the providers.
Prudential Regulation Authority, carries out certain duties of a depositary specified in the AIFM Directive including, in relation to the Company, as follows: Operation of the board safekeeping of the assets of the Company which are Chairman entrusted to it: The Chairman is an independent non-executive director who cash monitoring and verifying the Companys cash flows: is responsible for leadership of the board and ensuring its and effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
The Chairmans other significant commitments are detailed on page 15.
He has no oversight of the Company and the Manager.
Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc 18 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt2 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt2 10 12 2018 12:30 Page 19 Directors Report terms of identifying areas for improving the functioning and Role and operation of the board performance of the board and the Committees, the The board is the Companys governing body: it sets the contribution of individual directors and building and Companys strategy and is collectively responsible to developing individual and collective strengths.
The last shareholders for its long-term success.
The board is evaluation took place during the year ended 30 September responsible for appointing and subsequently monitoring the 2018. activities of the Manager and other service providers to ensure that the investment objective of the Company Directors and officers liability insurance and continues to be met.
The board also ensures that the Manager adheres to the investment restrictions set by the indemnities board and acts within the parameters set by it in respect of Directors and officers liability insurance cover was in place any gearing.
The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 14 sets out for the directors throughout the year.
The Companys articles further detail of how the board reviews the Companys of association provide, subject to the provisions of UK strategy risk management and internal controls.
legislation, an indemnity for directors in respect of costs which they may incur relating to the defence of any A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for proceedings brought against them arising out of their decision by the board has been defined and a procedure positions as directors, in which they are acquitted or adopted for directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to judgment is given in their favour by the Court.
This is a take independent professional advice at the expense of the qualifying third party indemnity policy and was in place Company.
throughout the year under review for each director and to The Chairman ensures that all directors receive relevant the date of this report.
management, regulatory and financial information in a timely manner and that they are provided, on a regular basis, with Directors attendance at meetings key information on the Companys policies, regulatory Four board meetings are usually scheduled each year to deal requirements and internal controls.
The board receives and with matters including: the setting and monitoring of considers reports regularly from the Manager and other key investment strategy: approval of borrowings and or cash advisers and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to positions: review of investment performance, the level of the board as required.
discount of the Companys shares to underlying NAV per The board is satisfied that it is of sufficient size with an share and promotion of the Company and services provided appropriate balance of diverse skills and experience, by third parties.
Additional meetings of the board are independence and knowledge of the Company, its sector and arranged as required.
the wider investment trust industry, to enable it to discharge The number of scheduled meetings of the board and its its duties and responsibilities effectively and that no committees held during the financial year and the attendance individual or group of individuals dominates decision making.
of individual directors is shown below.
Whenever possible all directors attend the AGM.
Training and development Audit Management On appointment, directors receive a full, formal and tailored Nomination and Risk Engagement induction.
Directors are also regularly provided with key Director Board Committee Committee Committee information on the Companys policies, regulatory and 1 Nicholas Smith 4 4 2 2 1 1 2 2 statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting directors responsibilities are advised to the board Keith Craig 4 4 2 2 2 2 2 2 as they arise.
Directors also regularly participate in relevant 2 Anthony Fenn 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 training and industry seminars.
Training and development needs are considered as part of the evaluation process and Rosemary Morgan 4 4 2 2 2 2 2 2 are agreed with the Chairman.
3 Martin Porter 4 4 2 2 2 2 2 2 Conflicts of interest James Williams 4 4 2 2 2 2 2 2 The board has approved a policy on directors conflicts of 1 Retired as a member of the Audit and Risk Committee, in line with the interest.
Under this policy, directors are required to disclose Code, on 30 January 2018. all actual and potential conflicts of interest to the board as 2 Retired as a director on 30 January 2018.
3 they arise for consideration and approval.
The board may Appointed as a director on 2 October 2017. impose restrictions or refuse to authorise such conflicts if The board is satisfied that the Chairman and each of the deemed appropriate.
other non-executive directors commits sufficient time to the affairs of the Company to fulfil their duties as directors.
Board evaluation In order to review the effectiveness of the board, its committees and the individual directors, a thorough Relations with shareholders evaluation process is in place.
This is implemented by way of a questionnaire and discussions with the Chairman.
In Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the respect of the Chairman himself, discussions are held board and the Manager.
The Company communicates with between the directors and the senior independent director.
shareholders through its webpages and the annual and half The process is considered by the board to be constructive in Annual Report and Accounts 19 for the year ended 30 September 2018 Governance 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt2 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt2 10 12 2018 12:30 Page 20 Directors Report year reports which aim to provide shareholders with a clear To discharge its duties, the committee met twice during the understanding of the Companys activities and its results.
year to consider its terms of reference and board balance, skills and succession planning.
As part of its discussions In addition to the engagement and meetings held during the relating to succession planning, the committee agreed to year described on page 10, the chairs of the board and appoint a new director in 2019.
The Chairman also advised committees, as well as the senior independent director and that he would be retiring at the AGM in 2021.
The committee the other directors, attend the AGM and are available to will be meeting after the year end to consider candidates for respond to queries and concerns from shareholders.
It is the intention of the board that the annual report and notice of the AGM be issued to shareholders so as to provide at least 20 working days notice of the AGM.
Shareholders Management Engagement Committee wishing to lodge questions in advance of the AGM are invited The role of the committee is to ensure that the Manager to do so by writing to the Company Secretary at the address remains suitable to manage the portfolio, that the given on the outside back cover.
management contract is competitive and reasonable for the The Company has adopted a policy on complaints and other shareholders, and that the Company maintains appropriate shareholder communications which ensures that shareholder administrative and company secretarial support.
The complaints and communications addressed to the Company committee also reviews the services provided by other service Secretary, the Chairman or the board are, in each case, providers.
All directors are members of the committee.
The considered by the Chairman and the board.
board considers each member of the committee to be independent.
The committee met once during the year under review and Committees considered its terms of reference, the performance and ongoing suitability of the Manager, the terms and conditions In order to assist the board in fulfilling its governance of the AIFM agreement, the performance and suitability of responsibilities, it has delegated certain functions to other service providers, and fees paid to directors.
The roles and responsibilities of these committees, together with details of work undertaken during the year under review, is outlined over the next few pages.
Audit and Risk Committee The committees of the board have defined terms of reference which are available on the Companys webpages The role and activities of the Audit and Risk Committee are www.
Membership of the set out overleaf in the Audit and Risk Committee Report committees is set out on pages 15 and 16. which is incorporated into and forms part of the Directors Report.
By order of the board Nomination Committee The committee is responsible for succession planning bearing in mind the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity existing on the board and will recommend to the board when the further recruitment of non-executive directors is required.
The committee aims to maintain a Schroder Investment Management Limited balance of relevant skills, experience and length of service of Company Secretary the directors serving on the board, taking gender and other 10 December 2018 diversity factors into account.
Before the appointment of a new director, the committee prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
While the committee is dedicated to selecting the best candidate for the role, the board also recognises the importance of diversity.
The board agrees that its members should overall possess a range of experience, knowledge, professional skills and personal qualities as well as the independence necessary to provide effective oversight of the affairs of the Company.
These qualities are taken into account in considering the appointment of a new director.
The board does not consider it appropriate or to be in the interests of shareholders as a whole to establish prescriptive diversity targets.
Candidates are drawn from suggestions put forward by an external agency and by the Company.
Candidates are then interviewed by members of the committee, which makes a recommendation to the board.
