171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt1 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt1 10 12 2018 14:04 Page 9 Strategic Review Business model Investment Manager implements the investment strategy by following an Strategy investment process Support by strong Set objectives, research and risk strategy and KPIs environment Board Competitiveness Appoint Manager and Regular reporting and other service interaction with the Responsible for providers to achieve Board is focused on board overall strategy and objectives ensuring: Investor oversight including Oversee portfolio that the fees value risk management management and Ongoing Activities focused Charges remain Monitor achievement on the creation of competitive Promotion of KPIs shareholder value that the vehicle Oversee the use of remains attractive Marketing and sales gearing to investors capability of the Oversee discount Manager management Support from the Corporate Broker with secondary market intervention to support the discount The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
Its Gearing shares are listed and admitted to trading on the premium segment of the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
The Company utilises a 75 million multi-currency revolving It has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an credit facility with Scotiabank of which US$55.0 million investment trust in accordance with section 1158 of the 42.1 million was drawn down at the year end.
In addition, Corporation Tax Act 2010, by way of a one-off application and the Company has a 30 million multi-currency overdraft it is intended that the Company will continue to conduct its facility with HSBC, which was not utilised during the year.
The affairs in a manner which will enable it to retain this status.
board has set parameters within which the Manager is authorised to use the credit facilities and draw down funds.
The Company is domiciled in the UK and is an investment company within the meaning of section 833 of the While the articles of association limit the amount of gearing Companies Act 2006.
The Company is not a close company the Company may have to a maximum of the Companys for taxation purposes.
adjusted capital and reserves, directors do not anticipate net effective gearing levels in excess of 20% of shareholders It is not intended that the Company should have a limited life funds.
but the directors consider it desirable that the shareholders should have the opportunity to review the future of the Company at appropriate intervals.
Accordingly, the articles of Investment process association contain provisions requiring the directors to put a proposal for the continuation of the Company to Stock selection is at the heart of the investment approach.
A shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM in 2021 key strength of the Manager is its network of analysts in the and thereafter at five yearly intervals.
region whose focus is on identifying companies able to grow shareholder value in the long term.
Although the in-house analysts are the primary source of stock ideas, the portfolio Investment objective and policy manager also generates stock ideas through his own research and draws on a number of other sources including a Details of the Companys investment objective and policy may proprietary quantitative screen, sell-side analysts, other be found on the inside front cover.
investment professionals within Schroders and his own contacts in the market.
A country allocation process is carried The board has appointed the Manager, Schroder Unit Trusts out on a monthly basis, combining the output of a Limited, to implement the investment strategy and to proprietary quantitative model and the qualitative views of manage the Companys assets in line with the appropriate the portfolio manager.
restrictions placed on it by the board, including limits on the type and relative size of holdings which may be held in the portfolio and on the use of gearing, cash, derivatives and Stock research other financial instruments as appropriate.
The majority of analysis is done using internal research and company valuation models.
The analysts typically use Annual Report and Accounts 9 for the year ended 30 September 2018 Strategic Report
