Governance Group Management Committee and Company Secretary Peter Harrison Richard Keers Group Chief Executive 52 Chief Financial Officer 55 Responsible for the management of the Responsible for financial management, overall business and strategic development riskmanagement, tax, capital and treasury, ofthe Group.
human resources, corporate services and a range of operational areas.
He is also chair ofthe Group Risk, Group Capital and Global Operations Committees.
Stewart Carmichael Karl Dasher Lieven Debruyne Chief Technology Officer 53 CEO North America and Co-Head CEO Asia Pacific 49 He joined Schroders in March 2015 as Group ofFixed Income 49 He joined Schroders in London in 2000 as Head of IT.
Prior to joining Schroders, he was Head of Asian Investment Product before He joined Schroders in 2008 as Global Head Chief Technology Officer for JP Morgan moving to Hong Kong in 2005.
Prior to joining ofProduct and became Head of Fixed Income Corporate and Investment Bank in Asia.
From Schroders, he worked for Mees Pierson in October 2008.
He previously worked at SEI 1993 to 2008 he held various senior Capital Management as Chief Investment Investments in various investment roles, leadership positions at Merrill Lynch.
Officer and for Fortis Investments.
He is responsible for technology across the He is responsible for the Groups operations He is responsible for the Groups operations Groups global operations.
inNorth America and is also Co-Head of Fixed Income within the Investment division.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51 Group Management Committee and Company Secretary continued Group Management Committee and Company Secretary continued Peter Hall Emma Holden Louise Hosking Global Head of Wealth Global Head of Human Resources 44 Chief of Staff 60 Management 55 She joined Schroders in 2007 as Head of She joined Schroders in 2008 and was Communications and Investor Relations appointed Chief of Staff in 2016.
Prior to He joined Schroders in January 2019.
Over andwas appointed Global Head of Human joining Schroders, she formed the Scott King thepast 20 years, he has held leadership roles Resources in November 2014.
Prior to joining Partnership, an independent business in Wealth Management at UBS, Barclays Schroders, she held various roles at Corus consultancy.
She has over 35 years and Tilney.
She qualified as a chartered experience in management and business He is responsible for the Wealth accountant with PwC in 1998. consultancy.
She works with senior management on She is responsible for supporting the Group theissues that affect our people and the Chief Executive and management team on development of talent throughout growing the business in the context of culture the business.
Johanna Kyrklund Philippe Lespinard Richard Mountford Global Head of Multi-Asset Co-Head of Fixed Income 55 Head of Planning, Adviser to the Investments 42 He joined Schroders in 2010 as Chief Group Chief Executive 60 Investment Officer for Fixed Income.
He was She joined Schroders in 2007 as Head of UK He joined Schroders in 1980 as a graduate previously a partner at Brevan Howard and Multi-Asset and became Global Head of and held a number of investment and Chief Investment Officer at BNP Paribas Multi-Asset Investments in 2016.
She management roles before becoming Global Asset Management.
previously worked at Insight Investment and Head of Intermediary Sales in 2008, Head of Deutsche Asset Management in various fund Asia Pacific in 2012 and Global Head of He is Co-Head of Fixed Income within the management and asset allocation roles.
She is Head of Multi Asset within the He is responsible for planning Schroders Investment division.
organic and inorganic growth initiatives.
52 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Charles Prideaux Nicky Richards Carolyn Sims Global Head of Product and Solutions Global Head of Equities 52 Chief Financial Officer of Wealth 52 She began her investment career at Schroders Management 53 as a graduate in 1987.
She held a number of He joined Schroders in October 2017.
Prior She joined Schroders in 2013 having been senior roles in the firm before joining Fidelity tojoining Schroders, he held senior roles at Chief Financial Officer of Cazenove Capital International and then MLC Investment BlackRock including Head of the EMEA Management since 2007.
Prior to that, she Management in Australia.
She re-joined Institutional Client Business and most recently was Finance Director at Lazard UK between Schroders in 2014 as Global Head of Equities.
as Head of the European Active Investment 2004 and 2007.
She was appointed non-executive Chairman Platform.
She is responsible for finance and operations of RWC Partners in March 2016.
He is responsible for our Global Product and within the Wealth Management division.
She is responsible for the Equities Solutions business.
John Troiano Howard Trust Graham Staples Global Head of Distribution 60 General Counsel 64 Group Company Secretary 57 He began his career at Schroders as a He joined Schroders in 2003 from Barclays He joined Schroders in 2004.
After holding a number of where he held various roles including Group held senior company secretarial, senior roles, he was appointed Deputy Head General Counsel and Board Secretary.
compliance and business development of Distribution in September 2012 and was roles at NatWest, Barclays, TSB He is responsible for the Groups Compliance, appointed Head of Distribution in 2016. and Computershare.
He is responsible for the Groups Distribution He is responsible for the Groups function globally.
governance framework and advising the Board and GMC on all governance matters.
Committee changes Nicky Richards will step down from the Committee and Rory Bateman will join the Committee as Head of Equities later in March 2019.
Andrew Ross stood down from the Committee on 31 December 2018.
His biography is set out in the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53
