s l a o g s t n e i l c d n a t s r e D d e n v U e l o p i n n o v a t Our business model A sustainable business designed to deliver positive outcomes for stakeholders over the long term What we offer How we do it We actively manage investment Our clients are at the centre of our business.
Our ongoing solutions to help build future success is built on our understanding of their evolving needs.
In We partner with them and construct products and solutions doing so, we are able to deliver that help them meet their changing financial goals.
We are positive outcomes for our proud of our track record of delivering performance for clients.
otherstakeholders, including our shareholders, our people and society.
We offer innovative products and solutions across a wide range of asset classes, including equities, fixed income, multiasset, private assets and alternatives.
Within our Asset Management business, we work with institutional clients, including pension funds, insurance companies and sovereign wealth funds.
We also work with a variety of intermediaries, including financial advisers, private wealth managers and online platforms.
We offer a wide range of wealth Building future management services, which focus on preserving and growing our clients prosperity for our wealth.
Our wealth management offering reflects our strategic ambition to provide clients wealth management and financial planningservices to clients across the wealth spectrum.
We differentiate ourselves from our competitors through: A strong financial position Our ownership structure and strong capital base enables us to take a long-term perspective.
It means we can remain focused on our strategy and take advantage of opportunities in any market environment.
Close, lasting relationships Building future prosperity for our clients We focus on developing strong relationships with our clients, which give us We recognise that we have an important role to play in shaping our clients an in-depth understanding of their financial financial futures.
By delivering investment outperformance and providing value needs.
We use these insights to identify for money to our clients, we can continue to successfully grow our business and and build solutions that help our clients to deliver for our other stakeholder groups.
We earn fees charged as a percentage of ourclients AUMA.
We may also earn A diversified business other revenues, such as performance fees, carried interest and transactionOur business is genuinely diversified by related fees.
asset class, geography and client type.
This means that we are more resilient to changes in client demand or economic cycle and can focus on delivering for our stakeholders.
18 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 i v e p r o s d n u o i c t t s u l o s e g a n a m y l e v i t c A Strategic report What we deliver for other stakeholders Our client-led approach to maintaining a successful business model allows us to deliver for other stakeholders, including our shareholders, people, society as a whole, regulators and suppliers.
Read more about our stakeholders on page 59.
The right The right proposition to deliver capabilities for shareholders to deliver for Our business model focuses on delivering growth over the long term, which enables us to generate sustainable shareholder returns.
We rely on the support clients and engagement of our shareholders to generate long-term growth.
The Understand clients goals interests of our shareholders are very closely aligned with those of our clients, We build principled partnerships which means that in doing the right thing for our clients, we are also able to with our clients to understand deliver value to those invested in our business.
This allows Dividend per share us to provide a high level of client service and select appropriate products to meet 114p their needs.
Read our investment proposition on page 21.
Develop innovative products We design innovative products to consistently meet our clients The right culture to deliver financial needs, whether thatis outperforming a comparator, for our people providing aregular sustainable Our people are central to the ongoing success of the business.
We are proud of income or delivering our reputation as an employer of choice that provides our people with inspiring anabsolute return.
and motivating places to work.
Our people strategy aims to attract, develop and retain an agile and diverse workforce, who we are able to provide with engaging Actively manage and rewarding work.
solutions We take an active approach Retention of key talent to managing investment solutions designed to build our 94% clients futureprosperity over the long term.
Read about our people on page 31.
Read more about our The right principles to deliver investment capabilities on page 13. for society As a principle-led business, we believe that engaging with companies and demanding high levels of corporate responsibility is the right thing to do.
As part of our commitment to society, we build positive relationships with our regulators globally.
We also have good relationships with the external service providers we use to supplement our own infrastructure.
Company engagements on environmental, social and governance ESG issues 2,200 Read about our impact on society from page 35.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 19
