Governance Directors report The information contained in the sections of this Annual Report and tobuy back up to 14,100,000 non-voting ordinary shares, which will Accounts identified below forms part of this Directors report: expire at the 2019 AGM.
Renewal of these authorities will be sought atthe 2019 AGM which will be held at 11.30 a. m. on 2 May 2019.
At Strategic report the2019 AGM, the Directors will ask for shareholder authority for the Board of Directors dis-application of pre-emption rights in relation to the issue of up to5,000,000 non-voting ordinary shares, to provide flexibility.
Corporate governance report, including the Nominations Committee report and the Audit and Risk Committee report Under the terms of the Schroders Employee Benefit Trust and the The Statement of Directors responsibilities.
Schroder US Holdings Inc. Grantor Trust, ordinary and non-voting ordinary shares are held on trust on behalf of employee share plan Share capital participants.
The trustees of these trusts may exercise the voting Schroders has developed under stable ownership for more than 200 rights in any way they think fit.
In doing so, they may consider the years and has been a public company whose ordinary shares have financial and non-financial interests of the beneficiaries and their been listed on the London Stock Exchange since 1959.
As at 5 March 2019, being the latest practicable date share capital is comprised of ordinary shares of 1 each and nonbefore the publication of this Annual Report and Accounts, the voting ordinary shares of 1 each.
The ordinary shares have a Schroders Employee Benefit Trust and the Schroder US Holdings Inc. premium listing on the London Stock Exchange and the non-voting Grantor Trust together held 8,842,901 ordinary shares and 97,369 ordinary shares have a standard listing on the London non-voting ordinary shares.
Under the terms of the Share Incentive Plan, as at 5 March 2019, 226,022,400 ordinary shares 80% of the total issued share capital 710,436 ordinary shares were held in trust on behalf of plan were in issue throughout the year.
The Company has no authority participants.
At the participants direction, the trustees can exercise toissue or buy back any ordinary shares.
Each ordinary share carries the voting rights over ordinary shares in respect of participant the right to attend and vote at general meetings of the Company.
56,505,600 non-voting ordinary shares 20% of the total issued share There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Companys shares capital were in issue throughout the year.
No shares were held save for: in treasury.
Restrictions imposed by laws and regulations: The non-voting ordinary shares were created in 1986 to facilitate the operation of an employee share plan without diluting the voting rights Restrictions on the transfer of shares imposed under the Companys of ordinary shareholders.
The non-voting ordinary shares carry the Articles of Association or under Part 22 of the UK Companies Act same rights as ordinary shares except that they do not provide the 2006, in either case after a failure to supply information required to right to attend and vote at general meetings of the Company and that, be disclosed following service of a request under section 793 of the on a capitalisation issue, they carry the right to receive non-voting UK Companies Act 2006: and ordinary shares rather than ordinary shares.
Restrictions on the transfer of shares held under certain employee share plans while they remain subject to the plan.
When the non-voting ordinary shares were created, the ratio of ordinary shares to non-voting ordinary shares was 4:1.
The Company The Company is not aware of any agreement between shareholders has at times issued non-voting ordinary shares, principally in that may restrict the transfer of securities or voting rights.
connection with the Groups employee share plans or as consideration for an acquisition.
The Company has not intended and does not intend Substantial shareholdings to increase the issued non-voting ordinary share capital over the As at 31 December 2018, the Company had received notifications, medium term and therefore has, at times, bought back non-voting inaccordance with rule 5.1.
2R of the Disclosure Guidance and ordinary shares to maintain the 4:1 ratio.
Transparency Rules, of interests in 3% or more of the voting rights attaching to the Companys issued share capital, as set out in the table At the 2018 AGM, shareholders renewed the Directors authority below.
There had been no changes to these notifications or additional toissue 5,000,000 non-voting ordinary shares in order to provide the notifications as at the date of this report.
Directors with the flexibility to issue non-voting ordinary shares or togrant rights to subscribe for, or convert securities into, non-voting ordinary shares.
Shareholders also gave approval for the Company Member Class of shares No.
of voting rights held % of voting rights held 1 Vincitas Limited Ordinary 60,724,609 26.87 1 Veritas Limited Ordinary 36,795,041 16.28 2 Flavida Limited Ordinary 60,951,886 26.97 2 Fervida Limited Ordinary 39,724,396 17.58 3 Harris Associates L. P. Ordinary 11,443,978 5.06 3 Lindsell Train Limited Ordinary 11,312,070 5.01 1.
Vincitas Limited and Veritas Limited are trustee companies which act as trustees of certain settlements made by members of the Schroder family.
Vincitas Limited and Veritas Limited are party to the Relationship Agreement.
Flavida Limited and Fervida Limited are protector companies which act as protectors of certain settlements made by members of the Schroder Family.
Flavida Limited and Fervida Limited are parties to the Relationship Agreement.
Their interests in shares are principally in respect of shares in which Vincitas Limited and Veritas Limited are also interested.
Harris Associates L. P. and Lindsell Train Limited are not party to the Relationship Agreement.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 91 Directors report continued Relationship Agreement Indemnities and Insurance Following changes made to the UK Listing Rules in May 2014, At the 2007 AGM, shareholders authorised the Company to provide companies with a shareholder or shareholders who could, when indemnities to, and to fund defence costs for, Directors in certain acting in concert, exercise 30% or more of the voting rights of a circumstances.
All Directors, at the time shareholder approval was company at a general meeting, are required to enter into a binding received, were granted specific deeds of indemnity and any Director agreement with that shareholder or shareholders.
This is intended to appointed subsequently has been granted such an indemnity.
This ensure that the parties to the agreement comply with certain means that, on their appointment, new Directors are granted an independence provisions as set out in the Listing Rules.
Accordingly, indemnity as defined in the Companies Act 2006 in respect of any on 14 November 2014, the Company entered into such an agreement third-party liabilities that they may incur as a result of their service on the Relationship Agreement with a number of shareholders who the Board.
All Directors indemnities were in place during the year and own or control the ordinary shares and associated voting rights remain in force.
Directors and Officers Liability Insurance is maintained by the The Schroder family interests are in shares owned directly or indirectly Company for all Directors.
by trustee companies which act as trustees of various trusts settled by As part of the integration of Cazenove Capital, the Cazenove Capital family individuals, in shares owned by family individuals, and in shares Management Limited Pension Scheme was merged with the owned by a family charity.
The trustee holdings include the interests Schroders Retirement Benefits Scheme, with effect from 43.15% held by Vincitas Limited and Veritas Limited, as disclosed in 31 December 2014.
Pursuant to that merger, a qualifying pension the table on page 91, and further interests 1.6% held by two other scheme indemnity as defined in section 235 of the Companies Act trustee companies which are not required to be disclosed under the 2006 provided by Schroders plc for the benefit of the Directors of Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
Cazenove Capital Management Pension Trustee Limited, a subsidiary If aggregated, the total interests covered by the Relationship of the Company, was put in place at that time and remains in force.
Agreement including shares held by the trustee companies, This indemnity covers, to the extent permitted by law, certain losses or individuals and the family charity amount to 108,323,711 of the liabilities incurred by the Directors of Cazenove Capital Management Companys ordinary shares 47.93%.
Pension Trustee Limited in connection with that companys activities In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4 14, the Board confirms that for as trustee of the Cazenove Capital Management Limited the year ended 31 December 2018: Pension Scheme.
the Company has complied with the independence provisions Directors conflicts of interest included in the Relationship Agreement: and The Company has procedures in place to identify, authorise and so far as the Company is aware, the independence provisions manage conflicts of interest, including of Directors of the Company, included in the Relationship Agreement have been complied with by and they have operated effectively during the year.
In circumstances the other parties to the Relationship Agreement and their where a potential conflict arises, the Board excluding the Director associates.
concerned will consider the situation and either authorise the arrangement in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Dividends Companys Articles of Association, or take other appropriate action.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 79 pence per All potential conflicts authorised by the Board are recorded in a share which, if approved by shareholders at the AGM, will be paid on conflicts register, which is maintained by the Company Secretary and 9 May 2019 to shareholders on the register of members at close of reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
Directors have a continuing business on 29 March 2019.
Details on the Companys dividend policy duty to update the Board with any changes to their conflicts are set out on page 29.
Dividends payable in respect of the year, of interest.
subject to this approval, along with prior year payments, are set out below.
Change of control 2018 2017 The Company does not consider that it has any significant agreements Ordinary shares and to which the Company is a party that take effect, alter or terminate non-voting ordinary shares pence m pence m upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid Interim 35.0 95.7 34.0 92.9 that are required to be disclosed pursuant to paragraph 13 2 j of Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Final 79.0 216.1 79.0 216.0 Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended other than as Total 114.0 311.8 113.0 308.9 disclosed below: Subject to approval by shareholders at the 2019 AGM.
Under the Groups Revolving Credit Facility Agreement, if a change of control of the Company occurs, the lenders are not obliged to provide The Schroders Employee Benefit Trust and the Schroder US Holdings further funding under the facility.
The Company and lenders have up Inc. Grantor Trust have waived their rights to dividends paid on both to 30 days to agree the continued use of the facility.
If there is no the ordinary and non-voting ordinary shares in respect of 2018 and agreement, repayment of the facility and accrued interest may be future periods.
See notes 7 and 21 to the financial statements.
requested by the lenders with not less than 10 days notice.
Corporate Responsibility Under a Framework Agreement with Lloyds Banking Group plc LBG Details of the Companys employment practices, including diversity in relation to the strategic partnership announced on and employee involvement can be found in the Strategic report from 23 October 2018, a change of control of the Company to: 1 either a page 31. major competitor of LBG or 2 an entity or person on, or controlled by We are committed to minimising the environmental impact of an entity or person on, a recognised sanctions list or located in a specified jurisdiction, LBG may terminate the Framework Agreement.
ouroperations and to delivering continuous improvement in our environmental performance.
See page 38 for more details on ourtotal Such termination provisions provide for LBG and the Company to return to the status quo prior to establishing the strategic partnership CO e emissions data.
2 92 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance in relation to shareholdings in subsidiary entities, with any transactions conducted at a specified valuation.
Directors and employees employment contracts do not normally provide for compensation for loss of office or employment as a result of a change of control.
However, the provisions of the Companys employee share schemes may cause awards granted to employees under such schemes to vest on a change of control.
Political donations No political donations or contributions were made or expenditure incurred by the Company or its subsidiaries during the year 2017: nil and there is no intention to make or incur any in the current year.
UK Listing Authority Listing Rules LR compliance with LR 9.8.
4C The majority of the disclosures required under LR 9.8.
4 are not applicable to Schroders.
The table below sets out the location of the disclosures for those requirements that are applicable: Applicable sub-paragraph within LR 9.8.
4 Disclosure provided 12 Details of any arrangements under which See page 92 a shareholder has waived or agreed to waive any dividends.
13 Where a shareholder has agreed to waive See pages 92, 109, future dividends, details of such waiver and 134 together with those relating to dividends which are payable during the period under review.
14 A statement made by the Board that the See page 92 Company has entered into an agreement under LR 9.2.
2A, that the Company has, and, as far as it is aware, the other parties to the agreement have, complied with the provisions in the agreement.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic report.
In addition, the financial statements include information on the Groups approach to managing its capital and financial risk: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources, a broad range of products and a geographically diversified business.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks in the context of the current economic outlook.
Accordingly, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
They therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
In addition, the Directors have assessed the Companys viability over aperiod of five years.
The results of this assessment are set out on page 42.
Graham Staples Company Secretary 6 March 2019 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 93
