Board of Directors Board of Directors Michael Dobson Peter Harrison Richard Keers Chairman 66 Group Chief Executive 52 Chief Financial Officer 55 Appointed Chairman in April 2016, having Appointed Group Chief Executive in April Appointed a Director and Chief Financial been Chief Executive since November 2001.
He was an executive Director and Head Officer in May 2013.
He first joined the Board as a non-executive of Investment from May 2014.
Experience: He is a chartered accountant and Director in April 2001.
Experience: He began his career at Schroders was a senior audit partner of Experience: Prior to joining Schroders he was and subsequently held roles at Newton  LLP PwC until May Chief Executive of Morgan Grenfell Group and Investment Management, JP Morgan Asset 2013.
He became a partner of PwC in 1997 a member of the Board of Managing Directors Management as Head of Global Equities and and has 25 years experience in the audits of Deutsche Bank AG.
Multi-Asset and at Deutsche Asset ofglobal financial services groups.
His Management as Global Chief Investment experience includes time spent in PwCs New External appointments: Member of the Officer.
He was Chairman and Chief Executive York, Sydney, Edinburgh and London offices.
Presidents Committee of the Confederation of RWC Partners before re-joining Schroders of British Industry.
External appointments: Non-executive as Global Head of Equities in March 2013. member of Lloyds Franchise Board and Committee membership: Chairman of the External appointments: Chairman of the Chairman of its Audit Committee.
Investment Association, a Director of FCLT Global and a member of the Takeover Panel.
Ian King Robin Buchanan Sir Damon Buffini Senior Independent Director 62 Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Appointed Senior Independent Director Director 66 Director 56 inApril 2018 having been a non-executive Appointed in March 2010.
Appointed in February 2018. director since January 2017.
Experience: He was the Senior Partner of Bain Experience: He has over 25 years experience Experience: He was Chief Executive of BAE & Company Inc. in the UK for 12 years and in private equity, joining Schroder Ventures Systems plc from 2008 to 2017 having been remains a Senior Adviser.
He was Managing Partner of Permira originally appointed to the BAE board as Chief served as Chairman of PageGroup plc until from 1997 to 2007 before becoming Operating Officer, UK and Rest of the World.
He was Dean and President Chairman.
He retired in 2015 and remains a Prior to this, he was Chief Executive of Alenia of London Business School.
He is a chartered Senior Adviser.
He also served as a accountant and holds an MBA from Harvard External appointments: Chair of the National non-executive Director and Senior Business School.
He will retire at the AGM in Theatre, Independent Director of the Independent Director of Rotork plc until May 2019.
European Golf Tour and was Chair of the June 2014.
External appointments: Non-executive Governments Patient Capital Review.
External appointments: Senior Adviser to the Director of LyondellBasell Industries N. V. He Committee membership: Member of the Board of Gleacher Shacklock LLP, Chairman of isChairman of the Advisory Board of Access Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Senior plc and lead non-executive Director for Industries and a Director of CICAP Limited.
Committee membership: Member of the Committee membership: Member of the Nominations, Audit and Risk, and Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
48 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Rhian Davies Rakhi Goss-Custard Philip Mallinckrodt Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Non-executive Director 56 Director 54 Director 44 Appointed as an executive Director in January 2009 and a non-executive Director on Appointed in July 2015.
Experience: She is a chartered accountant Experience: She is an experienced executive Experience: He started his career at Credit and was a partner at Electra Partners, an in digital retailing, having spent 11 years at Suisse First Boston in 1985.
He first joined independent private equity fund manager, Amazon.
Prior to joining Amazon, she held Schroders in 1994, and then worked for until June 2015, and then a Senior Adviser roles at TomTom and in management Citigroup from 2000 to 2002.
She previously worked in consultancy in the US.
Schroders in 2002 as Head of Corporate PwCs audit and insolvency practice before External appointments: Non-executive Development, was Group Head of Wealth joining Electra in 1992.
Director of Kingfisher plc, Rightmove plc, Intu Management from 2006 to 2016, and then Committee membership: Chairman of the Properties plc.
She will step down from the Group Head of Private Assets and Wealth Audit and Risk Committee.
Member of the Board of Intu Properties plc at its Annual Management until 1 March 2017.
External appointments: Non-executive Committee membership: Member of the Director of The Economist and a member Nominations and Audit and Risk Committees.
ofthe International Advisory Council of the Brookings Institution.
Committee membership: Member of the Nominations Committee.
Nichola Pease Bruno Schroder Independent non-executive Died 20 February 2019 Director 57 Non-executive Director 86 Appointed in September 2012.
An appreciation ofBrunos life is contained on page 50.
Experience: She has over 30 years experience in the asset management and stock broking Experience: He was the great-great-grandson industries.
She was the Chief Executive and of John Henry Schroder, co-founder of the then Deputy Chairman of J O Hambro Capital Schroders businesses in 1804.
He joined the Management Ltd from 1998 until 2008, Schroder Group in London where he worked following which she held a number of roles in in the Commercial Banking and Corporate the charity and public sectors.
Finance divisions of J. Henry Schroder Wagg &Co Ltd.
External appointments: Co-founder and Chair of Investment 2020 and a Member of External appointments: He was a Director the Eton College Investment Committee.
ofa number of private limited companies.
Committee membership: Chairman of the Committee membership: He was a Member Remuneration Committee.
Member of the of the Nominations Committee.
Nominations and Audit and Risk Committees.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49 Bruno Schroder 1933 - 2019 We were very saddened to learn that Bruno Schroder, aged 86, died on 20 February after a short illness.
He leaves behind his wife Suzanne and daughter Leonie, along with three grandchildren, to whom we send our condolences.
Bruno had a big influence on Schroders.
Following National Service in Bruno was passionate about Schroders, unwavering in his support the army, Oxford University and Harvard Business School he joined and always emphasising the long term over short term the Company in 1960 as an executive.
After three years he was considerations.
This long-term thinking has been key to Schroders appointed to the Board in a non-executive capacity.
During his 56 success in putting clients first, in growing the business organically, in years on the Board, Bruno saw some important strategic shifts developing talent and in setting the culture.
He believed that, in so including the sale of the commercial banking business in the US in doing, shareholders would also benefit from the value created.
He 1985 and of the investment banking business in 2000, allowing the loved to travel to our overseas offices, meeting clients and employees, Company to focus exclusively on asset and wealth management that supporting management and reinforcing our values.
He felt a strong is Schroders business today.
connection to previous generations of the family who had established and grown the business as well as to the current generation.
Brunos long experience, sound judgement and sense of humour will be sorely missed but his legacy and his values live on.
50 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018
