Strategic report As a global investment manager, our overall purpose is to help build the long-term future prosperity ofour clients.
We recognise that we have an important role to play in shaping our clients futures as well as having a strong focus on doing the right thing for our people, our suppliers and for society more widely.
By understanding the needs of our stakeholders, we can deliver long-term growth forour shareholders.
In order to deliver for our stakeholders, we prioritise growing a sustainable business that takes a long-term approach.
We do this by investing behind strategic growth opportunities, which help us deliver on our commitment to provide positive outcomes for all of our clients, society, our shareholders and our people.
When our stakeholders prosper, so do we.
Clients Society Our clients are at the centre of our business.
Our ongoing As a principle-led business, we believe that engaging with success is built upon our understanding of their evolving needs companies on corporate responsibility is the right thing to do.
and partnering with them to construct products and solutions Aspart of our commitment to society, we maintain positive that help them meet their financial goals.
We are proud of our relationships with our regulators.
We also build strong track record of delivering long-term performance for clients.
relationships with our external service providers.
Three-year client investment Environmental, social and governance ESG performance engagements 74% 2,200 Read about how we Read about how we create value for our clients create value for society from page 13. from page 35.
Read about how we Read about how we create value for our people create value for our shareholders from page 31. from page 21.
Shareholders People We rely on the support of our shareholders in order to generate Our people are key to the ongoing success of the business.
Our business model aligns the Weare proud of our reputation as an employer of choice and interests of our shareholders with those of our clients.
This ofthe talented people who drive our business.
Our people means that in delivering for our clients, we create value for strategy aims to attract, retain and develop an agile and diverse those invested in our business.
workforce, who we are able to provide with engaging and rewarding work.
Basic earnings per share before Retention of key talent exceptional items 94% 215.8p More information on how on how we measure investment performance is set out on pages 24 and 178-179.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 1
