The right capabilities to deliver for clients Delivering investment capabilities to help create a more prosperous future because managing risks is as important as taking them 12 12 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Our investment capabilities The cornerstone of our value proposition across both asset and wealth management, our investment capabilities enable us to fulfil our overall purpose of building future prosperity for our clients.
By having the right capabilities for our clients, we can also do the right thing for our other stakeholders.
Strategic capabilities Alpha Equity Credit Emerging Markets Income Liquid Alternatives In a climate of low Investors are facing poor Emerging markets Over the past decade, The relationships interest rates, investors returns from cash and comprise more than 60 traditional sources between equities, need to look for government bonds.
countries, each with ofincome have begun bondsand property solutions that have Opportunities for higher their own local nuances.
todry up, meaning arecloser than ever.
thepotential to deliver returns exist within The right investment investors need to look Inthis environment, higher performance and credit markets that can skills and local elsewhere to meet their alternative strategies help them meet their be unlocked via in-depth knowledge provide income needs.
can be a good source financial goals.
research and active access to these ofuncorrelated returns.
Multi-Asset Solutions Private Assets Retirement Solutions Sustainability By diversifying across There are a number As responsibility for We have a long history Social and environmental avariety of asset classes, ofopportunities within retirement planning of helping our clients change is happening investors can potentially private markets that hasshifted from tofind solutions tailored faster than ever.
We take improve performance cannot be found governments and to their needs.
We draw an active approach to and reduce risk.
Private assets employers to the on knowledge and analysing the impact of seea trend towards can help our clients to individual, people experience from across these forces and invest solutions that invest in target better returns or needto focus more on the globe to build in the companies that different asset classes.
individualised retirement bespoke solutions and stand to benefit from savings plans.
deliver risk management this changing world.
Wealth Management We provide a wide range of wealth management services, designed to meet the individual needs of our clients.
Our wealth management teams are able to draw from a broad range of investment capabilities and also bring their own knowledge and experience.
There will soon bethree key components to our wealth management offering, reflecting our strategic ambition to provide wealth management and financial planning services to clients across thewealth spectrum.
We manage investments for institutions and individuals to help them meet their financial goals and prepare for the future.
By combining a deep understanding of their financial needs with comprehensive, data-driven insights, we are able to build a clear picture of ourclients requirements.
We are proactive in helping our clients prosper.
How we engage The value we create We build close, lasting relationships with our clients.
As an active investment manager, we are committed This gives us an in-depth understanding of their to delivering consistent outcomes for our clients, financial needs.
whether that is outperforming a benchmark or peer group, or achieving a specific outcome.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 13 Our strategy for 2018 and beyond Continuing to develop a long-term sustainable business We see significant opportunities in three key areas the further development of our core asset management business, expansion of our private assets and alternatives capabilitiesand building closer relationships with end clients.
Thishelpsus to deliver on our commitment to build future prosperity for our clients and provide positive outcomes for our stakeholders.
Our priorities Develop and maintain Offer a range of Consistently deliver Develop leading Developing and retaining long-term client partnerships innovativeproducts outcomes for clients technology talented people We focus on helping our clients achieve Providing innovative products and solutions As an active investment manager, we are Our business inherently involves processing Developing and retaining a diverse and Why its important their financial goals and build their future to meet the increasingly complex needs of committed to delivering consistent and analysing data to achieve a desired talented workforce is key to the delivery of prosperity.
This allows us to sustainably our clients is crucial to our future growth.
It is critical to our ongoing our business model.
grow our business over the long term, success that we have leading technology to Our clients are increasingly looking for While many of our strategies seek to We invest heavily in our people, offering helping us to deliver positive outcomes support this.
products that can provide a specific outperform a stated benchmark or peer opportunities to grow their knowledge, forour wider stakeholder groups.
outcome rather than just offering exposure group, client demand is increasing for Better use of technology can be employed skills and capabilities.
We also focus on By building close partnerships with our to a market or asset class.
Our range of outcome-oriented solutions, which provide to innovate, improving productivity and providing them with a positive working clients, we can gain a deeper understanding strategic capabilities is designed to provide a specific result such as income or efficiency.
In doing so, we can continue to environment that supports productivity, of their needs, leading to greater client our clients with the necessary products to risk-management.
evolve and develop our business, adding innovation and collaboration.
longevity and new business opportunities.
value for our clients and other stakeholders.
Delivering outperformance or achieving a In supporting our people to operate at their One of our strategic priorities is to focus on We continually look to expand our core predefined outcome increases value for our Our philosophy of investing in the future very best, we are able to deliver positive developing closer relationships with our product offering and expand into new areas clients and builds trust in our business.
growth of our business includes an outcomes for our stakeholders.
end clients, particularly in Wealth of investment expertise.
In recent years, we emphasis on embracing technology and Management.
This allows us to reduce the have focused particularly on developing our comes with a focus on cost discipline.
impact of intermediation between us as capabilities in private assets manufacturers and our clients.
Net new business Net new business Client investment performance Ratio of total costs to net income Retention of key talent Key performance indicators Net operating revenue Net operating revenue Net new business Client investment performance Net operating revenue Continued momentum in North America Development of our strategic capability 74% of our assets outperformed their Implementation of a new front office 94% retention rate of highly rated Progress through 2018 with 3.0 billion of net new business range with the acquisition of Algonquin stated comparator over three years.
technology platform, improving efficiency employees and relationship with A10 More details on our performance and driving better outcomes Winning the Lloyds Banking Group LBG 41% of employees have been with us for reporting can be found on pages 24 and mandate, one of the largest awarded in Growth of private assets and alternatives, Continued investment in technology more than six years 178-179 UK asset management with 2.3 billion of net new business solutions throughout the business, Female representation in senior Developed our ability to deliver complex, including: Increased proximity to end clients with Increased seed and co-investment to management roles ended the year risk-managed solutions to meet client the growth of our Wealth Management support new products Robotics and automation projects in at32% needs business and the announcement of our Europe, Asia and the Americas Launch of 70 new products in 2018, 92% of employees proud to be associated strategic partnerships with LBG in the UK focusing on strategically important Investment in cloud-based technology with Schroders and Maybank in Malaysia growth areas such as sustainability, systems for all employees in London Move to new London headquarters at private assets and solutions 1London Wall Place Attract and retain business with clients, Continue to develop our Continue to deliver high levels of Continue to invest in technology across Maintain high retention rate for highlyGrowth opportunities particularly in strategically important strategic capabilities investment performance for clients the firm rated employees growth areas Maintain our commitment to Provide value for money and build Ongoing investment in robotics and Continue to target 33% of female Increase client longevity through focus developing new products clients future prosperity automation representation in senior management onproducts and client relationships roles by the end of 2019 Focus on private assets and alternatives, Maintain cost discipline through focus on Continue to build our proximity to diversifying our business away from ratio of total costs to net income endclients including through the publicmarkets LBGpartnership Key risks 1 2 3 6 7 10 16 17 1 2 3 6 7 8 9 19 20 21 22 1 3 4 5 6 7 17 2 3 2 6 3 7 11 12 13 15 18 3 6 10 13 14 18 Find out about these risks and how our strategy mitigates them from page 44.
Read more within the key performance indicator section andDirectors remuneration report from pages 16 and 68 respectively.
14 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Our priorities Develop and maintain Offer a range of Consistently deliver Develop leading Developing and retaining long-term client partnerships innovativeproducts outcomes for clients technology talented people We focus on helping our clients achieve Providing innovative products and solutions As an active investment manager, we are Our business inherently involves processing Developing and retaining a diverse and Why its important their financial goals and build their future to meet the increasingly complex needs of committed to delivering consistent and analysing data to achieve a desired talented workforce is key to the delivery of prosperity.
technology platform, improving efficiency employees and relationship with A10 More details on our performance and driving better outcomes Winning the Lloyds Banking Group LBG 41% of employees have been with us for reporting can be found on pages 24 and mandate, one of the largest awarded in Growth of private assets and alternatives, Continued investment in technology more than six years 178-179 UK asset management with 2.3 billion of net new business solutions throughout the business, Female representation in senior Developed our ability to deliver complex, including: Increased proximity to end clients with Increased seed and co-investment to management roles ended the year risk-managed solutions to meet client the growth of our Wealth Management support new products Robotics and automation projects in at32% needs business and the announcement of our Europe, Asia and the Americas Launch of 70 new products in 2018, 92% of employees proud to be associated strategic partnerships with LBG in the UK focusing on strategically important Investment in cloud-based technology with Schroders and Maybank in Malaysia growth areas such as sustainability, systems for all employees in London Move to new London headquarters at private assets and solutions 1London Wall Place Attract and retain business with clients, Continue to develop our Continue to deliver high levels of Continue to invest in technology across Maintain high retention rate for highlyGrowth opportunities particularly in strategically important strategic capabilities investment performance for clients the firm rated employees growth areas Maintain our commitment to Provide value for money and build Ongoing investment in robotics and Continue to target 33% of female Increase client longevity through focus developing new products clients future prosperity automation representation in senior management onproducts and client relationships roles by the end of 2019 Focus on private assets and alternatives, Maintain cost discipline through focus on Continue to build our proximity to diversifying our business away from ratio of total costs to net income endclients including through the publicmarkets LBGpartnership Key risks 1 2 3 6 7 10 16 17 1 2 3 6 7 8 9 19 20 21 22 1 3 4 5 6 7 17 2 2 3 3 6 7 11 12 13 15 18 3 6 10 13 14 18 Find out about these risks and how our strategy mitigates them from page 44.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 15
