Market review 2018 markets in review Many of the themes that played a prominent role in recent years have continued in 2018.
After two years of steady growth in asset prices, 2018 proved to be a more challenging year, particularly in the last quarter.
In emerging markets, Jacob Zuma resigned as president of South A challenging macro backdrop Africa after nine years in power.
Initially, the appointment of his 2018 began much as 2017 had ended.
Risk assets continued to deputy helped to boost optimism but increasingly populist rhetoric perform well, while government bonds saw prices decline and ultimately negatively impacted investor sentiment.
investors hoped that the US administration might ease pressure However, by February market uncertainty had increased and investor onRussia, but ultimately new sanctions were imposed.
Mounting sentiment had begun to worsen.
While expectations for global growth currency weakness in April marked the beginnings of crises in had started the year relatively strongly, the introduction of tariffs Argentina and Turkey.
In October, an election in Brazil saw far right marked the start of heightened trade tensions between China and the candidate Jair Bolsonaro defeat the establishment parties on an US.
Within the US, tax cuts provided an added boost for investors anti-corruption platform.
heading into 2018, while GDP accelerated.
The strength of the US In the UK, the government put forward a plan, known as the dollar had an impact globally, particularly for emerging markets.
Chequers Agreement, which was intended to be a compromise Trade tensions and increasing oil prices impacted global growth, between a soft and hard Brexit.
However, it proved to be widely which reached a turning point around the middle of the year.
unpopular in parliament and resulted in a number of resignations In continental Europe, there were elections across a number of from the cabinet.
Uncertainty over Brexit continued throughout the countries.
In Germany, the CDU CSU alliance agreed, after months of year, with Prime Minister Theresa May facing an internal party negotiations, to re-establish their previous coalition agreement with leadership challenge and being forced to delay the parliamentary the Social Democrats.
However, reformation of the government that vote on an updated withdrawal agreement until early 2019.
The had performed poorly in the 2017 election led to further deterioration proposed agreement was defeated by a record margin in January in poll ratings.
Angela Merkel later announced that she would step 2019, forcing Theresa May back to Brussels to renegotiate.
down as CDU party leader and would not contest the next federal Monetary policy continued to be tightened through 2018 as the election.
In Italy, victory for populist parties resulted in a coalition Federal Reserve Fed raised its interest rate target four times.
Cold weather in the Eurozone in the first three months Meanwhile, the European Central Bank ECB decided to taper its of the year provided challenges for the region as markets struggled quantitative easing programme throughout 2018, with an end to torecover confidence and exports dropped.
Interest rates remained unchanged with the Asset class returns in 2018 110 105 100 95 90 85 80 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec MSCI World equities BofA Merrill Lynch Global High Yield BofA Merrill Lynch Global Corporate Investment Grade US 10-year Treasury bonds Returns in US dollar, rebased to 100 at 31 December 2017.
10 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report ECB providing guidance that it expects this to remain the case until The year was a poor one for equity investors in general, with all major mid-2019.
The Bank of England raised rates only once in 2018, as indices netting a loss in both local currency and US dollar terms.
The uncertainty over Brexit clouded the outlook.
US equity market was the best performer with the FAANG Facebook Apple, Amazon, Netflix, Google stocks performing well in the first half The Peoples Bank of China moved contrary to the global trend and of the year, until they were hit by data breaches and flagging sales in eased policy, not by cutting rates but through further reductions in the second half.
European markets saw mixed results, with Germany the reserve requirement ratio and open market operations.
Most hit particularly hard, while less cyclical markets such as France and the other emerging market central banks enacted rate increases during UK performed better.
In emerging markets, while the overall index 2018, in part in reaction to the tighter policy emanating from the US.
was down, performance across different countries was dispersed.
A more volatile year for risk assets Currency markets ended 2018 largely reflecting the anxieties of 2018 was a difficult year for investors in almost all markets.
The US dollar started the year weaker, which helped to major asset classes, only US cash made a positive return, while boost risk assets.
By April it had strengthened and ended the year up.
commodities and equities were the worst performing.
The best The initial rise over the summer reflected the stronger US economy, non-cash asset class was US Treasuries, although they too failed to however by autumn, the strong US dollar highlighted concern in the generate a positive return as interest rates rose.
The euro had a reasonably steady year, finishing 2018 slightly up, while things were more volatile for sterling owing to Despite sentiment being poor, lower risk investment grade credit the lack of resolution on Brexit.
In emerging markets, the strength of bonds underperformed riskier and lower quality high yield bonds.
the dollar meant that very few currencies generated a positive return.
Reduced issuance in the high yield category seemed to provide support relative to investment grade credit.
Gold also had a poor year While US Treasuries posted a negative return in 2018, a number as rising real interest rates sapped demand for the precious metal.
of government bonds saw positive returns.
10-year Australian government bonds and German Bunds were top performers, while Usual seasonal patterns failed to materialise in 2018, with markets Canadian bonds, UK gilts, French OATs and Japanese government avoiding both the traditional summer sell-off and the Santa rally bonds all achieved a positive return.
Emerging market dollar towards the end of the year.
In fact, December was the worst on denominated sovereign debt as a whole had a bad year, with Brazil record, with the MSCI World equity index losing 7.6% in the the only country offering a positive return.
Currency returns in 2018 110 105 100 95 90 85 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec British pound sterling Euro United States Dollar Effective exchange rate, based on a basket of major currencies, rebased to 100 at 31 December 2017.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 11
