| 08 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Managers Review introduced a raft of unintended consequences.
Perhaps Its too early to tell the biggest of these has been the increase in wealth In a conversation with US President Richard Nixon in inequality, particularly across generations.
There are now 1972, the Chinese Prime Minister, Zhou Enlai, reputedly fewer people with a meaningful stake in the system and, quipped that it was too early to tell when asked about as they tend to be younger, the full implications of this the impact of the French Revolution on Western will take some time to become clear.
After listening to the translated reply, If excessive debt was one of the main contributing President Nixon was delighted by this profound example factors to the financial crisis, the measures taken over the of far-sighted wisdom with reference, he presumed, to past ten years have not addressed this.
In fact, they have the seismic events of 1789.
Disappointingly, witnesses to arguably made it worse.
the conversation have subsequently insisted that the Prime Minister was, in fact, referring to the Paris student It seems unlikely that an entire generation will commit itself riots of 1968.
However, the misunderstanding was to a life of indentured servitude to repay debt that they had allowed to stand, possibly because it suited all no choice but to accumulate.
suggest that the rules of the system will be changed.
Whatever actually happened in the above exchange, the It is, of course, too early to tell how the rules will change episode does suggest two things that have relevance for but the time-tested solution is currency debasement, in today.
Firstly, it is reasonable to expect major events in other words inflation.
human history to cause reverberations for surprisingly long periods of time and, secondly, reality can be Our Approach distorted to suit the interests of those involved.
In previous Managers Reviews, I have outlined the simple philosophy that underpins our contrarian The financial world has recently marked the tenth approach to investment.
At the core of this philosophy is anniversary of the defining moment of the financial crisis a recognition that investors are not, in aggregate, of 2008 9, namely the collapse of Lehman Brothers.
The dispassionate calculating machines but, instead, make occasion prompted more than a dollop of self-satisfied decisions based heavily on emotion.
backslapping from the economics profession, politicians and officials about the inspired actions taken to avert a While this may not seem a surprising observation, it meltdown.
The various measures employed were nonetheless conflicts with the conclusions of substantial presented as calmly rationalised options that were bodies of research in finance and economics.
The truth, of course, Conventional theory essentially expounds that the was far less edifying.
In reality, increasingly panicked wisdom of the crowd ensures that the irrational decisions measures were thrown like mud at a wall in the hope that of individuals are cancelled out and a rational decision is one of them would stick.
Major industries were bailed reached.
out, toxic asset purchases arranged, sales taxes cut, There is, of course, a sound logic to this theoretical point accounting rules suspended, interest rates slashed to of view.
Our very civilisation has been created by the near zero and quantitative easing a clever way of ability of the crowd to achieve great things.
Living printing money was introduced.
Eventually the rot was standards are far higher because we work as a group stopped.
allowing division of labour, specialisation and economies Of course, something had to be done.
In short, many hands make light work.
bearing in mind that some of the policies employed A second trait that we possess is a desire to imitate the would have been considered downright heretical by successful actions of others as a way to quickly acquire mainstream economists even a few weeks before they accumulated knowledge.
There might be many ways to were deployed.
Further, despite a short history of usage, skin a cat, but it makes sense to replicate the most zero or even negative interest rates and quantitative efficient method while bypassing a period of trial and easing are today treated as legitimate and controllable error.
policy options that can be tweaked as required.
From So, in the real world, sticking with the crowd and this, we can only surmise that, like the conversation in copying success are both useful human characteristics.
1972, reality has been revised to suit all concerned.
However, we believe that these useful instincts do not Despite this desire to paint a picture of certainty and translate well into the virtual world of financial markets.
control, the various crisis rescue measures have already 164275 SIT AnRep18 PRINT.
indd 8 07 12 2018 14:58 | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 09 Managers Review continued The trouble is that, unlike a physical task, copying others believe in cycles, and we use this thought process to in investment markets does not necessarily yield the maximise the odds in our favour.
There are too many dynamic factors at work To apply our approach, we divide the stocks in which we and the starting point is not static.
There is an assumption that, if an investment appears First, we have those that we describe as ugly ducklings well positioned the price will go up, whereas if an unloved shares that most investors shun.
These investment appears poorly positioned the price will go companies have endured an extended period of poor down.
But this is not necessarily the case.
If expectations operating performance and, for the majority, the are high, favourable trends can continue but the price near-term outlook continues to appear uninspiring.
can go down if expectations are not met.
Likewise, However, we see their out-of-favour status as an unfavourable trends can continue but if they are better opportunity and can foresee the circumstances in which than expected, the price can go up.
these investments will surprise on the upside.
Overall, by the time an investment has performed The second category consists of companies where sufficiently well or badly for it to become an accepted change is afoot.
These companies have also endured a wisdom, conditions are ripe for the trend to change.
It is long period of poor operating performance but have this momentum mentality which creates the business recently demonstrated that their prospects have cycle and the numerous bubbles and subsequent busts significantly improved.
However, other investors continue which have always bedevilled investment markets.
to overlook this change for historical reasons.
We do not attempt to follow investment fashions and In our third category, more to come, we have investments instead seek investments in which we can foresee long that are more generally recognised as good businesses term upside.
We actively seek unpopular areas because with decent prospects.
However, we see an opportunity this is where the balance between risk and reward can be as we believe there is scope for further improvement that most favourable.
Rather than perpetual trends, we is not yet fully recognised.
Categorisation of Investments more to come underappreciated prospects change is afoot overlooked progress ugly ducklings positive potential Challenged Overlooked Underestimated OPERATING PERFORMANCE 164275 SIT AnRep18 PRINT.
indd 9 07 12 2018 14:58 MARKET SENTIMENT Pessimistic Reluctant Improving | 10 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Managers Review continued progress towards rebuilding the profitability of its The Portfolio domestic business after well documented problems.
The We have a number of holdings in retailers and these combination with Booker should deliver superior produced some of our largest gains during the year.
US retailer GAP 2.2m has Each was different but, generally, we thought pessimism continued to see strong results from the Old Navy and surrounding long-established retailers had reached a Athleta brands, albeit this has been largely crescendo, creating ugly duckling opportunities.
US overshadowed by a lack of progress at the namesake department store operator Macys 12.1m produced brand.
UK retailer Marks & Spencer -2.2m is better than expected results, aided by a revitalised undergoing a far-reaching transformation overseen by approach and an improved consumer environment.
US turnaround expert Chairman Archie Norman.
We retailer Target 4.9m benefited from the same themes continue to believe that the company, which remains very and the introduction of a more convenient store format.
profitable, has a great brand which can be revived.
UK supermarket retailer Tesco 4.8m is making good NAV Absolute Performance Attribution Year to 31 October 2018 Contribution % Equity portfolio ungeared 0.6 Gearing 0.5 Total equities 1.1 Other income and currency 0.2 Buybacks 0.2 Expenses -0.6 Interest charges -0.5 Change in market value of borrowings 0.7 Change in pension liability 0.0 NAV with borrowings at market value total return 1.1 Top Ten Gains and Losses Year to 31 October 2018 Performance Gains Performance Losses % m % m Macy's 99.0 12.1 ING -30.0 -8.7 Pfizer 30.4 6.5 Standard Chartered -25.4 -7.0 Target 25.7 4.9 BNP Paribas -26.5 -4.9 Tesco 19.4 4.8 General Electric -51.2 -4.0 Cemex -27.7 -3.8 GlaxoSmithKline 17.3 4.3 Newmont Mining -17.1 -3.4 Sony 46.1 4.3 Newcrest Mining -10.8 -3.2 BHP Billiton 21.3 3.9 Adecco -33.7 -3.1 Verizon Communications 28.7 2.9 BASF -24.1 -2.9 Royal Dutch Shell 12.0 2.9 Marks & Spencer -8.5 -2.2 TGS Nopec Geophysical 56.1 2.7 Sold during the year.
Total return on investment, taking into account both capital returns and entitlement to dividends declared, for the period the investment was held during the year.
indd 10 07 12 2018 14:58 | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 11 Managers Review continued US pharmaceutical company Pfizer 6.5m gained as Adecco 3.1m performed poorly as the outlook for the companys lowly valuation was re-evaluated in light of European economic growth remained muted.
a promising pipeline of new products.
UK company Japanese electronics and entertainment group Sony GlaxoSmithKline 4.3m reassured investors about the 4.3m gained as an extensive restructuring delivered sustainability of the dividend after sensibly opting to buy growing profits following years of losses.
Our investment Novartiss share of their consumer healthcare joint in US telecommunications provider Verizon venture rather than pursuing a more ambitious Communications 2.9m rose as it focused on acquisition.
The new CEO is determined to better upgrading its network to win customers in a mature commercialise the companys gargantuan R&D efforts.
market and its lowly valuation was reconsidered Energy stocks were volatile but generally performed well Honourable mentions must also be made for two stocks over the year as resurgent oil prices and efforts to reduce we sold completely during the year.
Rentokil Initial, costs boosted cash flows.
Our largest gain in this sector which was an unloved and underperforming came from UK listed oil major Royal Dutch Shell conglomerate and is now a business focused chiefly on 2.9m which has done an excellent job of pest control, produced a total return for us of 24m transforming its portfolio and managing costs, driving a over the period we held the shares.
Australian based rebound in cash flow.
We also saw gains from TGS global wine producer, Treasury Wine Estates, which was Nopec Geophysical 2.7m, Hess 2.5m and Total for a long time our largest holding, has been an 2.1m.
exceptional investment, providing a total return of UK listed miner BHP Billiton 3.9m gained as the 39m over the three years we held the shares.
These more favourable commodity price environment, companies have transformed and their progress is now alongside productivity improvements, helped drive solid more widely recognised.
While their prospects remain cash flow and dividend growth.
Our investments in promising, we believe they are now reflected in the share unloved gold miners, including Newcrest Mining prices and consider that the balance of risk and reward is 3.2m and Newmont Mining 3.4m, delivered no longer as favourable.
Gold has been out of favour in recent years, but we think it looks well placed for a recovery.
We Outlook see gold as both a potential safe haven and a potential In my youth, I read The Ragged Trousered Philanthropists beneficiary if the inflationary environment picks up.
Looking back, the book presented European banks have recovered well in recent years, socialist ideas in a more digestible form and the title was benefiting from attractive valuations and a more settled meant to illustrate the irony of poverty stricken regulatory environment.
However, this year was tougher philanthropists performing gruelling work for as uncertain European politics and concerns regarding inadequate pay on behalf of avaricious masters.
emerging markets weighed on sentiment.
We made I always considered the title very clever, as it summed up losses in our holdings in ING 8.7m and BNP Paribas the thrust of the book, and as I look at todays 4.9m.
UK listed but emerging market exposed bank stockmarket, I wonder if the author would have managed Standard Chartered 7.0m was impacted by the a wry smile at the gigantic malinvestment in the slowdown in these markets.
We increased our holding in ecommerce area.
Today, investors are acting as Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group 1.0m as we philanthropists as they subsidise unprofitable user considered it likely to be a beneficiary of any rise in bond growth by disruptive entrants in a variety of areas.
Investments connected with internet shopping, food Mexican cement producer Cemex 3.8m was delivery, ride hailing services, scooter rentals, music hampered by a combination of headwinds and we sold streaming and video streaming, to name just some, are our holding due to the changing political climate in strongly favoured by investors despite their continued Mexico.
We also sold our holding in US industrial propensity to burn cash.
That the consumer appreciates conglomerate General Electric 4.0m as a quick a service sold below the cost of production is not a succession of leadership changes led to a reset of surprise.
The challenge is converting a subsidised, or free expectations for earnings and the dividend.
BASF service, to a sustainably profitable business model.
The 2.9m declined as trade tensions weighed on stocks lack of scepticism about the difficulty of achieving this is sensitive to economic growth.
Swiss based recruiter a symptom of ten years of cheap money.
indd 11 07 12 2018 14:58 | 12 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Managers Review continued In recent reviews, I have noted some concern with regard As I have previously noted, as contrarian investors we to investor attitudes to risk driven by a fear of missing actively seek unfashionable and unpopular investments out.
The mania for cryptocurrency get-rich-quick that we believe can recover.
This is where we find the best schemes proved to be brief but was concerning as it balance between risk expectations are low and reward represented a proxy for both the ease and speculative things can get better.
Our investment approach is nature of financial conditions.
The investor infatuation designed to anticipate and benefit from change and we with all things technological was also highlighted as a will continue to seek out opportunities with potential to concern as the area appeared to be awash with both profit the long-term investor.
The premium smartphone boom has peaked, social media is now subject to increasing regulatory pressure and the ecommerce investor.
business model will have to evolve further.
We have minimal exposure to these areas as we see elevated expectations and thus scope for disappointment.
Alasdair McKinnon It is now increasingly popular for politicians to pledge tax Manager cuts and increased spending in anticipation of these 7 December 2018 actions generating improved future growth and hence tax revenues.
This may well prove correct but, equally, once politicians get a taste for this type of strategy, it is the first step on the road to currency debasement via inflation.
That said, this is likely to be a lengthy journey, as a large number of stakeholders favour the status quo.
Generally speaking, the spread of valuations across the market is wide and we continue to identify opportunities that we believe will generate good long-term returns for shareholders.
