| 14 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report The Company has the ability to enter into contracts Business Model and Status to hedge against currency risks on both capital and The Company is a self-managed global growth income.
investment trust and is an investment company within the meaning of the Companies Act 2006.
HM The Companys investment activities are subject to the Revenue & Customs has approved the Company as an following limitations and restrictions: investment trust under Sections 1158 and 1159 of the under the Companys Articles of Association, up to Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The Company continues to 40% of the Companys total assets on the last audited satisfy the conditions for such approval.
The Company balance sheet may be used to make investments of is registered in Scotland and its registered office is 6 up to a maximum of 8% of the value of total assets in Albyn Place, Edinburgh EH2 4NL.
any one company, at the time the investment is made.
Thereafter, individual investments may not exceed 3% Investment objective and policy of the value of total assets, at the time the investment The Companys objective is to provide investors, over is made: the longer term, with above-average returns through the levels of gearing and gross gearing are monitored a diversified portfolio of international equities and to closely by the Board and the Manager.
The Board achieve dividend growth ahead of UK inflation.
While gearing will be In order to achieve this objective, the Company invests employed in a typical range of 0% to 20%, the in an integrated global portfolio constructed through Company retains the ability to lower equity exposure an investment process whereby assets are primarily to a net cash position if deemed appropriate: allocated on the basis of the investment merits of the Company has a policy not to invest more than individual stocks rather than those of regions, sectors 15% of total assets in other listed closed-ended or themes.
investment funds: and The Companys portfolio is actively managed and the Company may not make investments in respect of typically will contain 50 to 100 listed international which there is unlimited liability except that the equity investments.
The portfolio is widely diversified Company may sell index futures for efficient portfolio both by industrial sector and geographic location of management purposes.
investments in order to spread investment risk.
Whilst performance is compared against major global Investment policy implementation and UK indices, the composition of indices has no During the year under review, the assets of the influence on investment decisions or the construction Company were invested in accordance with the of the portfolio.
As a result, it is expected that the Companys investment policy.
Companys investment portfolio and performance may A full list of holdings is disclosed on pages 20 and 21 deviate from the comparator indices.
and detailed analysis of the spread of investments Since the Companys assets are invested globally and by geographic region and industry sector is shown without regard to the composition of any index, there on page 22.
A further analysis of changes in asset are no restrictions on maximum or minimum exposures distribution by industry sector over the year, including to specific geographic regions, industry sectors or the sources of appreciation depreciation, is shown on unlisted investments.
However, such exposures are page 23.
Attribution of NAV performance is shown on reported in detail to, and monitored by, the Board at page 10. each Board meeting in order to ensure that adequate At the year end, the number of listed holdings was 50 diversification is maintained.
The top ten holdings comprised 33.8% of Liquidity and long-term borrowings are managed total assets 2017: 35.1%.
with the aim of improving returns to shareholders.
In pursuing its investment objective, from time to time Details of the extent to which the Companys objective the Company will hold certain financial instruments has been achieved and how the investment policy comprising equity and non-equity shares, fixed income was implemented are provided in the Chairmans securities, interests in limited partnerships, structured Statement on pages 3 to 5 and the Managers Review products and cash and liquid resources.
The Company on pages 8 to 12. may use derivatives, other than in relation to the sale of index futures, for hedging or tactical investment Additional limitations on borrowings purposes.
The Company may only sell index futures Under the Companys Articles of Association, the for efficient portfolio management purposes.
For the Directors control the borrowings of the Company and avoidance of doubt, any derivative instrument may only its subsidiaries to ensure that the aggregate amount of be used with the prior authorisation of the Board.
borrowings does not, unless approved by an ordinary 164275 SIT AnRep18 PRINT.
indd 14 07 12 2018 14:58 | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 15 Strategic Report continued resolution of shareholders, exceed the aggregate of Dividends the reserves excluding unrealised capital profits of the The Board may declare dividends, including interim Company and its subsidiaries, as published in the latest dividends, but no dividend is payable except out of the accounts.
In addition, the Directors are authorised to Companys revenue return and revenue reserves, or in incur temporary borrowings in the ordinary course of excess of the amount recommended by the Directors.
business of up to 10% of the Companys issued share Neither unrealised appreciation of capital assets capital.
Such temporary borrowings are to be for no nor realised profits arising from the sale of capital longer than six months.
assets are available for the dividend.
The Company is however proposing an amendment to its Articles of Principal risks and uncertainties Association to allow distribution of its capital profits, as The principal risks and uncertainties facing the detailed on page 31. business are as follows: The Directors recommend a final dividend of 6.2p and strategic the ongoing attractiveness and a special dividend of 4.0p payable on 15 February sustainability of the Companys corporate objective: 2019.
With the interim dividends each of 5.00p already investment portfolio and performance investment paid in May, August and November 2018, this makes a approach, stock selection and overall investment total of 25.2p for the year.
Based on 77,184,578 shares performance: in issue at 31 October 2018, the final and special dividend will cost 7.873m.
The total dividend for the financial covering market risk, liquidity risk and year will cost 19.590m.
credit risk: operational specific focus on potential failure of the Share capital Companys or third party service providers systems, including vulnerability to cyber attack: and General The Company had 77,184,578 shares of 25p each in tax, legal and regulatory compliance with existing issue on 31 October 2018 2017: 79,468,458.
Since requirements and the ability to identify and respond the year end, the Company has bought back 110,000 to change.
The rights attaching to shares These and other risks facing the Company are reviewed in the Company are set out in the Companys Articles regularly by the Audit Committee and the Board.
of Association which may be amended by the passing Further information on risks and their mitigation is of a special resolution of shareholders, that is, by the detailed in the Corporate Governance Report on page approval of a majority of not less than 75% of votes cast.
30 and in note 16 to the accounts on pages 61 to 66 and on internal controls in the Report of the Audit The Financial Conduct Authority rules in relation to Committee on page 34. non-mainstream investment products do not apply to the Company.
Performance Rights to the capital of the Company on winding up Management provides the Board with detailed Shareholders would be entitled to the assets of the information on the Companys performance at Company in the event of a winding up after the every Board meeting.
Performance is measured in Companys other liabilities had been satisfied.
comparison with the Companys peers and comparator indices.
Voting On a show of hands, every shareholder present in Key Performance Indicators are: person or by proxy has one vote and on a poll every NAV total return: member present in person or by proxy has one vote for NAV total return against comparators: each share.
NAV and share price total return against peers: Transfer discount with debt at market value: There are no restrictions concerning the holding dividend growth against UK inflation: and or transfer of shares in the Company and there are ongoing charges figure.
no special rights attaching to any of the shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between Future Developments shareholders which might result in any restriction on The main trends and factors likely to affect the future the transfer of shares or their voting rights.
development, performance and position of the Companys business are set out in the Chairmans Deadlines for exercising voting rights Statement on pages 3 to 5 and the Managers Review If a shareholder wishes to appoint a proxy to attend, on pages 8 to 12. speak and vote at a meeting on their behalf, a valid 164275 SIT AnRep18 PRINT.
indd 15 07 12 2018 14:58 | 16 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report continued appointment is made when the form of proxy together, Holding in listed closed-ended investment where relevant, with a notarially certified copy of the fund power of attorney or other authority under which the Company holdings include one investment in a listed form of proxy is signed is received by the Companys closed-ended investment fund of 12.5m: 1.6% of total registrar not less than 48 hours before the start of the assets 2017: 12.7m: 1.5%.
This comprised solely of meeting or the adjourned meeting at which the proxy an investment in British Land, a UK property fund.
The is appointed to vote or, in the case of a poll taken Company has a policy not to invest more than 15% of more than 48 hours after it is demanded, no later than total assets in other listed closed-ended investment funds.
24 hours before the time appointed for taking the poll.
In calculating these time periods, no account is taken of Unlisted portfolio any day or part thereof that is not a working day.
The Companys unlisted holdings were valued at 1.5m 0.2% of shareholders funds.
These comprise the Companys office property and subsidiary.
Discount control policy The Companys policy aims, in normal market Viability statement conditions, to maintain the discount to cum-income The Directors have assessed the prospects of the NAV at or below 9%.
In calculating the NAV for the Company for a period of five years.
The Board believes purposes of this policy, the Companys borrowings are this time period is appropriate having consideration taken at their market value so as to ensure that future for the Companys principal risks and uncertainties repurchases of shares will take into account changes outlined on page 15 : its portfolio of liquid listed in the value of the borrowings brought about by international equity investments and cash balances: movements in long-term interest rates.
During the year and its ability to achieve the stated dividend policy and ended 31 October 2018, the Company bought back to cover interest payments on the Companys debt.
for cancellation a total of 2,283,880 shares of 25p each representing 2.9% of shares in issue at 31 October In making this assessment, the Directors have 2017, at a cost of 19,603,000. considered detailed information provided at Board meetings which includes the Companys balance sheet, At the AGM on 2 February 2018, authority was granted gearing level, share price discount, asset allocation, to repurchase up to 14.99% of shares in issue on that income and operating expenses.
The number of shares authorised for repurchase Based on the above, the Board confirms it has a was 11,784,849.
Share buybacks from the date of reasonable expectation that the Company will be able the AGM to the Companys year end amounted to to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they 1,433,491 shares or 1.82 percentage points of the fall due over the five year period of this assessment.
Investment risk Discount to NAV % % 5 Years to 31 October 2018 The investment portfolio is diversified over a range 0 0 of industries and regions in order to spread risk.
The Company has a long-term policy of borrowing money 3 3 to invest in equities in the expectation that this will improve returns but, should stockmarkets fall, such 6 6 borrowings would magnify losses.
The Company can 9 9 buy back and cancel its own shares.
All other things being equal, this would have the effect of increasing 12 12 gearing.
Investment risk is considered in more detail in the Corporate Governance Report on page 30 and in 15 15 note 16 on page 62.
18 18 Oct 13 Oct 14 Oct 15 Oct 16 Oct 17 Oct 18 Performance comparators with borrowings at market value Discount to Cum-Income NAV Discount to Ex-Income NAV The Company does not have a formal benchmark.
Source: The Company Performance is reviewed in the context of returns achieved by a broad basket of UK equities through the MSCI UK All Cap Index and of international equities through the MSCI All Country World Index ACWI.
The portfolio is not modelled on any index.
indd 16 07 12 2018 14:58 | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 17 Strategic Report continued Environmental, Social and Governance Management Policy The Board has appointed the Companys wholly-owned When investments are made, the primary objective is subsidiary, S. I. T. Savings Limited, as its Alternative to achieve the best investment return while allowing Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
for an acceptable degree of risk.
In pursuing this Day-to-day management of the Company is delegated objective, various factors that may impact on the to the Companys executive management which performance are considered and these may include reports directly to the Board.
environmental, social and governance issues.
The Board has appointed Maitland Administration Services Scotland Limited to provide company As an investment trust, the Company does not secretarial, administration and accounting services to provide goods or services in the normal course of the Company.
business, nor does it have customers.
Accordingly, the Directors consider that the Company does not fall within the scope of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 Substantial shareholdings and that there are no disclosures to be made in At 31 October 2018, the Company had been notified respect of human rights or community issues.
of the following holdings in excess of 3% of its shares.
% Shares held Bribery Act 2010 Wells Capital Management Inc. 4,924,826 6.4 The Company has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and a commitment to carry out business fairly, AXA Investment Managers SA 3,450,050 4.5 honestly and openly.
There have been no changes notified to the Company in respect of the above holdings, and no new holdings Criminal Finances Act 2017 notified, since 31 October 2018.
The Company has a zero tolerance policy to tax evasion and the facilitation of tax evasion.
Analysis of share register at 31 October 2018 Share capital Category of holder % Individuals 80.4 Insurance companies 2.0 James Will Investment companies 7.5 Chairman Pension funds 6.3 7 December 2018 Other 3.8 Total 100.0 Companys directors and employees The table below shows the breakdown of Directors and employees.
31 October 2018 31 October 2017 Male Female Male Female Directors 3 2 4 2 Senior Manager 1 0 1 0 Employees 5 3 6 2 164275 SIT AnRep18 PRINT.
indd 17 07 12 2018 14:58 | 18 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 164275 SIT AnRep18 PRINT.
