Governance Report Directors and Management The members of the Board come from a broad variety of backgrounds.
The Board can draw on a very extensive pool of knowledge and experience.
Directors FC McBain Professor JA Kay Fiona McBain is the former chief executive of Scottish John Kay has a distinguished record as an economist, Friendly Assurance, a mutually owned financial services academic, author and commentator on business, government group with over 1,000,000 policyholders.
Fiona was and economic issues.
John was appointed a Director in 2008. appointed a Director in 2009 and became Chairman on He is a fellow of St Johns College, University of Oxford and 29 June 2017.
She is also chairman of the Nomination Investment Officer of the College and he is a director of Value and Committee.
Before joining Scottish Friendly in 1998, Fiona, a Income Trust PLC.
chartered accountant, was employed by Prudential plc and Arthur Young now Ernst & Young where she spent some time working across a number of industry sectors, both in the UK and in the United States.
She is also a trustee of Save the Children UK and non-executive director of the Humanitarian Leadership Academy and Dixons Carphone plc.
LJ Dowley Professor PH Maxwell Justin Dowley is a former international investment banker Patrick Maxwell is the Regius Professor of Physic and Head and was appointed a Director in 2015.
He qualified as a of the School of Clinical Medicine at Cambridge University.
chartered accountant at Price Waterhouse in 1980.
Subsequently He was appointed a Director in 2016.
Patrick has extensive he was a director of Morgan Grenfell & Co. Limited, Head of knowledge and experience of the biotechnology sector and holds Investment Banking at Merrill Lynch Europe and a founder partner a Wellcome Trust senior investigator award for his research on of Tricorn Partners LLP.
Formerly the Chairman of Intermediate oxygen sensing.
He was elected a Fellow of the Academy of Capital Group plc he is currently a Deputy Chairman of The Medical Sciences in 2005.
He is currently a director of the Global Takeover Panel, the senior independent director of Melrose Medical Excellence Cluster GMEC and a member of the boards Industries plc and a non-executive director of a number of private of MedCity, Cambridge University Health Partners CUHP and companies.
Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
26 Annual Report 2018 Governance Report Managers and Secretaries The Company has appointed Baillie Gifford & Co Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Baillie Gifford & Co, as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager and Company Secretary.
Baillie Gifford & Co Limited has delegated portfolio management services to Baillie Gifford & Co. Baillie Gifford & Co is an investment management firm formed in 1927 out of the legal firm Baillie & Gifford, WS, which had been Managers and Secretaries to the Company since its formation in 1909.
Dr P Subacchi Baillie Gifford is one of the largest investment trust managers in the UK and currently manages eight investment trusts.
Baillie Paola Subacchi is an economist, writer and commentator on Gifford also manages unit trusts and open ended investment the functioning and governance of the international and companies, together with investment portfolios on behalf of monetary system.
Paola was appointed to the Board in 2014. pension funds, charities and other institutional clients, both in the She is the author of The Peoples Money: How China is building a UK and overseas.
Funds under the management or advice of global currency Columbia University Press, 2017 and is a regular Baillie Gifford total around 187 billion.
Based in Edinburgh, it is contributor to Project Syndicate.
She is a senior fellow at one of the leading privately owned investment management firms Chatham House The Royal Institute of International Affairs in in the UK, with 44 partners and a staff of around 1,000.
London, a visiting professor at the University of Bologna, and is a The Managers of Scottish Mortgages portfolio are James non-executive director of BlackRock Greater Europe Investment Anderson and Tom Slater.
James Anderson is a partner of Baillie Trust PLC.
She is also a governor of St Marylebone School in Gifford & Co and Head of the Long Term Global Growth team.
London and a member of Wilton Park Advisory Council.
An Italian Tom Slater is also a partner and Head of the North American national, she studied at Universit Bocconi in Milan and at the equities team.
In 2016 she received the honour Cavaliere dellOrdine della Stella dItalia.
Baillie Gifford & Co and Baillie Gifford & Co Limited are both authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
The chairman is chair of the Nomination Committee and is not a member of the Audit Committee.
All other Directors are members of the Nomination and Audit Committees with the exception of Professor John Kay who is not a member of the Audit Committee.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 27
