Strategic Report Managers Review not just to identify companies that possess extraordinary As the late, great Hans Rosling wrote It is not a question of intelligence.
Everyone seems to get the world devastatingly characteristics.
Its to own them for a prolonged period.
All too often excessive fear of events and headlines and a misguided wrong.
Not only devastatingly wrong but systematically wrong.
Therefore highly educated but deluded human beings desire to lock in past profits lead investors to chop down trees when they are but saplings.
All great companies endure through believe the world to be far worse than it is given the advances in global health, wealth and well-being that are too slow, too periods of struggle.
All great shares endure periods of dramatic underperformance.
It is only in retrospect that success appears fragmented, or too small one-by-one to ever qualify as news.
Its this secret silent miracle of human progress that convinces us to smooth and inevitable.
remain optimistic about the investment opportunities despite the What is so remarkable about this era for growth investors is that understandably lurid headlines of our age.
we have been offered the chance to own a set of compelling companies that have the characteristics that denote the potential But the investment world is devastatingly and systematically wrong in quite another manner.
It does not understand the nature for greatness at extreme scale.
The combination of digitalisation and globalisation has led to hitherto unimaginable opportunities of investment returns, their origins or what may predict their occurrence.
Investment returns are not generated by surveying for a cadre of founder led companies of the utmost ambition.
Its therefore natural enough that the corporate trees can continue to the entire available field and adjusting correlations to the index by overweighting and underweighting according to marginal grow at previously incomprehensible scale.
Its appropriate yet again to cite Amazon in all of these regards.
Its not normal for a advantages and disadvantages, perceived risk of volatility, macroeconomic trends or comparative valuation.
company of its size to achieve 43% sales growth, its abnormal to have a cloud computing business with accelerating growth as it Investment is a far more dramatic and extreme universe than that.
hits a $20 billion run rate or to see the Prime subscription service Its not a well-behaved machine that cranks out returns to owners exceed 100m customers.
These are all opportunities that Amazon of all equities merely pausing to reflect the supposed laws of invented.
asset pricing relative to cash and bonds.
Instead quite extraordinary returns flow to a tiny fraction of the companies in Not Just Silicon Valley existence.
This is articulated in more detail by Tom Slater later in Silicon Valley attracts headlines.
Its companies have also this Report.
contributed disproportionately to the returns enjoyed by global The companies that have the opportunity to deliver exceptional investors over recent years.
But for Scottish Mortgage returns tend to share initial characteristics.
They address shareholders the focus on this area can become a little too potentially huge markets at early stages, they are run for the intense.
This isnt just a reference to the rather different culture long-term by founders or their descendants, and they zig and zag nurtured by Seattles Amazon or San Diegos Illumina but also to to adjust to developing circumstances rather than imposing a much wider considerations.
Its these sort of companies that we need We should stress that our major investments are not confined to to identify.
the West Coast of America let alone to Silicon Valley.
We go Moreover, great results are only attainable if patience is the wherever any companies demonstrate the characteristics that mantra for investors as well as for founders.
Its the persistent offer the potential for greatness at scale.
More often than not such compounding of exponential returns that matters.
So our task is companies herd together in clusters of mutual emulation.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 11 Strategic Report Hangzhou, China.
Eastern China As elsewhere the recent pattern has been for the next generation of Chinese companies to grow up in private.
But privacy should Over the next twenty years we consider it likely that Chinese not be mistaken for lack of ambition.
Given that funding at scale is companies will create the most value.
It seems equally likely that available from Tencent, Alibaba and Baidu as well as a vigorous almost all of these will be found in the hubs of Eastern China.
venture capital system, remaining unquoted is no obstacle to Shenzhen, Hangzhou not Shanghai and Beijing appear the scale and, as elsewhere, allows investment to occur without the epicentres of potential.
As in America, the concentration of impatience of public markets.
We can only reflect on the returns will be notable not just geographically but in the rise of a comparative appeal of the frequently hysterical and always small number of remarkable companies.
opinionated daily news gauntlet that Tesla endures versus the This has certainly been the pattern of the last twelve months.
quiet progress of its Chinese equivalent NIO in which we now During the period under review Alibaba and Tencent came to be have a holding.
We would expect our exposure to Chinese recognised for what they are dominant, thoughtful and highly unquoted companies to grow over the coming year.
sophisticated network companies with the technological and We see no evidence that the Chinese economic and corporate managerial abilities to extend their leadership into most segments miracle is fading indeed rather the reverse.
The increasing scale, of the Chinese economy and increasingly into international wealth, education and sophistication of the domestic market are markets.
likely to mean that the opportunities will become more, rather We think these two behemoths are at least the overall equal of than less, alluring.
Just as Scottish Mortgage 100 years ago had their American peers in vision and abilities.
They are both more at to confront America becoming the leading economy and the ease with their home society and government than is the case in stock market with the most opportunities so we must America.
Unlike most of their US counterparts both Alibaba and acknowledge a similar transition today.
It would be no surprise if Tencent are prepared to reinvest in their businesses in order to China replaces the United States as the leading geographical redeploy their extraordinary cash flows.
We far prefer this policy to location for Scottish Mortgages assets.
100 years ago there was the passive generation of vast cash piles.
Only Amazon of the US much murmuring in the Annual Reports that Canada or Argentina internet giants has a similar attitude.
Tencent and Alibaba share might be more appealing.
We are more single minded.
with Amazon the ability to grow at 4050% over long periods of time.
So this is no longer geographically confined to America but it is historically unprecedented.
12 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Surprising Successes Our commitment to China and to the beneficiaries of exponential change has been consistent and frequently discussed in these pages.
What may be less well-known to shareholders is that weve been fortunate enough to own a group of European companies that have delivered quite excellent business and share price performance over a prolonged period.
Sometimes the degree of success has surprised the Managers.
Such is the case in our ownership of first Fiat Chrysler and then its Ferrari spin-off.
Given the economics and maturity of the internal combustion engine this may seem unlikely territory for growth investors so much so that we acknowledge that we may have been the beneficiaries of luck rather than good judgment.
But we have believed for many years that Fiat Chrysler has outstanding Ferrari GTC4 Lusso.
It is prepared to be radical in thinking about the auto Ferrari.
This led to a preparedness to abandon the search for volumes to focus instead on a limited number of special brands.
Ferrari itself is the lodestar of this approach with a mere 8,398 cars translating into operating earnings of 775m in 2017.
Both figures have the potential to grow in the decades ahead.
Similar excellence in luxury brand development has been the driving force behind the progress of Kering.
The growth of its Gucci division has been exceptional.
But behind this rests a patient and thoughtful approach that has created a luxury clothing group that should endure into future generations.
It is tribute to the sustained efforts of the Pinault family.
It is often assumed that whilst Europe retains historic brands, it lacks technology expertise and is bereft of businesses of the scale of America and China.
The most impressive European technological and commercial feat of the Tesla Model 3. last thirty years has been the emergence of ASML, from a near Tesla.
bankrupt affiliate of Philips, to global leadership and now dominance of the lithography industry.
Without ASMLs achievements Moores Law would have stumbled.
Without Moores Law the transformation of communications and the internet would have withered away.
But though ASML enabled the rise of the global platform companies, until now Europe could not boast such a company of its own.
But it is possible that Spotify may fill this void.
We have been investors in Spotify as a private company during a phase of intense and challenging work to establish music streaming with consumers and as a business model in the face of the entrenched interests of labels and competition from Apple, Amazon and Tencent.
We suspect that Spotify would not have succeeded in becoming the global leader if it had been a quoted company during this period.
But we are happy that it has now emerged into public markets.
We have purchased more shares since the NIO ES8.
Visual China Group Getty Images.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 13 Strategic Report Current Challenges Future Challenges We regard it as inevitable that there will always be major holdings We are fully aware that Scottish Mortgage has enjoyed the in your portfolio that are topics of either popular concern or rewards of an uncommonly long bull market.
Although we remain intense investment discussion in our own minds.
Sometimes delighted at the progress and prospects of our portfolio it would these categories overlap.
In recent months, we have found that be unrealistic to exclude the possibility of market setbacks.
external questioning has been almost exclusively focussed on just Indeed it would be foolish to rule out such an occurrence at any two stocks Facebook and Tesla which have generated time.
Thus far this attention has generated little But beyond the compulsion to take profits that most shareholders reaction in stock prices but some comments on each may be exhibit we do not share the presumption that Scottish Mortgage worthwhile.
is doomed to suffer unduly in a bear market.
To us the underlying We have reduced our holding in Facebook.
This was initially cause of the next market retreat is most likely to be the dawning provoked by a concern dating to last summer that Facebook was realisation that broad swathes of the stock market that have been too focussed on monetising its astonishing reach solely through assumed to be strong and stable in difficult market conditions are advertising.
We thought this was both unduly limiting and instead acutely vulnerable to severe setbacks.
We did not expect this anxiety to be staples, to traditional retailers to TV moguls to oil and utility translated into public drama so rapidly.
We continue to discuss behemoths to traditional pharmaceuticals and back to banks and the relevant ethical and financial issues with management but for insurance companies we see long-standing business models that now we are content to be shareholders but at a lower level.
are already showing signs of intense strain.
In the next decade we fear that strain will morph into permanent collapse.
Tesla is a rather different case.
We need to be clear that the production hell that Elon Musk spoke of entering has been both It seems to us that this is a far greater cause for concern than the more persistent and at a lower circle of hell than we thought likely.
perennial and excessive angst that the valuation of the great But we do not believe that it is likely to fundamentally endanger global growth companies that we are invested may be ahead of the intense brand loyalty that has been built.
We still believe that some traditional metrics.
We believe that Scottish Mortgage is the business model is intact.
We cannot be certain in these insurance against a world utterly changed just as much as it is the opinions but we think the rewards for shareholders if they prove to beneficiary of extraordinary corporate achievements.
be justified considerably outweigh the risks.
As ever we do not want to interrupt the potential for exponential compounding.
We James Anderson therefore believe it appropriate to resist the temptation to give into hysterical headlines and storm of hedge fund criticism that is the daily round at present.
14 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Evolution of Core Beliefs We first stated our Core Beliefs in the Annual Report of 2013 and remained steadfast and our difference from the market view is weve included this statement in our reports ever since.
It still clear, we have held the shares for far longer.
Today all of our top accurately captures how we approach investment.
This year Ive ten holdings have been held for more than five years and two updated it for the developments in our thinking and evolution of have been held for more than ten.
our investment philosophy over the intervening years.
The original Whilst listed equity markets currently remain the principle focus of stands.
What follows is an addendum.
our investments, the nature of capital markets has changed and We are optimists.
In a world where limiting volatility and avoiding our search for outliers has moved with it.
Some of our most downside is the dominant investor mentality, we focus successful investee companies have benefited from and indeed unashamedly on the drivers and implications of corporate created new growth models with dramatically lower financing success.
Limiting volatility can make sense for an overall requirements than has been the case historically.
Access to online investment portfolio but we doubt the benefits of using equities to distribution has grown the addressable market for breakthrough meet this objective.
The asymmetric payoff structure you can businesses by an order of magnitude.
The ability to harness third make far more if youre right about a stock than you can lose if party infrastructure has drastically reduced the capital intensity of youre wrong is the fundamental attraction of investing in equity growth.
This has made new companies less dependent on markets.
Whilst we have long believed in the impact of a small external financing.
As a consequence, their boardrooms are not number of exceptional companies, even we are surprised by how dominated by early financial investors looking to realise their gains narrowly returns have been shown to extend within the market.
and these companies are remaining private longer.
They are being Our own research demonstrates that in the past thirty years selective about their shareholders and they are reluctant to accept approximately five per cent.
of stocks have returned at least the burdens that accompany public status.
five-fold in any five-year period.
Over longer time horizons, this We are determined to own the most promising Growth power law is even more dramatic.
Academic work on the past companies in the world.
To maintain our opportunity set we have ninety years of US data shows that over half of the excess return expanded our operations in private markets.
This has little impact from equities came from just 90 companies.
Investors enjoy little on our investment process.
Access to fluctuating daily quotations if any reward for taking the risk of owning the median stock in for our holdings is more often a distraction than an advantage for the market.
Instead it is the outsized impact of a small number of a fund with permanent capital.
We are preoccupied with company exceptional companies that dominate the payoff structure.
fundamentals and increasingly indifferent to a companys private In this context we have defined our core task more narrowly: to or public status.
As access to the most promising private identify companies that have sufficient opportunity to deliver such companies is dependent on relationships and reputation our task outlying returns and to own them for long enough without becomes more important, as it is much harder for our interference so that the return accrues to our shareholders.
We shareholders to invest directly.
Our scale and commitment to low previously noted our investment time horizon to be at least five costs allows us to do this without changing our fee structure.
In practice, for businesses where our conviction has Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 15 Strategic Report As we make these investments we are providing more primary cycle of quarterly updates.
They delight in having less frequent capital to businesses and directly funding investment in future and more in-depth discussion about the longer-term development economic growth.
The role of public equity markets in providing of their business.
Getting to listen to the entrepreneurs and such investment capital has diminished.
Declining holding periods visionaries that have built some of these outstandingly successful and frenzied speculation around newsflow is the norm.
More franchises is a hugely valuable input to our investment approach.
insidiously, the demand for immediate returns pressures In turn, this is challenging us to re-evaluate our long-held belief companies to pay out their cashflows to shareholders rather than that there is no opportunity for informational advantage in investing in their future.
Such inputs seem largely neglected in a world where incentivised to maximise share prices have been happy to oblige, colour on the quarters numbers is the main preoccupation of resulting in a declining proportion of cash flow being devoted to so-called investors.
For instance, we first invested in Alibaba back research and development or capital expenditure across the in 2012 as a private company.
Through our patient ownership and market.
Such investments are needed more than ever in a world ongoing support, we have earned the opportunity to speak with that is experiencing rapid change.
Our holdings in public markets the companys senior management.
We believe the growth of the are heavily focused on companies whose ownership or Chinese consumer economy is a transformational force in the management structure allows them to ignore such demands.
global economy and there is no one better placed to help us Whilst we expressed our scepticism of the value of routine understand its implications.
information in our original document, we didnt articulate where Dialogue with management is a valuable input but the relationship more useful counsel might lie or suggest that we ought to play extends in both directions.
The investment management industry our part in ensuring its existence.
Some of you may have has ceded much of its role in the governance of companies to the attended the book festivals we sponsor or read some of the vested interests of activist investors.
Ensuring shortlisted titles for the Baillie Gifford Prize for Non-fiction.
We strong governance and engaging with our holdings on matters of have invested in supporting interesting authors and sought to substance is our responsibility.
More than that, it is essential if we enhance our investment thinking with their insight.
We have built are to be seen as attractive shareholders by our investee relationships with academics and universities.
We are funding companies and if we are to maximise the returns we can generate research which we hope will inform our long run thinking on on your behalf.
At the same time, our time horizon is facilitating a different type of relationship with the management teams with Tom Slater whom we invest.
They find little of value or interest in the endless 16 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report The Managers Core Investment Beliefs Whilst fund managers claim to spend much of their careers visions that are barely noticed by the markets.
There is more in the investment world than the Financial Times or Wall Street assessing the competitive advantage of companies they are notoriously reluctant to perform any such analysis on themselves.
The tendency is to cite recent performance as evidence of skill We are global in stock selection, asset allocation and attribution.
despite the luck, randomness and mean-reverting characteristics We are active not passive or far worse index plus in stock of most such data.
If this does not suffice then attention turns to a selection.
Holding sizes reflect the potential upside and its discussion of the high educational qualifications, hard work and probability or otherwise rather than the combination of the exotic remuneration packages that the fund manager enjoys.
market capitalisation and geographical location of the company Sometimes the procedural details of the investment process are and its headquarters.
We do not have sufficient confidence in outlined with heavy emphasis on risk our top-down asset allocation skills to wish controls.
Little attention is given to either to override stock selection.
We do not have the distinctiveness of the approach or the enough confidence in our market timing strategic advantages the manager might abilities to wish to add or remove gearing at enjoy in order to make imitation frequent intervals.
We do, however, have improbable.
We think we should try to do strong conviction that our portfolio should better than this.
be comparatively concentrated, and that it is We are long term in our investment of little use to shareholders to tinker around decisions.
It is only over periods of at the edges of indices.
We think this produces least five years that the competitive better investment results and it certainly advantages and managerial excellence makes us more committed shareholders in of companies become apparent.
We suspect that selecting is these characteristics that we want stocks on the basis of the past their current to identify and support.
We own market capitalisation is a policy designed to companies rather than rent shares.
protect the security of tenure of asset We do not regard ourselves as experts managers rather than to build the wealth of in forecasting the oscillations of shareholders.
Companies that are large and economies or the mood swings of established tend to be internally complacent markets.
Indeed we think that it is hard and inflexible.
They are often vulnerable to We are growth investors.
to excel in such areas as this is where assault by more ambitious and vibrant so many market participants focus and newcomers.
where so little of the value of companies lies.
Equally Baillie We are Growth stock investors.
Such has been the preference Gifford is more likely to possess competitive advantages for for Value and the search to arbitrage away minor rating the good of shareholders when it adopts a long term differentials that investors find it very hard to acknowledge the perspective.
We are a 111 year old Scottish partnership.
We extraordinary growth rates and returns that can be found think about our own business over decades not quarters.
The growth that we are particularly interested in is of an Such stability may not be exciting but it does encourage explosive nature and often requires minimal fixed assets or patience in this most impatient of industries.
We only judge indeed capital.
We think of it as Growth at Unreasonable our investment performance over five year plus time horizons.
Prices rather than the traditional discipline of Growth at a In truth it takes at least a decade to provide adequate Reasonable Price.
We need to be willing to pay high multiples evidence of investment skill.
of immediate earnings because the scale of future potential The investment management industry is ill-equipped to deal and returns can be so dramatic.
On the stocks that flourish with the behavioural and emotional challenges inherent in the valuation will have turned out to be derisorily low.
On the todays capital markets.
Our time frame and ownership others we will lose money.
structure help us to fight these dangers.
We are besieged by We believe that it is our first duty to shareholders to limit fees.
The bulk of this information is of little Both the investment management fee 0.30% on the first 4 significance but it implores you to rapid and usually futile billion of assets, and 0.25% thereafter please see page 28 action.
This can be particularly damaging at times of stress.
and ongoing charges ratio 0.37% as at 31 March 2018 are Academic research argues that most individuals dislike low by comparative standards but at least adequate in financial losses twice as much as they take pleasure in gains.
We think that the malign impact of high fees is We fear that for fund managers this relationship is close to frequently underestimated.
The difference between an tenfold.
Internal and external pressures make the avoidance of ongoing charges ratio of 0.37% and one of 1.5% may not loss dominant.
This is damaging in a portfolio context.
We appear great but if the perspective is altered to think of costs need to be willing to accept loss if there is an equal or greater as a percentage of expected annual returns then the contrast chance of almost unlimited gain.
If annual returns average 10% then this is We are very dubious about the value of routine information.
the difference between removing approximately 4% or 15% of We have little confidence in quarterly earnings and none in the your returns each year.
Nor do we believe in a performance views of investment banks.
We try to screen out rather than fee.
Usually it undermines investment performance.
In contrast we think that the world increases pressure and narrows perspective.
offers joyous opportunities to hear views, perspectives and Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 17
