Governance Report Directors Report The Directors present their Report together with the Financial The Depositarys responsibilities include cash monitoring, Statements of the Company for the year to 31 March 2018. safe keeping of the Companys financial instruments, verifying ownership and maintaining a record of other assets and Corporate Governance monitoring the Companys compliance with investment limits The Corporate Governance Report is set out on pages 32 to 34 and leverage requirements.
Following the internal reorganisation and forms part of this Report.
at The Bank of New York, the custody function is now also undertaken by The Bank of New York Mellon International Manager and Company Secretaries Limited the Custodian having previously been delegated to Baillie Gifford & Co Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Baillie The Bank of New York Mellon SA NV.
Gifford & Co, has been appointed as the Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM and Company Secretaries.
Directors Baillie Gifford & Co Limited has delegated portfolio management Information about the Directors, including their relevant services to Baillie Gifford & Co.
Dealing activity and transaction experience, can be found on pages 26 and 27. reporting has been further sub-delegated to Baillie Gifford Overseas All Directors will retire at the Annual General Meeting and offer Limited.
The Investment Management Agreement sets out the matters over Following a formal performance evaluation the Board considers which the Managers have authority in accordance with the policies that the performance of the Directors continues to be effective and directions of, and subject to restrictions imposed by, the and each remains committed to the Company.
The Investment Management Agreement is terminable on to the Board is greatly valued and the Board recommends their not less than six months notice.
The annual management fee for re-election to shareholders.
the year to 31 March 2018 was 0.30% on the first 4 billion of total The Board also considers that FC McBain and Professor JA Kay assets less current liabilities excluding short term borrowings for investment purposes and 0.25% on the remaining assets.
remain independent notwithstanding having served on the Board for more than nine years see page 32.
Careful consideration has been given by the Board as to the basis on which the management fee is charged.
The Board considers Director Indemnification and Insurance that maintaining a low ongoing charges ratio is in the best The Company has entered into qualifying third party deeds of interests of all shareholders as lower costs mean higher returns, indemnity in favour of each of its Directors.
The deeds cover any particularly when compounded over long periods.
The Board is liabilities that may arise to a third party, other than the Company, also of the view that calculating the fee with reference to for negligence, default or breach of trust or duty.
The Directors are performance would be unlikely to exert a positive influence over not indemnified in respect of liabilities to the Company, any the long term performance.
regulatory or criminal fines, any costs incurred in connection with The Board as a whole fulfils the functions of the Management criminal proceedings in which the Director is convicted or civil proceedings brought by the Company in which judgement is Engagement Committee.
The Board considers the Companys investment management and secretarial arrangements on a given against him or her.
In addition, the indemnity does not apply to any liability to the extent that it is recovered from another continuing basis and a formal review is conducted at least annually.
The Board considers, amongst others, the following topics in its person.
The indemnities were in force during the year to 31 March 2018 and up to the date of approval of this report.
review: the quality of the personnel assigned to handle the Companys affairs, the investment process and the results achieved The Company maintains Directors and Officers Liability Insurance.
to date, the administrative services provided by the Secretaries and the marketing efforts undertaken by the Managers.
Following the Conflicts of Interest most recent review and the good performance particularly over the Each Director submits a list of potential conflicts of interest to the long term, it is the opinion of the Directors that the continuing Nomination Committee on an annual basis.
The Committee appointment of Baillie Gifford & Co Limited as Alternative considers these carefully, taking into account the circumstances Investment Fund Manager and the delegation of investment surrounding them and makes a recommendation to the Board on management services to Baillie Gifford & Co, on the terms agreed, whether or not the potential conflicts should be authorised.
Board is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
authorisation is for a period of one year.
Having considered the lists of potential conflicts there were no situations which gave rise Depositary to a direct or indirect interest of a Director which conflicted with In accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers the interests of the Company.
Directive, the AIFM must appoint a Depositary to the Company.
Following the year end, on 3 April 2018 the legal entity of the Dividends Depositary changed from BNY Mellon Trust and Depositary The Board recommends a final dividend of 1.68p per ordinary UK Limited who had acted as Depositary throughout the year share which, together with the interim dividend of 1.39p per to 31 March 2018 to The Bank of New York Mellon International ordinary share already paid, makes a total of 3.07p for the year Limited following an internal reorganisation at the Bank of compared with 3.00p per ordinary share for the previous year.
If approved, the recommended final dividend on the ordinary shares will be paid on 2 July 2018 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 8 June 2018.
The ex-dividend date is 7 June 2018.
28 Annual Report 2018 Governance Report The Companys Registrars offer a Dividend Reinvestment Plan 31 March 2017, on the London Stock Exchange, all of which see page 68 and the final date for elections for this dividend is were added to shares held in treasury.
The total consideration for 11 June 2018. these shares was 62,951,000.
Between 1 April and 9 May 2018 no further shares were bought back into treasury.
Share Capital The Directors will again be seeking authorities at the forthcoming Capital Structure Annual General Meeting to buy back shares and to sell shares The Companys capital structure as at 31 March 2018 consists of held in treasury and allot new shares at a premium to the net 1,421,730,880 ordinary shares of 5p each, of which 1,395,363,209 asset value per share with debt valued at a fair value.
Details of are allotted and fully paid and 26,367,671 are held in treasury.
these resolutions are set out below.
There are no restrictions concerning the holding or transfer of the Annual General Meeting Companys ordinary shares and there are no special rights attached to any of the shares.
Resolution 11 Authority to allot shares Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 provides that the Dividends Directors may not allot new shares without shareholder approval.
The ordinary shares carry a right to receive dividends.
Interim Resolution 11 seeks to renew the Directors authority to allot dividends are determined by the Directors, whereas the proposed shares up to a maximum amount of 7,020,816, representing final dividend is subject to shareholder approval.
of the Companys total issued ordinary Capital Entitlement share capital excluding treasury shares as at 9 May 2018, being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document.
On a winding up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the surplus assets will be paid to ordinary shareholders in proportion The Directors presently intend to exercise this power only once the to their shareholdings.
number of shares held by the Company in treasury is not sufficient to support share issuance by the Company in accordance with its Voting stated liquidity policy.
As at 9 May 2018, the Company held Each ordinary shareholder present in person or by proxy is 17,567,671 ordinary shares in treasury, representing approximately entitled to one vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, to one 1.3 per cent.
of the Companys issued share capital excluding vote for every share held.
treasury shares as at 9 May 2018, being the latest practicable date Information on the deadlines for proxy appointments can be prior to publication of this document.
The authority will expire on 28 found on pages 66 and 67.
September 2019 or, if earlier, at the end of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2019, unless previously Major Interests Disclosed in the Companys Shares cancelled or varied by the Company in general meeting.
of ordinary Resolution 12 Disapplication of pre-emption rights 5p shares held at 31 March % of Resolution 12, which is being proposed as a special resolution, Name 2018 issue seeks to renew the Directors authority to allot equity securities, or sell treasury shares, for cash without having to offer such shares BlackRock Inc Indirect 127,945,039 9.2 to existing Shareholders pro-rata to their existing holdings, up to a There have been no changes to the major interests in the Companys total nominal amount of 7,020,816, representing approximately shares disclosed to the Company up to 9 May 2018.
of the Companys total issued ordinary share capital as at 9 May 2018, being the latest practicable date prior to Ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares.
Share Issuances and Share Buy-backs The Directors consider that the authority proposed to be granted At the last Annual General Meeting the Directors were granted by Resolution 12 continues to be advantageous when the power to allot equity securities or sell ordinary shares held in Companys shares trade at a premium to net asset value and the treasury for cash up to a maximum nominal amount of level of natural liquidity in the market is unable to meet demand.
The Directors do not intend to use this authority to sell or issue During the year to 31 March 2018 the Company sold 50,800,000 ordinary shares on a non-pre-emptive basis at a discount to net shares from treasury on a non-pre-emptive basis nominal value asset value on the basis of debt valued at fair value.
The attention 2,540,000, representing 3.7% of the called up share capital, of Shareholders is drawn to information set out under Resolution excluding treasury shares, at 31 March 2017 at a premium to net 13 below.
asset value on the basis of debt valued at fair value on 59 While the level of the authority being sought is greater than the separate occasions at an average price of 407.14 pence per 5 per cent.
recommended by the Pre-Emption Group in their share raising net proceeds of 207,559,000.
At 31 March 2018 Statement of Principles on disapplying pre-emption rights, it is the Company held 26,367,671 treasury shares.
Between 1 April specifically recognised in the Statement of Principles that, where an and 9 May 2018 the Company sold a further 8,800,000 shares investment trust is seeking authority to issue shares at a premium from treasury raising proceeds of 41,768,000. to the underlying net asset value per share, this should not normally During the year to 31 March 2018 the Company bought back raise concerns and the Directors consider the greater flexibility 14,006,276 ordinary shares nominal value 700,000 representing provided by this authority to be justified in the circumstances.
1.0% of the called up share capital, excluding treasury shares, at Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 29 Governance Report Resolution 13 Authority to issue shares at a discount to Under the Listing Rules, the maximum price exclusive of net asset value expenses that may be paid on the exercise of the authority shall be an amount equal to the higher of: As noted above, the Directors do not intend to sell ordinary shares held in treasury or to issue new ordinary shares on a i 5 per cent.
above the average closing price on the London non-pre-emptive basis at a discount to net asset value on the Stock Exchange of an ordinary share over the five business basis of debt valued at fair value.
The Directors are aware that LR days immediately preceding the date of the purchase: and 15.4.
11 of the Listing Rules prohibits the issue of ordinary shares ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the including ordinary shares held in treasury for cash at a price highest current independent bid as stipulated by Article 5 1 of below the net asset value per share of those shares without such Commission Regulation EC 22 December 2003 shares first being offered to existing Shareholders pro rata to their implementing the Market Abuse Directive as regards existing holdings.
exemptions for buy back programmes and stabilisation of It is a general market understanding in this context that net asset financial instruments No.
2273 2003. value is determined on the basis of debt valued at fair value, but, The minimum price again exclusive of expenses that may be for the purposes of LR 15.4.
11, the term net asset value is not paid will be the par value of an ordinary share.
As a result, having regard to guidance ordinary shares will be made within guidelines established, from previously received from the UKLA and consistent with the time to time, by the Board.
The Company does not have any approach adopted last year, the Directors wish to ensure that any warrants or options in issue.
sale of ordinary shares held in treasury or issue of new ordinary shares will not result in an inadvertent breach of the Listing Rules The Directors intend that this authority, if conferred, will be by virtue of the UKLA determining that net asset value should be exercised only if to do so would result in an increase in net asset calculated on the basis of debt valued at par value.
Resolution 13 value per ordinary share for the remaining Shareholders and if it is seeks to renew the authority granted to the Company at the 2017 in the best interest of Shareholders generally.
Annual General Meeting to issue shares at a discount to net asset Recommendation value, in order to continue to protect against any such inadvertent The Board considers that all the Resolutions to be proposed at breach.
The Directors wish to reiterate that they will in no the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the circumstances seek to issue ordinary shares including ordinary Company and its Shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, the shares held in treasury for cash at a price below the net asset Board unanimously recommends that you vote in favour of all of value per share on the basis of debt valued at fair value.
the Resolutions, as the Directors intend to do where possible in Resolution 14 Market purchase of own shares by the respect of their own beneficial shareholdings which amount in Company aggregate to 277,681 shares, representing 0.02% of the current The Directors are seeking Shareholders approval by way of a issued share capital of the Company.
Special Resolution at the Annual General Meeting to renew the Financial Instruments authority to purchase up to 14.99 per cent.
of the Ordinary The Companys financial instruments comprise its investment Shares in issue excluding treasury shares as at 9 May 2018, portfolio, cash balances, borrowings and debtors and creditors being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this that arise directly from its operations such as sales and purchases document or, if less, up to 14.99 per cent.
of the ordinary shares awaiting settlement and accrued income.
The financial risk in issue excluding treasury shares on the date on which the management objectives and policies arising from its financial Resolution is passed.
This authority will expire at the end of the instruments and the exposure of the Company to risk are Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2019.
Such disclosed in note 19 to the accounts.
purchases will only be made at a discount to the prevailing net asset value.
The Company may hold bought back shares in Articles of Association treasury and then: The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a sell such shares or any of them for cash or its equivalent special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
under the Companies Act 2006 : or Disclosure of Information to Auditor b cancel such shares or any of them.
The Directors confirm that, so far as each of the Directors is Shares will only be re-sold from treasury at or at a premium to aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the the net asset value per ordinary share on the basis of debt valued Companys Auditor is unaware and the Directors have taken all at fair value, in accordance with Resolution 13. the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to Treasury shares do not receive distributions and the Company will establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
not be entitled to exercise the voting rights attaching to them.
30 Annual Report 2018 Governance Report Independent Auditor Subsequent Note The Auditor, KPMG LLP, is willing to continue in office and, AGM Resolution 15 supporting the dividend in accordance with section 489 and section 491 1 of the At the Annual General Meeting in 2014, Shareholders voted Companies Act 2006, resolutions concerning KPMG LLPs overwhelmingly 98.9% in favour of an amendment to the reappointment and remuneration will be submitted to the Annual Companys Articles of Association to remove an express General Meeting.
prohibition on the distribution by the Company of any surplus arising from the realisation of any investment.
This was to Post Balance Sheet Events reflect the repeal of former statutory rules to that effect which The Directors confirm that there have been no post Balance had previously governed investment trusts.
The purpose of Sheet events up to 11 May 2018 other than those noted in note Resolution 15 is to make additional changes so as to provide 20 on page 64. the Company with the full flexibility which Shareholders supported in 2014.
The requirement for this resolution was identified after the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Companys annual results announcement on 14 May 2018 and is All of the Companys activities are outsourced to third parties.
No other changes to the The Company therefore has no greenhouse gas emissions to Articles of Association are proposed.
report from its operations, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions producing sources under the Companies Act The new Articles of Association showing the changes to the 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013. existing Articles of Association are available for inspection, as noted on page 67.
Criminal Finances Act 2017 The Company has a commitment to zero tolerance towards the criminal facilitation of tax evasion.
Bribery Act The Company has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and is committed to carrying out business fairly, honestly and openly.
The Managers also adopt a zero tolerance approach and have policies and procedures in place to prevent bribery.
By order of the Board Fiona McBain 11 May 2018 Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 31
