100 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION POLICY The key aim of the Remuneration Policy is to align the interests of Executive Directors with those of the shareholders by supporting the delivery of strategy.
The structure of the remuneration framework is designed to reflect the strategic direction of the business and to align it with the Companys KPIs.
In setting the Remuneration Policy, the Committee takes into consideration, amongst other matters, investor guidelines and the maximum amount of remuneration the Executive Directors could receive should all targets be met.
The Executive Directors remuneration is set within a remuneration framework which applies to all employees across the Group.
Each of the key elements of the remuneration package is designed to drive the creation of long-term shareholder value, without encouraging Executive Directors to take inappropriate risk.
Each year, with the support of external advisers, the Committee undertakes a review of the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
It has oversight of the remuneration of the Leadership team, who are the senior managers immediately below Board level.
It considers the responsibilities, experience and performance of the Executive Directors and pay across the Group.
Changes to the Policy since approval at the 2017 AGM are outlined in the Chairs letter on pages 86 to 88 and are detailed below.
Subject to approval by shareholders at the 2019 AGM, this policy will be effective for the 2019 performance year and will apply to incentive awards with performance periods beginning on 1 January 2019.
CHANGES TO THE POLICY If approved at the 2019 AGM the following changes will be made to the Policy approved in 2017: there will no longer be the opportunity to make maximum LTIP awards of 300 per cent of salary.
The normal grant level will be 250 per cent of salary: greater flexibility on the performance conditions that can be set for LTIP awards is being introduced.
Leading shareholders will be consulted before significant changes are made in the future: future Executive Directors will receive a pension benefit no higher than that provided as a percentage of salary to the majority of the UK workforce: and Non-Executive Directors may receive fees for additional roles they perform on behalf of the Board in their non-executive capacity.
CHART 1: REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE: EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Element Strategic purpose Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics Salary To attract and motivate The Committee reviews Executive The maximum annual salary increase Not applicable.
high-calibre leaders in Directors base salaries each year in will not normally exceed the average a competitive market the context of total remuneration, increase which applies across the and to recognise their taking into account the Directors wider workforce.
However, larger skills, experience and responsibilities, experience and increases may be awarded in certain contribution to Group performance, pay across the Group circumstances including, but not performance.
limited to: an increase in scope or responsibilities of the role: salary progression for a newly appointed Director: and where the Directors salary has fallen significantly below the market positioning.
Pension To provide a Retirement benefits are available Currently, the Chief Executive None.
benefits market competitive to all UK employees and receives a cash allowance of 30 per remuneration package.
employees in certain Continental cent of salary in lieu of pension and European jurisdictions dependent other Executive Directors receive 20 on local market practice and per cent of salary.
Directors will receive the level received by the majority of the UK workforce currently a contribution to their pension plan of 12 per cent of salary.
The cash allowance for Directors is offered in lieu of membership of the defined contribution Group Personal PensionPlan.
101 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Element Strategic purpose Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics Bonus To focus on the delivery Bonuses are awarded annually The maximum Bonus opportunity The Bonus Scheme is based on three, of annual goals, to strive and paid for performance over the for Executive Directors is 150 per cent equally weighted elements which for superior performance financial year.
the Committee may review from and to achieve specific time-to-time, to ensure that they The Bonus is reviewed each targets which support continue to reflect the Companys financial year to ensure performance strategy, in particular for strategic priorities: Adjusted PBT measures and targets are income generation, total against budget including adjustments appropriate and support the property returns and for acquisitions and disposals, constant business strategy.
foreign exchange rate and other Payment is based on the adjustments allowed under the scheme achievement of performancetargets.
rules, which supports the objective of The Committee retains discretion delivering a sustainable, progressive to reduce the amount of the Bonus dividend: relative TPR against an MSCI award in the light of underlying Benchmark which is the best and most performance during the year.
important internal driver of TSR: and rent roll growth which focuses on The rules of the Bonus contain driving the future rental income and malus and clawback provisions.
Adjusted PBT of the business.
Deferred Share To encourage retention 50 per cent of any Bonus awarded For Executive Directors, 50 per cent Vesting of shares is dependent on Bonus Plan of senior managers and in the year is deferred into shares of the Bonus earned in respect of the continued employment or good DSBP provide a long-term link in the DSBP for three years before previous years performance.
between the Bonus and vesting.
The award does not carry share price growth so as any entitlement to dividends, to encourage long-term however the Committee may, decision making.
at the time of the release of the shares, deliver shares or a cash sum equivalent to the value of the dividends that would have been paid over the three-year holdingperiod.
The rules of the DSBP contain malus and clawback provisions.
Long Term To reward the execution For LTIP awards dividends will The normal LTIP grant for Executive LTIP awards are subject to stretching Incentive Plan of strategy and drive accrue on the LTIP shares which Directors is 250 per cent of salary in performance conditions, which LTIP long-term returns for are released on vesting and performance shares.
are measured over a three-year shareholders.
The will be paid in shares or cash.
A two-year awards are designed to The Committee has discretion compulsory holding period applies align the most senior to adjust awards downwards at to these LTIP shares after vesting managers goals with the vesting if it is not satisfied that and subject to payment of tax and creation of sustainable the outcome is a fair reflection statutorydeductions.
growth in shareholder of underlying performance, or in Awards to be granted in 2019 will value.
The awards will theevent of excessive risk-taking be subject to equally weighted Total also increase retention of ormisstatement.
Shareholder Return, Total Property these senior managers.
The rules of the LTIP contain malus Return and Total Accounting Return and clawback provisions.
Sharesave To provide a Sharesave is a HMRC approved Employees may save up to the HMRC None.
market competitive scheme open to all UK employees.
limit across all Sharesave grants.
remuneration package Savings can be made over a threeand to encourage year period to purchase shares in employee share the Company at a price which is ownership across set at the beginning of the saving theGroup.
This price is usually set at a 20 per cent discount to the market price.
102 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Element Strategic purpose Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics Share Incentive To provide a SIP is a HMRC approved scheme The maximum award is subject to the Award is based on achievement of Plan SIP and market competitive open to all UK employees, subject HMRC limit.
prior year profit before tax against Global Share remuneration package to service.
Eligible employees are budget and is subject to a three-year Incentive Plan and to encourage awarded shares annually up to the holding period.
GSIP employee share HMRC limits.
GSIP is designed on a ownership across the similar basis to SIP, but is not HMRC Group.
approved and is operated for nonUK employees.
Other benefits To provide a Other benefits currently include: None.
market competitive car allowance: life assurance: remuneration package.
disability insurance: private medical insurance: and health screening.
The Committee retains the discretion to offer additional benefits as appropriate, for example, assistance with relocation.
ADDITIONAL NOTES Remuneration Policy: the policy for the Executive Directors is designed with regard to the pay and benefits for employees across the Group.
All employees are eligible for an annual Bonus on the same performance measures which are consistent with those of the Executive Directors save that those below Board level have a fourth target based on their personal performance.
The maximum Bonus opportunity is fixed according to seniority banding across the Company.
The LTIP performance conditions are the same for all participants and the size of awards are determined by seniority.
Subject to consultation with major shareholders, the Committee retains the ability to adjust and or to set different LTIP and Bonus performance measures if events occur such as a change in strategy, a material acquisition and or divestment of a Group business, or change in prevailing market conditions which cause the Committee to determine that the measures are no longer appropriate and that amendment is required so that they achieve their original purpose.
Payments from existing awards: Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment from any award made prior to the approval and implementation of the Remuneration Policy.
CHART 2: REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE: CHAIR AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Element Strategic purpose Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics Fees To attract high-calibre Fees are reviewed every two years Any increases in the fees of the Chair Non-Executive Directors taking into account relevant market or the Non-Executive Directors will and provide market data.
Additional fees are payable to be based upon changes in roles and appropriate fees.
reflect the time commitments and responsibilities and market data.
The fee paid to the Chair is set by the Committee while the fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors are set by the Board.
No Director is involved in setting their own remuneration.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any performance related remuneration and they do not receive any benefits.
POLICY ON SERVICE CONTRACTS EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Company may terminate the Executive Directors service contract on up to 12 months notice, with no liquidated damages provisions.
103 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Chair and the Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment which set out their duties and anticipated time commitment to the Company.
They are required to disclose to the Board any changes to their other significant commitments.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years.
The appointments may be extended for further three-year periods on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee and subject to the Boards agreement.
The Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment contain a three-month notice period and the Chairs contains a six-month notice period.
Further details are set out in Chart 3.
CHART 3: DATES OF APPOINTMENT AND CONTRACTUAL NOTICE PERIOD Name Date of appointment Notice period 1 Gerald Corbett 1 March 2016 6 months 2 David Sleath 1 January 2006 12 months by the Company, 6 months by the Director Soumen Das 16 January 2017 12 months by the Company, 6 months by the Director Andy Gulliford 1 May 2013 12 months by the Company, 6 months by the Director Phil Redding 1 May 2013 12 months by the Company, 6 months by the Director Sue Clayton 1 June 2018 3 months Carol Fairweather 1 January 2018 3 months Christopher Fisher 1 October 2012 3 months Martin Moore 1 July 2014 3 months Doug Webb 1 May 2010 3 months 1 Appointed as Chair on 22 April 2016.
2 Appointed as Chief Executive on 28 April 2011.
POLICY ON RECRUITMENT In determining appropriate remuneration for a new Executive Director, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of both the Company and its shareholders.
The Committee may make an award in respect of a new appointment to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will take account of relevant factors, including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met, and the proportion of the vesting period remaining, and will seek to do no more than match the fair value of awards foregone.
In limited circumstances where employees are awarded benefits for which Executive Directors are not eligible, such as share retention awards, the Committee would consider honouring existing awards should these employees be appointed to the Board.
CHART 4: RECRUITMENT POLICY Component Approach Maximum opportunity Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined taking into account the experience and skills of the individual, pay across the Group, relevant market data and their previous salary Bonus The structure set out in the Remuneration Policy table will apply to new appointees 150 per cent of salary with the relevant maximum being pro-rated for their first year of employment DSBP The structure set out in the Remuneration Policy table will apply to new appointees 50 per cent of the bonus awarded will be deferred LTIP New appointees will be eligible for awards under the LTIP on the same terms as 250 per cent of salary the other Executive Directors Pension New appointees will be offered membership of the SEGRO plc Group Personal The level provided to the majority of the UK workforce Pension Plan or a cash alternative 104 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED POLICY ON TERMINATION PAYMENTS The Company retains the right to terminate the service contract of any Executive Director subject to contractually agreed payments in lieu of notice which are limited to annual salary plus any specified benefits.
Payments are normally phased over the 12-month notice period, based on the principle of a Directors duty to seek alternative employment and thereby mitigate their loss.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith, for example: in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Directors office or employment.
In determining compensation, the Committee will take into account the circumstances of the departure, best practice and the provisions of the Code, and will take legal advice on the Companys liability to pay compensation.
Under the rules of the LTIP and the DSBP, the Committee has discretion to declare a Director leaving the Company to be a good leaver as defined under the respective rules of the schemes.
In respect of LTIP, this would normally allow the Directors, who the Committee determines to be good leavers, to receive their shares at the end of the holding period, subject to the achievement of performance conditions, with any vesting pro-rated in accordance with the proportion of the vesting period served.
In respect of DSBP, this would normally allow the Directors, who the Committee determines to be good leavers, to receive their shares, in full, at the end of the holding period.
Where a Director may be entitled to pursue a claim against the Company in respect of their statutory employment rights or any other claim arising from the employment or its termination, the Company will be entitled to negotiate settlement terms financial or otherwise with the Director that the Committee considers to be reasonable in all the circumstances and in the best interests of the Company and to enter into a Settlement Agreement with the Director to effect both the terms agreed under the Service Agreement and any additional statutory or other claims, including bonus and or share awards, in line with the policies described above.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, the Employee Benefit Trust, in consultation with the Company, has the discretion to determine whether, and the extent to which, awards vest.
Financial performance and institutional guidelines would be taken into account in exercising this discretion.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to any compensation on loss of office.
POLICY ON EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS With the support of the Chair and Chief Executive, the Executive Directors may normally be permitted to take one non-executive directorship outside the Group, as these roles can broaden the experience brought to the Board.
Such appointments require Board approval and the time commitment the appointment will require is taken into consideration.
Executive Directors may retain fees for external appointments.
Any outstanding share awards made in accordance with a previous Remuneration Policy will remain in effect and will vest in accordance with the terms under which they were granted.
105 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE SCENARIOS Chart 5 below sets out an indication of the level of remuneration that would be received by each Executive Director in accordance with the incentive opportunities outlined in the Remuneration Report for 2019 on the basis of the latest salary information.
CHART 5: INDICATION OF POTENTIAL REMUNERATION IN FIRST YEAR OF POLICY APPRECIATION Fixed Short Term Long Term 50% share price growth on 2019 LTIP Maximum On Target Minimum Maximum On Target Minimum Maximum On Target Minimum Maximum On Target Minimum 0 500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000 2,500,000 3,000,000 3,500,000 4,000,000 4,500,000 The minimum remuneration payable comprises salary payable during 2019, benefits and cash in lieu of pension contributions.
The maximum payable assumes full pay-out under the Bonus and full vesting of the LTIP.
On target remuneration assumes a pay-out of 50 per cent of the maximum Bonus and a 20 per cent vesting of the LTIP.
The impact of a 50 per cent share price growth on the maximum available opportunity has been indicated for the 2019 LTIP, which will vest in 2022 and then be subject to a two-year holding period.
CONSIDERATION OF CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE GROUP The Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors is designed with regard to the policy for the workforce as a whole.
The Committee now approves the remuneration of the Executive Committee.
The Committee is kept updated through the year on general employment conditions and it approves the budget for annual salary increases.
The Company did not consult with employees in formulating the Remuneration Policy.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Committee remains committed to open dialogue with shareholders on remuneration.
When determining remuneration, the Committee takes into account the guidance of investor bodies and shareholder views.
In 2019, it consulted with shareholders on the proposed changes to the 2019 Policy covered in the Chairs letter.
The Chair of the Remuneration Committee is available for meetings with shareholders should they have any concerns about remuneration matters which they wish to discuss.
Phil Redding Andy Gulliford Soumen Das David Sleath
