60 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 GOVERNANCE CHAIRS INTRODUCTION 2018 continued to build on the success of The Companys culture sets the tone for good recent years and was another positive year governance.
The ability for Board members for the Company.
Full credit must be given to to speak freely and have their thoughts heard David and the experienced management team in a challenging yet supportive and open for delivering another set of strong results and environment is essential for the Board to work ensuring that the Company is well positioned effectively to ensure the Companys delivery for the challenges and economic uncertainty of strategy and successful achievement of its that 2019 may bring.
The Board likes to live up to the Companys Value to say it like Our active development pipeline has it is in meetings.
facilitated the further growth of our portfolio and enabled us to create over 650,000sqm We remain mindful of the benefits of a diverse of new space another record year for Board and we continue to be a member and the Company.
The successful execution of supporter of the 30% Club.
the development programme has created significant value.
Coupled with this, intelligent CHANGE AND PLANNING FOR THE FUTURE asset acquisitions, disposals and swaps, 2018 continued to be a time of change and partnerships, together with active for the Board with the retirement of both asset management, have also significantly Margaret Ford and Mark Robertshaw and the strengthened our balance sheet leaving appointment of Carol Fairweather and Sue us very well placed as we approach our Clayton.
We have also recently announced centenary year.
High standards of the appointment of Mary Barnard who will become a Non-Executive Director on 1 March governance are GOVERNANCE 2019.
I would like to take this opportunity fundamental to the The Board believes that the effective delivery to thank Margaret and Mark once again for of strategy can only happen against a their valued contribution to the Board, and to long-term success of background of good corporate governance, welcome Carol, Sue and Mary.
and throughout the year we complied with the Martin Moore became the Senior UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the GERALD CORBETT Independent Director following Margarets Code.
We have also embraced the spirit of the CHAIR retirement and has carried out this role in a UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 the conscientious and supportive manner.
I have New Code which we are obliged to comply appreciated his support and I would like to with from 2019.
As you will see throughout extend my thanks to him for taking on this this Report, we already observe many of important role.
the principles of the New Code.
We are supportive of its themes and sentiment, and Doug Webb will be stepping down as Audit are mindful, in an environment of increased Committee Chair following our AGM, to be social responsibility, that we cannot exist in replaced by Carol.
I wish Carol well in her isolation.
We have a duty not only to our new role and thank Doug for his leadership stakeholders, but to the wider communities of the Audit Committee during his tenure.
in which we operate, to help promote and Despite these changes, there was a reassuring create prosperity and employment.
For more level of stability with the remainder of the information on how we do this, see the Board there were old eyes, despite the fresh Responsible SEGRO section on pages 44 look.
I feel that the Board is well settled and and 45. stable, with a clear view on how it can support the Company to deliver its strategy.
I am delighted that I will be continuing in office and am excited to Chair the Company as it continues to deliver on strategy into its 100th year.
61 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THE YEAR AHEAD As detailed in my last two reports, longer-term During the year, we have also celebrated the succession planning for the Non-Executive five-year anniversary of SELP which continues We have a clear and effective strategy, a Directors has been a particular area of focus to perform extremely well and which is strong balance sheet and an experienced team for the Nomination Committee and the discussed further on page 20.
We have which should enable us to be well placed and work we have done on that front is reported enjoyed a good working relationship with our ready for the ever changing economic and on in the Nomination Committee Report joint venture partner, PSP Investments.
We are also cognisant on page77.
We take succession planning of the impact of technology and 'Proptech' We continue to appreciate and value the seriously not only at Board and Committee innovations, and their ability to help drive support and engagement we have from level, but also throughout our Leadership long-term sustainable returns.
our shareholders, both large and small.
team to ensure there are people ready and We appreciated the dialogue we have had As well as providing support and guidance waiting to step up to the Board as and when with many of our larger shareholders as part to the business on its delivery of strategy: needed.
Because of this, we take a particular of our consultation on a new Remuneration succession planning, talent management, interest in the work that the Company does Policy, which is detailed further on pages 86 diversity and development will continue on talent management and diversity, and the and 88. to be a focus both at Board level and Board takes the time to really get to know its Committee level.
OUR PEOPLE High standards of governance drive longENHANCING THE BOARDS KNOWLEDGE Each year the Board visits at least one region term sustainable investment and success, and OF THE BUSINESS AND ITS KEY in the UK and one in Continental Europe and this Report seeks to show you how we have STAKEHOLDERS during 2018, it was East London and Warsaw.
sought to put this into practice.
The Board, as By leaving the boardroom, we ensure that steward of the Company, is responsible to our The Companys ability to work successfully the Board will get to meet as many of our shareholders, customers, employees and other with others, whether partners, customers, employees as possible.
We do of course get a stakeholders for the success of the Company, shareholders or other stakeholders, has been chance to meet some senior employees during and it is a responsibility we are proud of and a key component of the effective delivery our meetings.
We recognise that we have an take very seriously.
During 2018, we extraordinary team of people at SEGRO who acquired the management platform of Roxhill, GERALD CORBETT are the cornerstone of the success that the following our initial partnership with them CHAIR Company has enjoyed in recent years.
This is in 2016, and welcome the Roxhill team to something that we are very proud about as SEGRO.
This has not only brought a number we recognise that our success would not be of fantastic employees to the Group, bringing possible without our great teams across the fresh thinking and new ideas a real marriage business.
On behalf of the Board, I thank of our culture with an entrepreneurial and all of our employees for their enthusiasm, exciting group of people but has also given commitment and hard work.
the business access to a quality portfolio of big box warehouse development sites in the Midlands.
