Divisional Reviews Sercos operations are reported as four regional divisions: UK & Europe UK&E : the Americas: the Asia Pacific region AsPac : and the Middle East.
Reflecting statutory reporting requirements, Sercos share of revenue from its joint ventures and associates is not included in revenue, while Sercos share of joint ventures and associates profit after interest and tax is included in Underlying Trading Profit.
As previously disclosed and for consistency with guidance, Sercos Underlying Trading Profit measure excludes Contract & Balance Sheet Review adjustments principally OCP releases or charges.
Corporate UK&E Americas AsPac Middle East costs Total Year ended 31 December 2018 m m m m m m Revenue 1,300.7 645.6 548.2 342.3 2,836.8 Change 2% 6% 5% 3% 4% Change at constant currency 2% 3% 0% 1% 2% Organic change at constant currency 4% 5% 1% 1% 3% Underlying Trading Profit Loss 39.2 45.7 26.8 21.5 40.1 93.1 Change 12% 26% 20% 24% 4% 34% Change at constant currency 12% 30% 27% 30% 4% 40% Margin 3.0% 7.1% 4.9% 6.3% n a 3.3% Change 40bps 180bps 100bps 140bps 100bps Contract & Balance Sheet Review adjustments 12.4 2.5 13.7 23.6 Trading Profit Loss 51.6 43.2 40.5 21.5 40.1 116.7 Amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition 0.5 3.2 0.6 4.3 Operating profit loss before exceptionals 51.1 40.0 39.9 21.5 40.1 112.4 Corporate UK&E Americas AsPac Middle East costs Total Year ended 31 December 2017 m m m m m m Revenue 1,331.5 689.3 577.5 352.6 2,950.9 Underlying Trading Profit Loss 34.9 36.4 22.3 17.3 41.6 69.3 Margin 2.6% 5.3% 3.9% 4.9% n a 2.3% Contract & Balance Sheet Review adjustments 39.0 3.4 11.4 24.2 Trading Profit Loss 4.1 39.8 33.7 17.3 41.6 45.1 Amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition 3.0 1.4 4.4 Operating profit loss before exceptionals 4.1 36.8 32.3 17.3 41.6 40.7 The trading performance and outlook for each division are described on the following pages.
Reconciliations and further detail of financial performance are included in the Finance Review on pages 34 to 51.
This includes full definitions and explanations of the purpose of each non-IFRS Alternative Performance Measure APM used by the Group.
The consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are on pages 139 to 221.
| 28 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements 46% of Group revenue 1,300.7m 2017: 1,331.5m UK & Europe Sercos UK & Europe division supports public service delivery The UK & Europe division represented around 0.7bn or 25% across all five of the Groups chosen sectors: our Justice & of the Groups order intake.
The two largest awards were a Immigration business provides a wide range of services to 105m ten-year contract extension for frontline and back office support the safeguarding of society and the reduction of services to Peterborough City Council, and a 104m 18-month reoffending, from prison management through to housing and contract extension to continue managing and operating the welfare services for asylum seekers: in Defence, we are trusted NorthLink Ferries service for Transport Scotland.
The largest to deliver critical support services and operate highly sensitive new contract was an eight-year joint award for environmental facilities of national strategic importance: we operate complex services for Hart District Council and Basingstoke & Deane public Transport systems and services: our Health business Borough Council.
Other notable awards in the year included provides primarily non-clinical support services to hospitals: successfully rebidding with BAE Systems our repair and and the Citizen Services business provides environmental and maintenance contract for Command Support Air Transport leisure services, as well as a wide range of other front, middle CSAT aircraft operated out of RAF Northolt by 32 The Royal and back-office services to support public sector customers in Squadron, rebidding and adding new areas of support for the the UK and European institutions.
Sercos operations in the UK European Commission Directorate General for Informatics: represent approximately 41% of the Groups reported revenue, expanding our contact centre services for the DWP, launching and those across the rest of Europe approximately 5%.
a new cycle hire scheme for Transport for Edinburgh, fire and rescue services for the construction phase of Hinkley Point C Revenue for 2018 was 1,300.7m 2017: 1,331.5m, a decline of nuclear power station, and extending our support services for 2%.
Reported Revenue excludes that from our joint venture the European Organisation for Nuclear Research CERN.
and associate holdings which largely comprise the operations of AWE and Merseyrail.
At constant currency, the decline in The signing of the Asylum Accommodation and Support Revenue was also 2%, or 33m.
The net contribution from Services Contracts AASC in January 2019 is very significant acquisitions, driven by the transfer of the Carillion health for the division, and indeed for the Group.
AASC supersedes facilities management contracts, was 23m or 2%, therefore the current COMPASS contracts which have been incurring the organic decline was 56m or 4%.
The Glasgow ACCESS annual losses offset in the P&L by the utilisation of the OCP operations which transferred at the end of 2017 had a 57m of around 15-20m for the last four years.
Under the new AASC impact and therefore accounted for virtually all of the organic contracts, we did not retain the Scotland & Northern Ireland decline: some other smaller contracts ending as well as some region, but gained the much larger Midlands region, whilst areas of reduced project work or volumes, such as the London retaining our home region of the North West: as a Cycle Hire Scheme and the Child Maintenance Group, consequence we will now be the largest provider of asylum extended the level of revenue reduction.
These were offset by seeker accommodation in the UK.
Given our past experience, new contract growth, in particular annualising 2017s start of we also bid the regions at prices which we believe should allow hospital facility management services for Barts Health NHS us to make a fair return: we expect the new contract to deliver Trust and University Hospital Southampton NHS Foundation revenues of around 150m in the initial year, as against the Trust, as well as from the new Skills Support for the Workforce current COMPASS run-rate of around 70m.
Of existing work where an extension or rebid will be required Underlying Trading Profit was 39.2m 2017: 34.9m, at some point before the end of 2021, there are over 20 representing an implied margin of 3.0% 2017: 2.6%.
Trading contracts with annual revenue of over 5m within the UK & Profit includes the profit contribution from which interest and Europe division: in aggregate, these represent approximately tax have already been deducted of joint ventures and 20% of the current level of annual revenue for the division.
associates: if the 374m 2017: 350m proportional share of The largest of these are the NorthLink Ferries contract that revenue from joint ventures and associates was also included was extended to 31 October 2019 and is now being rebid for and if the 5.7m 2017: 7.1m share of interest and tax cost was the next six-year term: in 2020, the current PECS contract ends excluded, the overall divisional margin would have been 2.7% assuming a final extension option is not exercised by the 2017: 2.5%.
The joint venture and associate profit contribution customer: and in 2021, our strategic partnership contract was modestly ahead at 28.1m 2017: 26.3m.
The further supporting Hertfordshire County Council.
improvement in Underlying Trading Profit included the benefit of transformation and cost efficiency programmes in the The rebid profile and the new bid pipeline have both reduced division as well as some improvement in the profitability of with the successful outcome of our bidding for AASC.
Other certain contracts moving out of their transition stages, with opportunities in the new bid pipeline include several these more than offsetting the impact of other contract environmental services and health facilities management attrition and the investment required to mobilise and transition tenders, and a smaller number of other opportunities to the Carillion contracts.
support various defence, Citizen Services and Justice operations.
We expect to add to our pipeline in 2019 those Within Underlying Trading Profit there was a reduced rate of opportunities that will be competed for under the recently OCP utilisation at 47m 2017: 55m, which served to offset the launched prison operator services framework.
Divisions loss-making operations, principally the Caledonian Sleeper, COMPASS asylum seeker support services, Prisoner Conditions in the UK market are highly uncertain as a result Escort & Custody Services PECS and Lincolnshire Country of Brexit, which is an overlay of immense complexity and Council contracts.
Contract & Balance Sheet Review and distraction on top of what were already significant challenges other material one-time items resulted in a 12.4m net credit to Departments as a result of Government efforts to reduce 2017: 39.0m net charge to Trading Profit which increased the structural deficit, whilst increasing spending on the NHS.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 29 Divisional Reviews continued UK & Europe continued As we predicted eighteen months ago, the Government and process which resulted in the publication in February 2019 of the Civil Service have now come to be focused upon the an Outsourcing Playbook along with a comprehensive set of challenges of negotiating and preparing for Brexit, and guidance notes.
This sets out the ground rules for suppliers this has had the effect of reducing their appetite for new and Government departments for the outsourcing of public outsourcing and transformation projects.
It also reiterates the value that Government sees in Government is still proceeding with procurements of having private companies and third sector organisations non-discretionary services as existing arrangements being able to provide services.
The Minsters responsible, come to an end.
Examples of this include AASC and David Lidington and Oliver Dowden, have been highly the upcoming PECS rebid.
supportive of the role of the private sector, and forthright in stating their belief that the role of Government should be to In terms of the likely direct impact of Brexit upon our business procure services that deliver high quality, resilience and value we are facing the same fog of uncertainty as every other for money for the taxpayer and service user, and be agnostic business in the UK.
It is certain that taking back control will and even-handed as to whether this is achieved through the require more people working for or on behalf of Government public or private sectors.
This approach is all that a strong to do the taking back and the controlling: already 20,000 and healthy private sector should reasonably hope for: if we additional civil servants have been recruited into Central cannot deliver better innovation, value and quality than the Government, and one would expect over time that the public sector, then we dont deserve the taxpayers shilling.
numerous additional regulatory functions will require some We think that the publication of the Playbook, which reflects sort of support.
We neither export nor import to any many of the ideas we put forward in our Four Principles, is an significant degree, therefore we are not exposed directly to important and positive development.
the border issues that worry other businesses, although we are mindful that we will need to maintain continuity of supplies Government has always been keen to emphasise that it wants to the 5,000 prisoners we are responsible for, and indeed the to attract new suppliers, and that the barriers to entry into 7 million patients cared for each year in the 18 NHS hospitals its supply chain are low: they are now seeing that, for both that Serco supports.
In terms of the balance of risks, we think suppliers and their lenders, the barriers to exit are low as well.
they are marginally balanced to the upside.
In the short term They are also seeing that a distressed supply base can be there is a small possibility that there could be an upturn in as much of a problem for customers as it is for suppliers.
demand if Government needs help quickly: on the downside, The effectiveness of the new Playbook in modifying some of we think it unlikely that there will be any precipitous drop in the damaging behaviours of the past, by both Government demand as a result of Brexit.
As far as our business in Europe and suppliers, should be decisive in maintaining a competitive, is concerned, which accounts for about 5% of Group revenue, innovative and capable supply chain which Government the vast majority of this is supplied via our wholly-owned can have at its behest to deliver high quality, resilient and EU-resident companies, and therefore should be largely cost-effective public services.
The challenge will be ensuring unaffected.
Finally, of our UK employees, only 6% are Government departments comply with the good intentions continental EU nationals, so whilst there might be an indirect of Ministers and the policy documents of the Cabinet Office.
effect of labour shortages, the direct effect should be limited.
In order to ensure the Playbook works in practice, we hope that the principle of comply or explain, which has been so As well as the challenges of Brexit, the Government has been effective in promoting good practice in the world of public wrestling with the fallout from the collapse of Carillion in early company governance, will be used to encourage compliance.
2018, which has been accompanied by other major contractors We also hope that the Playbook will be incorporated into becoming distressed and having to raise equity or refinance formal Treasury guidance on procurement, and that their debt.
There has been a recognition by Government that it Cabinet Office and the National Audit Office will be given can neither abjure all responsibility for, nor ignore, its supply the resources they need to be able to act as guardians of chain becoming so seriously distressed.
Nor can it be blind to its implementation.
liquidity issues amongst outsourcers as banks become increasingly reluctant to support the sector.
Notwithstanding the fact that over 80% of our order intake in the last two years has been from governments outside the UK, In this difficult environment, Serco has worked hard to be a the UK does still account for around 40% of our revenues, and helpful and constructive partner of Government.
We have it is therefore in Sercos interest, and it is our responsibility, to publicly stated our admiration for the way they managed the support the work of the UK Government to ensure a vibrant liquidation of Carillion.
We have published ideas to improve and successful supply base, and to defend the consensus that the working of the market in the form of Four Principles.
the private sector has an important role to play in the delivery These principles cover: greater Transparency in regard to of public services.
We are encouraged by the new Playbook, the make-or-buy decision-making process for Government and are committed to being a leading player in the UK market services, as well as publishing operational and financial key for public service delivery.
We believe that we are well placed performance indicators so that taxpayers could see the quality to act in such a role given our credentials: deep capability and of service they were receiving: Security of Supply, including experience in many areas of public service delivery: a strong the lodging of Living Wills: Orderly Exit provisions, for both financial position: a track record of dealing fairly with suppliers, the Government and suppliers: and Fairness, including codes employees and customers: a strong public service ethos and of conduct for both Government and suppliers.
commitment to social value: and a reputation for standing by our contractual commitments, but being resolute in not In the middle of 2018, the Cabinet Office set up a joint accepting risk that cannot either be mitigated or managed.
Government Industry group to improve the working of the public services market: Serco has been deeply engaged in this | 30 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements 23% of Group revenue 645.6m 2017: 689.3m Americas Our Americas division accounts for approximately 23% of A new single-award Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity Sercos overall revenue, and provides professional, technology ID IQ contract to provide public technical assistance to and management services focused on Defence, Transport, the Federal Emergency Management Agency FEMA was and Citizen Services.
The US Federal Government, including awarded to Serco: while this has a potentially large ceiling the military, civilian agencies and the national intelligence value of $600m over the next five years, only a very small initial community, are our largest customers.
We also provide value for programme management is recognised in our value services to the Canadian Government and to some US state of signed contracts and order book, as the workload will and municipal governments.
ultimately be dictated by task orders issued in response to declared major disasters and emergencies.
Revenue for 2018 was 645.6m 2017: 689.3m, a 6% reduction in reported currency.
In US dollars, the main currency for Of existing work where an extension or rebid will be required operations of the division, revenue for the period was at some point before the end of 2021, there are 13 contracts equivalent to approximately US$860m 2017: US$890m.
with annual revenue of over 5m within the Americas division: The strengthening of Sterling reduced revenue by 23m or 3%: in aggregate, these represent around 35% of the current level the acquisition of BTP added 2% to revenue: the organic of annual revenue for the division, which is a significantly lower change at constant currency was therefore a decline of 5%, or proportion versus a year earlier now that the CMS and NESS 33m.
Lower volumes of work and the new contract structure contracts were secured during 2018.
There are few material of our CMS health insurance eligibility support contract drove contracts with potential end dates in 2019.
Those coming up a 54m decline, with further impact of fewer task orders in for rebid or extension in 2020 include the Global Installation areas of ship modernisation work particularly in the first half Contract covering areas of our defence ship modernisation of the year.
There was partial offset from growth related to the work, the Federal Aviation Administrations FAA Contract new contract for supply chain management services for the Tower FCT Program, and our operational support to Federal Defense Logistics Agency DLA, and for Anti-Terrorism Force Retirement Thrift Investment Board.
Protection ATFP, Army base modernisation IMCOM and Naval Electronic Surveillance Systems NESS services.
Our pipeline of major new bid opportunities due for decision While there was the 5% organic decline for the year as a within the next 24 months includes a broad spread of defence whole, there was organic growth of 3% in the second half.
support functions, transport operations including air traffic control support, and in areas of Citizen Services case Underlying Trading Profit was 45.7m 2017: 36.4m, management and processing.
The benefit of profitable growth from new contracts, the new structure of the CMS contract and other cost efficiencies more than offset the effect of lower ship modernisation work in the first half of the year and the adverse currency movement of 1.6m.
Within Underlying Trading Profit there was negligible OCP utilisation required to offset the loss-making Ontario Driver Examination Services DES contract in 2018 2017: 5m.
There was a 2.5m charge for Contract & Balance Sheet Review adjustments 2017: 3.4m credit, after which Trading Profit was therefore 43.2m 2017: 39.8m.
Americas represented around 1.3bn $1.8bn or 45% of the Groups order intake.
The largest award was the rebid of our health insurance eligibility support contract for the US Department of Health and Human Services, Center for Medicare & Medicaid Services CMS, with an estimated total value to Serco, subject to workload volumes, of approximately $900m if all options of the five-year contract are exercised.
The second largest was a $232m sole-source contract vehicle for Serco to continue supporting Naval Electronic Surveillance Systems NESS.
Along with numerous defence equipment modernisation task orders under our various ID IQ frameworks, other notable awards included: programme management and technical support services to the United States Air Forces Central Command AFCENT : installation support for Close-In Weapons Systems CIWS on US Navy, Army and Coast Guard vessels: supporting the US Army Sustainment Command ASC with global acquisition and logistics operations support: and training support services to the US Army Joint Munitions Command JMC and the Defense Ammunition Center DAC.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 31 Divisional Reviews continued 19% of Group revenue 548.2m 2017: 577.5m AsPac Operations in the Asia Pacific division include Justice, The signing of the National Garrison Health Services NGHS Immigration, Defence, Health, Transport and Citizen Services contract in February 2019 is an extremely important event for in Australia, New Zealand and Hong Kong.
Sercos operations our Australian business.
Valued at around 560m over the in Australia are by far the largest element of the division: the initial six-year term, under this contract we will work as a country represents approximately 19% of total Revenue for sub-contractor to Bupa sourcing and managing more than the Group.
1,000 professional staff who will support the delivery of an integrated health care system to over 80,000 Australian Revenue for 2018 was 548.2m 2017: 577.5m, a decline of Defence Force members and reservists, and we expect this 5%.
In Australian dollars, the main currency for operations of contract to make a noticeable contribution to revenues in the division, revenue for the period was equivalent to 2019 and profits from 2020. approximately A$980m, flat on the prior year.
The strengthening of Sterling reduced revenue by 31m or 5%: Of existing work where an extension or rebid will be required the acquisition of the other 50% of a small defence services at some point before the end of 2021, there are 14 contracts joint venture added 1% to revenue: the organic change at with annual revenue of over 5m within the AsPac division: in constant currency was therefore a decline of 1%, or 6m.
This aggregate, these represent well over half of the current level net reduction included a 31m impact from the Armidale of annual revenue for the division: this high proportion Class Patrol Boats ACPB and Western Australia Court reflects that the Australia onshore immigration services Security & Custodial Services WACSCS contracts, both of contract requires rebid or extension at the end of 2019, with which ended in the first half of 2017, which was largely offset this accounting for around 30% of current divisional revenue.
by growth in our Citizen Services business which provides Also in 2019 our contract for South Queensland Correctional contact centre and processing support services, and a small Centre will require further extending or rebidding, along with increase in workload in Immigration Services.
While there was Traffic Camera Services in Victoria and some of our Hong a small organic decline for the year as a whole, there was Kong transport management services.
Others that will organic growth of 10% in the second half.
require extending or rebidding in 2020 are the Australian Tax Office framework contract, while Fiona Stanley Hospital and Underlying Trading Profit was 26.8m 2017: 22.3m, Acacia Prison become potentially due in 2021. representing a margin of 4.9% 2017: 3.9%.
There was profitable growth from the new Citizen Services work, a As set out above, the largest opportunity in our pipeline of number of non-recurring commercial settlement benefits and major new bid opportunities at the start of the new year has good progress on transformation savings and other cost already been won NGHS for the Australian Defence Force.
efficiencies: these more than offset other areas of margin Others due for decision within the next 24 months include a pressure and the adverse currency impact of 1.6m.
Within relatively broad spread across Defence support and in our Underlying Trading Profit there was 5m of OCP utilisation Justice & Immigration, Citizen Services, Transport and 2017: 9m, significantly reduced following the end of the Health sectors.
Contract & Balance Sheet Review adjustments resulted in a 13.7m credit 2017: 11.4m, principally reflecting the release of the remaining OCP balance on the ACPB contract following the expiry of all warranty periods, together with the successful recovery of an insurance claim related to one of the ACPB vessels.
After these credits, Trading Profit was therefore 40.5m 2017: 33.7m.
AsPac represented around 0.5bn or 20% of the Groups order intake.
The largest new award was to provide for Victoria Police contact centre services for non-urgent incidents.
Other similar awards in our Citizen Services business have included contact services for Australias National Disability Insurance Scheme, and further expanding operations supporting the Department of Human Services.
In Hong Kong, we won a new contract to manage, operate and maintain two new tunnels that will form part of a major road link project in the region.
| 32 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements 12% of Group revenue 342.3m 2017: 352.6m Middle East Operations in the Middle East division include Transport, Of existing work where an extension or rebid will be required Defence, Health and Citizen Services, with the region at some point before the end of 2021, there are 12 contracts accounting for approximately 12% of the Groups with annual revenue of over 5m within the Middle East total revenue.
division: in aggregate, these represent well over half of the current level of annual revenue for the division.
There are a Revenue for 2018 was 342.3m 2017: 352.6m, a decrease of number of smaller integrated facilities management 3%.
The strengthening of Sterling reduced revenue by 13m contracts due for rebid or extension during the course of or 4%: the organic change at constant currency was therefore 2019.
From early 2020, our contracts for air navigation growth of 1%.
The increase included some volume growth services in both Dubai and Iraq become due, together with of transport operations, with other expanding or new work, the Saudi rail and a number of other operations.
The such as the fire and rescue services in Saudi Arabia, broadly relatively high proportion of current annual revenue on a offsetting other small areas of attrition or reductions in cumulative three-year basis reflects that the Dubai Metro scope or volumes.
contract is anticipated to become due again in September 2021.
Underlying Trading Profit was 21.5m 2017: 17.3m, representing a margin of 6.3% 2017: 4.9%.
The improvement Our pipeline of major new bid opportunities in the region in profitability was due in large part to the non repeat of the reduced very significantly in 2017 following the outcome heavy costs of bidding the rail tenders experienced in the of the light rail and tram bids.
The current pipeline has prior year, together with some progress on other cost some other smaller opportunities in integrated facilities efficiencies: the profitability of the MELABS contact was also management, and effort is ongoing to rebuild a stronger higher in its final year of the previous terms ahead of rebid: pipeline across other sectors.
these together more than offset other areas of margin pressure, attrition and a 1.0m adverse currency movement.
In April 2019, Phil Malem will become the divisional Chief There are no OCP contracts in the division and therefore no Executive Officer of Serco Middle East.
Phil joins from Atkins, OCP utilisation within Underlying Trading Profit.
one of the worlds leading design, engineering and project There were no Contract & Balance Sheet Review adjustments management consultancies, where he was Managing Director in the latest or prior year, therefore no difference between for its transportation and infrastructure business, Middle East Underlying Trading Profit and Trading Profit.
The Middle East represented around 0.4bn or 15% of the Groups order intake.
Included is a letter of intent from the customer for Serco to continue operating the Dubai Metro for a further two years through to September 2021.
The MELABS defence base logistics and support services contract was successfully rebid, though as previously described the new contract will significantly reduce the Middle East divisions profitability in 2019: other existing work secured included facilities management for Abu Dhabi Global Market Square, and air navigation services and training in Iraq: Serco was unsuccessful in its bid to continue providing air navigation services in Bahrain.
The largest new contract was with Dammam Airports Company DACO for the provision of fire and rescue services at King Fahd International Airport KFIA, the first Saudi airport to leverage an international service providers expertise in firefighting systems: other new contracts included integrated facilities management for Aldar commercial properties in Abu Dhabi.
Corporate costs Corporate costs relate to typical central function costs of Benefiting from actions to deliver savings and improve running the Group, including executive, governance and efficiencies of our central functions, corporate costs in support functions such as HR, finance and IT.
appropriate, these costs are stated after allocation of recharges to operating divisions.
The costs of Group-wide programmes and initiatives are also incurred centrally.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 33
