Corporate Governance Report Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code This section of the Corporate Governance Report describes how the Company has complied with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code published by the Financial Reporting Council on 27 April 2016 and which is available at www.
It should be read in conjunction with the Corporate Governance Report as a whole, set out on pages 83 to 103.
The Company has complied in full with the Code during 2018.
The Senior Independent Director is available Eric Born was appointed as Non-Executive A.
Leadership to address shareholders concerns regarding Director on 1 January 2019.
He is also available to address regarding the appointment process are A.
1 The Role of the Board concerns on other issues as an alternative given in the Nomination Committee report.
The Board is collectively responsible to the contact to the Chairman, Group Chief Companys shareholders for promoting the B.
3 Commitment Executive or Group Chief Financial Officer.
long-term success of the Company and the The time commitment of Non-Executive A description of the key responsibilities of operation of effective governance Directors is defined on appointment and the Senior Independent Directors is available arrangements.
It oversees and agrees the regularly evaluated.
The Board is satisfied on the Companys website.
Groups strategy and ensures that necessary that each of the Non-Executive Directors is resources are available, and that the The Chairman meets with the Non-Executive able to devote sufficient time to the appropriate risk management controls, Directors without the Executive Directors Companys business.
Executive Directors are processes and culture are in place to deliver present.
At least annually, the Non-Executive encouraged to take on non-executive roles it.
As well as oversight, responsibility for Directors, led by the Senior Independent to broaden their experience, subject to the financial performance, internal control and Director, meet without the Chairman present.
Boards approval and the time commitment risk management of the Group, there is a During the year, the Directors had no required.
Angus Cockburn is a non-executive schedule of matters reserved to the Board.
unresolved concerns about the running of director, Chair of the Audit Committee and a The Board meets formally on a regular basis.
the Company or any proposed action.
It is member of the Nomination and All Directors are expected to attend all Company policy that any such unresolved Remuneration Committee of Ashtead Group Board and relevant Committee meetings in concern would be recorded in the Board plc.
Rupert Soames has been appointed as a addition to general meetings of the minutes.
"non-executive director and a member of the Company, including the Annual General Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Meeting AGM""."
Details of the number of Committees of DS Smith Plc with effect from B.
Effectiveness Board and Committee meetings held during 1 March 2019.
2018 and the Directors attendance are B.
As at the date of this report, there are six A full, formal and tailored induction NonExecutive Directors, in addition to the A.
2 Division of responsibilities programme is provided to all Directors Chairman and two Executive Directors on The roles and responsibilities of the appointed to the Board, which takes into the Board.
Chairman and Chief Executive are separate account their qualifications and experience.
and are clearly defined, documented and During the year, the Board reviewed the The Chairman reviews and agrees Directors approved by the Board.
overall balance of skills, experience, diversity, training and development needs.
independence and knowledge of Board and Sir Roy Gardner, the Chairman, leads and is During the year, the Board received briefings Committee members and concluded that the responsible for the operation of the Board.
from advisers on relevant topics designed to Board was of an appropriate size to meet the Rupert Soames, the Group Chief Executive, update Directors skills and knowledge in requirements of the business.
leads the business to develop and deliver particular areas.
A number of the Nonthe Groups strategy and business plans as In accordance with the Code, the Board Executive Directors also visited contract sites agreed with the Board.
undertakes an annual review of the and attended Divisional management independence of its Non-Executive meetings to broaden familiarity with the A.
The Board considers each of the Groups operations.
Reports of such visits are The Chairman, in consultation with the Non-Executive Directors to be independent shared with all Board members.
Company Secretary, sets the Boards and free of any business relationships that agenda.
Meetings are arranged to ensure B.
5 Information and support could compromise the exercise of sufficient time is available for the discussion The Directors have access to independent independent and objective judgement.
of all matters, in particular strategic issues.
professional advice at the Companys The Chairman encourages open and B.
2 Appointments to the Board expense as well as to the advice and services constructive dialogue during the meetings.
The Nomination Committee, which is chaired of the Company Secretary who advises the The Chairman was independent on by the Companys chairman, leads the Board on corporate governance matters.
process for Board appointments, with the The Company Secretary ensures that assistance of an external search company, A.
4 Non-Executive Directors information is received by the Board and its and makes recommendations to the Board.
Non-Executive Directors are urged to committees on a timely basis for them to All appointments are made on merit against challenge constructively and help develop review prior to meetings and ensures that objective criteria.
Non-Executive Directors proposals on strategy, scrutinise the board procedures are followed and that the are appointed for periods of three years and performance of management in meeting Company and the Board operate within any term beyond six years would be subject agreed goals and objectives, and monitor applicable legislation.
The Company to rigorous review.
All Directors submit the reporting of performance.
As part of the Secretary is also responsible for facilitating themselves for re-election at each annual business planning process, all Directors Directors inductions, assisting with general meeting.
attend the annual Board Strategy Day at identifying and enabling appropriate training which the future direction of the Company and board performance evaluation.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
| 104 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements The Chairman, in conjunction with the managed and mitigated can be found on E. Relations with shareholders Company Secretary, ensures that all Board pages 54 to 63.
The Viability Statement on members receive timely, accurate and pages 64 to 65 explains how the Directors E. 1 Dialogue with shareholders effective information.
have assessed the prospects of the Company The Board recognises that meaningful and concluded that they have a reasonable engagement with its institutional and retail B.
6 Evaluation expectation that the Group will be able to shareholders is integral to the continued The evaluation of the Board is externally continue in operation and meet its liabilities success of the Group.
The Executive facilitated every three years and in 2018 an as they fall due over the period of their Directors and the Investor Relations team external performance evaluation was assessment.
regularly meet with analysts and major undertaken by ICSA Board Evaluation The Board determines the Companys risk investors to maintain effective dialogue.
Full details are given on page 90. appetite and has established risk Chairman is available and has met with a The Chairman reviews the performance of management and internal control systems.
At number of major investors.
There has been Non-Executive Directors annually and the active engagement with shareholders least annually, the Board undertakes a review Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior through meetings, presentations and of their effectiveness.
Further details are set Independent Director, are responsible for roadshows throughout the year.
out on pages 52 to 63 and 91 to 93. the Chairmans annual performance review.
E. 2 Constructive use of General meetings C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditors Following the evaluation, the Directors At general meetings, proxy appointment The Audit Committee report on pages 94 to concluded that the Board and its forms enable shareholders to vote in favour 99 sets out details of the composition of the Committees operated effectively and that of or against resolutions, or to withhold their Committee, including the expertise of each Director contributes effectively and vote.
Proxy forms and announcements of members, and outlines how the Committee demonstrates commitment to their role.
results of votes make clear that votes discharged its responsibilities during the B.
7 Election Re-election withheld are not counted when calculating year.
Each Director is subject to election at the the results of the vote since they are not a The Board has delegated a number of first AGM following their appointment, and vote in law.
responsibilities to the Audit Committee, re-election at each subsequent AGM.
All including oversight of the Groups financial All valid proxy appointment forms are Directors will stand for election or re-election reporting processes and management of the recorded and counted and, after a vote has at the 2019 AGM.
Full biographical details for External Auditor.
Full details are set out in been counted, information regarding the all Directors are on pages 84 and 85. the terms of reference of the Committee, proxy votes is given at the meeting and which are available on the Companys published on the Companys website.
Separate resolutions are proposed at general meetings on substantially separate issues.
C. 1 Financial and business reporting D. Remuneration Should a significant proportion of votes be A statement of the Directors responsibilities cast against a resolution, the Company regarding the financial statements, including D. 1 The level and components would explain, when announcing the result, the status of the Company as a going of remuneration what action it intends to take to understand concern, is set out on page 138 with an The Remuneration Report on pages 106 to the reasons behind the result.
explanation of the Groups strategy and 131 outlines the activities of the Committee business model together with the relevant Notice of general meetings is despatched to during the year and sets out the Directors risks and performance metrics set out on shareholders at least 14 working days in Remuneration Policy table, including pages 15 to 63. advance and, in the case of annual general relevant remuneration components and meetings, at least 20 working days in A further statement is provided on page 138 how they support the achievement of the advance.
confirming that the Board considers that the strategic objectives of the Group.
The Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a All directors are required to attend annual Annual Remuneration Report outlines the whole, is fair, balanced and understandable general meetings and the chairs of each of implementation of remuneration during and provides the information necessary for the Board Committees are available to the year including salary, bonus and shareholders to assess the Groups position answer relevant questions.
and performance, business model and The AGM will be held on Thursday 9 May D. 2 Procedure strategy.
2019 and is an opportunity for shareholders The Board has delegated a number of The Audit Committee report on pages 94 to to vote in person on certain aspects of Group responsibilities to the Remuneration 99 sets out the details of the Committees business.
The Board values the AGM as an Committee, including the setting of the responsibility for ensuring the integrity of the opportunity to meet with those shareholders Groups overall remuneration policy and financial reporting process and the key able to attend and to take their questions.
strategy, as well as the remuneration matters considered during the year in The Notice of AGM is made available to all arrangements for the Executive Directors respect of its oversight of financial and shareholders either electronically or, where and the Executive Committee.
requested, in hard copy and is available on are set out in the terms of reference of the the Companys website.
Committee which are available on the C. 2 Risk management and internal control Companys website.
The Board, through the Group Risk and Audit Committees, has carried out a robust No Director is involved in setting his or her assessment of the principal risks facing the own remuneration.
Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Further details about these risks and how they are | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 105
