Viability Statement In accordance with provision C2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in April 2016, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Group over the three-year period to 31 December 2021.
The Directors believe that a three-year period is appropriate In assessing the prospects of the Group over the three-year since it reflects the fact that: period, the Directors have also considered the Groups current financial position as well as its financial projections The Group has limited visibility of contract bidding in the context of the Groups debt facilities and associated opportunities beyond three years.
These financial projections are based on a bottom Approximately 50% 2017: 58% of the current year revenue up Budget exercise for 2019 and 2020 which has been relates to contracts where the contract term potentially approved by the Board, and an extrapolation to 2021 using comes to an end within three years.
higher level assumptions based on local market growth rates There is currently significant political uncertainty in the and identified opportunities.
United Kingdom, United States, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Australia.
The Groups covenant net debt balance at 31 December 2018 is 181.5m.
The Groups base projections indicate that debt The strategic plan set out in March 2015 significantly changed facilities and projected headroom are adequate to support the direction of the Group as explained in previous the Group over the next three years.
The Groups financial shareholder communications.
This plan is still being executed plan has been stress-tested against key sensitivities which with the Group preparing an updated five-year business plan could materialise as a result of the crystallisation of one or a each year to establish whether it is on target to achieve its number of the principal risks, the objective being that the long-term goals.
However, the financials for the last three future viability of the Group is tested against severe but years of this period are largely extrapolations of key plausible scenarios.
The sensitivities tested include a assumptions used in the budget process.
Given the reduction in the win rates for rebids, extensions and the difficulties of forecasting over a long time period it would be Pipeline of new opportunities, a delay in delivering margin inappropriate to draw conclusions on the future prospects of improvements and a potential penalty arising from risks such the Group and for developing sensitivities and mitigation as contract non-compliance, major information security strategies.
Therefore, whilst the Five-year business plan breach or a material legal and regulatory compliance failure.
continues to be developed, it remains a goal for the Group A reverse stress test of the Groups profit forecast has been and is a not a forecast based on known assumptions: this completed using different assumptions of new business and makes assessing the longer term viability a challenge.
rebid win rates and the Groups profit margin.
This analysis shows that the Group can afford to be unsuccessful on 50% Good progress has been made on the strategic plan and the of its target new business and rebid wins, or it can be Directors expect this to deliver the growth targets which have unsuccessful on 25% of its target new business and rebid been set.
Although in the early stages of growth, the ability wins combined with a profit margin 100 basis points below of the Group to harvest the benefits of the transformation are the Groups forecast, before the Groups borrowing facility only just starting to be realised.
We have previously covenants are breached in 2021.
As context, rebids have a highlighted the dependence on the external market and our more significant impact on the Groups revenue than new ability to win new contracts whilst reducing the cost base.
business wins, as contracts accounting for 50% of total Market rates of growth have slowed in recent years and while revenue are expected to be rebid in the next three years.
we expect strong growth in the next two years due to our The Groups rebid win rate has been in excess of 90% over new contract wins and order book, thereafter revenue growth the last two years.
While these sensitivities will change in line is more difficult to assess, but margins will increase from cost with Groups order book and contract performance going reduction and improved efficiencies.
Importantly in 2018, we forward, including the impact of new contract wins and have refinanced the Groups bank debt, and the new losses, the ability for the Group to absorb sensitivities of this Five-year funding will provide the financial platform to scale within its existing financing arrangements drove the continue to invest in the growth of the Group.
assumptions below which the Directors felt appropriate to disclose in making this viability statement.
The Board and the Group Risk Committee continue to monitor the principal risks facing the Group, including those It is unlikely, but not impossible, that the crystallisation of a that would threaten the execution of its strategy, business single risk would test the future viability of the Group: model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
however, unsurprisingly, and as with many companies, it is Management and mitigations of those principal risks have possible to construct scenarios where either multiple been taken into consideration when considering the future occurrences of the same risk, or single occurrences of viability of the Group.
The Groups principal risk review, as set different significant risks, could put pressure on the Groups out on pages 52 to 63, considers the impact of these ability to meet its financial covenants.
principal risks and the mitigating controls that are in place.
| 64 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements At this point, the Group would look to address the issue by exploring a range of options including, amongst others, a temporary or permanent renegotiation of the financial covenants, disposals of parts of the Groups operations to reduce net debt and or raising additional capital in the form of equity, subordinated debt or other such instruments.
Subject to these risks and on the basis of the analysis undertaken, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of their assessment.
In doing so, it is recognised that such future assessments are subject to a level of uncertainty that increases further out in time and, therefore, future outcomes cannot be guaranteed or predicted with certainty.
The Directors have made the following key assumptions in connection with this assessment: there is no significant unexpected contract attrition of existing work that becomes due for extension or rebid over the next three years: there is no significant reduction in scale of existing contract operations as a result of customer policy or other changes: there is no significant deterioration in new bid and rebid win rates from those anticipated: the Group is able to complete the execution of its strategy, including further transformation in 2019, and making progress to revenue growth and further margin improvement from 2019 onwards: and the Group is not subject to any significant penalties or direct and indirect costs and or debarment from bidding for new contracts from the current SFO investigation, nor does the investigation adversely impact on existing contracts.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 65
