Board of Directors Sir Roy Gardner Rupert Soames OBE Angus Cockburn John Rishton Kirsty Bashforth Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer Group Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director A N R C GR A N R C GR A N R C GR A N R C GR A N R C GR Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board June 2015 Chairman since May 2014 October 2014 September 2016 September 2017 July 2015 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Angus Cockburn is a John Rishton has considerable Kirsty Bashforth is an Rupert Soames is an Sir Roy Gardner is an chartered accountant with experience in chief executive experienced board member experienced chief executive experienced chairman with considerable experience and chief financial officer roles within the construction, officer having held the role over 40 years experience in gained in a variety of sectors gained from a variety of services and education for nearly 20 years in other both executive and before joining Serco in 2014. companies during a period of industries, with expertise in companies before joining non-executive roles in a around 40 years.
change management, safety Serco as Chief Executive He has an MBA from the IMD variety of businesses in the and risk management, in 2014. Business School in Switzerland He has a BA in Economics services, energy, industrial, organisational culture and and is an Honorary Professor from Nottingham University He studied Politics, chemicals, electronics, leadership.
at the University of Edinburgh.
and is a Fellow of the Philosophy and Economics at insurance and leisure sectors.
Chartered Institute of She has an MA Cantab in Oxford University, where he is He is a Fellow of the Management Accountants.
Economics from the University now a visiting fellow, and was Previous roles Chartered Association of of Cambridge.
President of the Oxford Union.
Certified Accountants, the Chief Financial Officer and She has been running her own Previous roles Royal Aeronautical Society, Interim Chief Executive of corporate advisory business, Previous roles the Royal Society of Arts and Aggreko plc, Managing Chief Executive of Rolls Royce QuayFive Limited, since 2016. the City and Guilds Institute Director of Pringle of Scotland Group plc, Chief Executive Chief Executive of Aggreko and has an Honorary and senior finance positions at and President of the Dutch plc, and the Banking and Doctorate from Thames Valley PepsiCo Inc including international retailer, Royal Previous roles Securities Division of Misys University.
Regional Finance Director Ahold NV and prior to that, its plc.
Senior executive at BP plc for Central Europe.
Chief Financial Officer and having spent over 24 years Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director of Chief Financial Officer of with the company in a variety and a member of the Previous roles Howdens Joinery Group plc British Airways plc.
of commercial roles, including Remuneration, Nomination Chairman of Compass Group and Senior Independent Group Head of Organisational and Audit Committees of PLC, Connaught plc and Director and a member of the Effectiveness, where she led Electrocomponents plc.
Current external Manchester United and Audit, Remuneration and commitments BPs global agenda on culture, Plymouth Argyle football Nomination Committees of diversity and change Non-Executive Director and clubs.
Chief Executive of GKN plc.
Chair of the Audit Committee Centrica plc, Managing commitments Governor of Leeds Beckett of Unilever plc.
Director of GEC-Marconi Non-Executive Director and a Current external University and Ashville Limited and a Director of GEC Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit, commitments College.
plc, Senior Independent Chair of the Audit Committee Nomination and Non-Executive Director and Director of William Hill plc and of Informa plc.
Remuneration Committees of Chair of the Audit Committee a Non-Executive Director of Current external DS Smith Plc.
Non-Executive Director of and a member of the Willis Group Holdings Limited commitments Associated British Ports.
Nomination and and Laporte plc.
Non-Executive Director, Chair Remuneration Committees of Chairman of the Advisory of Safety, Health and Ashtead Group plc.
Board of the Energy Futures Environment Committee and Lab at Imperial College a member of the Nomination, London, the Apprenticeship Remuneration, Risk Ambassadors Network and Management and Audit Mainstream Renewable Power Committees of Kier Group Limited and Senior Adviser to plc.
Independent Non-Executive Director, Chair of the Current external Remuneration and People commitments Committee and a member of the Audit & Risk and Senior Independent Director Reputation & Ethics of Mainstream Renewable Committees of GEMS Mensa Power Limited.
| 84 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Key to Committee membership Red highlight denotes Chair Audit Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee A C N Nomination Committee GR Group Risk Committee Remuneration Committee R Eric Born Ian El-Mokadem Rachel Lomax Lynne Peacock Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Director Director Director A N R C GR A N R C GR A N R C GR A N R C GR Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board January 2019 July 2017 March 2014 July 2017 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience: Eric Born is an experienced Ian El-Mokadem is an Rachel Lomax has significant Lynne Peacock has over 25 chief executive officer with experienced chief executive experience of government years senior management experience in the aviation officer with international and economic policy.
experience in a range of roles services, logistics and retail experience in business including brand development, She has an MA in History from sectors.
He is currently Chief transformation and in mergers and acquisitions, Cambridge University and an Executive Officer of Swissport acquisitions and disposals.
change management and MSc in Economics from the International Limited which he business transformation.
He is currently Chief Executive London School of Economics.
Officer of V. Group which he She has a BA Hons in He has an MBA from the joined in 2017. Business Studies.
Previous roles University of Rochester, New He has a BSc Hons in York, and is a graduate of the Deputy Governor, Monetary Economics and Statistics from Previous roles University of Applied Sciences Stability, Bank of England, and University College London in Zurich.
a member of the Monetary Non-Executive Chair of and an MBA from INSEAD.
Policy Committee, Permanent Standard Life Assurance Secretary in the Department Limited and Non-Executive Previous roles Previous roles for Transport, Department for Director and a member of the Chief Executive Officer of Work and Pensions and the Nomination and Governance Chief Executive Officer of Wincanton plc and Welsh Office, and senior posts Committees of Standard Life Exova Group plc, Group Non-Executive Director and at the Cabinet Office, HM Aberdeen plc.
Managing Director, UK & member of the Audit, Treasury and World Bank.
Ireland of Compass Group plc Chief Executive of Woolwich Nomination and and senior management Senior Independent Director plc and National Australia Remuneration Committees of positions with Centrica plc and Chair of the Conduct and Bank Limiteds UK businesses John Menzies plc.
and the global management Values Committee at HSBC and a Non-Executive Director consultancy, Accenture.
Holdings plc and a Trustee and Chair of the Audit Board Member of Imperial Committee of Scottish Water.
Current external commitments College, London.
Current external Chief Executive Officer of commitments Current external Swissport International commitments Current external Chief Executive Officer of Limited.
Senior Independent Director, Non-Executive Director of Chair of the Remuneration Heathrow Airport Holdings Committee and member of Limited.
the Audit, Risk and Nomination Committees of Director of SETL Development Nationwide Building Society.
Non-Executive Director and a Governor of the Ditchley member of the Audit and Risk, Foundation.
Nominations and Member of the Board of Remuneration Committees of Breugel.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Deputy Chair of the British Group plc.
Chair of Trustees of the Westminister Society for People with Learning Disabilities.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 85
