Directors Report Annual Report and Accounts Dividends The Directors present the Annual Report and Accounts No interim dividends were paid during the financial year of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018. ended 31 December 2018 2017: nil.
The Directors are not Comparative figures used in this report are for the year recommending a final dividend be paid for 2018 2017: nil.
ended 31 December 2017 unless otherwise stated.
The Corporate Governance Report, including the Directors Remuneration Report, set out on pages 83 to 131, The current members of the Board, all of whom served forms part of the Directors Report.
throughout the year with the exception of Eric Born who was appointed on 1 January 2019, are set out on pages 84 The Chairmans Statement on pages 6 to 8 and the and 85.
Chief Executives Review and Divisional Reviews on pages 20 to 33 report on the activities during the year and likely future Mike Clasper resigned as a Director on 31 December 2018. developments.
The information in these reports, which is required to fulfil the requirements of the Business Review, Eric Born, having been appointed as Director since the is incorporated in this Directors Report by reference.
previous AGM, will resign and offer himself for election at the AGM on 9 May 2019 in accordance with the Articles Articles of Association of Association.
The rules relating to the appointment and replacement of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, Association.
Changes to the Articles of Association must all other Directors will stand for re-election at the AGM.
be approved by the shareholders in accordance with the legislation in force from time to time.
Directors interests With the exception of the Executive Directors service Share capital contracts and the Non-Executive Directors letters of The issued share capital of the Company, together with the appointment, there are no contracts in which any Director details of shares issued during the year, is shown in Note 32 has an interest.
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
"Certain change of control conditions are included in the The powers of the Directors to issue or buy back shares are Executive Directors service contracts, which provide for restricted to those approved at the Companys Annual compensation or reduction of notice periods in the event General Meeting AGM""."
of a change of control of the Company.
At the Annual General Meeting in May 2018, pursuant to Details of the Directors interests in the ordinary shares and Section 570 of the Companies Act 2006, shareholders options over the ordinary shares of the Company as at approved the issue of shares for cash up to 5% of the existing 31 December 2018 are set out in the Remuneration Report on issued share capital and an additional 5% only to be used pages 125 and 126.
Between 1 January 2019 and the date of in connection with an acquisition or specified capital this report there were no changes in the Directors interests investment in each case without the application of prein ordinary shares and options over ordinary shares.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the 2019 AGM, at which a resolution will be proposed for its Directors indemnities renewal, or, if earlier, 30 June 2019.
The Company maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance.
As permitted under the Articles of Association and Rights attaching to shares in accordance with best practice, deeds of indemnity have Each ordinary share of the Company carries one vote at been executed indemnifying each of the Directors and the general meetings of the Company.
There are no restrictions Company Secretary of the Company in respect of their on the transfer of ordinary shares in the capital of the positions as officers of the Company as a supplement to the Company other than certain restrictions which may from time Directors and Officers insurance cover.
The indemnities, to time be imposed by law.
which constitute a qualifying third party indemnity provision as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, remain The Company is not aware of any agreement between in force for all current Directors and the Company Secretary shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of the Company.
of securities and or voting rights.
Branch offices Authority for the purchase of shares In certain jurisdictions, the Group operates through a branch At the Annual General Meeting in May 2018, the Company of one of its subsidiary companies.
These include the was granted authority by shareholders to purchase up to following countries: Abu Dhabi, Afghanistan, Bahrain, 109,856,423 ordinary shares 10% of the Companys issued Belgium, Dubai, France, Guam, Iraq, Italy, Luxembourg, ordinary share capital as at 28 March 2018.
This authority Netherlands, Qatar and Singapore.
will expire at the conclusion of the 2019 AGM, at which a resolution will be proposed for its renewal, or, if earlier, 30 June 2019.
| 132 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements shareholder in the AWE JV requires the consent of the Significant agreements that take effect, alter or Secretary of State for Defence.
In the event that there is a terminate upon a change of control change of control of Serco Holdings Limited, it is required Given the  nature of many of the to transfer its entire shareholding in the AWE JV to the services provided by the Company and its subsidiaries, many Serco Group or another wholly owned subsidiary of the agreements contain provisions entitling the other parties to Serco Group prior to such change of control.
In the event terminate them in the event of a change of control, which can that there is a change of control of Serco Holdings Limited be triggered by a takeover of the Company.
The following without its entire shareholding in the AWE JV first being agreements are those individual agreements which the transferred to another member of the Serco Group or if Company considers to be significant to the Group as a whole there is a change of control of the Serco Group then the that contain provisions giving the other party a specific right other shareholders in the AWE JV are entitled subject to to terminate if the Company is subject to a change of control: the approval of the Secretary of State and applicable regulatory approvals to purchase the AWE JV shares and Material contracts loans held by Serco Holdings Limited and any other Clarence Correctional Centre: On 14 June 2017, member of the Serco Group.
NorthernPathways Project Trust of which Serco Australia Pty Limited is a member entered into a Project Deed with CMS Eligibility Support Services: In June 2018, Serco Inc. the Australian State of New South Wales to design, was awarded a follow-on contract with the United States construct and operate a new build prison named the New of America acting through the Centers for Medicare and Grafton Correctional Centre, the name of which has Medicaid Services CMS for the provision of support for subsequently been changed to Clarence Correctional the Exchanges implemented to provide affordable health Centre.
The prison is expected to become operational in insurance and insurance affordability programmes.
Also, on 14 June 2017, Serco Australia Pty Limited contract had an initial base term of one year, with four entered into an operator sub-contract with options of one year each.
In the event of a change in NorthernPathways.
The operator sub-contract will expire control or ownership of Serco Inc. which in the reasonable 20 years from the date of acceptance of the completed opinion of the U. S. Government adversely affects the Clarence Correctional Centre by the State.
Both the Companys ability to perform the services, the contract project deed and the operator subcontract contain may be terminated by the U. S. Government.
change of control provisions that provide that any change Special Security Agreement: In order to bid and perform of control to an unrelated third-party that has not been on certain classified contracts involving US national approved by the State of New South Wales would be a security, Serco Inc. was required to mitigate its foreign major default.
A major default under either the project ownership through a Special Security Agreement between deed or operator sub-contract, if not cured, could result in the US Government, Serco Inc. and Serco Group plc.
The effective date of the SSA is 18 June 2008.
The U. S. Australian Immigration Services: On 11 December 2014, Department of Defense may terminate Sercos SSA in Serco Australia Pty Limited entered into a contract with the event of the sale of the Corporation to a company or the Commonwealth of Australia acting through the person not under Foreign Ownership, Control or Department of Immigration and Border Protection for the Influence FOCI.
provision of detention services at all onshore immigration Asylum Accommodation and Support Services Contract facilities in Australia.
"The contract has an initial five-year AASC"" : On 8 January 2019 Serco Limited entered into term, with two two-year extension options available."
In the contracts with the Secretary of State for the Home event of a change in control or ownership of Serco Department acting through its UK Home Office Visas and Australia Pty Limited, which in the reasonable opinion of Immigration department for two regions of the new the Commonwealth adversely affects the Companys AASC, being the North West of England and the Midlands ability to perform the services, the contract may be & East of England.
Under AASC, Serco will be responsible terminated by the Commonwealth.
"for the provision of properties for initial and dispersed AWE: Serco Holdings Limited is a shareholder in AWE accommodation requirements, for transportation to and Management Limited the AWE JV""."
Serco Holdings from properties, and for a range of other services to Limiteds joint venture partners and the other support the welfare of asylum seekers.
In the two regions shareholders in the AWE JV are UK subsidiary companies for which Serco has been selected, there are currently of Lockheed Martin Corporation and Jacobs Engineering approximately 20,000 asylum seekers living in more than Group.
The AWE JV oversees the design, development, 5,000 properties.
The AASC Contract becomes maintenance and manufacture of warheads for the UKs operational on 1 September 2019.
In the event of a change strategic nuclear deterrent.
This work is carried out by the of control or ownership of Serco Limited, which in the AWE JV under a management and operation contract with reasonable opinion of the Authority adversely affects the Secretary of State for Defence the AWE Contract.
Sercos ability to perform the services, the contract may The AWE Contract was entered into on 1 December 1999 be terminated by the Authority.
Under the terms of the AWE Contract, any change in shareholding or the identity of a | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 133 Directors Report continued The Group promotes diversity so that all employees are able Financing facilities to be successful regardless of their background.
The Group Revolving credit facility: the Company has a 250,000,000 gives full consideration to applications for employment, revolving credit facility dated 3 December 2018 amended career development and promotion received from the with a syndicate of banks.
The facility provides funds for disabled, and offers employment when suitable general corporate and working capital purposes, and opportunities arise.
If employees become disabled during bonds to support the Groups business needs.
The facility their service with the Group, arrangements are made agreement provides that in the event of a change of wherever practicable to continue their employment and control of the Company each lender may, within a certain training.
period, call for the prepayment of the amounts owed to it and cancel its commitments under the facility.
The Group recognises the importance of protecting human US notes: the Company has notes outstanding under rights.
We seek to respect and uphold the human rights of three US Private Placement Note Purchase Agreements individuals in all aspects of our operations wherever we the USPP Agreements dated 9 May 2011, 20 October operate.
Our Human Rights Group Standard demonstrates 2011 and 13 May 2013 respectively.
The total amount of this commitment and the significance of human rights for a the notes outstanding under the three USPP Agreements diverse global organisation.
It also sets out expectations for was $309,264,151 at 31 December 2018, and their maturity individual and corporate behaviour across our business in is between 20 October 2019 and 14 May 2024.
Under the regards to human rights.
We use International Human Rights terms of the USPP Agreements, if a change of control of Standards such as the United Nations Guiding Principles on the Company occurs it is required to offer to prepay the Business and Human Rights 2011 UN Guiding Principles as entire principal amount of the notes together with interest frameworks to assist our decision-making and constructive to the prepayment date but without payment of any makeengagement: to identify, assess, and manage adverse human whole amount.
rights impacts: and to integrate and act on findings, track responses, monitor effectiveness and communicate how Share plans impacts are addressed.
The Companys share plans contain provisions in relation to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards Employee Engagement may vest and become exercisable on a change of control The Group is proud of its record of managing employee of the Company, in accordance with the rules of the plans.
relations and believes that the structure of individual and collective consultation and negotiation is best developed Annual General Meeting at a local level.
Over the years, the Group has demonstrated The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at that working with trade unions and creating effective Clifford Chance LLP, 10 Upper Bank Street, Canary Wharf, partnerships allows improvements to be delivered in London E14 5JJ on Thursday 9 May 2019 at 11.00am.
business performance as well as in employment terms and conditions.
Where employees choose not to belong to a Financial risk policies trade union, employee communication forums such as works councils exist to ensure involvement of staff within the A summary of the Groups treasury policies and objectives business.
The Group has been proactive in providing relating to financial risk management, including exposure to employees with information on matters of concern to them associated risks, is on pages 202 to 208. as employees and employee feedback is invited through Viewpoint, our employee engagement survey.
These Employment policies mechanisms ensure employees views are considered in The Board is committed to maintaining a working decision-making and that they have a common awareness environment where staff are individually valued and of Group strategy, matters of concern to them and the recognised.
Group companies and Divisions operate within a financial and economic factors affecting the performance framework of human resources policies, practices and of the Company.
regulations appropriate to their own market sector and country of operation, whilst subject to Group-wide policies Participation by staff in the success of the Group is and principles.
encouraged by the availability of long-term incentive arrangements for senior management, which effectively Diversity aligns their interests with those of shareholders by requiring The Group is committed to ensuring equal opportunity, that Company-level financial performance criteria are honouring the rights of the individual, and fostering achieved as a condition of vesting.
partnership and trust in every working relationship.
Policies and procedures for recruitment, training and career development promote diversity, respect for human rights, and equality of opportunity regardless of gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, disability, race, religion or other beliefs and ethnic or national origin.
| 134 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate responsibility Going concern As a provider of public services, the Group is committed In assessing the basis of preparation of the financial to operating with a public service ethos and recognises its statements for the year ended 31 December 2018, the responsibilities.
The Companys approach to corporate Directors have considered the principles of the Financial responsibility is structured around our key stakeholders, Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal focusing on how we work to add sustainable value whilst Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting, 2014: delivering their requirements with accountability and namely assessing the applicability of the going concern transparency.
Our corporate responsibility framework defines basis, the review period and disclosures.
The Groups current our principal areas of responsibility and helps to guide principal debt facilities at the year-end comprised a 250m practice and behaviour whilst facilitating measurement of revolving credit facility, and 242m of US private placement performance.
More information on Corporate Responsibility, notes.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group had 492m including greenhouse gas emission reporting, can be found of committed credit facilities and committed headroom in the Strategic Report on pages 66 to 82. of 308m.
The Directors have undertaken a rigorous assessment of Political donations going concern and liquidity taking into account financial During the year neither the Company nor the Group made forecasts.
In order to satisfy themselves that the Company political donations and they intend to continue with this has adequate resources for the future, the Directors have policy.
However, it is possible that certain routine activities reviewed the Groups existing debt levels, the committed may unintentionally fall within the broad scope of the funding and liquidity positions under our debt covenants, Companies Act provisions relating to political donations and and our ability to generate cash from trading activities.
As in previous years, a resolution will therefore be proposed that the authority granted at the AGM in May In undertaking this review the Directors have considered 2018 regarding political donations be renewed.
Details will the business plans which provide financial projections for be included in the Notice of AGM.
For the purposes of this review, we consider that to be the period ending 30 June 2020.
Within the US business there exists a Political Action The Directors have also reviewed the principal risks Committee PAC, which is funded entirely by employees.
considered on pages 52 to 63 and taken account of the The Serco PAC and its contributions are administered in strict results of sensitivity testing.
Employee contributions are entirely voluntary and no pressure is placed The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the on employees to participate.
Under US law, an employeeCompany and the Group will be able to operate within funded PAC must bear the name of the employing company.
the level of available facilities and cash for the foreseeable future and accordingly believe that it is appropriate to Financial statements prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
At the date of this report, as far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups Auditor is unaware.
Each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups Auditor is aware of that information.
Auditor The Audit Committee has considered the reappointment of KPMG LLP as auditor and recommended it to the Board.
The Board recommends the reappointment of KPMG LLP to shareholders at the AGM to be held on 9 May 2019.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 135 Directors Report continued Interests in voting rights At 31 December 2018, the Company had been notified under Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority of the following interests in voting rights over the issued share capital of the Company: Number % held of shares at date at date of Notifying person of notification notification Nature of Holding BlackRock Inc 34,854,885 3.17 Indirect 5,571,238 0.51 Securities Lending 45,278,466 4.12 Contract for difference 85,704,589 7.80 Total FIL Limited 73,169,712 6.66 Indirect 156,204 0.01 Stock Loan 73,325,916 6.67 Total 1 Lancaster Investment Management LLP 70,030,527 6.37 Swap Marathon Asset Management LLP 58,353,594 5.31 Indirect Majedie Asset Management Limited 55,965,452 5.09 Direct 2 Azvalor Asset Management S. G. I. I. C. S. A 54,936,411 5.00 Direct MSD Partners, L. P. 54,563,815 4.97 Indirect Orbis Group 54,510,229 4.96 Indirect Tameside MBC re: Greater Manchester Pension Fund 34,127,885 3.11 Direct Notes: 1.
On 11 January 2019, Lancaster Investment Management LLP notified the Company that their interest in voting rights had been reduced to 5.98%.
On 15 February 2019, Azvalor Asset Management S. G. I. I. C. S. A notified the Company that their interest in voting rights had been reduced to 4.95%.
| 136 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Index of Directors Report disclosures The information required to be disclosed in the Directors Report can be found in this Annual Report on the pages listed below.
4C, the information required to be disclosed in the Annual Report under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R is marked with an asterisk.
Amendment of the Articles Page 132 Appointment and replacement of Directors Page 132 Board of Directors Pages 84 and 95 Change of control Pages 133 Community Page 77 Corporate responsibility Pages 66 to 82 Directors insurance and indemnities Page 132 Directors inductions and training Page 90 Directors responsibilities statement Page 138 Disclosure of information to Auditor Page 149 Diversity Page 76 and 101 Dividends Pages 8 and 132 Employee involvement Page 75 and 86 and 134 Employees with disabilities Page 134 Financial risk management Pages 202 to 209 Future developments of the business Page 12 to 19 Going concern Pages 135 and 156 Greenhouse gas emissions] Page 81 Independent Auditors' Report Pages 140 to 150 Long-term incentive plans under Listing Rule 9.4.
3 Pages 119 to 124 Political donations Page 135 Powers for the Company to issue or buy back its shares Page 132 Powers of the Directors Page 104 Research and development activities Page 135 Restrictions on transfer of securities Page 132 Rights attaching to shares Page 132 Risk management and internal control Pages 52 to 63 and 93 Share capital Page 132 Significant agreements Pages 133 Significant related party agreements Page 219 and 220 Significant shareholders Page 136 Statement of corporate governance Pages 104 and 105 Strategic Report Pages 3 to 82 Viability Statement Page 64 and 65 Voting rights Page 132 Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: David Eveleigh Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 20 February 2019 | 137 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 137
