Strategy implementation In 2014 we identified three distinct phases in the implementation of our strategy: Our Ambition To be a superb provider of public services by being the best-managed business in our sector Stabilise: 201415 Hire new management Transform: 201519 Identify issues Develop strategy and implementation plan Strengthen balance sheet Roll out corporate Rebuild confidence and Grow: 2018 and beyond renewal trust Undertake Contract & Improve risk management Harvest benefits Balance Sheet Review Rationalise portfolio of transformation Planned Outcome Stabilise morale savings Mitigate loss-making contracts Further leverage scale Chosen sectors and capabilities Re-build business will grow at development and pipeline Capture improvement 57% in market demand Strengthen sector Industry margins propositions Build out geographical in our sectors Build differentiated footprint 56% capability Move into new Employee Improve execution and cost sub-segments engagement 60% efficiency Continuously review portfolio The first phase Stabilisation recognised the urgent need However, more recently, we believe that market rates of to recapitalise the business and restore customer confidence growth have been lower and certainly for the next few years and employee morale following the very significant writethe market may well only be more likely to grow at a low downs upon the realisation that Serco had a number of very single-digit percentage rate, but our margins can still heavily loss-making contracts.
This phase was largely increase as we transition from our Transformation phase and completed in 2014, although the fundraising and essential see more growth coming from cost reduction and increased stabilisation of our balance sheet did not take place until 2015 efficiency.
Nature does not draw lines she smudges them, after which further rebuilding of customer confidence and and the same applies to our strategy implementation, where trust could then follow.
The Transformation phase gathered the phases of Stabilisation, Transformation and Growth pace in 2016 and 2017, and in practice will continue through necessarily overlap.
into 2019, and is an essential underpin as we progressively move into the Growth stage.
When we launched the plan, it was conceived that Growth would refer to both revenues and profit.
| 18 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements After three years of outflows, positive Free Cash Flow Transform: progress to date was achieved in 2018.
The outflows related to onerous Key achievements during our Transformation phase have contracts have more than halved between 2015 and 2018, been: while working capital and cash flow management has We have successfully strengthened our balance sheet, also normalised.
following the Rights Issue completed in April 2015 and the disposal of our private sector BPO business: together Summary these raised over 700m, and our underlying leverage measure of Net Debt:EBITDA now stands at 1.2x, with We believe we have the right strategy for our business, and period-end net debt reduced from 745m at the end of every year since 2015 we have delivered results which have 2013 to 188m at the end of 2018. been in line or ahead of our plan, which is no mean achievement.
So far, so good, and with Underlying Trading We have made further excellent progress rebuilding Profit growing by 34% in 2018, and our strong order intake, confidence and trust with our major customers, in large 2018 feels like something of an inflection point for our part due to greatly improved operational performance.
But the long-term test of the strategy will be our Portfolio rationalisation carried out, including the disposal ability to deliver further margin increases, together with of the majority of our private sector BPO business at the profitable revenue growth.
The market is currently growing at end of 2015. rates below historic trend, and we expect that in 2019 profit We continue to mitigate the impact of loss-making growth will continue to come more from further cost contracts: we have always regarded our Onerous Contract efficiency and operational progress than from any significant Provisions as a portfolio, knowing that the actual out-turn increase in revenues.
However, looking to 2020 and beyond, on individual contracts would almost certainly be different the strong order intake in recent years which includes some from the original estimates made at the end of 2014.
Up to contracts such as Clarence Correctional Centre and the the end of 2018, actual expenditure against the 447m of Australian icebreaker vessel which will only start to contribute Onerous Contract Provisions has been very close to the operational revenues in 2020, as well as the award of some original estimate.
2.5bn of orders in January and February 2019, give us confidence that we will be able to start to deliver increased We continue to strengthen our sector propositions, most revenue growth in 2020, and that this should result in further particularly through the work carried out by our CoEs such improvements in our margin towards our target level.
as those covering Health and Justice & Immigration, which have been heavily involved in developing propositions to In summary, our plan seems to be working.
support major bids such as Barts Health NHS Trust won in 2016 and Clarance Correctional Centre previously known as Grafton prison in Australia won in 2017.
Our order intake has grown very substantially, such that in 2017 and 2018 it was ahead of revenue, the first time since 2012 that book-to-bill had been greater than 100%: at the end of 2018, our order book stood at 12.0bn.
Grow: progress to date We are now making significant progress in growing the business again, with key achievements being: After four years of decline, in the second half of 2018 the Group achieved broadly flat organic revenue, with a return to growth anticipated for 2019.
Improving our win rates and retention of work in our focused sectors and geographies has been paramount to achieving this.
Profits and margin grew significantly in 2018, and further progress is expected in 2019.
In particular this reflects the success to date in reducing the businesses operating costs: in 2018 they were more than 1bn lower than in 2014.
The majority of this reduction relates to costs removed from contracts which have ended and businesses disposed of, but it is certainly an achievement to have reduced costs broadly in line with revenues.
Importantly, our cost reduction also includes more than 20m in 2018 in addition to the over 100m removed over the prior three years of the Transformation stage, through our programmes to deliver savings by reducing the number of management layers, implementing better procurement and driving greater efficiency in the operation of shared services.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 19
