Our Market We believe that fundamental drivers will continue to increase demand for our services.
out entirely by private contractors.
Today, in the UK, frontline Serco delivers services to governments and medical services by the National Health Service, which is other institutions who serve the public or protect widely perceived as a nationalised service, is largely provided vital national interests.
We focus on five sectors: by privately-owned businesses called General Practitioner Practices, the vast majority of whom are employed by private Defence, Justice & Immigration, Transport, partnerships and companies rather than by the state.
Some Health and Citizen Services, and deliver them in of the most sensitive and secret defence work, such as the UK, Continental Europe, North America, developing and supporting strategic nuclear weapons, Asia Pacific and the Middle East.
is carried out by private companies.
Some services which governments need in order to deliver Government as a purchaser of public services public policy are similar or identical to those required in the Governments have two basic responsibilities: to develop private sector, and suppliers can happily operate in both policies, and to ensure that those policies are delivered.
Running payroll, providing telecoms networks and Some policies can be delivered simply by enacting IT centres is not vastly different in the public and private legislation, relying on individuals and corporations to deliver sectors.
But some government services such as running the policy themselves by acting in accordance with the law, prisons or providing air traffic control are unique to with the police and judiciary acting as enforcers of behaviour.
government and have no private sector equivalent.
An example of this would be a policy that required a speed Many government services are bought only by government, limit of 20 mph near schools, which can be enforced by the and providing them is a specialist business, quite different police in the normal course of law enforcement.
Other from anything found in the private sector.
However, many of policies require substantial specialist workforces to be them can be run efficiently on behalf of government by employed to deliver them.
One example would be a policy private companies using techniques, management, that pending the adjudication of their applications, asylum technology and processes developed in the private sector.
seekers should be housed in the community, rather than in detention: such a policy requires the government to employ Unique demands of public service delivery, directly or indirectly the people required to manage and some history housing and welfare services.
Another example of a policy Providing government services to citizens, funded by that requires a dedicated workforce to deliver it would be air taxpayers, is different, and in many ways more demanding, traffic control, which requires highly qualified staff to be than providing services to the private sector or consumers.
deployed, often to remote locations.
Politics, transparency and accountability to multiple stakeholders are sometimes seen only dimly in the private Public services require people sector, but are writ large in the public sector, and need The delivery of many areas of government policy is labour careful management.
Serco has deep expertise in providing intensive, and the number of people involved in the delivery this bridge: overlaid on our private sector techniques, drive of government services vastly outnumbers those involved in and energy is a public service ethos that means that we can developing policy: in some countries, government is the help deliver government services efficiently, but in a way that largest employer.
For example, according to the United recognises the need for public accountability and trust, and States Bureau of Labor Statistics, nearly twice as many the fact that we are often looking after some of the most people 22 million are employed by local, state and federal vulnerable and disadvantaged in society.
government as are in manufacturing 12 million.
Having government as your customer also means that you are The labour-intensive nature of government service delivery exposed to the ever-changing political weather.
In essence, demands strong management of the processes to recruit, this is no different from any other market where fashion, organise and oversee the hundreds or even thousands of technology and economic conditions impact demand, but people required to deliver a public service.
Many public governments can change their policies and priorities with servants are talented managers, but all governments find it lightning speed.
For nearly thirty years between 1980 and hard to attract and retain in the numbers required to deliver 2010, Serco grew rapidly as the market for outsourcing public services in the face of private sector competition for these services developed around the world.
Serco helps governments by being a bridge between Thatcherism and the policies of President Reagan, the drive, energy and innovation of the private sector, and privatisation and outsourcing became popular in many the very specific requirements of public services.
countries and drove rapid growth of an industry that had barely existed before.
Suppliers became highly profitable The private sector as a supplier of public services and skilled at extracting value from government contacts.
Governments have used private contractors to deliver public policy, often in very sensitive areas, for centuries.
As the global financial crisis of 2008 took hold, governments In medieval times, fighting wars and tax collection were began to urgently seek ways of reducing costs, and the often outsourced, in whole or part, to private enterprise.
private sector, now representing a significant proportion of The transportation of prisoners from the UK to Australia, government expenditure, became the object of close which started in 1788 and continued until 1868, was carried | 12 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements The challenge facing governments worldwide can, like our strategy, be simply expressed: to deliver more, and better, for less.
Following the ending of the war in money and the quality of service provision.
This pressure Afghanistan, military expenditure was sharply reduced, comes from what we call the Four Forces comprising: particularly in the US.
2010 saw in the UK the election of the Conservative-Liberal Democrat Coalition, with an avowed the unavoidable increase, at rates above GDP growth, intent of reducing the deficit, and as a statement of intent of demand for public services across important areas of demanded rebates of hundreds of millions of pounds from government.
Examples are the pressures on health and contractors: more importantly, the UK Government social care driven by ageing populations, and growing strengthened its commercial teams and procurement prison populations: practices and set about transferring as much risk as it could the need to reduce public debt and expenditure to the private sector.
It appeared to be a conclusion of UK deficits: Government that if risk transfer was a benefit to them of rising expectations of service quality amongst public outsourcing, surely the more risk you could force suppliers to service users: and take, the better.
In the US, Lowest Price, Technically the unwillingness of voters and corporate taxpayers Acceptable was increasingly used instead of an approach of to countenance tax increases.
overall Best Value as a tender evaluation methodology.
Whilst these sorts of shifts in demand and in the relative The third reason why the market for government services is power of customers and suppliers are common to all markets, attractive is because of its enduring nature compared to the difference in dealing with government is the fact that other markets.
All around us, we see markets being disrupted government is a monopoly purchaser: only governments buy and long-established business models being obliterated.
prisons, or weaponry, or care of asylum seekers, so when they Publishing, transport, retailing, energy, entertainment, change their direction it can have very profound impacts on computing, agriculture it is hard to find industries which are their supply chain.
not being fundamentally challenged by technology.
We live in a world where it has become possible for the largest The story of the last five years in the UK has been one of retailer to own no shops, the fastest-growing taxi service to acute difficulty for the outsourcing industry.
Over-supply, own no vehicles, the largest social network to own no highly-aggressive behaviour by both government and content, and the largest provider of overnight suppliers, and the ill-advised transfer of risks that often accommodation to own no property.
private companies had no way to mitigate or manage has led to the near-destruction of a once thriving industry, as Whilst many areas of government will benefit from the ability multiple companies have suffered huge losses on to manage massive data and will find new ways to interact government contracts.
As a consequence, the UK with citizens, we believe that there will be a continuing and Government is now faced by a much more wary, and less enduring need for the kind of frontline services we provide.
Having discovered to its joy that it We are confident that in thirty years time, sick people will still could attract new international competition into the market go to hospitals, and when there they will have their rooms because barriers to entry seemed low, it has subsequently cleaned and food served predominantly by humans.
That discovered to its potential dismay that the barriers to exit when people break the law they will be sent to prison where were low as well.
custody officers will look after them: and that complex defence infrastructure such as near-space radar will still be Having swung too far in favour of contractors, the balance maintained predominantly by human beings, who will need to of power in the public services market in the UK swung be security cleared, again by other human beings.
The bank too far back to government after 2010: it is, we believe, teller or lorry driver or shop assistant may be rightly fearful now beginning to work its way back towards a more balanced that technology will disintermediate their role, but a prison and sustainable position.
Such is the way of all markets as custody officer or hospital porter can sleep soundly in the they mature, and we believe that if governments and their knowledge that his or her skills will be required for years to suppliers recognise the consequences of their past excesses come.
and work co-operatively it should become possible to anchor the balance of power between customer and supplier in Finally, although in their own country a government can wield a place which delivers value for money for taxpayers, the power of a monopoly purchaser, every country has a high quality and reliable services to users, innovation government, and with an international footprint together with and improving efficiency, as well as the fair returns to a range of service offerings, agile suppliers can move to suppliers which will in turn ensure that government has where the demand is and where they can get a fair return for choice from a vibrant supply chain containing companies the risk they take on.
In a market with low barriers to both both large and small.
entry and exit, suppliers can move, but governments cannot.
We believe that the long-term pressures to deliver value-forDrivers of demand money, increasing demand for public services, and the need Notwithstanding the difficulties in the UK market, the to improve service delivery will ensure that the role of the business of providing services to government is attractive private sector in the delivery of public services will remain in the long term for a number of reasons.
First, in many areas robust.
The challenge facing governments worldwide can, of public service provision, private companies, properly like our strategy, be simply expressed: to deliver more, and managed, can deliver services of higher quality and lower better, for less, and they cannot do this without the support cost than governments can themselves.
Secondly, of the private sector.
Technology will have a profound impact governments will continue to face relentless pressure to on the delivery of government services, but many frontline deliver more and better public services, at lower cost, and services will still need the social and emotional skills that only that this will lead them to focus relentlessly on value for | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 13 Our Market continued humans provide, and we believe the principal method of A large and growing market delivery of many government services will remain people People ask: how large is the market for the private sector for years to come.
And the employment of people in the provision of public services?
This is hard to determine with reliable delivery of public services is what we do, and we precision, as the boundaries of the market are fiendishly hard do it very well.
Does the maintenance contract for a mainframe computer operated by the government fall within the Benefits of sector breadth and geographic reach definition of the market?
How should we treat services We focus our activities in five areas of government service: provided by government-owned agencies operating on an Defence, Justice & Immigration, Transport, Health and arms-length basis?
Within Defence, do we count supply and Citizen Services.
Between them, these sectors account for a support of, say, missile systems, or just the types of services very large proportion of government expenditure and we currently as opposed to could supply?
And how do we employ significant numbers of people in service delivery.
disentangle the very different definitions of, and accounting for, expenditure used by the various governments with whom As well as providing a bridge between the private and public we deal?
sector, Serco also provides the international and interdepartmental sharing of ideas and best practice which In 2014, and again in 2016, we did a lot of work to try and size governments often find hard to achieve.
New approaches for the market in the sectors and geographies we currently running prisons and reducing youth re-offending in the UK operate in, which are clearly a subset of the global market.
come from Australia: hospitals we manage in the Middle East Our best guess is that the total annual value of government use processes developed in the UK: likewise, our Defence services in our target segments and geographies which could business in the Middle East serves Australian armed forces.
be provided by the private sector is around 300bn, of which We transfer our insights, skills and processes from one sector around 100bn is delivered by private companies.
Rather or region to another, so we can anticipate and meet new than concentrate on the absolute number, some key challenges for customers.
In our markets we are a rarity: a conclusions from our work are: company that offers services covering front, middle, and back office requirements across multiple areas of government the market for private sector delivery of government policy delivery, internationally.
services is very large: the supply-side is fragmented: as a leading international Risk management is central to our thinking at both a strategic supplier, our market share within our existing footprint, and an operational level.
In terms of strategy, although being at around 3%, is small, although it is larger in some a focused and specialist B2G business, we think it beneficial, specific segments within certain sectors: and and a competitive advantage, to diversify our exposure to there is significant opportunity for growth, given individual governments and sectors.
Governments can be that around two-thirds of the services that could capricious: decision-making processes regularly come to a be provided by the private sector are currently halt around elections: the attitude to using private companies self-delivered by government.
can be volatile: political priorities can change in the blink of an eye, switching discretionary resources from defence to In terms of market growth, in 2018 we carried out further work immigration to healthcare and back again.
In this to assess the rate of growth in our specific sectors and environment, being diversified both by sector and geography geographies.
When we last did this, in 2014, we concluded reduces risk and volatility.
Most companies operating in our that the blended rate of growth of our mix of businesses had market are heavily focused in either a particular sector, or been running at 5-7%.
Largely as a function of the weighting within a geography: in our market, Serco is a rare beast, of our revenues to the UK some 40% of the total Group operating amongst five sectors and four regions.
and the well-publicised travails of our home market, caused both by Brexit and the issues in government supplier But management of risk is only one reason we favour a relations described above, we now think that market growth strategy of operating across a number of jurisdictions is likely to be running at around 2-3% as a weighted average and sectors.
Governments across the world face similar across our markets.
We see little likelihood that blended challenges, and we believe that we can gain competitive rates of growth across our markets will increase much beyond advantage and deliver value to customers by operating this in the immediate future, with much dependent on the internationally.
At a detailed operational level, providing nature of the UK Government post-Brexit, though Brexit itself cleaning and catering services in a hospital is very similar may stimulate additional demand.
We see no reason to in Western Australia and in Abu Dhabi.
In terms of capability, believe, however, that in the longer term that the rate of many of our contracts employ hundreds, and some, market growth might not revert to the previous levels of 5%.
thousands, of people: so recruitment, training, staff rostering and time management are key capabilities applicable across all our sectors and geographies.
The same is true of project and case management: we are also able to adopt consistent approaches to key operational tools such as Continuous Improvement.
| 14 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
