STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SENIOR PLC 1.
OUR OPINION IS UNMODIFIED Carrying value of work-in-progress and finished goods OVERVIEW We have audited the financial statements of Senior plc the Company 116.9m 2017: 105.8m Subjective estimate Our procedures included: Materiality: Group financial statements as a whole for the year ended 31 December 2018 which comprise the Consolidated The Group is engaged to manufacture goods that are 3.2m 2017: 2.6m Income Statement, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Refer to the Audit Test of detail: For a sample of work-in-progress and specific to customers requirements, and most items 5% of Group profit before tax from continuing operations.
Consolidated and Company Balance Sheet, Consolidated and Company finished goods we assessed whether the projected cost Committee Report in the are built to order.
The markets that the Group serves 2017: 5% of Group profit before tax from continuing operations Statement of changes in Equity, Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, Governance section on of inventories including cost to complete for work-inare price competitive, and new products attract and the related notes, including the accounting policies in Note 2. progress items were in excess of their net realisable pages 49 to 52, Note 2 Coverage production learning curves that impact manufacturing significant accounting value and whether an appropriate write down to net 83% of Group revenue 2017: 84% In our opinion: costs during the early stages of a products life cycle.
realisable value had been recognised.
We specifically policies and Note 17 87% of Group profit before tax 2017: 92% As a consequence, there is a risk that products may The Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the inventories.
assessed the forecast cost schedules associated with 90% of Group total assets 2017: 91% cost more than expected to produce compared to the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 new programmes to challenge the key assumptions projected cost when the original sales prices were set.
Key audit matters and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: associated with the production learning curves.
There is a risk therefore that the carrying value of certain The Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in From identified inventories with negative gross margins, Recurring risks Provisions for uncertain items of inventory both work-in-progress and finished accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as we selected a sample and assessed the appropriateness for the Group tax positions goods are carried at in excess of net realisable value.
adopted by the European Union: of the level of provision.
Our risk Carrying value of work-inThe Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly assessment progress and finished goods Assessing transparency: Assess the adequacy of the prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including Groups disclosures in respect of inventories.
is the same Recurring risks Recoverability of the FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and as 2017 Our results for the Parent Parent Companys The Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the We found the carrying value of work-in-progress and company investment in subsidiaries requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group finished goods to be acceptable.
Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Recoverability of the Parent Companys investment in its subsidiary Basis for opinion 2.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS: OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS Our procedures included: 259.9m 2017: 259.9m Low risk, high value We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT The carrying amount of the Parent Companys Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are Refer to Note 38 Carrying value: We compared the carrying amount of Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, investment in its subsidiaries represents 64% of its accounting policies the investment with the relevant subsidiarys draft described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained were of most significance in the audit of the Financial Statements and total assets.
Its recoverability is not at a high risk of is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is and Note 40 investments statutory balance sheet to identify whether its net assets, include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement significant misstatement or subject to significant in subsidiaries and being an approximation of its minimum recoverable consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which judgment.
However, due to its materiality in the context Company Balance Sheet.
amount, was in excess of its carrying amount and had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of of the Parent Company Financial Statements, this is We were first appointed as auditor by the shareholders at the Annual assessed whether the subsidiary has historically been resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
considered to be the area that had the greatest effect General Meeting on 21 April 2017. profit-making.
We summarise below the key audit matters unchanged from 2017, on our overall Parent Company audit.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the two financial years in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion Our results ended 31 December 2018.
We found the Parent Companys assessment of above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those the recoverability of the investment in subsidiaries We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain to be acceptable.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest of, our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected 3.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN OVERVIEW opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and identified misstatements exceeding 162,000 2017: 130,000 in OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting The materiality for the Group Financial Statements as a whole was set on qualitative grounds.
RISKS OF MATERIAL at 3.2m 2017: 2.6m determined with reference to a benchmark MISSTATEMENT OUR RESPONSE of Group profit before tax from continuing operations of which it Of the Groups 34 2017: 34 reporting components excluding the represents 5% 2017: 5%.
Parent Company, we subjected 23 components to full scope audits Provision for uncertain tax positions 2017: 23 for group purposes.
Materiality for the Parent Company Financial Statements as a whole 17.6m 2017: 17.6m Subjective estimate Our procedures included: was capped at 2.9m 2017: 2.3m, determined with reference The Group operates in a number of different tax The components within the scope of our work, including the Parent Refer to the Audit Our tax expertise: Use of our own tax specialists to a benchmark of company total assets, and then capped at 90% jurisdictions and judgment is required to determine Company, accounted for the percentages illustrated below.
Committee Report in to assess the Groups tax positions, the Companys 2017: 90% of the overall Group materiality.
tax provisions across the Group principally in the US.
the Governance section correspondence with the relevant tax authorities, and to on pages 49 to 52, Determination of provisions for tax uncertainties is analyse and challenge the assumptions used to determine Note 2 significant subject to judgment in assessing the probable outflow provisions for tax uncertainties.
This is based on our GROUP REVENUE GROUP PROFIT BEFORE TAX GROUP TOTAL ASSETS accounting policies of taxes that will be borne by the entity relating to knowledge and experiences of the application of the and Note 21 tax matters where the relevant tax authoritys final tax legislation, and our understanding of the production balance sheet.
assessment of the tax treatment is uncertain.
activities at the sites where royalty charges are applied.
13% 10% 17% We also assessed the impact of changes in US tax The tax risk provisions held in connection with transfer legislation on the Group.
We challenged management on pricing, including inter-company royalty charges, is a key the adequacy of the Groups provision for Transfer Pricing risk due to its size and the subjective nature of the arms Group Group profit Group risks particularly arising in the US.
revenue before tax total assets length basis to which the pricing should adhere to.
Assessing transparency: Assess the adequacy of 90% 83% 87% There is a risk that the provisions for tax uncertainties the Groups disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain recorded are over or under stated.
Our results The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk We found the level of provisions for tax uncertainties assessment, we determined that the provision for 2017: 84% 2017: 92% 2017: 91% to be acceptable.
uncertain tax positions has a high degree of estimation Full scope for Group audit purposes 2018 uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable Residual components outcomes greater than our materiality for the Financial Arises from total profits and losses that made up Group profit before tax Statements as a whole.
74 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 75 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SENIOR PLC CONTINUED The remaining 17% of total group revenue, 13% of group profit before Based on this work, we are required to report to you if: Corporate governance disclosures the directors and other management as required by auditing standards, tax and 10% of total group assets is represented by 11 reporting We are required to report to you if: and from inspection of the groups regulatory and legal correspondence We have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to components, none of which individually represented more than 5% and discussed with the directors and other management the policies the Directors Statement in Note 1 to the Financial Statements on We have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge of any of total group revenue, group profit before tax or total group and procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations.
We the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material we acquired during our Financial Statements audit and the Directors assets.
For these residual components, we performed analysis at an communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Statement that they consider that the annual report and Financial aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
from the date of approval of the Financial Statements: or provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the Financial The Group Audit Team instructed component auditors as to the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or Statements varies considerably.
The related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 29 significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
The section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Firstly, the group is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect above and the information to be reported back.
The Group team Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated the Financial Statements including financial reporting legislation including We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did not identify going approved the component materialities, which ranged from 0.1m to by us to the Audit Committee.
related companies legislation, distributable profits legislation, and taxation concern as a key audit matter.
1.0m 2017: 0.2m 1.0m excluding the component materiality for legislation and we assessed the extent of compliance with these laws We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement Parent Company, which was set at 2.9m 2017: 2.3m, having regard 5.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON THE OTHER INFORMATION and regulations as part of our procedures on the related Financial does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
IN THE ANNUAL REPORT Statement items.
the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for The work on 14 of the 23 components 2017: 14 was performed by The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in our review.
component auditors and the rest, including the audit of the Parent Secondly, the group is subject to many other laws and regulations where the Annual Report together with the Financial Statements.
Our opinion Company, was performed by the Group Audit Team.
the consequences of non-compliance could have a material effect on We have nothing to report in these respects.
on the Financial Statements does not cover the other information and, amounts or disclosures in the Financial Statements, for instance through accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly The Group Audit Team visited six component locations 2017: seven 6.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON THE OTHER MATTERS ON the imposition of fines or litigation.
We identified the following areas as in the US and the UK to assess the audit risk and strategy.
Telephone stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
those most likely to have such an effect: health and safety, anti-bribery WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION conference meetings were also held with these component auditors and Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, and corruption, employment law and export laws and regulations.
all others that were not physically visited.
At these visits and meetings, Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify consider whether, based on our Financial Statements audit work, the in our opinion: the findings reported to the Group Audit Team were discussed in more information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the non-compliance with these laws and regulations to enquiry of the detail, and any further work required by the Group Audit Team was then Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal Financial Statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work performed by the component auditor.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
These limited procedures did not identify actual from branches not visited by us: or or suspected non-compliance.
Strategic report and Directors report The Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the GROUP PROFIT BEFORE TAX Based solely on our work on the other information: Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement risk that we may not have detected some material misstatements in with the accounting records and returns: or We have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report the Financial Statements, even though we have properly planned and Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are and the Directors report: 3.2m 2017: 2.6m performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards.
For example, Whole financial not made: or In our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial statements materiality the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations We have not received all the information and explanations we require 0.1m 1.0m year is consistent with the Financial Statements: and 61.3 irregularities is from the events and transactions reflected in the Financial 2017: 0.2m 1.0m 2017: 52.2m for our audit.
Range of materiality at In our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with Statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by 23 components the Companies Act 2006.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
auditing standards would identify it.
In addition, as with any audit, there 0.16m 2017: 0.13m Misstatements reported Directors remuneration report remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may to the Audit Committee 7.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or Directors responsibilities has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. the override of internal controls.
We are not responsible for preventing PBT As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 73, the non-compliance and cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with Group materiality Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the Financial Statements all laws and regulations.
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our Financial Statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of 8.
THE PURPOSE OF OUR AUDIT WORK AND TO WHOM WE OWE Financial Statements that are free from material misstatement, whether 4.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON GOING CONCERN OUR RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors confirmation within the Viability Statement on page 29 due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and Parent Companys ability The Directors have prepared the Financial Statements on the going This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Company or the in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless Group or to cease their operations, and as they have concluded that the Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: they either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to Companys and the Groups financial position means that this is realistic.
Companys members those matters we are required to state to them The Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
They have also concluded that there are no material uncertainties that in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent how they are being managed and mitigated: and could have cast significant doubt over their ability to continue as a going permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Auditors responsibilities The Directors explanation in the viability statement of how they have concern for at least a year from the date of approval of the Financial other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have Statements the going concern period.
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Financial Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that Robert Brent Senior Statutory Auditor issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high conclusions and, had there been a material uncertainty related to going the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor concern, to make reference to that in this audit report.
However, as we level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any Chartered Accountants accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications 15 Canada Square may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgments that were when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or or assumptions.
London error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of reference to a Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Viability Statement.
E14 5GL material uncertainty in this auditors report is not a guarantee that the reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users We have nothing to report in this respect.
1 March 2019 taken on the basis of the Financial Statements.
Group and the Company will continue in operation.
Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of only the A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website In our evaluation of the Directors conclusions, we considered the inherent knowledge acquired during our Financial Statements audit.
As we cannot risks to the Companys business model, including the impact of Brexit, at www.
predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may and analysed how those risks might affect the Companys financial Irregularities ability to detect result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgments that were resources or ability to continue operations over the going concern period.
We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of anything to report We evaluated those risks and concluded that they were not significant expected to have a material effect on the Financial Statements from our on these statements is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys enough to require us to perform additional audit procedures.
general commercial and sector experience, and through discussion with longer-term viability.
76 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 77
