STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT In 2015, the following six strategic priorities were identified as key elements of our business model, which will drive the creation of stakeholder value.
They will receive specific attention and focus over the coming years.
WHAT WEVE DONE SINCE 2015 OUR PLANS FOR 2019 STRATEGY IN ACTION Implemented engagement guidelines to help Continue to focus front end Since 2015, Senior Flexonics Crumlin has been working with a large optimise the transfer of work to cost competitive collaboration efforts on car manufacturer on a heat exchanger application for emissions locations and to facilitate higher level solutions multi-site business reduction on their diesel engine.
This was a technically challenging opportunities: to meet customer needs: development due to the specific requirements of the customer.
01 Customer Relationship Managers appointed for Deliver supply chain savings Senior Flexonics Crumlin collaborated closely with Senior key customers: from Procurement Council Flexonics New Delhi to develop a technically advanced product collaboration: and and robust business plan, capable of successfully delivering this ENHANCE SENIORS Updated management incentive schemes high volume programme.
to encourage greater collaboration: all senior Accelerate collaboration between AUTONOMOUS AND managers across the Company now have part Asian and North American Senior was successfully awarded serial production of this part out COLLABORATIVE of their incentive tied to Group performance businesses to achieve increased of the Senior Flexonics New Delhi manufacturing site and both sites BUSINESS MODEL as well as their business unit: market share.
have been collaborating to develop the manufacturing process ready for series production in late 2019.
Multi-site collaboration efforts have led to important new business awards: This joint development and collaboration has brought significant learnings, which will enable Senior to deliver even greater Rolled out an online Group-wide interactive successes in the future.
communication tool: Launched Senior Health & Safety Essential Behavioural Standard across the Group: and Brought together three Aerospace businesses in Pacific Northwest under one leadership team and brought together Southern California Aerospace Structures businesses under one leadership team.
Customer Relationship Managers appointed for key Commence build of a new 2018 was a year of manufacturing technology advancement customers: high tech facility in Crumlin, as Senior commenced investment in our Advanced Additive South Wales, focused on Manufacturing Centre AAMC located in Burbank, CA.
Established a Group-wide technology council to design, development, test focus on advanced engineering and manufacturing As Seniors OEM customers are driving for ever-improving weight, 02 and qualification of new methods such as additive manufacturing: performance and cost targets, the AAMC is a collaborative Flexonics products: manufacturing capability to help deliver solutions for our customers.
Continued to win more new business and launched Establish our Advanced Additive FOCUS ON GROWTH new production programmes in China, India, AAMC is focused on demanding geometries that historically Manufacturing Centre in Malaysia and Thailand: required either complex castings, or machining to achieve.
Burbank, CA: Opened a Thermoplastic Composites Development Senior anticipates the AAMC will help to bring about lower Successfully commence Centre in the UK: costs, lighter weights and higher performance of additively operations at new Aerospace manufactured components.
Secured first development contracts for electric facility in Malaysia: and vehicle applications: Complete expansion of Approved investment in our Advanced Additive Aerospace facility in Manufacturing Centre to be set up in Burbank, Massachusetts, USA.
CA: and Commenced construction of new Aerospace facilities in Malaysia and in Massachusetts, USA.
Implemented a new and more intensive business Continue to embed the Senior Across the Senior Group, teams have been working diligently at review process: updated the Groups reporting Operating System across the implementing the Senior Operating System Lean Toolkit.
systems to incorporate best in class real-time digital Group: and In one business, a Kaizen continuous improvement team created a dashboard: and established Group-wide balanced Undertake targeted performance value stream map that detailed the manufacturing process for a key 03 scorecard with KPIs: workshops in businesses with product family.
From this map, a new floor layout was designed that Established a procurement council to leverage our biggest improvement incorporated four machines and additional deburring and inspection global spend: opportunities.
The new cell allows one operator to run production in INTRODUCE A HIGH one-piece flow fashion to complete a full assembly.
Launched the Senior Operating System in PERFORMANCE Aerospace Structures and Aerospace Fluid Systems: Utilising a Standardised Work playbook to ensure that the new cell OPERATING SYSTEM runs properly, the team has managed to reduce work-in-process Held targeted performance improvement inventory by more than 75% and improved productivity by 125%.
workshops focused on margin expansion: Although this was a great achievement, the team is not done yet, as Delivered a more comprehensive operational they will continue to improve ergonomics in the cell to help maintain excellence leadership development programme: and our operators health and safety.
Appointed Director of Technology for Aerospace Structures to implement advanced technologies in our machining and assembly operations.
14 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 15 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC PRIORITIES CONTINUED WHAT WEVE DONE SINCE 2015 OUR PLANS FOR 2019 STRATEGY IN ACTION Opened new airframe structures facility Successfully commence operations at Senior has been successful at winning new contracts as a direct in Thailand in June 2016: new Aerospace facility in Malaysia: and result of staying competitive at a capability and cost level due to its competitive cost country locations: Expanded in the Czech Republic by Successfully launch new programmes doubling manufacturing capacity: in Thailand, Malaysia, India and China.
Senior was awarded a five-year contract from Spirit AeroSystems to 04 provide machine details and subassemblies on Boeing commercial Ramped-up new Aerospace aerospace programmes.
Seniors capabilities in Malaysia provided programmes in Thailand and Malaysia: the best overall value proposition to the customer on a package of COMPETITIVE COST Ramped-up cooler and common rail medium to complex machined parts and subassemblies: COUNTRY STRATEGY production at our facilities in India Senior was also awarded a Detail Part Partner contract by Airbus and Mexico: to provide medium-to-complex machine details and sub-assemblies Transferred Aerospace Fluid Systems to Airbus and its partner company STELIA Aerospace, on multiple work packages to Aerospace Mexico: programmes including A320, A330 and ATR.
Crucial to the award Continued to win more new business in was Seniors ability to dual source within the Group as the work China, India, Malaysia and Thailand: and will be performed at both Seniors world-class cost-competitive Commenced construction of new South East Asian facilities in Malaysia and Thailand.
Disposed of loss making small Continue to invest in organic capital Senior held a ground-breaking ceremony for its new Aerospace commodity composites business expenditure to support future growth: manufacturing facility near Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia in March 2018. based in Wichita: Continue to pay a progressive dividend The new facility will complement Senior Aerospace UPECAs Sold non-core Aerospace BWT Ilkeston reflecting earnings per share and existing facility.
05 UK site: free cash flow generation over the On completion, this new 180,000 sq.
feet facility will house highly medium term: In February 2019, sold French Flexonics skilled engineering and technical employees, boast state-of-the-art CONSIDERED AND EFFECTIVE non-core passenger vehicle parts Continue to review performance equipment and will have comprehensive special process business, Senior Flexonics Blois: of existing portfolio against returns and non-destructive testing capabilities.
CAPITAL DEPLOYMENT on capital targets and take action Invested 164m in organic capital The new facility will provide increased options for Senior as required: and expenditure over the last three years Aerospaces customers due to the breadth of the new to support growth programmes: Invest in acquisitions that meet Heat capabilities and provide capacity to support future growth.
Map criteria and ROCE targets.
Full year dividend per share total paid The establishment of this world class facility supports Seniors and proposed increased by 19.7% over strategy to enhance its cost competitive country footprint and will last three years: and complement its customer growth expectations within the region.
Working capital reduced from 15.1% of revenue at the end of 2015 to 14.4% of revenue at the end of 2018.
Jane Johnston joined the Senior Ongoing rollout of our Global In 2018, Senior delivered an Operational Excellence Programme Executive team in May 2016 as Group Performance Management System: over a period of nine months: HR Director, responsible for HR strategy Initiating the implementation of a The programme included the following key elements: across the Group Global Talent Acquisition System Webinars and action learning sets: 06 Continued to work with external and Learning Management System Business focused Change Management Projects: partners such as Ashridge, to deliver to attract and develop talent: and Five day face to face workshop, including a one day site visit advanced leadership development for TALENT DEVELOPMENT Continue to focus on diversity and to a Senior operation to embed learning by putting into practice our top talent from around the world: inclusion across the business.
the tools and techniques learnt, and provide solutions to real Improved succession planning process operational issues for the business concerned: including improving gender diversity in Each individual completed an Operational Excellence project succession plans for senior leadership which resulted in significant, measurable business improvements team: and and savings for their operating businesses.
Rolled out Performance Development Review process to leadership teams across the Group.
16 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 17
