Our performance framework and strategic priorities We are great believers in succinctness and simplicity.
Accordingly, we have managed to fit our performance framework and strategic priorities of what might be considered a complex and diverse business into a single graphic that we use throughout the Serco.
Our values Trust Care Innovation Pride Our purpose what we want to be A trusted partner of governments, delivering superb public services that transform outcomes and make a positive difference for our fellow citizens Our organising principles Flair, agility, innovation Rigour, discipline Loose-Tight management Empowerment Common processes Disciplined entrepreneurialism Decentralisation of execution Centralised intent Our method Winning good business A place people are proud to work Being the best-managed company in the sector Executing brilliantly Profitable and sustainable Our longer term deliverables Revenue growth Trading margin Employee engagement 5% 5% 70 points or above The purpose of the performance framework is to provide a structure which will deliver value to our customers, shareholders, and to the people who work in the business.
Like the Business Model, therefore, it ends with our deliverables and starts with our Values.
Our values Whilst we use technology and processes, the core of our prison officer makes a cup of tea for a suicidal prisoner at business is people many thousands of them delivering two oclock in the morning: why a housing officer leaves the public services.
It is of central importance to our success that comfort of an office to guide a nervous asylum seekers child our colleagues, many of whom are former public servants, and to school on their first day: why an engineer crawls into that our customers, know that we have values appropriate to a impossibly small space in the foetid bowels of an aircraftcompany delivering services funded by taxpayers to often carrier to make sure the cable-ties are secured just right so vulnerable and disadvantaged citizens.
Working at the they will stay in place in storm or battle.
It is because they care leading edge of technology may be inspiring to people about their work, they recognise the importance of what they working for IT businesses, but they are not reasons why a do, and they take immense pride in it.
| 16 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Before our customers will give us sensitive work, they have to common propositions in areas such as Justice & Immigration trust us.
And to win business we have to come up with and Health.
Shared Services provide common functional and innovative solutions which will enable governments to deliver processing support in areas such as IT, HR and finance to the more, and better, for less.
This is why our Values of Trust, Care, Divisions.
Innovation and Pride are so important.
We dont pretend to be saints, or to be holier-than-thou: we are not so nave as to Our method the strategic priorities to achieve believe that in a workforce of over 50,000 people there will not our aspiration be some uncaring bad eggs.
But the overwhelming majority of The method we use to deliver our aspiration to be the our colleagues are decent, hard-working, committed, and best-managed business in our sector and to deliver our want to make a positive difference to those they serve.
In this, strategy is to concentrate on doing four things really well.
we reect the values of our customers, which they call a These are the four strategic priorities we want Serco to be public service ethos, and we call our Values.
famous for: Our organising principles Winning good business Our organising principles have to reect the fact that many of Executing brilliantly the things our customers want are mutually exclusive: they Being a place people are proud to work want excellent and resilient services, delivered by highly Being profitable and sustainable motivated staff, but they want them to be low cost: they want local accountability and exibility, but they also want strong We try to make sure that everything we do improves our governance and risk management.
As a management team, performance against one or more of these objectives, and we believe in the principle of subsidiarity: that decisions start from a position where we know we can do better.
should be taken by managers who are as close to the customer as possible.
But we are also conscious of the fact that many of We can improve the way we bid and manage contracts: our contracts carry with them risks that need careful develop innovative propositions: measure performance: management and supervision.
So we describe our organising reduce the cost and improve the quality of our administrative principles with two concepts: 'loose-tight', and 'disciplined systems and processes.
None of these comes easily or entrepreneurialism'.
Neither of these is our own invention: they quickly, and we need to steer a tricky course between the are based on the work of, respectively, Tom Peters and Jim need to reduce our costs relative to revenues in the short Collins.
They describe in subtly different ways an approach to term and investing in systems and processes that will produce management which recognises the need for both local sustainable benefits in the long term.
management autonomy and strong governance.
Two quotations from their works give a taste of the type of Our longer term deliverables organisation we are trying to achieve: The tangible evidence of our success or otherwise will be a return to former industry rates of growth and margins.
In Loose-Tight is the coexistence of central direction and recent years our revenues have been shrinking and our maximum individual autonomy.
Organisations that live underlying trading margins are far too low at around 2-3%.
"by the loose-tight principle, are on the one hand rigidly Our challenge, and our opportunity, is to get back to controlled, yet at the same time allow indeed insist on, long-term industry rates of revenue growth, which in the past autonomy, entrepreneurship, and innovation from their were around 5-7%, and Trading Profit margins across Sercos people. """
mix of business in the range of 5-6%.
Tom Peters: In Search of Excellence Largely as a function of the weighting of our revenues to the UK some 40% of the total Group and the well-publicised Avoid bureaucracy and hierarchy and instead create a travails of our home market, caused both by Brexit and the culture of discipline.
When you put two complementary issues in government supplier relations described above, we forces together a culture of discipline with an ethic of now think that market growth is likely to be running at around entrepreneurship you get a magical alchemy of superior 2-3% as a weighted average across our markets.
We see little performance and sustained results.
likelihood that blended rates of growth across our markets Jim Collins: Good to Great will increase much beyond this in the immediate future, with much dependent on the nature of the UK Government Organisationally we structure ourselves with three types post-Brexit, though Brexit itself may stimulate significant of function: Divisions, Group and Shared Services.
We see no reason to believe, however, All operational delivery is executed through four geographic that in the longer term this might not revert to the previous Divisions: UK & Europe, the Americas, Asia Pacific and the levels of 5%.
Within their domains, Divisions are responsible for everything involved in winning and delivering contracts: 98% of our employees work in these Divisions.
A lean Group function provides governance, strategy, asset allocation, policy-setting and oversight, as well as certain specialist consolidation and functional roles in Finance, Legal Risk and HR: the Group also manages Centres of Excellence CoEs which provide focused expertise and support to the Divisions, and enable sharing of best practice and the development of | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 17
