STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY CONTINUED Purpose and link Purpose and link Element to strategy Operation Maximum Performance assessment Element to strategy Operation Maximum Performance assessment Long-Term Incentivises Annual grants of performance shares 150% of salary The Committee determines Shareholding Aligns executive Executive Directors to retain at least N A N A Incentive sustained which vest subject to performance performance conditions and guidelines Directors interests 50% of the shares that vest under the 200% of salary Plan LTIP performance over measured over three years and weightings at the start of each with those of other LTIP and Deferred Bonus Award, after in exceptional the longer term continued service year, providing that the targets shareholders in the allowing for tax liabilities, until a circumstances, are not materially less challenging Company shareholding equivalent in value The use of Executives are entitled to receive the such as upon to 200% of base salary is built up longer-term value of dividend payments that would recruitment The awards were based on a performance have otherwise been paid in respect of mix of: targets and delivery vested deferred shares Relative Total Shareholder of awards in shares success and TSR provides an external assessment of the Companys All awards are subject to the discretions Return 50% of the award : RECRUITMENT OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS rewards the performance against its competitors.
It also aligns the rewards received contained in the plan rules and Salaries for newly appointed Directors will be set to reflect their skills and achievement of by executives with the returns received by shareholders.
The Committee experience, the Companys intended pay positioning and the market rate The Committee may review the Group adjusted earnings the Companys will review the choice of performance measures and the appropriateness for the role.
per formance conditions from time growth targets 50% of strategic goals of the performance targets prior to each LTIP grant.
to time the award Where it is appropriate to offer a below median salary initially, the and increases in The Committee has the discretion in In respect of each performance In particular, the Adjusted EPS targets are reviewed prior to each grant Committee will have the discretion to allow phased salary increases shareholder value certain circumstances to grant and or element, performance below by taking account of internal and external expectations of future Adjusted over time for newly appointed Directors, even though this may involve settle an award in cash.
In practice, the threshold target results in EPS growth for the business.
The Committee reserves the discretion increases in excess of the rate for the wider workforce and inflation.
this will only be used in exceptional zero vesting.
Vesting of each to set different targets for future awards, without consulting with Benefits will be provided in line with those offered to other employees, circumstances for executive Directors performance element starts at shareholders, providing that, in the opinion of the Committee, the new with national or international relocation expenses arrangements the 25% threshold and rises to A two-year post-vesting holding period targets are no less challenging in light of the circumstances at the time e. g. schooling, tax equalisation provided for if necessary.
100% for maximum level of will be applied to LTIP awards, creating than those used previously.
The targets for awards granted under this performance a five-year period between the grant of Remuneration Policy are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The aggregate incentive offered to new recruits will be no higher than the awards and their final release.
This Subject to clawback at the that outlined in the Policy report on pages 57 and 58.
The Remuneration RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AND revised holding period policy shall apply Committees discretion during Committee has flexibility to grant share awards of up to 200% of salary EMPLOYEE PAY to LTIP awards to be granted in early the period of three years upon recruitment.
Different performance measures may be set initially The Remuneration Policy for the executive Directors is designed with 2018, even though this precedes the following the date of vesting for the annual bonus and LTIP, taking into account the responsibilities regard to the policy for employees across the Group as a whole.
There date of approval of the new policy of the individual, and the point in the financial year that they joined.
are some differences in the structure of the Remuneration Policy for the AllEmployees The Sharesave Plan has standard terms Employees can N A Current entitlements benefits, bonus, share schemes may be bought executive Directors and other senior employees, which the Remuneration Employee including executive under which participants can normally normally elect for a out on terms that are no more favourable than a like-for-like basis with Committee believes are necessary to reflect the different levels of Share Directors are enter a savings contract in return for three-year savings a comparable time horizon, fair value and subject to performance responsibility of employees across the Company and reflect different Schemes encouraged which they are granted options to contract under conditions.
Existing incentive arrangements will be used to the fullest market norms for different roles.
The key differences in remuneration to become acquire shares at the market value standard terms and extent possible, although awards may also be granted outside these policy between the executive Directors and employees across the Group shareholders of the shares at the start of the within HMRC limits schemes if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
In the are the increased emphasis on performance-related pay and the inclusion through the performance period The option price for case of an internal hire, any outstanding variable pay awarded in relation of a share-based long-term incentive plan for executive Directors.
operation of the Sharesave awards can The rules for this plan were first approved to the previous role will be allowed to pay out according to its terms of Sharesave Plan, the by shareholders at the 2006 AGM and be set at a discount Executive Directors are provided with a competitive package of benefits grant adjusted as relevant to take into account the Board appointment.
HMRC-approved of up to 20% to the the updated rules were approved at the that includes depending on role participation in the Groups occupational all-employee 2016 AGM market value of the RATIONALE BEHIND PERFORMANCE METRICS AND TARGETS pension arrangements, provision of a fully expensed car or car allowance, share plan shares at the start of private medical insurance, life insurance and income protection.
The performance-related elements take into account the Companys risk the savings contract, policies and systems and are designed to align the Directors interests The majority of Seniors managers are eligible to participate in annual although no awards with those of shareholders.
Variable pay elements aim to reward bonus arrangements with challenging targets tied to the performance granted under the executive Directors for performance at the highest levels and, as such, of their employing entity, Division and, for the most senior executives, 2006 Sharesave Plan the Committee aims to set targets that are both stretching and achievable.
A collaboration bonus is also available to senior have been set at All targets are set on a sliding scale.
The Committee reviews the annual management, who contribute to the Groups performance due to a discount bonus measures set for all the Companys senior executives not only the collaboration between the Groups autonomous business units.
Pension Provides The executive Directors may participate 20% of basic salary N A executive Directors every year in order to ensure that they are aligned competitive in the Senior plc Group Flexible either as a Company with the Companys strategy and annual goals and to ensure that Long-term incentives are provided to the most senior executives retirement benefits Retirement Plan Senior GFRP, contribution to Senior bonus arrangements amongst the Companys senior executive team and those anticipated as having the greatest potential to influence for the Groups a contract-based, money purchase GFRP or as salary in are consistent.
performance levels within the Company.
A lower aggregate incentive employees pension plan and or receive cash lieu of pension quantum operates at below executive level with levels driven by the The annual bonus may include a mix of financial and non-financial allowances impact of the role and market comparatives.
measures reflecting the key annual priorities of the Group.
The financial Bonuses are not included in calculating metrics currently include two of the Companys KPIs: free cash flow, In 2017, the Board adopted a new share plan, the Restricted Share Award retirement benefits which is a key measure of the businesss ability to fund future Plan, a deferred share award plan without performance conditions.
Awards Other Provides a Benefits include provision of a fully The value of benefits N A acquisitions: and Adjusted EPS, which will reflect the Groups ability under this Plan are made to selected individuals who were not in receipt benefits competitive expensed car or car allowance, private is based on the cost to expand into new regions and product markets and increase the of other long-term incentives but are considered to have significant package of benefits medical insurance, life insurance and to the Company and profitability of the existing operations.
From 2018, Adjusted EPS is potential or are key contributors.
that assists with income protection, tax equalisation and is not predetermined measured on a constant currency basis to reduce the impact of exchange recruitment and relocation benefits In order to encourage wider employee share ownership, the Company There is no monetary rate movements on bonus outcomes.
If non-financial measures are retention operates a Sharesave Plan in which employees in the UK, North America Any reasonable business-related cap on other benefits selected, these may include reference to the Groups environmental, and continental Europe, including executive Directors, may participate.
expenses including tax thereon safety and organisational goals.
can be reimbursed The measures currently used in the LTIP are Adjusted EPS and relative TSR.
Adjusted EPS is a measure of the Companys overall financial 58 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 59 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY CONTINUED HOW EMPLOYEES PAY IS TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT WHEN SETTING EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION POLICY ON PAYMENT FOR DEPARTURE FROM OFFICE The Committee also reviews the salaries of corporate, divisional and senior operational managers and therefore is fully cognisant of pay levels in the On termination of an executive Directors service contract, the Committee will take into account the departing executive Directors duty to mitigate Group when determining the pay of the executive Directors.
his or her loss when determining the amount of compensation.
The Committees policy in respect of the treatment of executive Directors leaving the Group is described below and is designed to support a smooth transition from the Company, taking into account the interests of shareholders: In addition, the Committees policy is that salary increases for the executive Directors and senior executives should not normally be greater than the general level of increases awarded to other senior managers in Europe and North America, other than when an executive changes role or when it is Component Voluntary resignation Death, ill health, disability, retirement Departure on of pay or termination for cause excluding redundancy agreed terms necessary in order to ensure levels of remuneration remain market competitive.
Increases for the general workforce in Europe and North America for Base salary, Paid for the proportion of Paid up to the date of death or leaving, including any untaken 2019 were approximately 3.27% 2018 approximately 3.7%.
pension and the notice period worked holidays prorated to such date.
In the case of ill health, a payment in The Company did not consult with employees when drawing up the Directors Remuneration Policy set out in this part of the Remuneration Report.
benefits lieu of notice may be made and, according to circumstances, may be subject to mitigation.
In such circumstances, some benefits such as POLICY ON OUTSIDE APPOINTMENTS company car or medical insurance may be retained until the end of The Remuneration Committee believes that it is beneficial both for the individual and the Company for an executive Director to take up one external the notice period non-executive appointment.
Fees paid for the appointment may be retained by the executive.
Annual bonus Cessation of employment Cessation of employment during a bonus year or after the year-end Treatment will normally EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SERVICE AGREEMENTS AND LOSS OF OFFICE PAYMENTS cash during a bonus year will but prior to the normal bonus payment date will result in cash and fall between the two The table below summarises the key provisions of each executive Directors contract: normally result in no cash deferred bonus being paid and prorated for the relevant portion of treatments described in bonus being paid the financial year worked and performance achieved Provision Detailed terms the previous columns, Annual bonus Unvested deferred In the case of the death of an executive Director, all deferred shares Employment contract dates David Squires 5 January 2015 subject to the discretion deferred share awards will lapse will be transferred to the estate as soon as possible after death.
In Bindi Foyle 3 May 2017 of the Committee shares all other cases, subject to the discretion of the Committee, unvested Notice period 12 months from both the Company and the executive Director and the terms of any deferred shares will be transferred to the individual on a date Termination payment Contracts may be terminated without notice by the payment of a sum equal to the sum of salary due for termination agreement determined by the Committee the unexpired notice period, and the value of pension contributions and other benefits such as use of LTIP share Unvested LTIP share Subject to the discretion of the Committee, unvested LTIP share awards company car, life cover and private healthcare awards awards will lapse will remain subject to the relevant performance conditions and normally There are no provisions in the agreements, or otherwise, for additional termination payments be measured at the original vesting date.
The awards will normally be Payments may be made in monthly instalments and, in these circumstances, there is a requirement for the prorated for the relevant proportion of the performance period worked.
Director to mitigate loss However, in the case of the death of an executive Director, the Committee Change of control There are no enhanced provisions in relation to a change of control will determine the extent of vesting within 12 months of the date of death Options under As per HMRC As per HMRC regulations Copies of the executive Directors service contracts are available from the Group Company Secretary at the Companys Registered Office during Sharesave regulations normal business hours.
The Committees policy in the event of early termination of employment is set out on the following page.
Other None Statutory payments and disbursements such as any legal costs and outplacement fees Notes a The Committee will have the authority to settle any legal claims against the Company e. g. for unfair dismissal etc that might arise on termination.
b There are no enhanced provisions in relation to a change of control.
determining the quantum of grants and or payments within the HOW SHAREHOLDER VIEWS ARE TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT limits set out in the policy table commencing on page 57 : The Remuneration Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year and guidance from shareholder adjusting the constituents of the TSR comparator group: representative bodies more generally.
Shareholders were consulted determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment in 2013 when formulating the Remuneration Policy, and in 2016 and of performance: 2017 when updating the Policy.
Consultation with shareholders has determining good leaver status and the extent of vesting always been constructive.
in the case of the LTIP and deferred shares: determining the extent of vesting in the case of the LTIP The Committee consults proactively with its major shareholders and in the event of a change of control: intends to continue working closely with shareholders in future.
making the appropriate adjustments required in certain LEGACY ARRANGEMENTS circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring For the avoidance of doubt, having received shareholder approval at the events, variation of capital and special dividends : and 2018 AGM of this Policy Report, authority was given to the Company to undertaking the annual review of weighting of performance continue to honour any commitments entered into with current or former measures, and setting targets for the annual bonus plan and Directors such as the payment of a pension or the unwinding of legacy LTIP from year to year.
share schemes that have been disclosed to shareholders in previous remuneration reports.
The Committee may vary the performance conditions to apply to LTIP awards if an event occurs which causes the Committee to consider that DISCRETIONS OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE it would be appropriate to amend the performance conditions, provided The Committee operates the Groups various incentive plans according to the Committee considers the varied conditions are fair and reasonable their respective rules and in accordance with HMRC rules where relevant.
and not materially less challenging than the original conditions would To ensure the efficient administration of these plans, the Committee may have been but for the event in question.
These include the following: From 2018, the Committee has explicit discretion to adjust bonus target selecting the participants for the annual bonus plan and LTIP awards: outcomes if deemed appropriate, for example to take account of material determining the timing of grants and or payments: M&A activity or other exceptional circumstances when they arise.
60 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 61
