Strategic report How we are doing against our strategic objectives What we said we would do in 2017 18 Embed customers at Make a step change in customer service.
Continue to deliver on the things that matter most the heart of all we do to our customers to achieve a substantial reward of around 23 million in customer ODIs.
Provide a service that is affordable for all and support our financially vulnerable customers by assisting 50,000 customers with their bills.
Be recognised as an upper quartile wholesaler in the new non-household retail market.
Provide an industry leading experience for property What do we mean by this?
developers and customers who need new water and waste connections.
Well improve the way in which customers engage with us through improved insight and understanding of whats important to them.
Lowest bills in the land Protecting the interests yet again ofourcustomers Research tells us that with so many competing demands From investing in robotic leakage detectors to encouraging on household budgets, affordability is one of the biggest farmers and fast food chains to be more careful about concerns for our customers.
Which is why it was great whatthey put on fields or down drains, we work tirelessly to seethat our efforts to keep water bills down yet again tomake Severn Trent water as clean, available and proved so worthwhile.
For the 8th year running, Severn Trent Waters customers Although customers certainly appreciate what we do have the lowest bills in England and Wales.
Our average infact water quality complaints are down 12% year-oncombined bill for 2018 19 will be 348.
Thats 57 below year not everybody buys into the need to look after this theaverage across the two nations and 35 less than the precious resource.
We dont enjoy taking people to court, next cheapest.
but sometimes its the only way to protect the interests of all those who pay their bills and play by the rules.
Nevertheless, we know that some vulnerable customers still Since the start of 2016, weve successfully prosecuted struggle to make ends meet so over the last 12 months, we over 50companies that have been caught illegally using used our Big Difference scheme to give discounts of up to 90% hydrantsto access our network.
And to prevent future to 36,000 people.
misuse, weve now fitted 30,000 locking caps to hydrants across our network.
22 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Our progress 2017 18 Areas of focus for 2018 19 Achieved upper quartile position in the UK Build greater capability in incident management Customer Service Index and reduced customer focusing on continuous improvement.
Develop the use of the Wonderful on tap brand to Achieved better outcomes for customers on increase the focus of all colleagues on enhancing anumber of measures including external and the quality of our products and customer service, internal sewer flooding, and achieved ODI and make our customers aware of what we do for outperformance payments of 80.2 million.
them and our connection with their daily lives.
Maintained the lowest bills in England and Deliver on the things that matter most to our Wales, and assisted more than 50,000 vulnerable customers as measured in Customer ODIs.
Provide a service that is affordable for all and Developer Services team recognised by Ofwat support our financially vulnerable customers as 1st for Water and 2nd for Waste in its SLA byassisting 50,000 customers with their bills.
We continue to maintain the lowest bills in England and Wales, and assisted more than 50,000 vulnerable customers Improving our performance with their bills.
fordevelopers Every year, we connect around 20,000 new properties and install and adopt around 100 km of new water and waste water pipes.
And whether were working with an individual doing a self-build, a national housebuilder constructing a new 200-home estate or office block, or a farmer wanting a new water supply for a distant drinking trough for his cattle, we aim to make this process as simple and cost-effective as possible.
By reorganising our Developer Services business around our three main customer segments small and first time developers, large developers and self-lay providers we evolved our approachover the last year to meet the needs of our customers more precisely.
The best customer service within our sector finishing 1st for water and a close 2nd for waste water as measured by the Ofwat customer service KPI.
We also saw a 29% reduction in customer complaints compared to the previous year.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 23 Strategic report How we are doing against our strategic objectives continued What we said we would do in 2017 18 Drive operational On track delivery of our plans to be Upper Quartile for Retail, Water and Waste.
excellence and On track delivery of Upper Quartile financing performance by the end of 2019. continuous innovation Continue to provide environmental leadership as evidenced by EA 4 status.
Develop the profitability of our US and UK Business Services operations.
Deliver budgeted benefits from implementing 10innovation projects and 10 digital projects, anddeveloping a sustainable pipeline and process for innovation.
Drive innovative developer solutions to deliver a step-change in the new connections service Well build a smarter water and to customers.
Reduce the number of water quality complaints.
waste water network, develop our business intelligence and simplify our cross business processes.
Seeking out best practice, wherever in the world it lives Our teams are constantly coming up with brilliant ideas on how wecan do things better, faster or cheaper for our customers andthe Bike on a Boat project gives them all the support they needtobecome even moreinnovative.
Named after a clever idea developed by an Americas Cup yacht racing team, Bike on a Boat is all about learning from each other as well as frombest practice around the world.
Towards the end of 2017, we took Bike on a Boat on tour, holding 64 roadshows at 10different venues over six weeks and generating over 6,200 ideas from our people.
In October 2017, we launched a 100,000 Bike on Boat fund to enable any of our people to apply to travel anywhere in the world in order tolearn more about how other companies are reducing water usage and leakage.
We have received over 30 applications and approved 13trips asfarafield as Australia and Singapore.
24 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Our progress 2017 18 Areas of focus for 2018 19 Achieved Upper Quartile performance in key waste Deliver our plans to be Upper Quartile for Retail, measures including external sewer flooding.
Delivered sector leading environmental Continue to provide environmental leadership.
performance, which we expect to lead to Regain self-assured status for our English business.
Make further progress on the quality of our water UK Business Services profit increased, as measured by the DWIs Compliance Risk Index.
Expanded our search globally for innovative solutions to deliver the highest standards and greatest efficiency for our customers.
Achieved 1st and 2nd place in Ofwats water and waste rankings respectively for new connections SLA compliance.
Delivered our best water quality performance in five years, reducing water quality complaints by 12%.
Deployed innovative solutions, such as the addition of bio-augmentation to prevent the build-up of fatbergs, to deliver higher standards and greater efficiency.
Customer water qualitycomplaints 12% Trialling the use of augmented reality technology at one of our operational sites.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 25 Strategic report How we are doing against our strategic objectives continued What we said we would do in 2017 18 Invest responsibly On track to delivering on our PR14 commitments and make appropriate targeted investments for for sustainable growth the future.
Integrate and deliver the benefits of the Dee Valley acquisition, combining the strengths of the two companies to create a strong Welsh entity focused on delivering local priorities.
Complete the transfer of our non-household customers to our joint venture business Water Plus.
Generate the equivalent of 38% of our energy needs What do we mean by this?
Achieve material improvements in some of our key Well develop an effective strategy Enterprise Risk Management risks.
which optimises our regulated asset base, whilst creating new growth opportunities for the future.
Bringing new resilience to local infrastructure The market town of Newark in Nottinghamshire has survived everything from the black death to the civil war.
But an expanding population coupled with an ageing, inadequate sewer network was challenging the towns resilience.
The infrastructure was at breaking point, with 400 properties regularly at risk of sewer flooding after fire, the worst thing that can happen to a property.
Were currently investing 60 million in a three year project to replace more than 20 km of pipes, including a 2.8metre diameter tunnel running 15 metres below Newarks streets.
Despite short term disruption, the end results will be welcomed by all.
The town will have a sewer and water pipe network fit for its future population.
And for the 400 households at the heart of the project, a drop of rain will no longer raise the fear of sewage flooding their homes and gardens.
26 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Our progress 2017 18 Areas of focus for 2018 19 Embraced Totex, identifying a further 100 million Deliver fully on our PR14 AMP6 investment of efficiencies which will be re-invested in the commitments, being confident that we are able business to further improve customer service and to deliver against our current plans and make ensure were in the best possible position for AMP7.
appropriate investments for the future.
Substantially completed the integration of Dee Achieve material improvements in some of our key Valley Water into the Severn Trent Group, allowing ERM risks.
the two companies to learn and share best practice Drive a focus on efficiency across all business with each other for the benefit of their customers.
areas including central functions to support Well advanced in realigning the boundaries of frontline investment.
Severn Trent Water and Dee Valley Water along Continue to embed innovation across the Company, English and Welsh national borders.
making it part of every teams way of working.
Generated the equivalent of 38% of our energy needs from renewable sources, and made good progress on the construction of new renewable energy plants.
Delivered key milestones in major capital schemes, including the Birmingham Resilience Programme and the Newark waste and water improvement project.
Major capital schemes are on track to meet any associated ODI commitments.
The end of an era Customers in North Wales are now enjoying higher quality water, thanks to the completion of a complex scheme to close an old treatment works and instead supply water from a more resilient and efficientfacility.
Constructed in the 1920s, the works at Legacy on the outskirts of Wrexham was licensed to abstract water from nearby former lead mines.
This water was then treated through a series of pressure filters and chlorination plants before being held in a 350,000 gallon tank.
However, despite regular upgrades, the facility was nearing the end of its useful life and some customers were experiencing occasional discolouration problems.
In March 2018, following several years of hard work by theteam at Dee Valley, a project to transfer the raw water to Llywn Onn was completed including a new distributionwater pipe and the Legacy treatment works was finally closed.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 27 Strategic report How we are doing against our strategic objectives continued What we said we would do in 2017 18 Change the market Have a clear PR19 outline plan in place that evidences our leading status.
for the better Produce compelling cases for investment that customers want to see, at PR19, that enables strong RCV growth over AMPs 7 and 8.
Design and implement the Bioresources change programme and business model.
Be seen as the water sectors thought leader.
Create a strong Welsh entity focused on delivering local priorities.
Well embrace market opening in the UK and explore opportunities forgrowth in new water markets.
Preparing for competition in new markets During the year we commenced preparations for the separation of our Bioresources activity from our Regulated Water and Waste Water business into Business Services to ready ourselves for competition.
We have created regional treatment hubs: streamlined logistics: optimised treatment strategy and rationalised sites.
We are already active in the market having completed our first trial Tanker arriving at our sludge treatment centre trade with Yorkshire Water in April 2018. atWorksop, north Nottinghamshire.
28 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Our progress 2017 18 Areas of focus for 2018 19 Our PR19 plans are coming together well, coProduce compelling cases for investment at PR19 creating them with our largest ever customer that enable strong RCV growth over AMPs 7 & 8. engagement programme, and we are in a good Deliver phase two of the energy and renewables position to submit in September 2018. strategy to achieve 50% self-generation.
Restructured our waste business to create a standBuild a sector leading approach to Bioresources.
alone Bioresources team, identifying opportunities Finalise the creation of Hafren Dyfrdwy and deliver for operating efficiencies and trading with a great first year.
Worked with the Social Market Foundation to assess the likely costs associated with renationalising the water and sewerage industryin England.
Worked with United Utilities to engage with Thames Water on the construction of a super interconnector to transfer and trade water between the Severn and Thames catchment areas.
Integration of Dee Valley Water is well advanced, and plans to realign the boundary of the Company wholly within Wales will take effect in July 2018.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 29 Strategic report How we are doing against our strategic objectives continued What we said we would do in 2017 18 Create an awesome Deliver a step change in our safety performance.
Improve the wellbeing of our colleagues.
place to work Deliver a further uplift in our employee engagement scores.
Continue to strive for the most diverse and inclusive business with increasing numbers of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic BAME talent in our business.
Further improve employee engagement by resolving the top 10 issues identified by What do we mean by this?
Well create a culture of empowerment and accountability with a focus on skills, talent andcareer development.
Opportunity and support for all Were striving to make Severn Trent an awesome place to work whereanybody who wants to reach their potential can thrive.
Graduates already recognise the opportunities we offer and apprentices are continuing to follow suit, with another increase in their numbers over the last year.
Were also succeeding in attracting a more diverse workforce BAME employees on our graduate programmes were up 12.74% during the year.
Now were redoubling our efforts to encourage people from less socially mobile populations to join us, removing artificial barriers to entry and working with more schools in disadvantaged areas.
For example, for the year ahead weve ring fenced 25 work experience opportunities at five schools across five social mobility cold spots in our region.
Once theyre part of our team, we provide all our people with a range of training programmes.
Weve committed to invest in technical skills and will create a new Severn Trent Training Academy, focused on delivering tailored programmes for staff across our region, with the aim of making our workforce the most technically skilled in the industry.
We recognise the importance of supporting people in all aspects of their lives.
During the year, we continued our major programme to improve our employees understanding of mental health issues, as well as encouraging greater awareness of cancer and menopause.
In April 2018, we also signed up to the TUCs Dying to Work charter which aims toprotect employees with a terminal diagnosis.
30 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Our progress 2017 18 Areas of focus for 2018 19 Achieved a 23% reduction in lost time injuries, Deliver a further step change in our safety resulting in an LTI rate of 0.17, through an enhanced performance and support the wellbeing of focus on safety culture, standards compliance our colleagues.
Continue to build on our strong volunteering Continued our focus on mental and performance and drive the CR agenda.
musculoskeletal health to drive an improvement Continue our focus on improving overall Quest inemployee wellbeing and reduce absences.
Achieved a six percentage points improvement in Deliver the foundations of the new our employee engagement survey, demonstrating Academy, to make a positive contribution improvement in all areas, and achieving an upper totechnical development.
quartile position relative to our peers.
Continued investment both in our graduate and apprentice schemes, as well as innovative investment in the ongoing training and development of our broader employee population.
Focused efforts on further improving social mobility within our region, through targeted recruitment from social mobility cold spots.
Delivered solutions for two of the top 10 issues identified by our employees, and made progress toresolve the remaining issues.
Supporting clean, safe water andsanitation As a founding member and long term supporters of WaterAid, weve raised over 450,000 for the charity over the last two years.
We believe that our continued support can help WaterAid realise our shared ambition for clean water, decent toilets and hygiene for everyone everywhere by 2030.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 31
