Strategic report Market and industry overview Our context and peers... but theres still more to do A total of 17 regional businesses supply water services to Were excited about the opportunities to continue the good work 50 million household and non-household customers in England the industry has recorded so far.
But although weve taken and Wales.
Ten of these, including our regulated business huge strides in embedding customers right at the heart of what Severn Trent Water Limited, also provide waste water services.
we do, we recognise that theres still room for improvement.
The remaining seven, including our regulated business Dee Customers rightly expect the highest standards of water quality Valley Water Limited, provide water only.
and waste water treatment, 24 hours a day and seven days a week, and while these are continuing to move in the right Over 25 years of continuous improvement... direction theres absolutely no room for complacency.
We have Water services in England and Wales have been transformed in to target capital investment programmes wisely in order to recent years, with a total investment of around 130 billion driving make sure our network parts of which originate in the late significant increases in reliability, efficiency and quality.
19th Century is equipped to meet the demands of 21st Century living.
Thats no easy matter, in light of an increasing population Were very proud of our industrys achievements.
For example, and more housing, as well as all the challenges to water supplies whilst adverse weather such as that encountered last winter and and drainage caused by the droughts and floods associated with spring can skew the picture, customers are still five times less climate change.
It requires experience, expertise and a great deal likely to be without water than they were 25 years ago and eight of money in fact Severn Trent alone will have invested some times less likely to be affected by sewer flooding.
Leakage has 3,000 million in assets over the five years to March 2020. fallen by 35% since the mid-1990s, and 99.6% of drinking water aswell as 98.6% of bathing waters now meet EU standards.
Customers also want to be able to contact us whenever and however they want, whether thats to ask for advice, question As discussed below, our regulatory framework is continuing to abill or notify us of a leak.
Digital technology is playing a major evolve.
We believe that improving this existing mechanism, for role here at Severn Trent, helping us interact with customers via example, by encouraging lower gearing and greater openness nine different channels, ensuring we are always there to talk to in and transparency, is a more viable way forwards than embarking person over the phone, or in writing.
on a disruptive course of action that would distract attention from our industrys core priorities.
Water quality... waste water Regional businesses treatment... reliability and efficiency... 17 service and support... all delivered with great value... these are the things Number of households and our customers expect.
non-household customers 50 million Total investment for transformation 130 billion 14 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information And, of course, customers rightly expect all this while enjoying We also work closely with a variety of other regulators and great value for money.
Bills matter to everybody and while public bodies: were pleased that yet again Severn Trent Waters customers The Drinking Water Inspectorate DWI independently checks benefited from the lowest bills in England and Wales over the last that water supplies in England and Wales are safe and that year, were also committed to doing even more to support those drinking water quality is acceptable to consumers.
Its work vulnerable members of our local communities who struggle includes assuring water quality, ensuring companies make the to pay.
changes necessary to improve, developing new regulations to Water quality... waste water treatment... reliability and efficiency... further improve water quality, and science and policy.
service and support... all delivered with great value... these are The Consumer Council for Water CCW speaks on behalf of the things our customers expect.
Weve made terrific progress water consumers in England and Wales.
It advises consumers in the last quarter of a century and we know theres more to do and takes up complaints on their behalf.
and were committed to working with our peers in the industry The Environment Agency EA allows us to collect water from and with our regulators to give our customers a service to be reservoirs, rivers and aquifers and return it to the environment proud of.
after its been used by our customers and treated by us.
Our regulatory framework Natural Resources Wales is the environmental regulator in Wales.
It oversees how the countrys natural resources are The Governments approach to our industry is set by the maintained, improved and used now and in the future.
Department for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Defra in England and the Welsh Government in Wales.
Ofwat is the Natural England advises the Government on the natural industrys economic regulator.
This means it sets limits on environment in England and helps to protect nature and the the prices we can charge our customers over five year Asset landscape, especially for plant and animal life in fresh water Management Plan AMP cycles.
This financial year was the and the sea.
third of AMP6, which runs from April 2015 to March 2020.
The Health and Safety Executive helps us to reduce the health and safety risks faced by our employees, customers and visitors.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 15 Strategic report Market and industry overview continued Customers Moving into the next phase of regulation Our preparation work for PR19 has included the most Every five years, our regulator Ofwat reviews industry pricing.
comprehensive customer engagement activity and research The most recent price review known as PR14 was in 2014 and programme in our history, in conjunction with insight from our heralded sweeping changes.
PR14 gave customers a greater everyday interactions with them.
The result is a new level of voice in setting our priorities and also introduced a  about the issues that are most important to our related reward and penalty system, called Outcome Delivery customers.
In brief, they want us to go beyond just balancing Incentives ODIs.
We welcomed these initiatives and believe supply and demand, providing clean drinking water and taking theyre playing an important part in driving greater efficiency waste water away.
They see us as keyinfluencers in the everyday across the industry.
lives of their local communities.
And they want us to step up and Now were moving towards the next price review, which play our role to the full.
In December 2017, Ofwat published So, among other initiatives, were investing in better its methodology for the 2019 price review, known as PR19.
communications and also redoubling our efforts around This provided us with guidance on expectations for our business customer education, especially of children for example on what plans, which well submit in September 2018.
In our view, the not to put down their toilets as well as supporting our people to methodology sets out a challenging environment, but also one do more volunteering to benefit the communities which we serve.
where high performing companies can succeed.
Were fully supportive of Ofwats reform agenda, which includes stronger Affordability ODIs and although theyre currently still in development, our In 2017, and for the 8th year running, Severn Trent Waters business plans will lay out our ambitions in four key areas: customers had the lowest bills in England and Wales.
Thats an achievement in its own right, but were committed to making sure that those bills are affordable for all our customers including the most vulnerable.
Struggling to pay a water bill can be an indication of other issues in a customers life, so were working with partners in local communities to identify those who may need some extra help.
Reliable supplies and services depend on reliable infrastructure.
But to us resilience is a broader issue than just having good quality pipes, reservoirs and treatment works.
It means being operationally resilient, so our people are sufficiently well trained to carry out the tasks we need them to do.
16 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Resilience What happens next?
It goes without saying that reliable supplies and services depend Ofwats timetable for PR19 is as follows: on a reliable infrastructure.
But to us resilience is a broader issue Submission of business plans 3 September 2018 than just having good quality pipes, reservoirs and treatment works.
It means being operationally resilient, so our people are Initial assessment of plans late January 2019 sufficiently well trained to carry out the tasks we need them to Fast-tracked draft determinations March April 2019 do, both in a steady state and in an emergency.
And it means Remaining draft determinations July 2019 financially resilient, with a stress-tested capital structure to Final determinations December 2019 maintain an investment-grade rating for our regulated business and the appropriate equity strength to effectively manage Playing our part in the debate risks.
It also means having corporate resilience, with the right We agree with the general direction in which Ofwat is governance processes ensuring that were fair and transparent at takingtheindustry and have continued to add our voice all times, and recognised as a responsible and trusted business  whenever possible.
Were rightly regarded as a public service company and well do everything in our power to deliver a service For example, in addition to evaluating the possibilities of water that the public can be proud of.
trading, we worked with a number of our peers and the Social Market Foundation to publish a report into the likely implications Innovation ofrenationalisation on public sector debt levels.
You cant deliver outstanding customer service, keep bills Weve also stepped up our consumer-facing communications, affordable or run a resilient business without innovation.
Were including launching our new brand Wonderful on tap pleased to see that Ofwats PR19 methodology embraces the role toimprove understanding of what we do and how we do it.
of markets, not only in bioresources but also in water resources Please see our website for more details.
In fact were working with United Utilities to engage with Thames Water on the evaluation of a project to build a super interconnector that would enable us to transfer and trade water between the Severn and Thames catchment areas.
How our market environment influences ourfivestrategic priorities Embedding customers at the heart of all we do well continue to anticipate and to meet changing customers and wider societal needs see page 22 Driving operational excellence and continuous innovation innovation helps us to deliver the services customers needandkeep bills affordable see page 24 Investing responsibly for sustainable growth we invest to make sure we continue to benefit from a resilient, well-maintained network that meets the demandsof a growing population and a changing climate see page 26 Changing the market for the better we work constructively with regulators, helping to prepare the industry for the opportunities and challenges of the future see page 28 Creating an awesome place to work we can only succeed if we have the support of inspired, talented, diverse and engaged people see page 30 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17
