Strategic report Performance review continued Business Services Focusing on the domestic UK market We have transformed Business Following the sale of our Italian business in the previous year, Services during the year: divesting in June 2017 we sold the Operating Services US business to Public Pensions Capital for $62 million.
This enabled us our overseas operating services to sharpen our focus on our core UK and Ireland domestic businesses and increasing our focus market, in line with our strategy.
Our UK contracts business again provided a solid foundation in the UK: expanding our energy for the years performance.
The 25 year operating and production capacity and establishing maintenance contract with the Ministry of Defence MOD has now reached the halfway point.
Were delighted to continue to our Bioresources business: and setting receive positive feedback from our customers regarding the service were delivering and weve continued to see strong up our Property division.
returns from project work across the MOD estate.
We continue to grow and value our close working relationships with customers.
For example, this was demonstrated to good effect on our Coal Authority contract.
Our team is now colocated in the customers Mansfield office, from where we manage the contract to prevent flooding and pollution issues at disused mines.
Seizing new opportunities Weve completed the integration of our nonhousehold retail operation into Water Plus.
This joint venture with United Utilities isfocused on the opportunities created by the opening of the nonhousehold retail market to competition in April 2017.
Water Plus is working well, maintaining its share of a growing market by winning several major contracts.
The emphasis for the year ahead will be on driving improvements in the market and improving our service to meet customer needs, as we strive to be recognised as a leader in this new market.
In a move that will help us extract maximum value from our estate, we created a new property division during the year.
The Property Development business unit aims to develop land previously used for operations through the planning process for onward sale to developers to enable new homes and commercial premises to be built, creating new homes, communities and jobs.
Our experienced, dedicated team has significant property expertise and will assess the potential in our surplus land.
Together with Severn Trent Waters Estates Management Team, our aim is to deliver 100 million profit over the next decade.
42 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Construction of our third food waste plant is also progressing well.
Sited in Derby, this new plant is the first in the UK to incorporate advanced thermopressure hydrolysis, which will enable us togenerate more energy and take in waste from the broader waste market.
Our crop digestion plant near Nottingham will play an Generating our own energy important role in achieving our 50% target.
The plant Our sewage sludge anaerobic digesters, food waste and crop produces gas by digesting maize thats been grown digestion plants, two wind turbines and solar PVs generated on contaminated land around our treatment works.
the equivalent of 38% of our energy during the year and Construction of a new biogas facility to expand capacity by we remain on track to achieve our target ofincreasing that 50% completed in December 2017 and delivers biomethane percentage to 50% by 2020. directly into the National Grid.
In pursuit of that goal, we took steps to expand our renewable Food waste plants which take waste food from restaurants, activities by announcing a new Bioresources business unit.
supermarkets and other facilities are another way in which Set to begin operations in April 2018, the new unit will manage were turning waste into renewable energy.
Our second all bioresource activities within our regulated business, in food waste plant at Stourbridge opened for business in June preparation for the opening up of the bioresource market 2017.
It will produce enough green gas to power around in 2020.
3,000 homes and help the Government meet its objective to decarbonise the environment.
Construction of our third food waste plant is also progressing well.
Sited in Derby, this new plant is the first in the UK to incorporate advanced thermo pressure hydrolysis, which will enable us to generate more energy and take in waste from the broader waste market.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 43
