Strategic report Performance review Regulated Water andWasteWater Embedding customers Our Regulated Water and atthe heart of all we do Waste Water business Serving our 4.3 million customers and doing our best for their performedwell during the local communities sits right at the very centre of everything we do.
year, as we continued to deliver During the year, we carried out the most intensive customer engagement activity in our history.
This included a range of ourfivestrategic priorities.
indepth, deliberative sessions with customers to get right to theheart of their needs, and close collaboration to explore how Here, we provide greater detail on the achievements those needs and our service could evolve in the future.
and challenges we encountered while delivering our fivestrategic priorities over the last 12 months The customer engagement confirmed that the priorities for our andalso identify some of the areas where theres customers are consistent and simple including less sewer stillmore to do.
Simple to understand, of course, but not so simple to achieve.
So its extremely pleasing to report that this was the third consecutive year where we outperformed on the measures that our customers care most about.
Litres of drinking water Kilometres of sewerage supplied each day pipes in our network Less sewer flooding An improved record on sewer flooding sits right at the top of our list of achievements.
Theres been a 35% reduction in the number 1.6bn 94,027 of customers affected by external sewer flooding, largely due to our continued focus on prevention.
With many blockages caused by wipes and other nondegradable items, weve continued to use a wide range of initiatives to Households and educate our customers about what they can and cant put businesses served down toilets and drains.
Among households, wipes are the main culprits and during the year we interacted with 200,536 customers to help them to improve their understanding of 4.3m how sewers work and to be careful around how much water is consumed.
Were paying particular attention to the customers of the future, and engaged with 156,102 schoolchildren during the year.
We aim to educate and inspire an entire generation, not just about water conservation and environmental protection, but also by emphasising the importance of hydration to their health and wellbeing.
In the nonhousehold sector, we followed up last years pioneering agreement with McDonalds by engaging with more fast food restaurants.
In Gloucestershire, for example, we worked with companies including YO!
Sushi, J D Wetherspoon and The Mayflower to help prevent fatbergs by educating staff about what they shouldnt be pouring down sinks and drains, andadvising them on what grease containment and treatment is needed.
34 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information More ways to contact us Its important to our customers that they can get in touch with us how they want, when they want.
We now maintain nine different customer communication channels, including webchat which saw an increase in traffic during the year.
Were the first water company to provide a 24 7 service for nonemergencies, so customers can contact us to discuss anything they want in the middle of the night, if thats what fits in with their lives.
The value of roundtheclock availability can be seen in the fact that on most nights, more people contact us with questions about payment of their bills and other issues than about emergencies.
Were the first water company to provide a 24 7 service for Although our customer Service Incentive Mechanism SIM nonemergencies, so customers can contact us to discuss anything score which Ofwat uses to measure how well and how quickly they want in the middle of the night, if thats what fits in with their lives.
we put things right when our service fails to meet customers expectations is disappointing, we are working hard to improve the consistency of our customer experience.
Theres still more Lower bills to do, and were going to focus extra effort in areas such as the For the 8th consecutive year, Severn Trent Waters customers time we take to respond when customers inform us of a leak.
paid the lowest bills in England and Wales, with our average But its encouraging to see that our drive to embed customers at combined bill for the year being 341.
Were proud of this record the centre of all we do is paying off where it matters most in the but were even more proud of our continuing efforts to do more hearts and minds of customers themselves.
Customer written every year to help vulnerable customers who are struggling to complaints for the year are down 17%.
In its third year, our Big Difference scheme We continued to perform well on the Institute of Customer helped 36,000 customers access discounts of between 10% and Services UK index, which measures customer satisfaction 90%, which is a critical part, along with other tailored schemes, across the utilities sector, achieving upper quartile position for to ensure we deliver on our commitment to help at least customer satisfaction, equivalent to fourth position in the Utilities 50,000 customers with bills every year.
Experience tells us that sector.
We look forward to the introduction of Ofwats new CMeX financial difficulties can often indicate issues in other areas of a measure: currently in development, we believe that this measure customers life, so weve expanded our care and assistance team will provide a truer reflection of our relative performance.
to give us the capacity to engage with agencies such as housing associations, the NHS, Citizens Advice and charities including MIND, Samaritans and local food banks, as well as other utility companies.
By working together, sharing appropriate information and adopting a holistic approach to vulnerable people, we believe well be able to do even more to play a key role at the heart of local communities.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 35 Strategic report Performance review continued Regulated Water and Waste Water Driving operational excellence  Were fully supportive of the incentive environment that Ofwat has created.
The clear linkage between performance and reward has encouraged us to think differently about how we work and to develop a sharper focus than ever on improving customer service.
The result has been a good performance which has generated significant ODI outperformance payments of 80.2 million.
Weve decided to defer these earnings and access them in the years to come, when theyll help us to smooth future customer bills.
Weve outperformed our internal sewer flooding regulatory target Nowhere is our performance better demonstrated than on by31% and our external target by 49%.
our waste measures, including sewer flooding.
As reported above, we achieved a significant reduction in the number of customers affected by such incidents over the last year.
In fact weve outperformed our internal sewer flooding regulatory The Drinking Water Inspectorate DWI plays a key role in target by 31% and our external target by 49%.
How have we our regulatory environment, and we continued to fulfil our achieved this?
By continuous investment supported by leading commitment to carry out diagnostics at our 16 largest sites.
At a macro level, were using sophisticated Our performance is measured by a metric known as mean zonal data and analytics to predict the areas at greatest risk and then compliance, and during 2017 18 we improved our performance addressing these with targeted capital investment.
micro level, were carrying out root cause analysis of incidents Scope for improvement when they do occur and putting measures in place to prevent Unfortunately, our performance on supply interruptions was less reoccurrence whether caused by geographic factors or pleasing, with a twofold yearonyear deterioration.
number of significant bursts some of our customers were left Regaining 4 status without water.
The major burst at Tewkesbury in December, Pollution is an area where the investments made since which affected many thousands of people, was challenging both privatisation are really paying off and were delighted to to locate and isolate.
Although we worked tirelessly to reconnect report that our environmental performance should enable us our customers and provided 100,000 litres of bottled drinking to regain coveted 4 status from the Environment Agency.
water, we recognise that our performance was unacceptable.
Our number of serious pollution incidents categories 1 and 2 Then, in March 2018 the very rapid thaw following The Beast decreased to two from seven the previous year while category from the East led to a substantial increase over a seven day 3 performance again improved, with 327 incidents against a period in the number of burst pipe notifications we would typically regulatory target of 374.
At the same time, we worked hard receive during that period, followed by complications caused to improve the quality of the water entering our rivers and by airlocks, further snowfall and then further bursts.
Metaldehyde is an effective pesticide against slugs, incredibly disappointed that homes and communities were snails, and other gastropods but once it runs off fields and left without water as a result of the unprecedented weather.
enters the watercourse, its extremely expensive to remove.
We know how difficult everyday life was for our customers until We continued to use financial incentives to encourage farmers we could restore supplies and we decided immediately to pay to pursue different and less environmentally damaging 30 compensation, roughly equivalent to our average monthly alternatives, with considerable success.
combined bill for water and waste, to any who were without water for more than 12 continuous hours, or experienced intermittent supply for more than 15 hours.
We also worked with business customers and their retailers whowere affected.
With around 70% of issues occurring on private property, we know we need to do more to advise customers better on how to prepare for winter.
36 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information The quality of our drinking water is constantly monitored and Investing in innovation strictly regulated.
Our strategy for the year was to focus more We continue to seek out innovative ideas that can transform our efforts on our surface water treatment works and while this performance, no matter where they originate.
For example, our generated good results it was accompanied by a slight dip in commitment to remove phosphorus from our sewage treatment performance at our ground water sites.
For example, the number works has seen our innovation team evaluate technologies from of sites where coliforms were detected rose from five to eight.
Following intensive 2 million trials at our While coliforms are harmless bacteria, their presence can be Packington site over the last two years, were now commencing anindication that water quality is not as high as it should be.
the rollout of five different and highly advanced technologies.
These include a magnetite ballasted coagulation process Overall, we received 12,687 complaints about water quality pioneered in the US.
At one site this technology has replaced during the year, down by 12%.
This was our best performance our original solution, which was costed at 21.1 million.
The new for six years, and sustained the prior years improvements.
solution reduced the cost to 12.5 million and will lead to a total Were committed to further improvement and acknowledge that expenditure Totex saving of 8.7 million a return on investment the number of complaints in 2017 18 is still significantly above of 218% on one scheme alone.
Were targeting improvements in many ways, including adopting the water flushing programme Were also seeking to improve our performance on leaks initiatives in place at Dee Valley Water which helped the team throughinnovative projects, such as the introduction of detector there achieve 100% compliance during the year.
robots into the pipe network.
This innovative solution uses smalltouch sensors to spot the nature and exact location of One of the Dee Valley Water teams is currently leading the leaksrather than the current visual and acoustic techniques.
SevernTrent water quality improvement programme a good Based on technology first used in North America, we were the example of how were sharing best practice and learning from first test case in Europe and only the third test case globally each others experiences.
Were also seeking to improve our performance on leaks through innovative projects, such as the introduction of detector robots into the pipe network.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 37 Strategic report Performance review continued Regulated Water and Waste Water continued Building a sustainable business Investing responsibly Its important to balance capacitybuilding projects with the forsustainablegrowth needto create a sustainable business thats able to deliver At Severn Trent, weve been responsible for 21 billion of the customer benefits in the long term not just next year but over 130 billion invested by our industry since privatisation and our the coming decade and beyond.
capital programme continued at pace through 2017 18, as we For example, we carried out 15,367 home water efficiency checks invested 855 million across our estate.
Last year, we committed during the year.
These help customers save money by using to investing a further 120 million in AMP6 in order to make sure water more efficiently and that means less pressure on water were in the best possible shape for AMP7, and weve increased resources in the future.
Were now using demographic data such our forecast Totex efficiencies by 100 million.
These now stand as socioeconomic profiling, to target customers who we believe at 870 million.
This additional 100 million of Totex efficiencies, stand to gain most from a visit by our team.
In total, our education which is in addition to the 120 million previously announced, will programmes helped over 171,469 customers use water more also be reinvested in our business, for the benefit of customers.
Delivering our capital programme Were fortunate that the Severn Trent estate is home to a Looking at our major capital projects, we started work on a diverse array of species of plants and animals.
During the year, 60 million project to protect 400 homes and businesses at we improved biodiversity at Sites of Special Scientific Interest Newark in Nottinghamshire from sewer flooding, and provide the SSSIs covering 9.86 hectares, representing good progress town with a more reliable water supply.
On track for completion against our 2020 target of 75 hectares and we also improved in 2019, the project will see us install 4 km of new sewers and almost 120 km ofrivers as part of the Water Framework 10 km of new water mains, and also build a 3 km, 2.8 metre Directive.
We continue to focus on exploring innovative ways diameter, tunnel 15 metres below Newark.
to generate renewable energy from waste, and last year self The 300 million Birmingham Resilience Project is the largest generated the equivalent of 38% of our energy needs.
Please see capital project undertaken in the industry during AMP6.
Due to the Business Services performance review on page 42 for be completed in 2020, this will create a second major source more details.
Progress during the year included On a more negative note, our emissions performance was preparatory works for the Lickhill to Frankley pipeline comprising disappointing as we failed to achieve our Water carbon ODI due to the laying of 17 km of pipework and major tunnelling operations.
higher than expected energy use.
In response, weve introduced Meanwhile, the 40 million investment to replace an ageing new energy management initiatives for the coming year.
Weve reservoir with two new ones at Ambergate was completed a year also agreed to help the National Grid balance energy supply early in February 2018.
This project will lower the risk to drinking and demand by turning some of our operational sites off at water quality while improving our storage capacity resilience at certain times.
We know that our own efforts to become more sustainable Our capital programme is delivering rewards in many areas become even more effective when were joined by others and of the business.
Weve retained our Upper Quartile position in May 2017, we were delighted to see our supply chain partners in waste and are moving in that direction on water.
In terms stepping up to support our ambitions.
At an event in Coventry, of ODIs, weve significantly outperformed our targets and our senior delegates from our top suppliers engaged with our ODIoutperformance payments have exceeded 80 million.
management team to explore opportunities to work together for mutual benefit.
The outcome included a series of pledges from these influential suppliers to work on improving sustainability in areas relevant to their business.
For example, embedding carbon and water reductions in their processes and pledging to work closely with us on mitigating the risks of modern slavery.
Closer to home, we are working with PwC and Hope for Justice to provide our people with bespoke training on modern slavery.
This programme raised awareness of the issue and how to identify it, particularly among our suppliers and its encouraged our people to become advocates of our zero tolerance approach to modern slavery.
38 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Encouraging new ideas Changing the market We have a track record of embracing markets where we believe for the better we can create value for our customers.
For example, our Severn Trent Water and Dee Valley Water are very active players WaterPlus joint venture with United Utilities is enabling us to take in thewater industry across England and Wales.
Were keen to advantage of the opportunities presented by the opening of the play our part to the full promoting the industry and the positive nonhousehold retail market in April 2017. influence it has had on life in the UK since privatisation, and We continued to engage with our industry peers on a wide range encouraging greater awareness among regulators and others of issues throughout 2017 18, in order to identify and evaluate ofthe issues we face.
new and better ways of working.
Our draft Water Resources During the year, we supported the Social Market Foundation in Management Plan outlines a range of potential trading options publishing a report into the likely implications of renationalising to help meet future demand pressures and to secure supplies the water industry on public sector debt levels.
With some for the long term.
Weve already worked with Thames Water commentators estimating the cost of such a development to and United Utilities to investigate the benefits that a super be in excess of 90 billion, our view is that the public should be interconnector could bring to our respective regions, by enabling fully aware of the facts around all aspects of renationalisation.
us to move and trade water.
Additional future options include bio We also collaborated with Thames Water and United Utilities to resources trading and weve taken part in trials to make sure publish a thought leadership document on how water companies were ready for the opportunity when it arises.
could create and manage a systems operator for water trading in We also worked closely with the Water Forum, which not only order to drive greater efficiency.
gave us valuable customer insights but also helped guide the new and deeper approach were taking to supporting vulnerable members of our local communities.
Acquired in 2017, Dee Valley Water has now been substantially integrated into the Group, and weve been busy sharing ideas between the businesses.
The acquisition gave us the opportunity to realign both Dee Valley Water and Severn Trent Water around national boundaries.
Once the realignment is complete in July 2018, Dee Valley Water will be answerable to the government in Wales, while Severn Trent Water will be answerable to the government in England.
We recognise the importance of leading by example, and aim to help our industry regain public trust and legitimacy by demonstrating the highest standards of governance.
Our Board leads from the front and is responsible for the oversight of all aspects of the business, including culture.
During the year, the Directors continued to evaluate a broad set of cultural indicators, such as exit interviews and external stakeholders perceptions, in order to ensure that our values remain central toeverything we do.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 39 Strategic report Performance review continued Regulated Water and Waste Water continued Helping people progress Creating an awesome We invest in skills and development at all levels of the business, place to work doing all we can to provide people with progressive, successful Our people are key to the success of our business and we careers.
A number of our current senior managers started in want to make sure we motivate, reward and support them junior positions.
We aim to provide great opportunities for all, accordingly.
It was very encouraging to see our efforts reflected regardless of gender, race or background.
We continually strive by a six percentage points improvement in our annual employee to be a diverse, inclusive business that reflects the demographics engagement survey in 2017.
The increased score builds on the of our region, and achieved a 13% increase in the numbers of positive momentum of recent years as our culture matures, Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic BAME employees on our and was achieved across the board people in every part of the graduate programmes during the year.
The population in the East business support what were doing.
and West Midlands is among the least socially mobile groups Were creating an awesome place to work by focusing on a in the UK but as a major employer we can help change that broad set of projects and initiatives.
Recruitment and career and enable people to realise their potential.
To this end, weve paths clearly play an important role graduates continue to be removed barriers to entry such as the requirement to have a attracted to the challenges and opportunities we offer, and our degree for some of our programmes and we have changed our apprentice intake increased yet again.
In fact during 2017 18 we selection process to focus on potential rather than experience.
were delighted to see four experienced employees start on our Our gender diversity performance improved during the year first ever Masters level apprentice programme.
and we now have a mean gender pay gap of just 2.4%.
However, were working hard to reduce it still further.
We benefit from high female representation at executive level and were pleased to be placed second among FTSE 100 companies for representation of women on boards and in senior leadership roles by the 2017 HamptonAlexander Review.
The last year also saw the creation of our first LGBT inclusion group.
The mission of this team was to create a proud and inclusive culture for our LGBT community, supporting our colleagues ongoing commitment to being recognised as a diverse and inclusive business.
We encourage all our people, across all roles and age ranges, tobe creative and put forward their ideas for innovations that can improve customer service.
We repeated the allemployee staff roadshow, following its success in 2015.
The Bike on a Boat tour, inspired by the innovative approach of the New Zealand Americas Cupwinning team of 2017, captured and shared a wide range of brilliant ideas.
Since its launch we have funded 13 ideas, including sending employees to evaluate initiatives in Singapore, Australia, Denmark and USA that could be adopted in our business.
Celebrating diversity The last 12 months saw the establishment of our first LGBT inclusion group.
The mission of this team was to create a proud and inclusive culture for our LGBT community, supporting our colleagues and ongoing commitment to being recognised as a diverse and inclusive business.
40 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information We also restructured the business during the year.
This brought a renewed emphasis on our core work in water and waste water, its also improved our customer focus and, crucially, brought a new level of clarity to our employees on roles and responsibilities.
We all know whats expected of us, and we all know that the business will do its best to support us by giving us the tools we need whether thats a robot leakage detector, an innovative agreement with a farmer or a day of intensive management training.
Pay and conditions are high on everybodys list of priorities, and weve made good progress here too.
We provide jobs that Over 40% of employees volunteered during the year, a huge increase are well paid and with excellent pensions.
Our bonus scheme on the 11% that took part in 2016 17. also embraces everybody, ensuring that the rewards of a good years work are shared among us all.
The annual employee engagement survey identified pay transparency and relativity as two of the top 10 issues where our people thought we could During the year, we worked with Hope for Justice to develop a improve.
Were now addressing this by clarifying pay rates and training package, including upskilling our contract managers being more thorough in the way we explain career opportunities.
onhow to spot the signs of slavery and human trafficking and the Promoting health, safety and wellbeing steps they should take if any concerns are raised.
We have clear We pay particular attention to the health, safety and wellbeing of policies and training in place and these are supported byan our teams, and in 2017 18 continued our major initiative around independent and confidential whistleblowing service whichwe mental health.
Our aim is to remove the stigma around mental actively promote via communications such as messages on health, for example by creating a workplace where people can payslips.
Every report of possible corruption or bribery, from talk about problems with depression or stress.
To date, weve anysource, is investigated and reported to both the Corporate trained over 400 mental health first aiders to spot the signs of a Responsibility and AuditCommittees of the Board.
possible issue, while a number of senior managers have brought We want our people to feel part of a progressive company mental health more into the open by talking frankly about their thatplays its part to the full and the record level of employee own experiences.
During the year, we held an initiative on the volunteering is another positive sign of this.
Over 40% of menopause and other areas that people can be uncomfortable employees volunteered during the year, a huge increase on the discussing, including cancer, and we signed up to Dying to Work, 11% that took part in 2016 17.
Most volunteering was through which supports employees with a terminal diagnosis.
ournew Community Champions programme, working alongside Were committed to the highest standards of behaviour at all times, key partners such as The Wildlife Trust to improve 50 km of not only in our own business but also among our suppliers, who riverside environments in our regions.
Our volunteers also are required to sign up to our Code of Conduct, anticorruption helped our corporate charities, Comic Relief, Sport Relief and and bribery policy and our sustainable supply chain charter to Children in Need, as well as continuing our long term support for illustrate that they share our values and are committed to helping WaterAid.
In addition to raising nearly 300,000 during the year, us achieve our goals.
We audit suppliers as part of our tendering our people also drew on specific industry skills to give practical process for large contracts, and they must demonstrate full help to WaterAid, for example by supporting the charitys compliance with our standards at all times.
campaign toimprove water quality in Cambodia.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 41
