Other information Summary report by the valuers To the directors of Shaftesbury PLC In accordance with your instructions, we have undertaken a valuation of the A high proportion of the total value of the Subsidiary Companies various commercial and residential freehold and long leasehold property properties and Properties is accounted for by properties and Properties interests as at 30th September 2018 the Valuation Date held by situated in adjacent and or adjoining locations in four specific areas of the Shaftesbury Carnaby PLC, Shaftesbury Covent Garden Limited, Shaftesbury West End of London: Carnaby Street and its environs, Chinatown and the Chinatown PLC, Shaftesbury Soho Limited, Shaftesbury AV Limited, adjoining area immediately west of Wardour Street south of its junction Shaftesbury CL Limited and Shaftesbury West End Limited, which are with Shaftesbury Avenue, and the areas around Seven Dials in the western subsidiary companies collectively referred to as the Subsidiary part of Covent Garden and a block of properties to the east of the Central Companies of Shaftesbury PLC the Company, as referred to in our Covent Garden Piazza with its main frontage to Wellington Street.
These Valuation Reports dated 9 November 2018 our Reports.
Our Reports areas are all dominated by retail and restaurant uses.
In our opinion, at the were prepared for accounts purposes.
Valuation Date, this particular unusual confluence of ownership and use characteristics may cause some prospective purchasers to regard parts of All properties have been subject to external inspections between January the portfolio when combined as having a greater value than the aggregate and October 2018 and a number were subject to internal inspections.
of the individual values of the combined properties and Properties which We confirm that the valuations and Reports have been prepared in make up those parts.
accordance with the RICS Valuation Global Standards which incorporate As required by the provisions of the RICS Red Book, in undertaking our the International Valuation Standards IVS and the RICS UK Valuation valuations, we have valued each property or Property separately, rather Standards the RICS Red Book edition current at the Valuation Date.
It than valuing the portfolio as a whole or in combinations of parts.
The total follows that the valuations are compliant with IVS.
We confirm that all valuation figure below is the aggregated value of the separate properties or valuers who have contributed to the valuations have complied with the Properties within the various categories of tenure referred to below.
requirements of PS 1 of the RICS Red Book.
We confirm that we have sufficient current knowledge of the relevant markets, and the skills and All valuations were on the basis of Fair Value.
We have assessed Fair Value in understanding to undertake the valuations competently.
We confirm that accordance with VPS4 item 7 of the RICS Red Book.
Under these provisions, Charles Smith has overall responsibility for the valuations and is in a position the term Fair Value means the definition adopted by the International to provide an objective and unbiased valuation and is competent to Accounting Standards Board IASB in IFRS 13, namely The price that undertake the valuations.
Finally, we confirm that we have undertaken the would be received to sell an asset, or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly valuations acting as an External Valuer as defined in the RICS Red Book.
transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Under IFRS 13, The Fair Value Hierarchy, the properties we have valued are In accordance with PS 2.5 and UKVS 4, we are required to make certain designated as Level 3 inputs.
Level 3 inputs have been designated as disclosures in connection with this valuation instruction and our relationship unobservable inputs.
Unobservable inputs are used to measure fair value to with the Company and the Subsidiary Companies.
Charles Smith has been the extent that relevant observable inputs are not available, thereby allowing the signatory of valuation reports addressed to the Company and the for situations in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or Subsidiary Companies since 2013.
Cushman & Wakefield Debenham Tie liability at the measurement date.
An entity develops unobservable inputs Leung Limited C&W has been carrying out this valuation instruction for using the best information available in the circumstances, which might the Company, and now the Subsidiary Companies, for a continuous period include the entitys own data, taking into account all information about since 1996.
As well as preparing our Reports, we also undertake valuations market participant assumptions that is reasonably available.
of certain of the properties referred to in our Reports for other purposes, such as secured lending and for inclusion in shareholders circulars.
Our opinion of the Fair Value of each of the properties and Properties has On 1st September 2015, DTZ acquired Cushman & Wakefield and the combined been primarily derived using comparable recent market transactions on group now trades under the Cushman & Wakefield brand.
Wakefields financial year end is 31st December.
The proportion of fees We have not made any allowance for vendors sale costs nor for any tax payable by the Company to the Cushman & Wakefield group in the financial liabilities which may arise upon the disposal of any of the properties or year to 31st December 2017 was less than 5%.
We anticipate that the Properties.
We have made deductions to reflect purchasers normal proportion of fees payable by the Company to the Cushman & Wakefield acquisition costs.
group in the financial year to 31st December 2018 will remain at less than 5%.
A full explanation of the Assumptions made in our valuations and details of Prior to 1st September 2015, there had been no fee-earning instructions the sources of information are contained within our Reports.
between DTZ and the Company or the Subsidiary Companies, other than The Company, its managing agents or professional advisers have provided valuation instructions, for in excess of four years.
Prior to 1st September us with the floor areas of the remaining properties or parts of properties.
2015, Cushman & Wakefield were appointed as retail agents by Shaftesbury Soho Limited and Shaftesbury Carnaby PLC: this instruction ceased in 2017.
We have read some of the leases and related documents provided to us in C&W acted as rent review surveyors on behalf of Shaftesbury CL Limited respect of the commercial properties.
Where we have not read leases, we during 2018 and are currently appointed as letting agents on behalf of have relied on tenancy information provided by the Company, its managing Shaftesbury Chinatown PLC in respect of restaurant accommodation in the agents or professional advisers.
property known as Central Cross.
Certain properties were subject to works of repair or refurbishment at 30th In accordance with the provisions of VPS3 of the RICS Red Book edition September 2018, or were subject to outstanding retentions and fees in current at the Valuation Date, in undertaking our valuations we have lotted respect of projects already completed at that date.
In these instances, the together certain individual properties to form a separate property each Company advised us of the amount of the outstanding costs.
The costs will referred to as a Property, collectively as the Properties in the manner be borne by the Company as they are not recoverable from tenants.
We we consider to be most likely to be adopted in the case of an actual sale.
have reflected these costs in our valuations.
The total amount of such costs We consider that lotting the properties together on the basis reflected in is 17,461,800 and details of the individual sums are included in our Reports.
our valuations would allow a purchaser to capitalise on the estate management advantages and opportunities available from such comprehensive ownership.
Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 144 5 5 Other information Summary report by the valuers continued As referred to above, we have lotted together certain individual properties The contents of our Reports including this summary report are confidential to form a number of separate Properties.
In the case of five Properties to Shaftesbury PLC, Shaftesbury Covent Garden Limited, Shaftesbury which comprise a number of individual properties, the majority of such Carnaby PLC, Shaftesbury Chinatown PLC, Shaftesbury Soho Limited, properties are held freehold but certain of them are held on long leases.
In Shaftesbury AV Limited, Shaftesbury CL Limited and Shaftesbury West End order to divide our valuation of these Properties between the categories of Limited for the specific purpose to which they refer and are for their use freehold and long leasehold, we have undertaken notional apportionments only.
Consequently, and in accordance with current practice, no of value between the freehold elements and the long leasehold elements responsibility is accepted to any other party in respect of the whole or any which together comprise the relevant Properties.
The amounts arising from part of the contents of our Reports or this summary report.
Before our these notional apportionments of value have been included in the figures Reports or this summary report, or any part thereof, are reproduced or representing the freehold and long leasehold categories below.
The referred to, in any document, circular or statement, and before their amounts arising from the notional apportionments do not themselves contents, or any part thereof, are disclosed orally or otherwise to a third represent the Fair Value of the two elements.
party, the valuers written approval as to the form and context of such publication or disclosure must first be obtained.
For the avoidance of The Subsidiary Companies own a number of properties on a freehold basis doubt, such approval is required whether or not Cushman & Wakefield where they also hold long leasehold interests within the freehold and have Debenham Tie Leung Limited is referred to by name and whether or not not merged the interests.
For the purposes of the freehold long leasehold the contents of our Reports or this summary report are combined with split below, we have included such properties within the freehold category.
Having regard to the foregoing, we are of the opinion that the aggregates of the Fair Values, as at 30th September 2018, of the freehold and long leasehold property interests owned by the Company and the Subsidiary Charles Smith MRICS Companies, subject to the Assumptions and comments in our Reports International Partner dated 9 November 2018, were as follows: RICS Registered Valuer Freehold Properties 3,495,245,000 For and on behalf of Three billion, four hundred and ninety-five million, Cushman & Wakefield Debenham Tie Leung Limited two hundred and forty-five thousand pounds Long leasehold 231,740,000 Properties Two hundred and thirty-one million, seven hundred and forty thousand pounds Total 3,726,985,000 Three billion, seven hundred and twenty-six million, nine hundred and eighty-five thousand pounds A long lease is one with an unexpired term in excess of 50 years.
