2 Strategic report Annual review Strategic report Annual review Viability statement The directors have assessed the Groups viability and confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five-year period to September 2023.
The review considered the potential impact of the principal risks Period of assessment which could affect solvency or liquidity in severe but plausible The five-year assessment period reflects lease lengths or rent scenarios, and particularly those risks which could result in review patterns across the majority of our portfolio, and reduced income, profitability and capital values.
Sensitivity corresponds with the Groups current forecast period.
Typical analyses were prepared which flexed these key inputs, both lease terms are set out on pages 23 to 29.
Whilst the directors individually and in unison.
consider prospects over a longer period in the execution of our See pages 59 to 60 for principal risks and uncertainties.
strategy, we consider this assessment horizon strikes the optimum balance between planning for the longer term and the Our investment strategy is focused on restaurants, leisure and progressively unreliable nature of forecasting in later years.
The retail, uses which, in the West End, have a long record of resilience directors confirm that they have no reason to expect a material and growth.
Our management strategy has delivered high occupancy change in the Groups viability immediately following the end of and sustainable income growth over the long term as set out on the five-year assessment period.
A fall in income would result in lower earnings.
If sustained, this could lead to reduced dividends but would not threaten the Groups viability unless loan covenants were Assessment process breached.
See page 53 for information on our dividend policy.
Our forecasts are updated at least half-yearly and reflect the A reduction in capital values might curtail the ability to raise new Groups established strategy of long-term investment in debt funding, but would not present a viability risk if loan-toLondons West End, existing commitments, available financial value loan covenants continued to be satisfied.
See page 55 for resources, and long-term financing arrangements.
They consider more on our prudent approach to financial management, profits, cash flows, and other key financial ratios over the period, including loan-to-value and interest cover ratios.
as well as the headroom in the financial covenants contained in the Groups various loan agreements.
The sensitivity analyses modelled asset value declines resulting from increasing equivalent yields to levels similar to those in In its assessment, the Board considered a five-year review of the 2008 09, together with a 10% decline in ERVs.
This would result Groups viability, prepared by senior management.
The base case in a near halving of our portfolio valuation.
In unison, we scenario was the latest five-year forecast.
The key forecast considered decreases in rental income of up to 50%.
These assumptions were: assumptions would represent a significant contraction in the size continued crystallisation of the portfolio reversionary potential of the business over the five-year period.
However, our over the period.
ERVs are based on current, proven rental assessment is that such a scenario would not threaten the tones, and do not assume any further growth.
Our long record viability of the Group.
of converting ERV into contracted income and cash flow, typically The Strategic Report on pages 1 to 61 was approved by the Board over a three-to-five year period, is set out on page 33. on 26 November 2018. no further acquisitions or capital expenditure, other than that which had been committed or approved by the Board.
no new debt facilities are raised and no debt refinancing takes place, other than refinancing bank facilities totalling 125 Brian Bickell Chris Ward million and 100 million which mature in 2022 and 2023 Chief Executive Finance Director respectively.
These facilities represent 18% of our total committed debt arrangements.
Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 61 62 As a responsible, long-term investor in our areas, being a good neighbour and focusing on local issues is essential.
Shaftesbury and the By working with, and supporting, our local community community to address issues and challenges of mutual interest Chinese Community Centre and concern, collectively we make the West End an The Centre preserves and promotes even better place.
Working within fifteen minutes Chinese culture, arts and identity walk of all our holdings, we are well-positioned to and fosters better community integration.
understand local issues and support local charities We fund a Chinese-speaking advisor and not-for-profit organisations, to help them make to provide advice on welfare, benefits a difference.
Read more on our work with the local community Soho Fete We sponsor this fete, which marked on page 38. its 40th anniversary this year.
With live music, food and drink from local restaurants, this fete is popular amongst the Soho community.
Soho Parish Primary School We supported the school through trips, including to the London Zoo, and advice on refurbishing classrooms.
Left: We sponsor the annual Soho Westminster Tea Dance Food Feast - a festival which raises Organised through the Sir Simon money for Soho Parish Primary Milton Foundation, we co-sponsor School.
Supported by many of our the afternoon at the ballroom of the Grosvenor House hotel which restaurants, it attracts foodies from hosts 1,000 Westminster residents across London as well as families over 65.
The event is part of the Silver and Soho residents, giving it a great Sunday national campaign to tackle community feel and energetic loneliness and isolation in the atmosphere.
To date, the event has elderly in the community.
raised funds for a new multi-level playground and for a healthy eating kitchen.
