1 1 Strategic report Overview Strategic report Overview Promoting our destinations Marketing is a key aspect of the holistic curation of our areas, encouraging footfall and spending.
Why is marketing your destinations What feedback have you had from important?
Whilst we invest in popular and buzzy areas, we cant Its been resoundingly positive: as well as making them assume that visitors to the West End will know of, or feel part of the community, they value Shaftesburys support in raising the profile of our areas and their come to, our areas.
Therefore, we tell the story and the heritage of our iconic shopping and dining brands, with both domestic and international audiences.
destinations to raise their profile and stand out from other London destinations.
We support our tenants in We are delighted to support raising awareness of their businesses and how they provide unique experiences, generally not available on Carnaby Street Eat.
Whats better the high street.
than setting up stall, eating tons Is the strategy the same for each village?
of food, having some fun and Inevitably our aim is the same: to raise awareness, drive getting to know as many of our footfall and increase spend.
However, we tailor brand customers and neighbours as values, messaging and tactics, taking into account each possible.
of our areas history, personality and target audience.
Karen Baines Stevie Parle, Chef-Owner of Pastaio Head of Group Marketing What do you do?
Throughout the year, we hold widely-publicised and Communications How do you measure success?
campaigns and events in our destinations, such as answers questions There are a lot of factors we take into consideration, shopping evenings, street food festivals and our including footfall, tenant and partner feedback, and innovative Christmas decorations.
As well as active regarding marketing social media influence and statistics.
engagement with trade and consumer press, our and promoting our digital strategy includes dedicated websites for our How important is social media?
areas and a significantly growing social media presence.
destinations Digital is one of the many strands of our integrated Some of our events this year included: marketing strategy.
With consumers becoming ever more digital savvy, our shoppers and diners Soho Music Month and Seven Dials Soundtrack, increasingly are using social media to discover places which supported the Mayors wider Sounds Like to visit and to share their experience.
We use a wide London campaign for London: range of social media platforms, including Weibo and Street Eat, where we hosted a picnic table along the WeChat, which enable us to tailor our messaging to, length of Carnaby Street for visitors to celebrate a and engage with, Chinatowns wider western and wide range of street food from our local restaurants: Asian audience.
National Dumpling Day in Chinatown, where 1,800 For tenants, social media is vital to their brands, so dumplings were given away: and we support them in promoting new launches, In Seven Dials, we hosted a week of activities to initiatives and events across our digital platforms and promote International Womens Day.
Our occupiers help bring our events to life, using Digital influencers are an important aspect of our social their own marketing channels and, often arranging media strategy, through promoting our story to their their own, related activities.
Where appropriate, we collaborate with partners Do your events present security concerns?
to increase our reach and enhance the impact of Ensuring safety and security is paramount.
We work campaigns and events to attract greater exposure.
with Westminster and Camden Councils and the For example, in partnership with 20th Century Fox, emergency services to ensure visitors, residents and recently we have unveiled a Bohemian Rhapsodyworkers remain safe and secure whilst enjoying our themed light installation in Carnaby.
