Strategic report Overview Retail Our shops, mainly clustered in Carnaby, Seven Dials and Soho, make an important contribution to the West Ends reputation as a leading global destination.
ft. 1 1,2 shops of our portfolio What is the typical space you lease?
How affordable is your space?
A significant feature of our retail portfolio is that we Rental levels in our high-footfall and spending are able to offer retailers the choice of a wide range locations are competitive compared with nearby of rental levels and shop sizes, from small boutiques streets see the chart, opposite.
to large flagships, in modern or historic buildings, so they can find the right space to suit their brand.
It allows We chose Seven Dials because us to attract a variety of formats from new start-ups the location is so central, and to more established retailers looking to open unique concepts in the West End.
its an iconic and beautiful neighbourhood thats home How do you keep your destinations interesting?
to so many beloved retailers.
It is important that shoppers can find something Were excited to be alongside different from that commonly found in shopping the Seven Dials shops, and to centres and on high streets.
Our retail strategy be able to call London home to constantly evolves to respond to changing consumer Sam Bain-Mollison behaviour, but the central principle remains - our first permanent store in Head of Retail maintain a fresh retail mix by seeking out both Europe.
national and international brands which intend to answers questions launch new, interesting concepts and global first Jen Rubio, Away on retail stores.
Many of our retailers are independents, an important factor in making our districts unique How do you stay ahead of the curve?
Our typical retail leases are short, allowing us to have 1 How do you assess potential retailers?
a portfolio of brands which are relevant and ERV by village trend-driven.
It is important we identify the next Each of our destinations has a specific brand identity.
generation of ideas and concepts.
We travel a lot In selecting retail concepts, we assess whether they fit looking for inspiration, seeing other cities and their this identity, will add value and attract footfall.
We brands, and visiting retailers who are interested in favour brands that offer unique experiences and opening in London.
Many retailers we meet view products, want to be part of our community and Londons West End as the place to launch a which offer a reason for shoppers to visit our areas.
Trade shows also provide new ideas, as do existing tenants It is important but we look at everything a brand who look to grow within our areas or start new concepts.
If they are using social media in an exciting and Sometimes we trial new brands on a short and flexible fresh way to generate consumer interest and drive basis, which often are converted to longer leases.
Carnaby 51% sales, then thats a good sign.
However, this is only one part of the story.
If the brand has an interesting Covent Garden 26% story, is generating interest, and is driving footfall in Chinatown 14% our streets, then it adds value to the area.
Soho 7% 1 Wholly-owned portfolio Fitzrovia 2% 2 % of ERV 3 At 30 September 2018 4 Leasing activity during the year ended 30 September 2018 5 Source: Cushman & Wakefield, published information and company data 6 Based on 30 ft. zones Promoting our destinations: page 21 Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 7 Letting status at 26 November 2018 24 1 1 Strategic report Overview Retail continued 23 new lettings 18 lease renewals 14 rent reviews 4years 10.9% 6.5m 1,3 1,4 weighted average EPRA vacancy lettings rent reviews 1,3 13.9% of retail ERV unexpired lease term How do you assess whether a brand is a Typical lease terms success?
Our retail leases generally are short, giving us the opportunity to refresh tenant mix: Our relationship with brands starts when we select Smaller shops: 3-5 years them.
Our office is close to all our shops so we have real-time day-to-day experience of their trading.
This Larger shops: 5-10 years knowledge is supplemented by turnover data.
Short rent-free period to help cover tenant fit-out periods.
How has online retail affected you?
5 Whilst online is having a major impact on wider high West End retail rental tones prime zone A per sq.
ft. street retail, we find that there is consumer demand 2,200 for the interesting mix of brands and concepts across our areas, particularly when coupled with the experience that our food and beverage offer 1,200 provides.
Also, we are starting to see internet brands wanting physical space in our destinations, to 1,000 Shaftesbury streets reinforce their brand identities.
750 710 650 535 How are retailers trading in your areas?
400 360 285 240 220 195 185 Despite continued headwinds and challenges across the retail sector, generally our tenants continue to trade well.
Importantly, our mid-market retail offer is not limited solely to fashion, but includes, for example, health and beauty, accessories and lifestyle brands.
Whilst businesses are being more cautious in taking on new commitments over larger space, and the average time to conclude lettings has increased a Progress against 2018 priorities little this year, we are continuing to see good interest Priority Status for the smaller space we typically have to offer.
Our 7 flexible portfolio allows us to respond to this demand, Letting space at Thomas Neals Thomas Neals Warehouse: let and, where practical, we are dividing larger units.
Warehouse and Central Cross Central Cross: two retail units under offer, three units 7 Leasing activity during the year has been good with available to let lettings, renewals and rent reviews being concluded Introduce further interesting retail 23 new openings during the year ahead of ERVs assessed by our valuers.
concepts to our destinations 1,2 At 30 September 2018, EPRA vacancy of our retail space was 10.9%, of which 7.0% was under offer, 2019 priorities including 5.3% at Central Cross and Thomas Neals 1 Warehouse.
Average retail vacancy over the past ten Let remaining retail space at Central Cross years has been 3.7%.
Continue to introduce interesting retail concepts to our destinations Shaftesbury See page 45 for more information on Thomas Neals Annual Warehouse and Central Cross Report 2018 25 6 Bond Street James Street WC2 6 Oxford Street 6 Regent Street Long Acre Covent Garden Market Carnaby Street Neal Street Foubert's Place Floral Street Monmouth Street Newburgh Street Earlham Street Berwick Street
