Governance Remuneration policy Set out below is our policy on directors remuneration, which will be proposed for a binding vote at the 2019 AGM.
If approved, the policy will be effective from that date.
Changes to the remuneration policy The main change to this remuneration policy, from the previous policy approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM, and as described in Sally Waldens introductory letter, is the reduction in pension contributions or equivalent cash allowance for newly appointed executive directors from 25% to 17.5% of salary to bring it in line with all other employees in the organisation.
Executive directors Element Link with strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance measures and performance periods Salary Fixed remuneration at a level Salaries are normally reviewed annually with effect from 1 December.
Any increases are The Committee does not specify a None appropriate to skills, experience determined with reference to inflation and the salary increases for other employees, unless maximum salary or maximum salary and complexity of the role.
there is a change of role or responsibility or a new director is recruited see recruitment policy.
Sector and other relevant market data eg against constituent companies of the FTSE 350 REIT Further details on salary levels and any Index may be requested from remuneration advisors.
increases areprovided in the Annual Remuneration Report.
The Committee recognises the importance of setting salaries at levels in the context of market median levels in the real estate sector, but which are not excessive in relation to the Groups particular strategy and features.
The emphasis in the Groups remuneration policies is to place greater weight on performancebased rewards within the overall remuneration package.
Annual bonus To incentivise performance in Annual performance targets are set by the Committee at the beginning of the year and are Directors have the choice to take a Performance targets are set by the Committee.
Performance is assessed against a set of key financial and the reporting year through the linked to the Groups strategy and key business objectives.
bonus in shares or cash, in full or part non-financial annual measures which may vary each year depending on the annual priorities of the business setting of targets at the beginning as follows: and prevailing market conditions.
Measures will be weighted in alignment with the Groups objectives for each At the end of the financial year, the Committee evaluates performance against these objectives, of the year.
A substantial part of the total bonus will be based on quantitative KPIs.
Further details of the measures, whilst also taking into account overall financial performance and future prospects.
The Up to 150% of salary if taken entirely in targets are consistent with the weightings and targets applicable are provided in the Annual Remuneration Report for that year.
Committee also satisfies itself that short-term targets have not been met at the expense of shares: or Groups long-term strategy.
Up to 100% of salary if taken entirely opportunity to defer the bonus Within the parameters of the scheme, the Committee has discretion to adjust bonus outcomes in cash.
and take it in shares seeks to align upwards or downwards as it considers appropriate, to ensure alignment of pay with overall directors interests with those performance and market conditions.
of shareholders and discourage short-term decision making.
Minimum performance required for any part of the bonus to be earned is calibrated so as to be appropriately stretching and achievable.
Where directors take all or part of the bonus as an award of shares in the form of a conditional award of shares or a nil-cost option, these awards vest after a minimum of three years from grant under the Companys deferred bonus plan.
No further performance conditions apply.
Awards may also, at the Committees discretion, be settled in cash.
Malus and clawback provisions apply to all elements of the bonus as described elsewhere in this section.
LTIP To incentivise and reward Awards may be granted in the form of nil cost options, conditional share awards or, at the Maximum value 150% of salary at date The awards will be subject to performance targets measured over a three-year period.
It is intended that performance over the long-term, Committees discretion, be settled in cash.
these performance measures are aligned to strategic objectives and shareholder value.
For awards under this aligning directors interests with policy, the performance measures will be as follows equally weighted : At the end of the performance period, performance against the targets is calculated, and the Maximum value 200% of salary in those of shareholders and to Total Accounting Return TAR measured against a peer group of FTSE 350 REIT companies: percentage of awards that will vest is determined.
exceptional circumstances such as encourage the management of the executive recruitment thishas not Net Asset Value Return, being growth in EPRA NAV together with dividends paid in the period measured on Unless the Committee determines otherwise, vested awards will then be subject to an additional Groups business in accordance been used to date.
an absolute basis: and holding period before participants are entitled to receive their shares.
A holding period will with its long-term strategy and normally last for two years, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Total shareholder return measured relative to a relevant index of peers.
Malus and clawback provisions apply to the LTIP as described elsewhere in this section.
Threshold vesting will be no higher than 25% of the each performance measure.
The detailed targets are set out in the Annual Remuneration Report.
The Committee will consider the Groups underlying financial performance over the performance period before determining the final vesting level.
Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 90 3 3 Governance Remuneration policy continued Remuneration Changes to the remuneration policy The main change to this remuneration policy, from the previous policy approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM, and as described in Sally Waldens introductory letter, is the reduction in pension contributions or equivalent cash allowance for newly appointed executive directors from 25% to 17.5% of salary to bring it in line with all other employees in the organisation.
Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 91 Governance Remuneration policy continued Executive directors continued Element Link with strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance measures and performance periods All employee Part of overall package for Executive directors are eligible to participate in other share plans, which are offered on similar The limits are as defined by HMRC None plans all employees, encouraging terms to all employees, for example Sharesave and SIP.
Pension Part of overall package for Contribution paid into a personal pension plan or taken as a cash equivalent, reduced for any For any executive director appointed None executive directors providing resultant tax liability borne by the Group.
after 8 February 2019, the maximum appropriate remuneration contribution or cash allowance is and retirement benefits.
For any executive director appointed prior to 8 February 2019, the maximum contribution or cash allowance remains 25% of salary.
Other benefits Part of overall package for Each executive director currently receives: There is no maximum value.
None executives providing car allowance Benefits are set at a level which the comprehensive Committee determines isreasonable private medical cover remuneration.
life insurance The value may vary depending on permanent health insurance service provided, cost and market Newly appointed directors will not receive a car allowance.
Other benefits may be provided if considered reasonable and appropriate by the Committee, including, but not limited to, housing allowance and relocation allowance.
Shareholding To further encourage long-term Executive directors are expected to build up a shareholding of 200% of salary as at the date of N A N A guidelines alignment between executives appointment to the Board, to be accumulated over five years from appointment.
may include shares subject to deferred annual share bonus awards, though reduced in number to reflect that the holding is subject to income tax and national insurance deductions on exercise.
Shares received under the LTIP and deferred annual share bonus scheme are required to be retained on a net of tax basis, until the minimum shareholding level is attained.
Notes to the table: Performance measures 2 L TIP performance measures have been selected to align the interests of directors with 1 The per formance measures set by the Committee for the annual bonus scheme reflect those of shareholders.
Performance targets are set by the Committee to be appropriately Group KPIs and short-term measures which are consistent with, and support, the Groups stretching and achievable taking into account the Groups strategic priorities and the strategic goals of long-term growth in rental income and net asset value.
The Committee economic environment in which the Group operates.
may make reasonable changes to the measures or weightings each year in order to ensure continued alignment with strategy.
Non-executive directors and Chairman Element Link with strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance measures and performance periods Fees and To provide market-competitive Fees are normally reviewed every two years.
Sector and other relevant market data eg constituent As with the policy for the executive None benefits director fees.
companies in the FTSE 350 REIT Index may be requested from remuneration advisors where required.
directors, the policy does not specify a maximum fee or level of increase.
A further fee is payable to reflect the additional time commitment required for other Board duties, such as chairing Board committees or acting as Senior Independent Director.
The fee paid to the Chairman is determined by the Committee and fees to non-executive directors are set by the Board.
No director takes part in discussions regarding their own remuneration.
Benefits may be provided to non-executive directors if considered reasonable and appropriate by the Board.
Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 92 3 3 Governance Remuneration policy continued Executive directors continued Element Link with strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance measures and performance periods All employee Part of overall package for Executive directors are eligible to participate in other share plans, which are offered on similar The limits are as defined by HMRC None plans all employees, encouraging terms to all employees, for example Sharesave and SIP.
Notes to the table continued: 3 The Committ ee may amend or substitute any performance measure applicable to an LTIP directors remuneration policy approved by shareholders in accordance with section 439A award if an event occurs that causes the Committee to determine an amended, or of the Companies Act in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the substituted, measure would be more appropriate and not materially less difficult to satisfy.
relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the The Committ ee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments, and payments for Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of loss of office including exercising any discretion available to it in connection with such variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment payments, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the are agreed at the time the award is granted.
terms of the payment were agreed: i before 5 February 2016 the date the Companys previous directors remuneration policy approved by shareholders in accordance with The Committ ee may make minor amendments to the policy set out above for regulatory, section 439A of the Companies Act came into effect : ii before the policy set out above exchange control, tax or administrative purposes, or to take account of a change in came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 93 Governance Remuneration policy continued Difference between policy for External appointment Maximum directors and employees annual grant Pay and benefits throughout the Group are taken into Element Approach value consideration when setting remuneration policy.
The 26 employees below Board level are offered the same Salary The salaries of new appointees will be remuneration package elements as executive directors, determined by reference to relevant market althoughnot all employees are eligible for all benefits provided data, experience and skills of the individual, to executive directors.
Individual salary levels, percentage levels internal relativities and their current salary.
of awards in the annual bonus and LTIP vary according to Where new appointees have initial salaries set employees level of responsibility.
The same performance below market, any shortfall will be managed criteria, where relevant, are applied to executive directors and with phased increases within three years, other employees.
subject to the individuals development in the role.
As the same remuneration policy is applied to executive directors and all employees, the Committee did not consult Annual bonus In line with the limits set out in the policy 150% of salary employees when drawing up the policy.
For executive directors joining part way through a year, awards would be Recruitment policy pro-rated.
The Committee may determine different performance targets for the new Executive directors recruit, to reflect the shortened period A newly-appointed directors remuneration would be proposed in role.
by the Committee and approved by the Board in line with the LTIP New appointees will be granted awards 200% of salary policy.
The Group offers salary, benefits, annual bonus and under the LTIP under the limits described in awards under the LTIP.
If the Group considered it appropriate to the policy table.
The Committee may amend buy out any pre-existing variable pay arrangements of an or alter the performance targets for the new incoming director, it would only be with replacement awards recruit, as it considers appropriate.
structured on a comparable basis eg in terms of vesting period, performance conditions etc.
In doing so, the Committee would All employee In line with the limits as described in the consider relevant factors when structuring such awards, share plans, policy table.
including the likelihood of those pre-existing conditions being pension and met.
The Committee has the discretion to implement a one-off other benefits arrangement for the purposes of buy-out awards only, in accordance with Listing Rule 9.4.
2 R. excludes compensation for variable remuneration lost on leaving a former employer Internal appointment In the event of appointing a new executive director by way of internal promotion, the policy will be consistent with that for external appointees as detailed above.
Further detail on the policy for employees below board level is set out above.
Non-executive directors Newly appointed non-executive directors are paid fees at a level consistent with existing non-executive directors.
Fees would be paid pro-rata in their first year.
Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 94 3 3 Governance Remuneration policy continued Loss of office payment Provisions for payments on termination contained in executive directors service contracts are set out below: Date of Date of current appointment contract Notice period Termination arrangements Brian Bickell 1.10.2011 6.6.
2011 One years notice One years salary and benefits payable in event of termination without notice.
Directors duty to mitigate loss Simon Quayle 1.10.1997 8.10.1997 One years notice Termination by payment of annual salary Tom Welton 1.10.1997 8.10.1997 One years notice Termination by payment of annual salary Chris Ward 9.1.
2012 3.10.2011 One years notice One years salary and benefits payable in event of termination without notice.
Directors duty to mitigate loss Any new executive director would be appointed on the same loss of office terms as Brian Bickell and Chris Ward, namely twelve months salary and benefits, with a duty to mitigate loss on termination.
The terms of appointment of non-executive directors are documented in letters of appointment.
Non-executive directors have a one-month notice period and their appointment would terminate without compensation if not re-elected at an AGM.
All contracts are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Approach to other remuneration payments on termination of employment and change of control In addition to the contractual provisions regarding payment on termination set out above, the Groups incentive plans and share schemes contain provisions for termination of employment: Component Good leaver Bad leaver Change of control Annual bonus May be eligible, at the discretion of the Committee, to receive Outstanding award forfeited At the discretion of the an award based on the achievement of the performance Committee targets and reduced pro-rata for time served in the year.
Paid in cash with no uplift.
Deferred Annual Awards vest on the normal vesting date unless the Committee Will receive the lower of the Awards vest at date of change of Share BonusScheme determines the award should vest following cessation of value of the original cash bonus control employment.
before any uplift for deferral or the value of any deferred shares on the date of cessation LTIP Unvested awards will vest at the same time as if the individual Outstanding unvested awards Awards vest and are released had not left the Group, unless the Committee determines are forfeited taking into account, in the the award should vest following the cessation of employment.
case of unvested awards, Vested awards remain subject Vested awards remain subject to the two-year post-vesting the performance conditions to the two-year post-vesting holding period.
and, unless the Committee holding period determines otherwise, the The extent to which an unvested award vests will be proportion of the vesting period determined by the Committee, taking into account normal that has elapsed performance conditions, and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the proportion of the vesting period the participant has served.
All employee plans In line with HMRC rules In line with HMRC rules In line with HMRC rules Good leaver provisions relate to termination of office or employment by reason of death, disability, injury, retirement with the agreement of the Company, the participants office or employment being with a company or business which ceases to be a member of the Group or, in other exceptional circumstances, at the discretion of the Committee including redundancy.
Bad leaver provisions apply under all other circumstances.
Alternatively, on a change of control, awards may be exchanged for equivalent awards of shares in a different company.
In the event of a demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event which, in the Committees opinion, would materially affect the current or future value of the Companys shares, the Committee may allow awards to vest and be released early on the same basis as for a change of control.
Alternatively, in these circumstances or in the event of a variation of the Companys share capital, the Committee may adjust the number of shares subject to an award.
If a participant leaves during a holding period for any reason, his award will normally be released at the same time as if he had not left the Group, unless the Committee determines it should be released following his cessation of employment.
However, if a participant is summarily dismissed, his award will immediately lapse.
The use of any discretion described above would be disclosed in the Annual Report for the relevant year.
Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 95 Governance Remuneration policy continued Remuneration Consideration of shareholder views Potential remuneration for directors Shareholders, representing almost 70% of the Companys issued The charts below set out the potential remuneration receivable share capital, have been given the opportunity to comment and by directors for below threshold, on-target and maximum question the Committee on the remuneration policy and the performance.
Potential reward opportunities are based on this proposed change.
The Chairman of the Committee was available policy and applied to salaries as at 1 December 2018.
Note that to discuss the policy with shareholders and governance bodies.
the projected values exclude the impact of any share price Shareholder responses were reported to, and considered by, movement or dividend accrual.
Of those that responded, all were supportive of Brian Bickell 000 the proposals.
2,223 External appointments 34% Executive directors are permitted to accept external appointments, with the prior approval of the Board, where there is no adverse LTIP 1,266 impact on their role.
Any fees arising from such appointments Annual bonus 15% 34% may be retained by the executive director where the Fixed 30% 693 appointment is unrelated to our business.
32% 100% 55% Minimum On-target Maximum Simon Quayle, Tom Welton and Chris Ward 000 1,573 34% 898 15% 34% 493 30% 100% 55% 32% Minimum On-target Maximum The minimum scenario reflects salary, pension and benefits ie fixed remuneration which are the only elements of the executive directors remuneration packages not linked to future performance.
The on-target scenario reflects fixed remuneration as above, plus bonus payout of 75% of salary and LTIP threshold vesting at 25% of maximum award.
The maximum scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus full payout of all incentives.
It assumes a maximum bonus of 150% of salary which would be receivable fully in shares.
