Strategic report Overview Residential Demand to rent our 593 mid-market apartments - mainly studios and one or two bedroom flats remains good.
ft. 1 1,2 apartments of our portfolio What are your typical apartments?
They are mainly mid-market, affordable studios and We let our apartments unfurnished, on three-year one or two-bedroom apartments, many of which have Assured Shorthold Tenancies.
In our experience, been created from the conversion of small office around 10% of leases renew at the end of term.
accommodation back to its original residential use.
Demand for our mid-market Who are your tenants?
apartments remains good, Typically they are international students and people working in and around the area, often for a few years resulting in high occupancy only, who want the buzz of the West End.
levels and a stable cash flow How is the letting market?
Will your residential portfolio continue to Demand remains good and normally we have over grow?
Lettings and renewals with a rental Over the past five years, we have increased the number value of 8.2 million were completed during the year.
of apartments by approximately 26%, through Shelley Webb Whilst rents achieved, on average, were 0.1% below conversion from other uses and acquisitions.
We have previous levels, reflecting a greater availability of flats Head of Residential a number of planning consents for residential to rent in Central London, high occupancy levels conversion, which we could implement in the future.
answers questions on our have delivered an important cash flow for the business.
However, we do not expect the proportion of our residential portfolio income from residential to change materially.
How are you responding to increased competition across central London?
Why do you choose to lease rather than We have a rolling programme to upgrade our sell your apartments?
apartments, in order to ensure their specification Most of the value of our buildings is in the commercial remains competitive.
Currently, we are planning to uses on the lower floors.
Generally, we do not sell our install fibre connectivity to our flats, a feature which apartments so that we retain control over whole is increasingly demanded by potential tenants.
buildings to realise the long-term potential in those valuable lower floors.
1 Wholly-owned portfolio 2 % of ERV 3 At 30 September 2018 4 Leasing activity during the year ended 30 September 2018 Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 28 1 1 Strategic report Overview Residential continued 224 new lettings 68 lease renewals 1.1% 8.2m 1,3 1,4 EPRA vacancy lettings renewals 46.9% of residential ERV 1 ERV by village Typical lease terms Three year Assured Shorthold Tenancies Let unfurnished Annual RPI uplifts Mutual break options on a rolling two-month basis after the first six months 17.5m Progress against 2018 priorities Priority Status Continue our rolling refurbishment Refurbishment works on 66 apartments during the year, Carnaby 19% programme to upgrade our of which 43 were ongoing at year end Covent Garden 39% apartments and improve their rental prospects Chinatown 23% Identify future potential residential Planning consents granted to create 24 apartments Soho 10% conversions Fitzrovia 9% Maintain strong cash flow through Average occupancy: 98% of ERV high occupancy Apartments by number of beds 2019 priorities Continue our rolling refurbishment programme to upgrade our apartments and improve 3 their rental prospects 2 Maintain strong cash flow through high occupancy 1 1 bed 67% 2 bed 27% 3 bed 6% Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 29 30 Shaftesbury and sustainability Sustainable buildings We aim to achieve BREEAM Very Good on all our refurbishment projects.
We have a rolling programme of energy performance improvement across our 600 buildings.
We now have more than 38% of our space with an energy performance rating of C or above.
Pass on Plastic We donated space to create an We have been committed to exciting pop-up ocean experience to support this campaign to operating in an environmentally educate the public on the need to eliminate single-use plastics.
and sustainable way for many Sustainable Restaurant Association years.
We encourage restaurant tenants to become members of the SRA Focusing on environmental sustainability is a key and fit-out and operate their aspect of our long-term strategy.
We have a rolling premises sustainably.
Also, we sponsor the Open Right Award at programme to improve the environmental efficiency the Food Made Good awards in of our buildings.
We encourage our tenants to recognition of restaurants fitting-out embrace sustainability, be it through fit-out or sustainably from initial opening.
More details on our approach to sustainability and the environment can be found on pages 34 to 37.
Left: We support the Mayor of London and the #OneLess campaign to install public water fountains.
As a step towards reducing plastic waste in London and protecting the environment, Kingly Court was chosen as the first site for this important initiative.
We are actively working with our restaurant, cafe and pub tenants across the portfolio to remove single-use plastic water bottles from their businesses.
