Strategic report Overview Restaurants, cafs and leisure We are the largest single provider of dining and leisure space in the West End, curating high-profile and busy destinations such as Chinatown, Kingly Court, Neals Yard and Opera Quarter.
ft. 1,2 restaurants, of our portfolio 1 cafs and pubs Why do you invest in restaurants, cafs Why is the availability of restaurant and and leisure?
With its high footfall, the West End has become Local planning and licensing policies restrict large-scale Londons dining hot-spot.
Increasingly, the large increases in these uses, whether by development, working population and visitors are looking for extension of existing space, or conversion from other interesting and different dining and leisure experiences.
The barriers to entry are high, with existing Consequently, these are important drivers of footfall, operators reluctant to relinquish their valuable sites, dwell-time and trading in our locations.
other than for significant premiums.
Generally, tenants ensure they preserve their valuable occupation rights What are you looking for when you and our bad debt history is low.
How good is occupier demand?
The majority of our restaurants provide casual dining, With operators attracted by potential to trade with a focus on atmosphere, quality and experience, prosperously in this seven-days-a-week economy, often with an all-day offer.
occupier demand is good, outstripping availability of Favouring mid-market formats, we look for distinctive Julia Wilkinson space.
Competition for available space continues to concepts, something we dont have and which add be strong, and occupancy levels remain high.
At 30 Head of Restaurant more depth to the existing offer.
We like operators to 1,2 September 2018, EPRA vacancy for our restaurant, have had some experience honing their concept, in, Strategy caf and leisure space was 1.4%, of which 0.4% was for example, pop-ups, markets, supper clubs etc.
answers questions think about whether we would like to eat there, as we are customers as well.
on restaurants, cafs Shaftesbury have been very and leisure Is it a risk taking fledgling operations?
encouraging every step of the It is part and parcel of our philosophy to be way.
They took a bit of a punt forward-thinking: to support new concepts.
The on The Palomar - we hadnt team behind them needs to be good, have a plan for 1 ERV by village fit-out, service and social media, and be well-financed.
done anything before and I think a lot of landlords Are you being impacted by the number of casual dining concepts which are in wouldnt have been so brave.
Layo Paskin, The Palomar We continue to see healthy trading across our areas.
50.0m Much of the well-publicised financial distress has How is Chinatown changing?
been in national chain formats, which have expanded The 86 restaurants, cafs and bars we own in across the country and are suffering from a national Chinatown, close to the West Ends major slowdown in dining and leisure spending, or poor site entertainment venues, represent 35%, by floor selection.
We are not seeing this in our areas, where space, of our total ownership of these valuable uses.
Carnaby 20% the footfall is high and there is a relatively affluent In this especially busy location, notable for its long customer base.
The incidence of concepts not Covent Garden 26% hours of trading, our strategy is to improve the succeeding in our locations is relatively low, but, with variety of the dining offer, whilst maintaining Chinatown 39% unsatisfied demand, others usually are keen to step affordability and remaining respectful of its Chinese Soho 9% in and take the space.
Our vision is to showcase different regions of China, whilst adding pan-Asian operators.
Fitzrovia 6% 1 Wholly-owned portfolio 2 % of ERV 3 At 30 September 2018 Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 4 Leasing activity during the year ended 30 September 2018 22 1 1 Strategic report Overview Restaurants, cafs and leisure continued 22 new lettings 12 lease renewals 31 rent reviews 9 years 1.4% 10.5m 1,3 1,4 weighted average EPRA vacancy lettings rent reviews 1,3 21.0% of restaurant, caf and unexpired lease term leisure ERV Recently, we have invested in improving the overall Typical lease terms visitor experience through major public realm Historical Leases New Leases improvements.
Also, we have improved our branding for the area through events, marketing and a stronger social Term 25 years 15 years media presence, including in mainland China.
Rent reviews Five-yearly, upward-only Five-yearly, upward-only Security of tenure on expiry Yes No What are your typical lease terms?
Turnover-related top-up No Yes Tenants invest considerable sums fitting out their Space leases typically granted Whole buildings Operational space only i. e. space, sometimes spending the equivalent of 3-5 over not upper floors years rent and, therefore, we grant longer leases than Proportion of our restaurant 54% 46% for shops, to provide an extended period over which leases by income occupiers can amortise this cost.
Incentives N A Short rent-free period to Until recently, leases were granted over whole buildings help cover tenant fit-out time.
No contribution and provided tenants with renewal rights on expiry.
We to fit-out costs find that upper floors often are now under-utilised and, where opportunities arise, we seek to negotiate the surrender of these leases to secure vacant possession.
This allows us to improve the configuration Progress against 2018 priorities of space on the lower floors, attract new operators on more beneficial terms and often release valuable Priority Status upper floors for other uses.
Letting of restaurant and caf Eight of the nine restaurant, caf and leisure units have Reflecting the strength of demand for our restaurant space at Central Cross been let.
The remaining restaurant is under offer space, in recent years we have reduced the term of Identify further opportunities Negotiated vacant possession of four leases in the year, leases we grant and introduced more flexibility at to negotiate vacant possession with a rental value of 1.0m expiry.
Also, we include turnover-related rental of restaurants let on historical top-ups, giving us the higher of market rent and a leases percentage of annual turnover.
This provides a useful Introduce new restaurant 22 new openings during the year contribution to both income and earnings, as well as operators to our destinations providing us with data to better understand the metrics of restaurant trading across our areas.
At 30 September 2018, the proportion of our restaurant income under historical leases was 54% 2019 priorities 2017: 60%, providing us with opportunities to add Identify further opportunities to negotiate vacant possession of, or restructure, further value and flexibility over the coming years.
historical restaurant leases Introduce new restaurant concepts to our destinations Promoting our destinations: page 21 Shaftesbury Annual See page 45 for more information on Central Cross Report 2018 23
