Strategic report Annual review Acquisitions Whilst the availability of assets to buy continues to be limited, during the year, we secured acquisitions totalling 167.8 million.
Neal Street, Seven Dials Acquisitions In late December 2017, we acquired six shops on Neal Street, Seven Dials, for 24.4 million.
Adjacent to existing When seeking out new acquisitions, we remain holdings, these buildings increase our ownership of disciplined, concentrating on buildings: frontages on the northern section of Neal Street to around 70%.
in, and around, our areas: which have a predominance of, or potential Situated close to the Tottenham Court Road Crossrail for, restaurant, leisure and retail uses: and hub, we expect the northern end of Neal Street to see material footfall growth once the Elizabeth Line service which offer the potential for future rental starts next year.
Current rental tones on this part of growth, either individually or through the street are significantly lower than at the southern combination with our existing ownerships.
However, with the benefit of growing footfall and our careful curation, we expect this differential in rents will narrow significantly over the medium term.
72 Broadwick Street, Carnaby Andrew Price Great Marlborough Street, Carnaby In early December 2017, we acquired the freehold of 72 Broadwick Street, situated at the important In March 2018, we purchased the freehold of 35 and Portfolio Executive eastern gateway to Carnaby, for 92.1 million.
36 Great Marlborough Street, for 22.5 million.
Located at the busy northern gateway to Carnaby, the buildings The Group already owned an ungeared long leasehold comprise two food retail units 3,000 sq.
ft. of retail and caf space in sq.
ft. of office accommodation on the upper floors.
the lower floors of the building.
Acquiring the freehold gave us control over this important 0.5 acre site, We are discussing plans with Westminster City Council which, on purchase, provided 54,100 sq.
ft. of office to improve the street-scape in the vicinity, which, accommodation, eleven apartments extending to together with our wider estate management strategy, 11,200 sq.
ft. and a large basement carpark.
will improve medium-term rental growth prospects for this part of Carnaby.
In September 2018, we secured vacant possession ofthe office and residential space, and held a public Other acquisitions consultation on our plans for this building, which Other acquisitions during the year totalled 28.8 include: million.
These additions to our portfolio in Carnaby, introducing new retail, restaurant and leisure uses: Covent Garden, Chinatown and Soho comprised one relocating the office and residential entrances: restaurant, one caf, one bar, one shop, 9,200 sq.
ft. refurbishing and extending the remaining office of office space and one apartment.
These offer the space: and potential for good rental and capital growth through short and medium-term asset management initiatives.
reconfiguring and upgrading the residential accommodation.
90-104 Berwick Street, Soho We will be submitting a formal planning application forward purchase shortly and, subject to receiving the necessary The redevelopment of 90-104 Berwick Street, Soho, consents, expect to start our works in summer 2019. which we have contracted to purchase once it has been Ahead of this, we have commenced stripping out completed, has been delayed.
completing the acquisition of this long leasehold interest, We estimate our enhanced scheme will take two for 41 million, including acquisition costs, inmid-2019.
years at a cost of around 30 million.
Located at the southern end of Berwick Street, the development will provide 12,500 sq.
Both the hotel and supermarket have been pre-let, representing two thirds of the expected income from the property.
Following this acquisition, we will own around 50% of Berwick Streets frontages.
