Our markets Key differentiators of SIG We work in partnership with suppliers and customers to source specialist building materials The scale of our offering is unrivalled, enabling the development of bespoke customer solutions Market leader across a diverse portfolio, operating in the UK, Ireland and mainland Europe Touch points across a range of sectors, including: new build and repairs, maintenance and improvement RMI markets Strong and skilled workforce capable of providing expert advice Market drivers SIG is a leading supplier of specialist building materials to trade 6% 9% 14% customers, operating across a range of end markets within the 13% 25% 11% UK, Ireland and mainland Europe.
Whilst our response to market 22% 17% conditions varies depending on geography and sector, there are 25% overarching economic themes that influence our business case.
18% 27% In particular, growth within the construction and civil engineering 23% Group 29% sectors, usually linked more generally to economic growth, is an Revenue 23% important value driver for us.
27% 31% Market in the UK & Ireland 29% 23% The residential markets of new build and repair grew 2.3% year on 28% New build residential year.
Construction activity in the second half of the year more than compensated for adverse weather conditions in the first quarter.
RMI residential 18% Regional trends demonstrate growth in the north of the country, New build non-residential 26% 8% 28% fuelled by demand and the availability of government incentives such RMI non-residential 12% 10% as Help to Buy.
This is offset by reduced activity in the southern Industrial London markets.
UK & France Germany Other Ireland However, activity in the commercial construction market declined by 4.5% in 2018 as a result of the macro-economic uncertainty caused by Brexit and the collapse of Carillion.
Further decline is expected in 2019, however the 2019 outlook for the market as a whole is expected to be broadly flat.
Residential construction markets in our smaller regions are growing ahead of our larger territories and also present opportunities to us.
Market in mainland Europe In Poland, increasing consumer demand and rising employment and Our largest markets in Europe are in France and Germany, but we income levels are supportive of new build housing development.
also operate in mainland Poland, Belgium and The Netherlands.
The non-residential construction market in Poland is experiencing Markets across Europe have also softened this year.
growth as a result of government programmes to invest in public infrastructure.
Similar socio-economic trends are evident in Ireland, SIG generated 663.6m revenue in France in 2018, which is 0.4% with substantial public and private sector construction work planned higher than last year.
As expected, the residential construction to cater for the growing economy.
market in France softened in 2018, with in year growth of just 1.9%.
Whilst government incentives to support lending to first time buyers Construction market growth forecasts were extended, the remit of the incentives reduced and uptake correspondingly declined.
In addition, GDP in France grew by just Residential Non-residential 0.1%, and increases in household income lagged behind house price 2018 2019 2018 2019 inflation making home ownership a less affordable prospect.
The nonresidential construction sector performed strongly in 2018 as a result UK 2.3% 1.1% 4.5 % 3.9 % of ongoing government support.
Growth of 3.9% achieved through the Ireland 19.3% 15.7% 5.5 % 8.8 % construction of industrial and office buildings provides opportunity for France 1.9% 2.1 % 3.9% 3.8% our Air Handling business, Ouest Isol & Ventil, in particular.
Germany 1.6% 0.5% 0.9% 0.6 % 426.6m of our revenue is generated in Germany, which is 0.4% higher than last year.
The residential construction market in Poland 10.2% 6.8% 10.5% 7.4% Germany grew modestly in 2018 1.6% growth, outperforming Belgium 3.3% 1.7% 2.6 % 1.4% expectations 12 months ago.
New home owners benefit from the low interest rates seen in recent years.
Demand for new housing The Netherlands 6.0% 3.4% 6.4% 4.1% has increased as a result of a surge in immigration and internal Construction Products Association Euroconstruct migration, with access to social housing being a key priority in certain regions.
Opportunity continues for SIG to support programmes to refurbish existing older residential housing stock.
The non-residential construction market grew by 0.9% in 2018, impacted by the cyclical nature of the requirement for new industrial buildings and a shortage of skilled labour.
10 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Specialist distribution Key market drivers Construction activity mainly new build and availability of skilled construction labour market Higher energy efficiency standards and government funding to support home improvements Increasingly stringent fire protection and acoustic standards Demand for higher standard interior fit outs What this means for SIG Strong demand for distributors exists, to connect large manufacturers and importers with a fragmented customer base Our product range spans technical and structural insulation and interiors: specialist distribution of both value-add and commodity products Transformation means that we increasingly use data to focus on the quality of the sales we make to improve margins, over volume churn Roofing merchant Key market drivers Regulatory changes Level of construction activity new build and RMI and availability of skilled construction labour market Air Handling market Potential for consolidation and change within the merchanting sector What this means for SIG Market leading roofing merchant business in a regionally-oriented and fragmented market Specialist knowledge of timber batten and flat roofing materials Physical presence in branches with trade counters adding value to the customer experience Opportunity to benefit from consolidation within the merchanting sector Air Handling solutions Key market drivers Regulatory changes Non-residential construction activity Focus on improving energy efficiency and air quality standards More rigorous fire protection standards What this means for SIG Clear need for suppliers with expertise providing total solutions in ventilation Our fastest growing business segment Product breadth is unmatched, making the business a clear market leader Own brand products such as Cairox growing in popularity Focus on innovation to deliver a service comprising design, supply and installation Read more on our Performance on page 22 www.
