Strategy in action CASE STUDY Customer service Refurbishing our roofing branches in SIG Exteriors In support of our objective to provide customers with the best possible experience when visiting an SIG Exteriors branch, 2018 saw us undertake an extensive refurbishment programme.
The programme extended the shop floor, with new trade counters and additional display space giving customers greater exposure to our product range.
The programme created a dynamic, welcoming and modern environment, enhancing the in-store experience.
As part of the refit, we considered requirements at each branch through the customers eyes, assessing each step of their journey and measuring performance against the market and customer expectations.
Our staff received training on the best practice approach to trade counter management, enabling us to deliver a consistent customer experience.
Each refurbishment was celebrated with an open day for customers, suppliers and the local community.
CASE STUDY Operational efficiency Managing inventory in SIG Distribution Twelve months ago, SIG Distributions branches each controlled their own inventory.
This decentralised approach led to insufficient control over purchasing which, combined with limited forecasting capability in the branches, resulted in too many of the wrong products being held in inventory, and tied up too much working capital.
It further meant that stock targets could only be hit by understocking fast moving products, which in turn impacted customer service.
Transformation in this area took the form of creating a centralised inventory management team.
This new team has sole responsibility for the placement of orders for core products in the UK, which provides continuity for our supply chain and ensures that our inventory levels are appropriately controlled.
It delivers against new target inventory levels for availability as well as stock levels and drives best practice in inventory management across the SIG Distribution sites.
Going forward, we intend to enhance the capability of the central team by investing in technology to support improved inventory forecasting.
16 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic levers Strategic enablers CASE STUDY Data New dashboard reporting across the Group In order to improve our access to and use of data, we have developed a data repository using cloud technology, which we have linked to a business intelligence BI reporting tool.
The BI tool facilitates reporting from disparate ERP and other systems, providing us with improved visibility of our performance on a daily basis.
Performance measures around sales, profit and working capital are now available through dashboards which can be accessed remotely.
This flexibility enables our senior leaders to make decisions quickly and adjust activity at short notice to meet changing circumstances.
CASE STUDY IT Implementing electronic proof of delivery in Germany In 2018, we rolled out an electronic proof of delivery ePod system for the first time, improving the experience of our customers and our own operational efficiency.
The ePod system integrates with a new telematics and navigation tool, which together connect our drivers to the business on a real-time basis.
For SIG Germany, this has facilitated a more flexible approach to distribution, reducing manual intervention and enabling the business and drivers to respond quickly to new orders and changes in the delivery schedule.
In addition, with improved telematics, the business is able to sustain a safer working environment for drivers.
The consistency of service delivery to our customers has in turn improved.
The ePod system is capable of integrating with customer ERP systems, removing the need for paper at the point of delivery.
Customers also have access to a portal providing the ability to track orders.
Going forward, we intend to introduce real time delivery updates via smartphone technology, providing our customers with certainty of the delivery window.
