Statement of Significant Accounting Policies Segment reporting Key sources of estimation uncertainty In accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments, the Group identifies The key estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of its reportable segments based on the components of the business causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of the assets and on which financial information is regularly reviewed by the Groups liabilities within the next financial year are detailed below.
Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM to assess performance and make decisions about how resources are allocated.
For SIG, Rebates receivable the CODM is considered to be the Group Executive Committee.
Supplier rebate income is significant to the Groups result, with a Following review of the Groups internal reporting, the Group has substantial proportion of purchases covered by rebate agreements.
concluded that the appropriate reported operating segments are Supplier rebate income affects the recorded value of cost of sales, SIG Distribution, SIG Exteriors, Ireland & Other, France, Germany, trade payables, trade and other receivables, and inventories.
The Air Handling, Benelux and Poland.
The prior year comparatives have amounts payable under rebate agreements are often subject to been restated to expand Mainland Europe into the constituent negotiation after the balance sheet date.
A number of agreements components consistent with the current year presentation.
are non-coterminous with the Groups financial year, requiring estimation over the level of future purchases and sales.
At the balance sheet date the directors estimate the amount of rebate Critical accounting judgements that will become payable by and due to the Group under these agreements based upon prices, volumes and product mix.
At 31 and key sources of estimation December 2018 trade payables is presented net of 52.8m 2017: 58.8m due from suppliers in respect of supplier rebates where uncertainty the Group has the right to net settlement, and included within prepayments and accrued income is 59.3m 2017: 55.2m due In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are in relation to supplier rebates where there is no right to offset described on pages 113 to 124, the directors are required to make against trade payable balances.
Of these balances, 25.9m relates judgements other than those involving estimates that have a to agreements which are non-coterminous with the financial year significant impact on the amounts recognised and to make estimates end and therefore involves estimates regarding future purchase and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and sales, and the amount received could therefore vary from the that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates amount recorded, positively or negatively by c. 5m.
and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Post-employment benefits The Group operates six defined benefit pension schemes.
All postThe estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an employment benefits associated with these schemes have been ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in accounted for in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
As the period in which the change takes place if the revision affects only detailed within the Statement of Significant Accounting Policies on that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the page 123, in accordance with IAS 19, all actuarial gains and losses revision affects both current and future periods.
have been recognised immediately through the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Critical judgements in applying the Groups For all defined benefit pension schemes, pension valuations have accounting policies been performed using specialist advice obtained from independent The following is the critical judgement that the directors have made qualified actuaries.
In performing these valuations, significant in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies and actuarial assumptions have been made to determine the defined that has had a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the benefit obligation, in particular with regard to discount rate, inflation Financial Statements.
The judgements involving estimations are dealt and mortality.
Management considers the key assumption to be with separately below.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the interest rates of high quality corporate Classification of Other items in the Consolidated Income bonds excluding university bonds.
If the discount rate were to be Statement increased decreased by 0.1%, this would decrease increase the As described in the Statement of Significant Accounting Policies, Groups gross pension scheme deficit by 2.7m as disclosed in Note certain items are presented in the separate column of the 29c.
At 31 December 2018 the Groups retirement benefit obligations Consolidated Income Statement entitled Other items where they were 28.7m 2017: 30.4m.
are significant in size or nature, and either they do not form part of the trading activities of the Group or their separate presentation Impairment of non-current assets enhances understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
The Group tests goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and Operating results from businesses identified as non-core see Note equipment annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are 32 to the Financial Statements do not form part of the ongoing indications that an impairment may be required.
trading activities of the Group and are therefore also recorded separately in Other items in order to enhance the understanding Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of of the ongoing financial performance of the Group.
The nature and the value in use of the CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated.
amounts of the items included in Other items, together with the The key estimates made in the value in use calculation are those overall impact on the results for the year, is disclosed in Note 2 to regarding discount rates, sales growth rates, and expected changes the Financial Statements.
to selling prices and direct costs to reflect the operational gearing of the business.
The directors estimate discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money for the Group.
124 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 FINANCIALS FINANCIALS For the majority of the CGUs, the Group performs goodwill Dilapidations provisions impairment reviews by forecasting cash flows based upon the The Group has a significant number of leasehold properties with following years budget, which anticipates sales growth, and a contractual obligations to reinstate the properties to their original projection of cash flows based upon industry growth expectations state of repair at the end of the lease contract.
The Group has 0%-2.9% over a further period of four years.
Where detailed five recognised a provision of 20.9m at 31 December 2018 in relation to year forecasts for a CGU have been prepared and approved by this obligation, with the 2017 liability restated to 20.5m as noted in the Board, which can include higher growth rates or varied results the Statement of Significant Accounting Policies.
The total provision reflecting specific economic factors, these are used in preparing cash includes both the estimated cost of rectifying or reinstating leasehold flow forecasts for impairment review purposes.
After this period, modifications and improvements carried out, which is recognised there is no sales growth rates applied to the cash flow forecasts at the inception of the lease with a corresponding asset recognised and operating profit growth is no more than 2.5% in perpetuity.
The in fixed assets and depreciated over the term of the lease, together discount rates applied to all CGUs represent post-tax rates.
with the estimated cost of rectifying general wear and tear which is recognised as incurred over the life of the lease.
Estimates are Assumptions regarding sales and operating profit growth, gross based on a combination of a sample of assessments by third party margin, and discount rate are considered to be the key areas of independent property surveyors, internal assessments by the estimation in the impairment review process, and appropriate Groups property experts and previous settlement history.
Whilst the sensitivities have been performed and disclosed in Note 12. directors consider the estimates to be reasonable based on latest available information, actual amounts payable could be different Impairments are allocated initially against the value of any goodwill to the amount provided depending on specific circumstances of and intangible assets held within a CGU, with any remaining individual properties and counterparties at the expiry of each lease impairment applied to property, plant and equipment on a pro rata contract.
Any difference is not expected to be material year on year.
The carrying amount of relevant non-current assets at 31 December 2018 is 445.5m 2017: restated 487.3m.
The most recent results of the impairment review process are disclosed in Note 12 and indicate that the carrying value of non-current assets associated with the Groups CGUs are supportable.
Impairment reviews performed during the year indicated that the carrying value of the Groups other non-current assets at 31 December 2018 were considered supportable.
Whilst the directors consider the assumptions used in the impairment review to be realistic, if actual results are different from expectations then it is possible that the value of goodwill and other intangible assets included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet could become impaired.
These sensitivities are disclosed in Note 12.
Provisions against receivables At 31 December 2018 the Group has recognised trade receivables with a carrying value of 384.3m 2017: restated 374.7m.
The Group recognises an allowance for expected credit losses ECLs in relation to trade receivables.
The Group has established a provision matrix that is based on the Groups historical credit loss experience, adjusted for forward looking factors specific to the debtors and economic environment.
Changes in the economic environment or customer-specific circumstances could have an impact on the recoverability of amounts included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at 31 December 2018.
The total allowance for expected credit losses recorded at 31 December 2018 is 31.4m 2017: 41.1m.
The bad debt to sales ratio of the Group has varied by up to 0.2% over recent periods, therefore this gives an indication that the bad debt experience could vary by c. 5m.
Further detail on trade receivables and the allowance for expected credit losses recognised is disclosed in Note 16. www.
