Establishment of panEuropean Air Handling division SIGs integrated Air Handling division is the largest distribution-led specialist provider of air handling products and solutions in Europe.
In line with our strategic approach to simplify the business and to place greater focus on our key business activities, we have incorporated the branch network and manufacturing subsidiaries of Ouest Isol & Ventil, the Groups specialist distributor of ventilation, air conditioning and technical insulation products in France, and SK Sales, our specialist supplier of heating, ventilating and air conditioning HVAC in the UK, into our existing European Air Handling business.
Our offerings We are market leaders in the delivery of specialist products and solutions, creating sustained value for a wide range of customers.
Our customer value proposition offers whole-system solutions from design to supply, enhanced by a wide product offering, e-commerce, own fabrication and own-label products.
Specialist projects Specialist distribution Sales mix In conjunction with our distribution Specialist distributor of air handling parts offering, we provide technical solutions and products, with a growing own-brand for the design, supply and installation and fabricated product offering, supplying of specialist air handling systems installers and building contractors with across a multitude of sectors and tailored solutions.
Our hub and spoke project sizes.
We hold the leading business model provides a one-stopmarket position in the specialist, high shop for our customer base in the value niches of car park systems and distribution of 3rd party and private label Specialist distribution 85% climate ceilings, with a proposition HVAC and complementary technical Specialist projects 15% that is exported worldwide.
Our markets SIGs combined Air Handling division now operates across: United Kingdom Netherlands 92 10 Germany sites and European countries Belgium Diversified mix of end markets Austria France Car parks Shopping Sports Hungary Switzerland malls facilities Romania Bulgaria Industrial Homes Schools Fabrication Facilities Branch Depots Project Offices Hospitals Offices 42 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Our products The Air Handling business supplies a range of 15,000 products and HVAC related project solutions with a strong and growing fabricated and own label range of products for end-to-end air handling systems across a wide variety of internal settings.
CASE STUDY Customer value Innovating for our customers In 2018, we used innovation to repeat business within the user base, supplement our core product offering and increasing sales of diffuser products.
for our customers in the development of Innovation in this way has enabled the Air diffuser simulation software under our Handling business to respond flexibly to own brand label, Cairox.
The software changes in the trading environment and targets technical consultants, architects the requirements of customers.
and contractors by supporting their Key statistics: design of a ventilated environment.
Increase in sales of product category The software enables our customers up 5.1% year on year to visualise the impact a product will have on a space, taking into account the Number of active subscribers 600 dimensions of a room and air flow.
We currently have more than 600 subscribers in Belgium, driving a trend towards Our financials Using the 2018 financial results as a guide, Revenue on a consolidated proforma basis, the Air 148.2m 140.8m 310.1m Handling divisions revenues were in excess 21.1m of 300m.
With the highest gross margins in Operating profit loss Air Handling the Group, at c. 38%, and a tight cost base, its 19.4m 14.8m 6.7m Ouest Isol & Ventil profits for the year were c. 19m, providing a SK Sales 2.1 m healthy return on sales of 6.3%.
We now have the foundations on which the build a stronger platform to allow for improved customer service, accelerated profitable growth and a strengthened value proposition.
The integration of all of our European Air Handling operations into a single line of business will allow us to strengthen our ability to share best practice and capture synergies.
We also see further value creation potential through strengthening our air handling solutions platform across European markets.
