Performance Much work remains to be done, but our delivery in 2018 and the momentum brought into 2019 confirm that our transformation of SIG is on track.
Meinie Oldersma Chief Executive Officer 2018 saw the Group's Transformation on track Delivering the 2018 saw the Groups transformation transformation transformation strategy start to strategy start to deliver significant Some fifteen months ago, the Group set deliver significant operational operational and financial progress.
out the conclusions of its strategic review Underlying profit before tax excluding and financial progress with the announcement of its strategic property profits was up 25.1% to 72.7m vision, Building on our potential.
identified the considerable opportunity for significant improvement in the operational Despite challenging market conditions and financial performance of each major and lower revenue in the Groups largest operating company and across the Group markets, the Groups focus on pricing and as a whole.
The strategic review identified profitability over volume enabled it to grow that improvement would come from gross margins and gross profit, particularly focused delivery of three strategic levers in the UK insulation and interiors business, around customer service, customer value SIG Distribution.
In addition, actions taken to and operational efficiency, supported by reduce headcount and improve operational investment in key enablers around data, IT efficiency brought operating costs under and capability.
tighter control, resulting in a reduction during the year.
As a result, the Group made Since then, the Group has taken substantial good progress during 2018 towards its actions to deliver rapid progress from this medium term financial targets, particularly in transformation strategy.
The overhaul of the second half.
SIGs leadership is now largely complete, following the departure during 2017 and The Group has delivered higher underlying 2018 of 51 out of 75 senior leaders across gross margins, lower operating costs and the Group.
The induction into the business lower debt in 2018, albeit on reduced of new leaders from outside the Group is revenues.
This improved financial improving capability, setting new standards performance enabled the Group to report its and delivering cultural change across the first statutory profit before tax for three years organisation.
As part of this overhaul of Group leadership, Step change in performance new Managing Directors were appointed in second half of year in 2018 at each of the Groups four largest operating companies: SIG Distribution, SIG The transformation gathered pace in the Exteriors, SIG France and SIG Germany.
second half of the year, with higher margins These new Managing Directors are bringing and lower operating costs enabling return broader experience and perspectives and on sales excluding property profits to an accelerated pace of transformation to increase from 2.5% in the first half to 4.0%.
As a result, the Group is As a result, underlying profit before tax beginning to benefit from the establishment excluding property profits increased 81% of a genuine performance culture across from 25.9m in the first half to 46.8m in these businesses in support of improved the second half.
Statutory profit before tax performance.
decreased from 19.7m in the first half to 8.8m in the second half, reflecting higher History highlights the significant challenge levels of Other items, including restructuring in achieving lasting change across SIG and costs, in the second half.
there remains much work to be done to complete the planned transformation.
The Notwithstanding the reduction in LFL sales, Group is working to leverage its improved which reduces the base of business brought capability and ways of working to complete into 2019, the Group believes that the the process of structural and cultural change margin and cost actions which underpin the across the organisation.
The step change step change in performance delivered in the in operational and financial performance second half of the year bring considerable delivered in 2018 provides reassurance that financial momentum into 2019. this transformation of SIG is on track.
22 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Like-for-like sales -2.1% 2017: 3.5% Total Group revenue 2,741.9m 2017: 2,878.4m Return on sales 3.3% 2017: 2.7% www.
com Stock code: SHI 23 Performance These changes have enabled the property portfolio in Sheffield to Customer service investment in be consolidated into a single location following the sale of SIGs capability, branches and technology historical head office in Hillsborough.
The Group continues to reduce The Groups strategic focus on customer service has seen it develop management layers across the organisation.
its sales capability, branch experience and supporting technology As the year has progressed, the focus on costs has extended to during the year.
The sales teams in SIG Distribution and SIG Exteriors branch networks and the customer-facing organisation, where have been restructured into dedicated sales functions and similar operating models are being restructured with the twin aims of changes are in hand at other operating companies.
New sales and improved customer service and lower costs.
customer relationship management tools have been introduced and this is beginning to be reflected in improving conversion rates at SIG Distribution has transformed its organisational structure several businesses.
during the year from a branch-centric model to a functional model, centralising some of the functions historically managed within Investment has been made during the year in branch telephony, branches and establishing dedicated cross-organisation capability in transport management and electronic point of delivery capability, sales, inventory, warehousing and transportation.
As a result, it has with a view to reducing customer lead times and improving customer been able to eliminate significant regional costs, reorganise the sales service levels for delivery on time and in full.
The programme of force and streamline distribution routing resulting in a reduction in trade counter upgrades has continued at SIG Exteriors and new fleet numbers, whilst enhancing levels of customer service.
sales training has been developed and introduced in several businesses.
As the Group moves into 2019, the focus is on continued SIG Exteriors has optimised its network around a hub and spoke development of sales capability and associated tools.
The Group model, resulting in some branch closures and the removal of surplus is also looking to increase its investment in the development of its vehicles from the fleet.
It is now implementing tools to facilitate eCommerce strategy and capability.
improved transport management, including real time vehicle tracking and electronic proof of delivery capability, bringing real benefits Customer value optimising pricing to customers as well as reducing costs.
Further changes are being and profitability implemented in the Groups other large operating companies in France and Germany during 2019.
The Groups actions around customer value have primarily targeted pricing and profitability initiatives during the year.
SIG Distribution led The optimisation of branch networks and disposals of businesses the way with the introduction of list price rises across a broad range have seen the number of trading sites fall from 661 at the beginning of products in the middle of the year.
SIG Distribution has also been of 2017 to 538 at 31 December 2018.
In parallel, headcount has at the forefront of action to reduce the Groups exposure to low fallen c. 20% from 10,383 at the beginning of 2017 to 8,260 at 31 margin business with an ongoing review of profitability by customer.
Further headcount reductions are anticipated in Other Group businesses have similarly begun to pursue a range 2019 as the Group continues to streamline its operating model and of initiatives to optimise pricing and margins.
New pricing controls ways of working.
have been implemented around quantity breaks and new charging Operational efficiency reducing structures implemented for ancillary services.
Historic customer terms have been extensively reviewed at SIG Exteriors during the working capital year and a new pricing framework has been introduced in Germany In parallel with the reductions in operating costs, working capital is and is currently being piloted in France.
The Groups focus on pricing beginning to respond to actions to reduce the level of stock, which is being supported by improved data analytics and the introduction fell this year to 207.2m 2017: 243.5m.
Management has revised of new reporting, which provides better visibility on end-to-end the Groups approach to inventory management during the year, margin by branch and customer.
This allows management to reduce implementing tighter controls around the purchase of stock and levels of discounting in the branches and improve compliance with re-orienting performance management mechanisms to incentivise target prices.
lower levels of working capital.
SIG Distribution again led the way, The Group is targeting further significant progress on pricing and with the centralisation of inventory management facilitating a sharp margins in 2019, reflecting the benefit of specific actions taken in reduction in levels of inventory in the second half of the year.
The 2018, mostly in the second half, and the extension of these initiatives Group is seeking to build on the experience of SIG Distribution as it across the Group.
seeks further reductions in inventory in 2019.
Operational efficiency reducing Key enablers improved data and reporting operating costs The business has made good progress in relation to the key enablers necessary for delivery of its transformational plans around data, During 2018, the Group has taken further steps to reduce costs, IT and capability.
The Group now has daily visibility of sales and continuing to scale back Group functions and overheads, eliminate margin.
Initiatives to improve sales effectiveness, manage pricing duplicate spend and constrain discretionary expenditure, and and margins and reduce stock have all significantly benefited during downsize corporate functions and the corporate office.
Peripheral the year from new data analytics and reporting.
A new master data and non-core businesses have been sold or closed, enabling the management system is being rolled out.
removal of associated central costs.
The next stage is focused on overhauling some of the Groups Administrative costs have been significantly reduced, notably in core underlying systems and associated processes, with the the UK, where the back office support functions for the Groups implementation of improved transportation and inventory insulation and roofing businesses in the UK have been combined management systems.
There are also plans to upgrade and and co-located in a single shared services centre in Sheffield.
The standardise the Kerridge ERP system in the UK during 2019 and finance back office in the UK has largely been outsourced to a third initial preparations are underway for the replacement of dated and party provider and work is ongoing with the outsourcing partner inefficient systems in France and Germany.
to optimise processes and enhance levels of financial control.
24 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Turnaround at SIG Distribution well Portfolio management continues at pace underway The Group's medium term strategy recognised that it had a number of smaller businesses which were peripheral to its core focus.
Progress has been most evident during 2018 in the turnaround in Management identified a number of these businesses as potential performance at SIG Distribution, the Groups specialist distributor of exit candidates, representing around 13% or 0.4bn of the statutory insulation and interiors products in the UK.
The business delivered Group revenues as reported at the FY 2016 results, either because 20.9m of operating profit in 2018, up from 3.5m in 2017. they had limited fit with Group strategy or because their small scale The turnaround of SIG Distribution was the Groups most immediate was a distraction to management.
In many cases, these businesses priority in the year.
The Group appointed a new Managing Director were also delivering a poor financial performance.
for the business, David Walmsley, early in 2018.
David brought The Group has continued to exit from these peripheral businesses extensive experience in business-to-business distribution, both during the year.
Ongoing management of the portfolio saw the in the UK and internationally, and joined SIG Distribution from disposals in 2018 of: Palletways, Europes largest pallet delivery network, where he was UK Managing Director.
Prior to that, he spent 25 years in a variety SIG Building Systems, a modular offsite construction business in of roles with Lyreco, the worldwide distributor of office supplies and the UK: workplace products.
GRM, a manufacturer of phenolic pipe insulation serving the UK's industrial and HVAC markets: He inherited a business that was ineffectively managed, with poor control over prices and costs and high levels of stock.
Branch IBSL, a UK fabricator and supplier of cryogenic and highemployees were distracted by a proliferation of internal initiatives temperature insulation solutions used by the petrochemical, and customer service was suffering as a result.
The business was in power generation and offshore exploration industries: urgent need of rapid improvement.
VJ Technology, a UK distributor of technical fixings, fasteners and consumables to the infrastructure, commercial and wider The business took radical actions in 2018 to deliver a step change construction industry: in performance.
It implemented price increases across key product ranges from the middle of the year and reviewed profitability by Roofspace, the Groups remaining UK offsite manufacturing customer to reduce exposure to low margin business.
As a result, business: and the business has seen gross margins increase by 200bps across the The trade and assets of Proteus, a UK-based faade panel systems year to 24.7% 2017: 22.7%.
The business restructured its branch organisation to a functional In addition, the Group closed SIG Cut Solutions, the Groups German model focused on sales, inventory, warehousing and transport and insulation conversion business, and took the decision to exit from its removed significant unnecessary regional structures, as a result Commercial Drainage business in the UK.
of which headcount was reduced in 2018 by 441.
The business The Group has now divested or closed businesses representing 11% implemented new performance management tools in support of FY 2016 statutory revenue.
The Group continues to evaluate the of sales effectiveness and operational efficiency.
Improved stock options for remaining potential exit candidates, in line with its stated profiling, new inventory processes and central control reduced strategy.
SIG Distribution delivered significant profit improvement as the year Establishment of pan-European Air progressed, with improved gross margins and lower operating costs Handling business providing an increase in underlying operating profit from 4.6m With the continuing disposal of peripheral businesses, the Groups in the first half to 16.3m in the second half with a return on sales activities now largely comprise three core lines of business: a excluding property profits in the second half of 4.9%.
As a result, specialist distributor of insulation and interiors across Europe, the business brings considerable financial benefits from these profit a roofing merchant in the UK and France, and a provider of air improvement actions into 2019. handling solutions.
The step change in performance at SIG Distribution has given The Group has transferred the last of its air handling businesses the Group confidence to accelerate the transformation in other formally into the Air Handling division, incorporating the branch major Group businesses, notably SIG Exteriors in the UK and the network and manufacturing subsidiaries of Ouest Isol & Ventil, the businesses in France and Germany.
These businesses are expected Groups specialist distributor of ventilation, air conditioning and to see improving financial performance in 2019 as a result.
technical insulation products in France, and SK Sales, the Groups specialist supplier of heating, ventilation and air conditioning Balance sheet further strengthened products in the UK.
Leverage reduction remains a key priority and the Group has continued to strengthen the balance sheet during the year.
Tactical The Air Handling division is a specialist provider of air handling actions to reduce debt, including the sale and lease back of property solutions operating in ten countries across Europe, with a track and the factoring of debtor receivables, were largely completed in record of attractive returns in fast-growing end markets.
As anticipated, the focus in 2018 turned towards structural combination provides an integrated platform with potential for reductions in levels of working capital, particularly stock.
In addition, continuing growth and significant profit enhancement.
the Group benefited from the disposal of peripheral businesses, The Board is reviewing strategic options for this business and has raising 35.8m in net proceeds.
As a result, headline financial engaged financial advisers to help with this review.
leverage has fallen sharply to 1.7x 2017: 2.3x.
The Group has now reduced net debt by over a third since the start of 2017 to 189.4m.
Further significant progress is expected during 2019 towards the Groups medium term target of headline financial leverage below 1.0x.
Read more on pages 42 and 43 www.
com Stock code: SHI 25 Performance Dividend Reporting our progress In 2018, the Group delivered underlying earnings per share of 9.3p 2017: 8.6p.
As a result, the Board is recommending payment of a final dividend for the year of 2.5p 2017: 2.5p per share.
Together Medium term Key financial outputs with the interim dividend of 1.25p 2017: 1.25p per share, this gives financial targets a total dividend for the year of 3.75p 2017: 3.75p per share, in line with the Groups stated policy to target dividend cover in the range of Like-for-like sales Revenue m 2-3x underlying earnings per share.
growth % Underlying gross In determining the final dividend, the Board has reviewed progress against its target of reducing headline financial leverage below 1.0x Return on sales % margin % over the medium term, particularly in the context of the weaker Return on capital Underlying PBT m trading conditions seen in the Groups largest markets during the latter part of 2018.
It has also considered the current defined benefit employed % Underlying EPS p pension deficit and recovery plan agreed as part of the triennial Headline financial valuation finalised in March 2018.
The Board remains confident that Dividend per delivery of the leverage target is on track.
leverage x share p Subject to approval at the Groups Annual General Meeting, the final Net debt m dividend is expected to be paid on 5 July 2019 to shareholders on Other indicators the register at the close of business on 7 June 2019.
The ex-dividend of progress date will be 6 June 2019.
Opex as % of sales People The Group would like to thank all employees of SIG for their Working capital as commitment and resilience in what has been a year of significant % of sales change.
Their efforts have delivered a step change in operational and financial performance as the year has progressed and they have laid a strong foundation for the further development of the Group in 2019 and beyond.
Current trading and outlook The Group brings considerable financial benefits into 2019 and the delivery of a step change in performance in SIG Distribution has given us confidence to accelerate the pace of transformation in other major Group businesses.
Trading conditions remain challenging, with the outlook in many of our end markets uncertain, and the Group expects continuing like-for-like sales declines in the first part of the year.
Notwithstanding these headwinds, the margin and cost actions taken in 2018 give us good visibility of further significant progress in the current year.
While much work remains to be done, our delivery in 2018 and the momentum brought into 2019 confirm that our transformation of SIG is on track.
The Group will provide a further update on trading and outlook on 8 May 2019, when it will hold its Annual General Meeting.
26 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT
