Board of Directors Andrew Allner BA FCA Non-Executive Chairman Age 65 Became Non-Executive Chairman on 1 November 2017. of RHM plc and CEO of Enodis plc.
He has also held Senior Executive positions with Dalgety plc, Amersham International External roles plc and Guinness plc.
Andrew is Chairman at The Go-Ahead Group plc and Fox Marble Holdings plc.
Key strengths Substantial Board and general management experience.
Experience and past roles Andrew has significant current listed company Board experience as Chairman and as Non-Executive Director.
He was previously Chairman at Marshalls plc and Non-Executive Director of Northgate plc, AZ Electronic Materials SA and CSR plc.
Previous executive roles include Group Finance Director Meinie Oldersma Chief Executive Officer Age 59 Ingram Micro China Group.
Meinie was also previously the Appointed a Director and Chief Executive Officer on 3 April Non-Executive Chairman of Kondor HOLDCO Ltd and a 2017.
Non-Executive Director of Bunzl Plc and KidsFoundation External roles Holdings B. V. Meinie is the Director of Oldersma Management & Key strengths Consultancy Ltd.
Considerable executive management and distribution Experience and past roles experience combined with substantial operational and Meinie was previously the Group Chief Executive of Brammer financial turnaround track record.
Limited, Europes leading specialist distributor of industrial maintenance, repair and overhaul products.
Prior to that, Meinie was CEO at 20:20 Mobile Group and President of Nick Maddock MA, ACA Chief Financial Officer Age 48 Appointed a Director and Chief Financial Officer on in Mergers and Acquisitions at ING Barings.
Nick trained as 1 February 2017. a chartered accountant and chartered tax advisor at Ernst & Young.
External roles Nick does not currently hold any external directorships.
Key strengths Extensive experience in delivering improved operational and Experience and past roles financial performance across a range of industries for public, Prior to joining SIG, Nick was Chief Financial Officer of private and private equity shareholders.
McCarthy & Stone plc, steering it towards its re-listing on the London Stock Exchange in November 2015.
Before this, Nick held senior finance roles at Centrica plc and was a Director Alan Lovell MA, FCA Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Age 65 Key strengths Became a Non-Executive Director on 1 August 2018.
Significant listed company Board experience.
Extensive External roles construction industry and turnaround experience in the UK Alan is Non-Executive Chairman of Safestyle UK plc and and Europe.
National Chair of the Consumer Council for Water.
Experience and past roles Alan has previously been the Chief Executive Officer of six companies Tamar Energy Limited, Infinis plc, Jarvis plc, Dunlop Slazenger Group Ltd, Costain Group plc and Conder Group plc.
Alan was also previously Chairman of Sepura plc and Flowgroup plc.
60 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE Andrea Abt MBA Non-Executive Director Age 58 sector for Infrastructure & Cities from 2011 to 2014.
Since Became a Non-Executive Director on 12 March 2015. joining Siemens in 1997, she held numerous positions in External roles Finance, Productivity and Supply Chain Management in Andrea is a Non-Executive Director of John Laing Group plc Germany and internationally.
and Petrofac Limited, and is a member of the Supervisory Key strengths Board of Gerresheimer AG.
Specialist knowledge of the European market, together with Experience and past roles considerable knowledge of supply chain and procurement.
Andrea was previously a Non-Executive Director of Brammer plc.
Previously, Andrea has been Head of Supply Chain Management and Chief Procurement Officer of the Siemens Committee of RHI Magnesita N. V. for which shareholder Janet Ashdown BSc Hons approval will be sought at their 2019 Annual General Meeting.
Non-Executive Director Janet does not intend to seek re-election as a Non-Executive Age 59 Director of the Company and will therefore retire from the Became a Non-Executive Director on 11 July 2011.
External roles Experience and past roles Janet is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Janet was previously a Non-Executive Director of Coventry and Chair of the Remuneration Committee of Marshalls Building Society.
Previously and until the end of 2012, Janet plc.
She is a Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Safety, was the Chief Executive Officer of Harvest Energy Limited Security and Environment Committee of the Nuclear and Blue Ocean Oil Trading Limited.
She previously worked Decommissioning Authority and a Non-Executive Director for BP plc for 30 years where her last role was as Head of of Victrex plc, where she also Chairs the Remuneration BPs Retail and Commercial Fuels business in the UK.
Janet has been nominated for appointment as a Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Sustainability Key strengths Strong commercial experience within global businesses.
Ian Duncan MA, ACA Non-Executive Director Age 57 Became a Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2017.
Committee at WANdisco plc and Fiberweb plc.
Ians last executive role was as Group Finance Director of Royal Mail External roles Group plc.
Ian is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Key strengths and Chair of the Audit Committee of Bodycote plc and a Extensive financial and change management experience Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee of including recent and relevant financial experience.
Experience and past roles Having developed a portfolio career since 2010, Ian was previously a Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit Cyrille Ragoucy MA Non-Executive Director Age 63 Became a Non-Executive Director on 1 August 2018.
Key strengths 25 years experience at senior levels in the European building External roles materials sector across the US, Canada, China, UK, France Cyrille is Non-Executive Chairman and interim Chief and Spain.
Highly international and trilingual in French, Executive of Balta Group NV.
He is also the Non-Executive English and Spanish.
Experience and past roles Cyrille was Chief Executive Officer of Tarmac Ltd until 2016.
Board Committees Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Mr I.
B. Duncan Chair Ms J. E. Ashdown Chair Mr A. J. Allner Chair Ms A. Abt Ms A. Abt Ms A. Abt Ms J. E. Ashdown Mr I.
B. Duncan Ms J. E. Ashdown Mr A. C. Lovell Mr A. C. Lovell Mr I.
B. Duncan Mr C. M. P. Ragoucy Mr C. M. P. Ragoucy Mr A. C. Lovell Mr M. Oldersma Mr C. M. P. Ragoucy www.
