Strategic Report Our market PENETRATE EXISTING 3 MARKETS AND DRIVE LONG-TERM VALUE Expected global distribution Market penetration strategy The Companys strategy is based on the following opportunities: BRAZIL 2.5 Mtpa Product substitution the multi-nutrient content of POLY4 allows customers the 10.7 opportunity to incorporate POLY4 into their existing cropping systems as a source of potassium, magnesium, Mtpa calcium and sulphur by substituting theirexisting fertilizers with POLY4.
PEAK AGGREGATE VOLUME Unmet market demand the farming SUPPLY AGREEMENTS community increasingly acknowledges the need for balanced fertilization.
There is CHINA 2.5 Mtpa also a significant unmet demand for chloride-free potassium.
32% of total potassium consumption is used on US$140- chloride-sensitive crops of which only 9% ischloride free.
According to analysis by industry specialists, the increasing demand for key attributes of POLY4, such as its suitability for use on chloride- 150 t sensitive crops and its ability to address sulphur and magnesium soil deficiencies WEIGHTED AVERAGE SUPPLY AGREEMENT PRICE IN FIRST accounts for a total of 101Mtpa of POLY4 EUROPE 2.5 Mtpa 5 YEARS OF PRODUCTION demand potential.
Product performance Yield performance on broad-acre and high-value crops commands a premium.
POLY4 has been shown to improve cropquality and health, as well as soil structure.
Demand for multi-nutrient fertilizers continues to grow and as the performance of POLY4 becomes more widely validated, it is expected that so willits ability to attract a premium price.
NORTH AMERICA 1.55 Mtpa SE ASIA 0.75 Mtpa OTHER LATAM 0.55 Mtpa AFRICA 0.35 Mtpa 22 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 2018 progress Measuring Performance: Supply agreements We continue to successfully grow the distribution of 2.5 Mtpa in peak aggregate Sales & Marketing customer base for POLY4 through our volumes into Brazil and certain other South 2018 Key milestones take-or-pay supply agreements which American countries.
The agreement provides will support our ability to penetrate existing the Company with access to a globally TARGET: fertilizer markets when we reach production.
important and fast-growing fertilizer market.
Expand global agronomic In 2018 Sirius signed binding take-or-pay Through its supply agreements and programme and establish supply agreements totalling 4.8 Mtpa strategic investment, Sirius has developed 80 new trials in peak aggregate volume to distribute strategic partnerships with leading industry 2018: COMPLETE our POLY4 product into the important players with not only the necessary Total of 4.8 Mtpa peak markets of Africa, South America and infrastructure to deliver POLY4 into the aggregate volume take-or-pay China once production begins.
We are hands of farmers but also with the capability supply agreements entered pleased that our distribution network will to collaboratively develop and enhance the into in 2018 for the supply of be diversified around the globe when we value proposition that POLY4 presents.
POLY4 into Nigeria, China, begin production.
The Company continues to progress Brazil and certain other Our customers have agreed to buy a keycommercial discussions in a number countries in South America minimum amount of POLY4 at a contracted ofregions across the world with the price linked to underlying nutrient values.
aim ofdelivering further take-or-pay The weighted average price per tonne of our supply agreements.
POLY4 product is expected to be US$140- Post period end, the Company announced 1 US$150 in the first five years of production.
it had entered into a supply and distribution This price point is expected to deliver agreement with BayWa AG for the significant profit margins to Sirius.
The During the year, the Company also aggregate peak contracted sales volume completed the acquisition of a 30 per cent.
equity interest in each of the Cibra Group Note: Companies Cibra for 95,000,000 ordinary 1.
Represents the weighted average price point of existing shares in Sirius.
The agreement is linked supply agreements using independent third-party fertilizer price forecasts expressed in nominal terms to the supply agreement with Cibra for the Supply agreement distribution Our partners Measured by taking the aggregate peak contracted sales volume under the respective agreements 2.5 1.55 Mtpa Mtpa 2.5 Mtpa 0.75 Mtpa 2 0.55 2.5 0.35 Mtpa Mtpa Mtpa Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 23
