Strategic Report What we are constructing MAIN SHAFTS WORK DECKS Industry-leading design and construction techniques Control cabin are being deployed to develop the largest mine of its and work type anywhere in the world.
The low-impact design places coupled with an innovative ore delivery system is setting Infrastructure a new standard for sustainable mine development.
components Pneumatic mucking system Kibbles for hosting At the Woodsmith Mine site, two deep mineshafts, the production shaft and service shaft, are being constructed to access thepolyhalite in the centre of the mineral reserve.
These main mine shafts are being constructed with aninitial hoist capacity of13 Mtpa.
Athird shaft, the MTS access shaft willalso be constructed.
The MTS accessshaft is being constructed to facilitate construction of the MTS.
ROCK SUPPORT AREA Shotcrete Shaft construction will utilise world-leading and rock shaft-sinking methodologies.
Our shaftbolting sinking partner, DMC, has elected to use the Herrenknecht SBR to construct the main Shaft lining mine shafts.
The SBRpatented technology allows for safe and efficient shaft excavation EXCAVATION without the needfor explosives and enables AREA the simultaneous installation of shaft lining Boom with asconstruction advances.
cutting drum The MTS access shaft is being constructed using a combination of conventional shaft sinking methodologies and, for the initial 120m, the Herrenknecht VSM.
The Shaft-boring roadheader SBR VSM employs a mechanical cutting and excavation system.
The permanent shaft lining is installed concurrently as excavation advances.
To achieve full 20 Mtpa capacity, the MTS access shaft at the Woodsmith Mine will require further deepening from the 360m level to the polyhalite mining horizon.
CGI image of Woodsmith site on completion 12 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 13 Mtpa INSTALLED CAPACITY 20 Mtpa EXPANDED CAPACITY Our development comprises long-life infrastructure which secures the Projects long-term, high-volume and low-cost production capability.
Two deep shafts will access the polyhalite seam.
Woodsmith Mine service shaft foreshaft 13 Strategic Report What we are constructing continued MINERAL TRANSPORT SYSTEM The MTS will carry mined polyhalite ore 37km underground from the Woodsmith Mine to the MHF at Wilton International.
37km Ahigh-capacity conveyor will transport LENGTH mined polyhalite ore within a 4.9m The MTS incorporates industrydiameter, segmentally-lined tunnel.
250m standard equipment, providing TheMTS incorporates industry-standard AVG.
DEPTH equipment, providing a transport system a transport system that is that is reliable, low-maintenance and 20 Mtpa low-cost.
The MTS is being constructed reliable, low-maintenance INSTALLED CAPACITY tooperate at 20 Mtpa capacity.
STRABAG will construct the MTS usingthree TBMswith each one excavating around 12km.
TBMs are a widely used tunnel construction methodology designed for safe and efficient operation.
TBMs will be launched from a surface portal at Wilton and from excavated caverns at the base ofthe MTS access shafts at Lockwood Beck and the Woodsmith Mine site.
The MTS is being constructed within the Redcar mudstonegeological formation: acontinuous rock type which extends between the minehead and the port.
TheRedcar mudstone can be excavated efficiently and has the structural integrity toaccommodate a tunnel.
MTS drive 1 tunnel boring machine LOCKWOOD WOODSMITH BECK MINE WILTON 360m MTS REDCAR MUDSTONE DRIVE 1: 12KM DRIVE 2: 12KM DRIVE 3: 12KM 0KM 37km MTS cross section simplified design image, labelled 14 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information MATERIALS PORT HANDLING FACILITY FACILITY Located on Teesside at the Wilton The Project benefits from being close International site, the MHF is where toa port, relative to other fertilizer theMTSdischarges polyhalite ore at producers.
The Group has entered surface and will consist of the plant and into a materials handling agreement equipment necessary for a simple and with the RBT to provide port and ship cost-effective granulation process to loading services for up to 10 Mtpa of produce bulk volumes of our primary finished product.
The RBT on the River product, POLY4.
POLY4 will be produced Tees is ideally located for the bulk in granular and coarse form.
Upon arrival at the MHF, the polyhalite ore POLY4 will be transported around 4km via willundergo a simple process of crushing, a raisedcovered conveyor from the MHF grinding, granulation, screening and to a new storage facility constructed dryingto produce the finished POLY4 adjacent to the RBT.
capacity will be for 255,000 tonnes of finished product, with the capacity to JACOBS will construct the MHF to havean expand.
At the RBT, McLaughlin & initial production capacity of 10 Mtpa and a Harveywill construct a new ship loader footprint that will enable an increase in and tripper conveyor gallery capable capacity to 20 Mtpa.
When the granulation ofloading Panamax vessels at 5,000 process is complete, POLY4 will be tonnes perhour.
transferred from the MHF via an overland conveyor to the port facility at the RBT on Expansion to facilitate an increase in the River Tees forefficient ship loading.
production to full 20 Mtpa capacity will require the installation of additional berths and ship loaders.
The fully permitted Bran Sands site immediately upriver from the RBT has thecapacity to accommodate this future expansion to 20 Mtpa.
POLY4 PROCESS FLOW CHART 37km FROM CRUSHING WOODSMITH Run of mine ore is nominally crushedtobelow 50mm The Project benefits from being close to GRINDING a port, relative to other Crushed ore ground to pass 0.2mm fertilizer producers.
GRANULATION Binder and water added topolyhalitepowder and granulated toformPOLY4 granules SCREENING POLY4 granules screened.
Oversize and undersize removed for reprocessing DRYING POLY4 granules dried to final moisture content, ready for storage anddelivery Redcar Bulk Terminal RBT Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 15
