Regulatory matters annulment of the decision.
On 23 December 2016, the Italian Administrative Below is an overview of the ongoing investigations and Court TAR Lazio, upheld Sky Italias appeal and annulled the ICA decision reviews of regulatory and competition matters involving in its entirety.
On 23 March 2017 the ICA filed an appeal against the TAR the Group.
decision before the Consiglio di Stato.
The date of the hearing before the Consiglio di Stato has not been fixed yet.
European Commission investigation 21st Century Foxs offer for Sky On 13 January 2014, the European Commission the EC opened a formal When announced, the 21st Century Fox Offer see further details on page antitrust investigation into cross-border provision of pay TV services in the 34 was subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain pre-conditions, European Union.
The investigation was opened into certain provisions principally being regulatory clearances.
relating to territorial protection in licence agreements between major On 16 March 2017, the Secretary of State for Digital, Culture, Media and US film studios Twentieth Century Fox, Warner Bros. Sony Pictures, NBC Sport the Secretary of State and DCMS respectively intervened on Universal, Paramount and Disney and key European pay TV broadcasters media plurality and broadcasting standards grounds.
On 14 September Sky UK, Canal Plus, Sky ltalia, Sky Deutschland and DTS, operating under 2017, following reports from Ofcom and the Competition and Markets the Canal Plus brand in Spain.
On 23 July 2015, the EC adopted a Statement Authority the CMA, the Secretary of State referred the 21st Century Fox of Objections, setting out its preliminary finding that there has been an Offer for an in-depth Phase II review on both grounds.
infringement of EU Competition law involving Sky UK and on 12 January 2018 the EC sent a Letter of Facts setting out additional supporting evidence in On 1 May 2018, the CMA provided its final report to the Secretary of State, relation to that preliminary finding.
Sky UK and the Studios have responded concluding that the transaction may be expected to operate against the to the ECs case, both in written responses in particular October 2015 and public interest on media plurality grounds, but that divestment of Sky News March 2018 and at an oral hearing January 2016.
In addition, Paramount to Disney or another suitable purchaser, as proposed by Fox, would be an has proposed commitments which the EC accepted in July 2016.
The EC has effective and proportionate remedy to address this concern.
The CMA not yet reached its final views and the Group is not yet able to determine concluded that the transaction may not be expected to operate against the outcome of the investigation or its financial impact.
However, should the public interest on broadcasting standards grounds.
the outcome be adverse to Sky UK, this may have a significant effect on On 5 June 2018, the Secretary of State made a statement to Parliament the financial position or profitability of the Group.
explaining that he agreed with the CMAs findings on public interest grounds and with its finding that undertakings to divest Sky News to Ofcom investigation into Skys compliance with rules Disney or to an alternative suitable buyer could potentially remedy the about cancellation and termination arrangements public interest concerns identified, subject to further discussion with DCMS officials in order to reach agreement on an acceptable form of the remedy.
On 6 August 2015, Ofcom opened an investigation on whether there are reasonable grounds for believing that Sky has failed to comply with its On 19 June 2018, following the successful conclusion of discussions with obligations under the Ofcom General Conditions of Entitlement which DCMS officials, the Secretary of State published updated undertakings require communication providers to ensure that their conditions or offered by 21st Century Fox along with new undertakings offered by Disney procedures for contract termination do not act as a disincentive for for the divestment of Sky News to Disney.
end-users changing their communication providers.
On 7 August 2017, On 12 July 2018, following a period of public consultation: the Secretary of Ofcom closed the investigation deciding to take no further enforcement State published final versions of the undertakings offered by 21st Century action, following consideration of Skys representations.
Fox and Disney and confirmed his acceptance that they address the concerns raised by the CMA with respect to media plurality.
21st Century Competition law investigation into 2014 Serie A auction Fox has now satisfied or waived all regulatory pre-conditions to the 21st On 19 April 2016, the Italian Competition Authority the ICA made its final Century Fox Offer.
decision in relation to the award of Serie A TV Broadcasting Rights for the 2015-18 seasons.
According to the ICA, Lega Nazionale Professionisti Serie Comcasts offer for Sky A, its advisor Infront Italy S. r. l. and TV broadcasters Sky Italia, Reti Televisive When announced, the Comcast Offer see further details on page 34 was Italiane S. p. A. and its subsidiary Mediaset Premium S. p. A. entered into subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain pre-conditions, principally an anticompetitive agreement in breach of Art.
101 of the Treaty on the being UK and EU regulatory clearances.
Functioning of the European Union to change the award of TV broadcasting rights for the 2015-18 seasons Serie A matches.
With respect to Sky Italia, On 5 June 2018, the Secretary of State confirmed that the Comcast Offer the ICA concluded that it had played a marginal and defensive role in the does not raise public interest concerns, and he would not intervene on infringement in order to obtain the award of at least one of the two public interest grounds.
On 15 June 2018, the European Commission packages that should have been assigned to Sky Italia based on the unconditionally cleared the Comcast Offer.
The Comcast Offer is tendered offers.
Moreover, Sky Italia extensively co-operated with the conditional on the receipt of various other regulatory clearances, ICA during the proceedings.
Accordingly, the ICA imposed a fine equal to the main outstanding one being Irish media merger clearance.
On 18 June 2016, Sky Italia filed an appeal seeking the 28 Sky plc Strategic report Ofcoms fit and proper decision On 29 June 2017, under its duty under the Broadcasting Acts to be satisfied that broadcast licensees are fit and proper on an ongoing basis, Ofcom published its decision that Sky would remain a fit and proper holder of UK broadcast licences following the completion of the 21st Century Fox Offer.
On 29 September 2017, the Avaaz Foundation issued judicial review proceedings of Ofcoms fit and proper decision, and on 22 January 2018, was granted permission by the High Court to bring its claim.
On 19 and 20 June 2018, the main hearing took place and judgment is now awaited.
Forward-looking statements This document contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to our financial condition, results of operations and business, and our strategy, plans and objectives.
These statements include, without limitation, those that express forecast, expectations and projections, such as forecasts, expectations and projections with respect to new products and services, the potential for growth of free-to-air and pay television, fixed-line telephony, broadband and bandwidth requirements, advertising growth, DTH, DTT and OTT customer growth, On Demand, NOW TV, Sky Go, Sky Go Extra, Sky HD, Sky Q, Sky Store, Sky Online, IPTV, Sky Mobile, Sky Ticket, Multiscreen and other services, churn, revenue, profitability and margin growth, cash flow generation, programming costs, subscriber management and supply chain costs, administration costs and other costs, marketing expenditure, capital expenditure programmes and proposals for returning capital to shareholders.
Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, these statements and all other forward-looking statements contained in this document are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, are difficult to predict and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied or forecast in the forward-looking statements.
These factors include, but are not limited to, those risks that are highlighted in this document in the section entitled Principal risks and uncertainties, and information on the significant risks and uncertainties associated with our business is described therein.
No part of this document constitutes, or shall be taken to constitute, an invitation or inducement to invest in the Company or any other entity and must not be relied upon in any way in connection with any investment decision.
All forward-looking statements in this document are based on information known to us on the date hereof.
Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation publicly to update or revise any forwardlooking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
