Governance Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company and the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Additional disclosures Other information that is relevant to this report is incorporated by reference, including information required in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and associated regulations, Listing Rules and Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR.
The following sets out where items to be included in this report under Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 can be found: Disclosure Location Indication of future developments Pages 1 to 41 Financial risk management Pages 28 to 29 Page 37 Pages 116 to 120 Research and development Pages 20 to 21 Greenhouse gas emissions Page 33 Employees Page 34 to 35 Financial instruments Page 118 to 119 Post balance sheet events Page 116 The following sets out where items required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 can be found: Disclosure Location Interest capitalised Page 101 Details of long-term incentive schemes Page 67 to 69 Contracts of significance Page 84 Waiver of emoluments by a Director Page 65 Shareholder waiver of dividends Page 84 Shareholder waiver of future dividends Page 84 Strategic Report The Company is required by the Companies Act to include a Strategic Report in this Annual Report, which provides an overview of the development and performance of the Companys business in the year ended 31 December 2018 and its position at the end of that year, and which covers likely future developments in the business of the Company and the Group.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Strategic Report can be found on pages 1 to 41, which are incorporated by reference.
For the purposes of compliance with DTR 4.1.
8 R, the required content of the management report can found in the Strategic Report and this report, including the sections of the Annual Report incorporated by reference.
Company status Sirius Minerals Plc is a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales.
It has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange main market for listed securities LON:SXX and is a constituent member of the FTSE 250 Index.
Branches outside the UK The Company has no branches.
Directors The Directors of the Company as at the date of approval of this Annual Report, including their biographical details, are set out on pages 44 and 45.
Copies of Executive Directors service contracts are available to shareholders for inspection at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
Details of the Directors remuneration and service contracts and their interests in the shares of the Company are included in the Directors Remuneration Report, which is set out on pages 61 to 81.
82 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Appointment and replacement of Directors The appointment and replacement of Directors is governed by the Companys Articles of Association Articles, the Code, the Companies Act 2006 Act and related legislation.
The Board may appoint a Director either to fill a casual vacancy or as an addition to the Board so long as the total number of Directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the Articles.
An appointed Director must retire and seek election to office at the next AGM of the Company.
In addition to any power of removal conferred by the Act, the Company may by ordinary resolution remove any Director before the expiry of their period of office and may, subject to the Articles, by ordinary resolution appoint another person who is willing to act as a Director in their place.
In line with the Code and the Boards policy, all Directors are required to stand for re-election at each AGM.
In accordance with the Code, all the Directors will retire at the 2019 AGM and offer themselves for re-election.
The Board is satisfied that each Director is qualified for re-election by virtue of their skills, experience and contribution to the Board.
In addition, the Board considers that all Directors have the necessary skills and experience as set out in their biographies on pages 44 and45.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the provisions of the Articles, the Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company.
A shareholders authority for the purchase by the Company of a maximum of 10% of its own shares was in existence during the year.
However, the Company did not purchase any of its shares during that time.
The authority expires at the forthcoming AGM and it is proposed that a similar authority be approved.
Conflicts of interest Under the Companies Act 2006 and the provisions of the Companys Articles, the Board is required to consider potentialconflicts of interest.
The Company has established formal procedures for the disclosure and review of any conflicts, or potential conflicts, of interest which the Directors may have and for the authorisation of such matters of conflict by the Board.
To this end the Board considers and, ifappropriate, authorises any conflicts, or potential conflicts, of interest as they arise and reviews any such authorisation regularly.
TheBoard believes that the procedures established to deal with conflicts of interest are operating effectively.
Directors indemnities and insurance The Company has provided each Director with an indemnity to the extent permitted by law in respect of the liabilities incurred as a result of their holding office as a Director of the Company.
The Company had in place appropriate Directors and Officers Liability insurance cover in respect of potential legal action against its Directors during the year and up to the date of the signing of the Annual Report.
Directors interests in contracts Except as stated in note 21 on page 115, no contract existed during the year in relation to the Companys business in which any Director was materially interested.
Major shareholdings The table below shows the holdings in the Companys issued share capital which had been notified to the Company pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules as at 30 April 2019.
The information in this table was correct at the date of notification.
It should be noted that these holdings are likely to have changed since the Company was notified.
However, notification of any change is not required until the next notifiable threshold is crossed.
Owner Date notified Shares issued % The Capital Group Companies, Inc 08.04.2019 219,482,361 4.5754 Jupiter Asset Management Limited 13.03.2014 111,173,507 5.966 Basis of preparation of the financial statements The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the going concern assumption.
However, the Directors recognise that there are a number of material uncertainties inherent in the Project which may cast significant doubt on the Projects ability to continue as a going concern.
The impact of these uncertainties on the Directors consideration of the going concern assumption is set out in note 1 to the financial statements and is also specifically referred to in our independent auditors opinion which accompanies the financial statements.
Political contributions During the year, the Company sponsored a Northern Powerhouse Evening Reception, a Northern Leaders lunch, attended and exhibited at the 2018 Conservative Party Conference and attended two local political dinners, all of which totalled 27,515.04.
Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 83 Governance Directors Report continued Share capital As at 31 December 2018, the Companys issued share capital was made up of 4,797,057,259 Ordinary shares of 0.25 pence each, which each carry one vote at general meetings of the Company.
No shares are held in treasury.
Details of shares issued during the year are set out in note 12 on page 107.
Except as stated in the Articles or in applicable legislation, there are no restrictions on the transfer of the shares in the Company and there are no restrictions on the voting rights in the Companys shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements entered into between any shareholders in the Company which restrict the transfer of shares or the exercise of any voting rights attached to the shares.
Share schemes As at 31 December 2018, Sanne Fiduciary Services Limited Sanne, as trustee of the Sirius Minerals Plc Employee benefit Trust Trustee, held 19,457,639 Shares, which are held jointly by Sanne as Trustee and employees as JOE Award holders under the JOE Awards JOE Shares and 885,636 shares in trust to satisfy future employee share awards the Shares.
The Trustee has agreed to waive rights to vote or receive dividends in respect of the JOE Shares and the Shares.
The JOE Award holders have agreed to waive rights to vote or receive dividends until the exercise of the JOE Awards.
More information on the JOE Awards can be found intheDirectors Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 81.
Articles of Association Amendments to the Companys Articles can only be made by means of special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders of the Company.
Significant agreements The Company is not a party to any significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
There are provisions in the Executive Directors service agreements in relation to change of control which are described in detail in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 81.
External auditors The Companys external auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the AGM.
Disclosure of information to auditors As far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys external auditors are unaware.
Each Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and toestablish that the Companys external auditors are aware of that information.
Annual General Meeting The 2019 AGM will be held at 1pm on Thursday 13 June 2019 at The Events Centre, The Principal York, Station Road, York, YO24 1AA.
The Notice of 2019 AGM will be available on our website and sent to shareholders in the format selected by them.
The Directors Report was approved by the Board on 30 April 2019 and signed on its behalf by: Nicholas King General Counsel and Company Secretary Sirius Minerals Plc Registered no.
04948435 84 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018
