Strategic Report WORKING RESPONSIBLY Responsibility is one of the Companys core values, aswe recognise that our success goes hand in hand with positive community engagement, protecting the environment, supporting and keeping our people safe.
Underpinned by good governance, our three pillars of responsibility, listed below, inform everything we do.
This section provides an COMMUNITY overview of the Companys activities across the three ENVIRONMENT pillars over the last year.
PEOPLE 900 PEOPLE WORKING THE COMPANY'S 2018 RESPONSIBLE ON THE PROJECT BUSINESSREPORT, WHICH IS AVAILABLE ONTHE SIRIUS MINERALS WEBSITE, PROVIDES MORE DETAIL OF HOW WE WORK RESPONSIBLY.
66% OF WORKFORCE FROM LOCAL AREA COMMUNITY towards these services totalled 162,000, were at risk of disengaging from the The Company takes its responsibility education system.
including East Cleveland Employment and to the local area very seriously and is Skills Hub which has helped 200 people Sirius is a member of the North Yorkshire committed to taking an active and fromthe area to secure jobs.
Coast Opportunity Area Board, a positive role in the local community.
As part of the Companys approach to government initiative to improve social Throughout 2018, Sirius has made growa local workforce, Sirius launched its mobility for young people living in areas of ameaningful contribution to the engineering apprenticeship programme deprivation.
In recognition of its education economic and social well-being inNovember 2018.
This will create 50 programme, Sirius was invited to give a ofthe area, as well as continuing newadvanced engineering technician presentation at Parliament to MPs and toeffectively engage with apprenticeships, with the first ten being senior civil servants about the positive role recruited to start in September 2019. that businesses can play in helping to localstakeholders.
Jobs and skills In addition, the Company is funding a Education outreach programme The Company has a long-term target 1million programme in Tees Valley and The Companys education programme that80% of the workforce will be sourced North Yorkshire to support the science, aimsto increase the skills and aspirations from the local area when the Project is technology, engineering and maths STEM ofyoung people in the area.
During construction it was curriculum over the next ten years.
In Company has worked with 70 schools and anticipated that 35% of the workforce 2018this programme engaged 8,000 engaged over 20,000 young people from would be local, but this figure was youngpeople.
In 2018, the Company exceeded in 2018, boosted by the efforts tookpart in 56 education events including ofSirius and its contractors tomake presentations and activities to improve Sirius Minerals Foundation opportunities available to localpeople.
employability skills, site visits and The Sirius Minerals Foundation has been workingwith groups of disadvantaged In December 2018 there were 900 people established as an independent charity to young people.
working on the Project across four sites support community projects that benefit Woodsmith Mine, Wilton, Lockwood Beck This included a four-week project with a thelocal area.
For the construction period, and Resolution House in Scarborough group of young carers secondary school Sirius has made an initial payment of and two-thirds were from the local area.
students who juggle their studies whilst 2million to the Foundation and during caring for a relative to help them to operations will contribute an annual royalty The Company has attended jobs fairs develop their confidence, communication of 0.5% of its revenue.
throughout 2018 and continues to support skills and experience of the world of work.
services run by local councils to help people The first round of funding was awarded Another successful six-week project worked find employment and gain the skills and inDecember 2017, providing a total of with a small group of year nine girls who qualifications they need.
In 2018, funding 300,000 towards 80 projects across 30 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Companys Measuring education Performance: programme aims Community toincrease the skills and aspirations of Jobs created young people in 2018: 900 total working onproject December 2018 the area.
Local employment TARGET: 35% of Project workforce from local area 2018: 66% Education outreach TARGET: Participate in 20 activities 2018: 56 Community engagement TARGET: Attend 20 public meetings 2018: 30 Responding to complaints 2018: 36 complaints received and resolved thelocal area.
These projects have been Forum and the Woodsmith to the World delivered in 2018 and have supported a wide exhibition which was held at Whitby and range of people and community groups including RedcarMuseums.
In addition, the Company the elderly, people with disabilities, families and gave 19 presentations to local interest groups.
vulnerable young people, the homeless, sports Keeping residents that live nearby the Project clubs and other community facilities.
In addition to its The second round of funding opened in autumn 24-hour community helpline, the Company has continued to regularly contact households near 2018, inviting applications for projects that focus on education, training and skills, and supporting the Woodsmith and Lockwood sites.
The Company recognises its responsibility to respond quickly to questions and concerns.
In total the Company received 36 complaints in Community engagement 2018 19 related to the Woodsmith site, four to The Company recognises that it has a Lockwood Beck, five to off-site geotechnical responsibility to keep the community updated works and a further eight about the works by about the Project.
In 2018 the Company thestatutory provider to bring mains power to attended 30 public meetings, including parish site.
All were investigated quickly and resolved.
councils, the Projects quarterly Liaison Group Funding community projects The Foundation is supporting community groups, sports clubs, schools, charities and village halls across the Project area, including Redcar, East Cleveland, the Esk Valley and Whitby.
The activities funded include improving community facilities and restoration works, new equipment, supporting families and vulnerable people, environmental enhancements, and education and training.
Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 31 Strategic Report Working responsibly The Company is committed to ENVIRONMENT minimising the impact of construction as well as delivering environmental Through the large-scale supply of POLY4, The Companys Greenhouse Gas GHG the Company will make a significant and performance in 2018, as set out on page 33, enhancements.
sustainable contribution to global food is calculated in line with the 2018 edition of security and we are already working with DEFRA's Greenhouse gas reporting: arangeof stakeholders to promote better conversion factors'.
This includes direct GHG agricultural practices across the world.
emissions from the combustion of fuels Scope 1 and indirect GHG emissions from In delivering the Project, the Company is the consumption of purchased electricity, committed to minimising the environmental steam or other sources of energy Scope 2. impact of construction as well as delivering environmental enhancements.
Safeguarding and enhancing theenvironment Minimising construction impact As part of its planning permissions, the The Company continues to work closely Company is providing significant funding with the relevant planning authorities to forenvironmental projects in the NYMNP ensure that all construction activities are which the Company expects will amount to carried out in accordance with planning 130million over the next 100 years.
conditions, through a series of phased conditions discharge submissions and In 2018 the Company provided funding of amendments to planning approvals.
518,000 towards landscape and ecology projects, woodland creation and initiatives The approach to conditions discharge to increase the understanding of the areas ensures that construction can progress and geological and archaeological assets.
that impacts are limited across a range of environmental matters including lighting, The landscape and ecology programme noise, landscape, wildlife and ecology, and included improvements to footpaths and air quality.
In 2018, a total of 21 phases of bridleways, restoration of historic buildings conditions discharges were carried out and monuments and a variety of projects across all Project sites, plus five section toimprove wildlife habitats.
96a non-material amendments and three Over the next 100 years the woodland section 73 minor material amendments creation scheme will create a total of to the Project's planning permissions.
7,000hectares of new mixed deciduous Compliance with planning conditions is woodland, equating to 10 million trees in aminimum standard and the Company is theNational Park.
This will help to offset committed to looking for opportunities to carbon emissions generated by the Project further reduce the environmental impact and enhance the character and landscape ofthe Project by going beyond what is of the area, creating more diverse wildlife required bythe planning permission.
In 2018 alone, 40,000 trees have been planted.
For example, 2018 has seen the need fordiesel-generated power significantly The Company is also working with North reduced by installing mains power to Yorkshire Skill Mill, which is an initiative thesite, which helps to improve local air aimed at increasing the skills and quality, noise and emissions at source.
confidence of young people from the youth justice and care systems.
The Skill Mill Traffic management has continued to be teamhas undertaken a wide range of effective in 2018, which saw the introduction environmental works and improvements of the Projects park-and-ride facility near to community facilities in the Project area.
This has resulted in a significant reduction in the number of cars travelling tothe Woodsmith site.
Supporting sustainable 40,000  During 2018 there has been an increase Global food security is one of the most inwildlife around the attenuation ponds at TREES PLANTED significant challenges facing the world today.
Woodsmith, including five different species IN 2018 Conventional large-scale agricultural of dragonfly.
Summer bat surveys noted systems are unable to meet the increased three different species of bats and areas of demand for food production without harming the site were seeded with a locally sourced the environment and have been responsible rare wildflower mix to further encourage for adverse impacts such as climate change, wildlife to thrive.
0 pollution, soil degradation, deforestation and ENVIRONMENTAL habitat loss.
INCIDENTS 32 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Measuring Performance: Environment GHG emissions Scope 1 2018: 4,852 TCO 2e POLY4, a naturally occurring multiGHG emissions Scope 2 nutrient mineral with a very low carbon 2018: 639 TCO 2e footprint, has a wide range of positive Gross carbon emissions environmental characteristics that will 2018: 5,491 TCO 2e help farmers to boost crop yields in a waythat is environmentally sustainable.
Intensity metric: per10millionspend Good nutrient stewardship ensuring 2018:152 thatnutrients are applied on the right crop at the correct rate, time and place is at NOx emissions the heart of the Companys approach TARGET: 25% reduction in NOx inworking with a wide range of emissions against consented stakeholders to promote sustainable scenario at Woodsmith 2018: 66% agricultural methods.
The Companys global R&D programme Environmental has gone from strength to strength, with compliance 382 trials initiated to date in partnership TARGET: Zero enforcement orders 2018: 0 with over 130 agricultural universities and research institutions on 42 crops in 28 Environmental incidents different countries.
In 2018, 110 new trials TARGET: 0 were started on 32 crops in 21 countries.
2018: 0 The Company has an unrivalled technical knowledge of polyhalite and has continued to share its understanding of POLY4 with its customers.
In 2018 this has included working closely with Cibra inBrazil and ADM in North America.
Bothrecognise that POLY4 helps crops touptake the nutrients they need more efficiently, rather than losing them to theenvironment, and that POLY4 has a positive impact on the soil environment.
Enhancements andoffsetting Significant funding for environmental 40,000 schemes through our S106 agreement TREES PLANTED with North York Moors National Park IN 2018 Authority have been made as part of Woodsmith Mines planning permission, which will amount to 130million over 100 years.
0 ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 33 Strategic Report Working responsibly PEOPLE As the workforce has grown throughout stand at 2,549,597.
The Project's LTIFR, 2018, the Company has continued to which is a rolling 12month average of focuson keeping people safe, together incidents per million person hours, was withinvesting in activities designed to 3.54 at the end of 2018. strengthen the Companys culture and Within the LTIFR statistics there were five enable the workforce to deliver the Project incidents that the Company reported to the on time and on budget.
Health and Safety Executive under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013 Health and safety RIDDOR.
This included one incident at the Sirius is developing a 'one team' approach Wilton site where a worker sustained a to delivering the Companys goals safely, serious injury during piling works.
A rigorous where everyone on the Project, whoever investigation was carried outand changes they work for, is valued for their to working practices were implemented contribution.
Our commitment to safety across all sites as a result.
is at the heart of this approach, with collaboration, transparency, support and lessons learned across work Growing our people groups stimulating safe and efficient The Sirius team has continued to grow working practices.
throughout 2018, with 65 new employees Our safety culture is one where everyone joining the Company which numbered 156 is encouraged and expected to focus on by the end of the year.
The vast majority using their experience and knowledge every of the Companys workforce is based in day in thinking about the tasks they are North Yorkshire, with staff also located undertaking, and on looking after each at the London office, as well as around other whoever their employer is.
20 people who are based outside of the UK.
The Group now has a mix During 2018 the main technical focus of 18 different nationalities.
areas have been the management of major hazards, and effective mobilisation of The total Project team working across construction teams who have the tools thefour sites in Yorkshire and Teesside and attitudes to allow them to deliver the hasincreased to 900, including the wider Project safely.
workforce of the construction contractors and sub-contractors.
Construction is a dynamic environment, with a wide variety of potentially hazardous The Company has continued to attract activities across many engineering localtalent, with 82% of direct employees disciplines.
Our formal, intensive hazard sourced from the communities where the identification HAZID process assesses Company operates.
Retention rates are each workscope before construction starts good, with the Companys voluntary staff in order to assess potential accident turnover remaining very low with less than hazards, with any major hazard those that 5% moving on from the business.
have the potential to seriously harm people The Company has supported the team being further analysed and managed to in2018 with a programme of learning ensure work can be done safely.
In addition 2018 more than 50 of these HAZIDs were to staff that have completed the required carried out together with contractors to compliance-based training, 45% have helpprevent incidents across the Project.
enrolled in training to support their Formal onboarding of contractors and personal development.
workgroups was another area of extensive activity during the year, with contractors Empowering our people and key sub-contractors visited and Building and maintaining a diverse, dynamic assessed before they were allowed to workforce is critical to the success of the mobilise to site.
In 2018 the Company focused on were undertaken in 2018. activities to inform, engage and empower Person hours on the Project increased the wider Project team, including the throughout 2018, with a total of 1,411,234 construction workforce, to help create a hours worked during the year.
Hours sense of personal responsibility for the part worked on the Project up to the end of 2018 they play in the teams collective success.
34 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The total Project Measuring team working Performance: across the four People2018 sites in Yorkshire Lost Time Injury and Teesside has FrequencyRate increased to 900.
2018: 3.54 Everyone who works on the Project, Major health and even ifits just for a few days, receives safetyincident TARGET: 0 a face-to-face induction about the 2018: 1 Companys vision, the Projects history and successes, and the goals ahead.
Workforce participating During 2018, 1,350 people received the in training induction, helping them to feel part of 2018: 45% the team and integrate quickly with Voluntary workforce new colleagues.
turnover Empowering our people is about giving 2018: 4.3% each member of the team the tools they need to succeed and the confidence to Gender use them.
In June 2018, over 130 of the 1 representation team came together to reinforce the core skills that have enabled the Company to overcome the many challenges it has BOARD faced so far, and that will be needed moving forward.
The Company has invested in a wide variety of communication channels and 3 5 tools to keep the workforce connected including social media, intranet, internal engagement events and a host of in-person briefings as well as magazines, 2 on-site screens and printed materials.
SENIOR MANAGEMENT Fostering sound employment relations 1 continues to be a priority with the introduction of a newly established Employment Relations group that works across the Project to reinforce our one 6 team approach.
We are determined to stay close to our wider workforce and arecommitted to finding ways to solve ALL EMPLOYEES problems and prevent issues arising in aproactive and transparent way.
The Speak Up hotline introduced at the 57 endof 2017 has now been fully integrated across each of the Project sites.
This 99 Men 24-hour hotline provides a safe and simple way for individuals to disclose Women any concerns ifall other channels have 1 As at year end been exhausted or people wish to 2 Includes CEO and direct reports remain anonymous.
Towards the end of 2018 the Company launched its first workforce survey, designed to assess what more can be done to ensure the team feels valued, supported, connected and able to make adifference.
In 2019, the feedback will beused to further strengthen the Company's culture and drive behaviours that help the Project to succeed.
1,350 PEOPLE RECEIVED PROJECT INDUCTION Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 35
