Governance Board of Directors LEADING THE BUSINESS R N H IA RUSSELL SCRIMSHAW CHRIS FRASER NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN MANAGING DIRECTOR AND CEO Age: 69 Age: 44 Date of appointment: November 2011 Date of appointment: January 2011 Skills and experience: Russell was formerly an Executive Director and Deputy Skills and experience: Chris Fraser has almost 20 years experience in the CEO of Fortescue Metals Group Ltd and was a founding member of the Board.
mining industry with a particular focus on financing and strategic developments.
He was also formerly Chairman of Cleveland Mining Co Ltd, and a Non-Executive He is the founder of the Project, has led its development since 2010 and has Board member of Commonwealth Properties Ltd, EDS Australia, Mobilesoft Ltd, been Managing Director and CEO of the Company since January 2011.
Telecom New Zealand Australia Pty Ltd, The Garvan Institute Foundation, During his finance career he worked for KPMG, Rothschild and Citigroup, Genome.
One Pty Ltd and Athletics Australia.
thelatter culminated in him being appointed Head of Metals and Mining Russell has also held senior executive positions within the Commonwealth Bank Investment Banking for Australia in 2006 and Managing Director in 2008. of Australia, Optus Communications Pty Ltd, Alcatel, IBM and Amdahl USA and Uponleaving Citigroup in 2009, he founded Sigiriya Capital, a boutique an Adjunct Professorship of Mining Economics at China Central South University advisoryand investment firm.
Chris founded York Potash in 2010 and in Changsha, China.
He is an associate member of the Australian Society of subsequently joined Sirius Minerals Plc in 2011.
He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia, senior Current external appointments: Non-Executive Chairman of Tech Project associate of the Financial Services Institute of Australia FINSIA and a member PtyLtd: Chairman of the Garvan Research Foundation: Non-Executive Director of the Institute of Directors in Great Britain.
of the Garvan Institute of Medical Research: Non-Executive Director of Waterford Current external appointments: Director of Sigiriya Capital Pty Ltd, Desmo Retirement Village Pty Ltd: Executive Chairman of Torrus Capital Pty Limited: Pty Ltd and C&J Fraser Investments Pty Ltd: member of the UK-China CEO Chairman of Scrimshaw Nominees Pty Ltd: and Chairman of The Scrimshaw Council: Director of the Northern Powerhouse Partnership and member of the Foundation.
Coventry University Scarborough Advisory Board.
A N I THOMAS STALEY NOEL HARWERTH FINANCE DIRECTOR AND CFO SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Age: 38 Age: 71 Date of appointment: February 2017 Date of appointment: July 2015 Skills and experience: Thomas has over ten years experience in the Skills and experience: Noel, whose executive background was in international energy, infrastructure and resources industries, with a focus on financing and banking, was formerly Chief Operating Officer of Citibank International and Chief financial governance for development projects.
Thomas has spent a significant Tax Officer of Citicorp Inc. Noel is a highly experienced non-executive director part of hiscareer January 2009 June 2012 working for the Mubadala who has sat on a number of boards in a variety of different sectors, including Development Company Mubadala in Abu Dhabi, where he was involved in mining and finance industry companies.
She brings with her a wealth of several financingsincluding a US$600 million project finance facility for a power background and understanding in mining, finance and governance issues.
station development project, a A$300 million government agency financing of Noel has previously held Non-Executive roles at Standard Life Assurance Ltd, aEuropean development project, and a US$2,200 million leveraged buy-out Standard Life Aberdeen plc, London Metal Exchange, GE Capital Bank Limited, financing of a US company.
Prior to working at Mubadala, Thomas was working Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation Europe and Avocet Mining.
in Australia with Babcock & Brown from 2006 to 2008 where he was involved in Current external appointments: Chair of the UK Export Finance Agency: numerous energy and infrastructure transactions.
Non-Executive Director of Charter Court Financial Services: and Non-Executive Most recently, Thomas was the Head of Commercial and Risk in the international Director of the British Horseracing Authority Limited.
development team of Origin Energy from September 2012 to September 2014.
He was the interim Chief Executive Officer of a geothermal exploration project, where he was appointed by the main shareholders, Origin Energy and Tata Power, to implement a turnaround plan and put the development project back ontrack.
Thomas has a Bachelor of Engineering Electrical and Arts and is a charter holder of the CFA Institute.
Thomas joined the Company in October 2014.
Current external appointment: Alternate Director of the Northern Powerhouse Partnership.
44 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Committee membership Chair of Committee R N IA Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Independent on appointment A H I Audit Committee Health and Safety Committee Independent A R R I I JANE LODGE JOHN HUTTON, BARON HUTTON OF FURNESS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Age: 64 Age: 63 Date of appointment: July 2015 Date of appointment: January 2012 Skills and experience: Following an academic background in geology, Janes Skills and experience: John was a member of the Government for 13 years, executive career as a qualified chartered accountant was in audit, where she including 11 years as a minister and four years serving in the Cabinet.
He also became a partner at Deloitte.
Her roles included Deloittes Midlands Practice Senior served as a Parliamentary Private Secretary in the Department of Trade and Partner and Lead Partner for the National Manufacturing Industry.
As Manufacturing Industry before moving to the Department of Health where he became Minister Industry Leader, she represented the UK on the Deloitte Global Manufacturing ofState for Health in 1999.
He was a Chairman of the Independent Public Service Industry Executive and was a member of the CBI Manufacturing Council.
Lord Hutton was a legal adviser to the Confederation of her35-year career with the firm, she advised multinational businesses in the Business Industry and a senior law lecturer at Newcastle Polytechnic.
He was construction, financial services, manufacturing and property sectors.
Member of Parliament for Barrow and Furness for 18 years from April 1992 to May 2010.
Current external appointments: Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee of Devro PLC: Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit In 2005 Lord Hutton was made Secretary of State for Work and Pensions.
Committee of DCC PLC: Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit In2007 he was appointed Secretary of State for Business, Enterprise and Committee of Costain Group Plc: Non-Executive Director of the Bromsgrove Regulatory Reform.
In 2008 he became Secretary of State for Defence until School Foundation: Non-Executive Director of Ives Ventures Limited: Nonhestepped down from the Cabinet in 2009.
In 2010 he was created a life peer Executive Director of Ives Estates Limited and Non-Executive Director of asBaron Hutton of Furness and now sits in the House of Lords.
Chairman of Simple Space Ltd until February 2017 and a Partner of Cartesius Advisory Network until January 2018.
He was Non-Executive Director at ARIX Bioscience and Arthurian Life Sciences Limited until June 2018, Byhiras Group Limited until October 2018 and Chairman of the Nuclear Industries Association until December 2018.
Current external appointments: Non-Executive Director of Circle Holdings UK plc: Chairman and Director of Apartments for London Ltd and Chairman of Energy UK.
H N A I H R I KEITH CLARKE CBE LOUISE HARDY NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Age: 66 Age: 52 Date of appointment: December 2013 Date of appointment: May 2016 Skills and experience: With more than 40 years experience, Keith has Skills and experience: Louise has over 25 years experience in the engineering worked in all sectors of the UK and international construction industry.
Previously, she was European Project Excellence wasChief Executive of WS Atkins plc, the UKs largest design and engineering Director at Aecom.
Louise was a Director at Laing ORourke from 2006-2013, consultancy, for eight years to July 2011 and previously held Chief Executive working as Infrastructure Director within CLM, which was the consortium delivery roles with Skanska UK and Kvaerner Construction Group.
He also acted as partner for the Olympic Delivery Authority for the London 2012 Olympics.
She was Director of Sustainability and Chairman of Atkins Middle East business until a Non-Executive Director at the Defence Infrastructure Organisation, Ministry of April2012.
Keith was Vice President of the Institution of Civil Engineers for four Defence from May 2015 to June 2017.
Louise is a fellow of the Institution of Civil years until 2017 and was previously Non-Executive Chairman of Tidal Lagoon Engineers and a fellow of the Chartered Management Institute.
Swansea Bay Plc and Tidal Lagoon Power Plc.
He is a fellow of the Institution Current external appointments: Non-Executive Director, Chair of the ofCivil Engineers, Hon Fellow RA Eng & MRIBA.
Remuneration Committee and member of the Nomination Committee and Audit Current external appointments: Chair of the Trustees for Forum Committee of Polypipe Groupplc: Non-Executive Director and member of fortheFuture: Chair of Future Cities Catapult: Non-Executive Director of Remuneration Committee, Risk & Audit Committee and Investment Panel of Constructionarium and Women in Property: member of the advisory panel Ebbsfleet Development Corporation: Non-Executive Director and Chair of Risk & forPeak Urban: and Director of Keith Clarke Consulting Limited.
Audit Committee of North West Cambridge Developments: Non-Executive Director and member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees of Crest Nicholson plc.
Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 45
