The Bigger Picture Were at the heart of the lives of millions of people, which is why we use our voice to drive change on the issues that matter to our customers and the world we live in.
We aim to be an inspirational business and use our strengths to inspire young people to be their best.
55% 80% 175 tonnes reduction in CO e intensity increase in the number of of single-use plastic to be saved from 2 in the UK and Ireland, exceeding scholarships launched this year our operations and products across 2020 target the Group by the end of December 2018 Being an inspirational business We aim to be the most environmentally We aim to be the most accessible We aim to set and adhere to the highest friendly media company in the world provider of services standards in our ways of working Were proud to have exceeded our 2020 Were working to make the whole Sky Weve continued our assessment of target to halve CO emissions, relative to experience accessible to all customers, suppliers and our policy approach to 2 revenue, a whole two years early.
Weve including those with disabilities.
human rights is set out on our website achieved this through investing in energy alongside our progress outlined in Skys Were customer-led in our offering of efficiency and renewables.
We have now Modern Slavery Statement 2018.
This year subtitling and audio described content, set out our path to dramatically reduce weve had a particular focus on identifying prioritising the best content and great the greenhouse gas emissions in Skys any human rights risks and putting in audio describers across 24 TV channels.
value chain from the manufacture of our place mitigations across TV and Sports In the UK, we audio describe just under products to their use in customer homes.
Following the identification of 30% of this content, going beyond the This means we play our part in a world modern slavery risks in the UK recycling Ofcom requirement of 10%.
Over 80% where warming is limited to well below industry, Sky has taken a lead role on of our Sky On Demand content is now 2 celsius, closer to 1.5, by 2050. developing an industry response focusing available with subtitles and we continue on electronics waste recycling.
Weve also continued to develop our to work with third-party broadcasters renewable energy approach with suppliers.
to provide access services on demand.
See our Modern Slavery Statement at: skygroup.
sky corporate home Collaboration with our long-standing Going forward, we are working to partners resulted in the installation of We have maintained a strong focus increase awareness of audio description large scale solar energy infrastructure on privacy, with the successful launch and availability of audio description on two further key manufacturing sites.
of our GDPR readiness programme.
See our GHG emission tables on: page 63 Inclusion Inspiring young people Inspiring others to take action to be their best Knowing that Sky see Its our people that make Sky Europes We aim to use the full power and scale of the potential in me leading entertainment company.
Thats why Sky to inspire others, including our people, has inspired me to we work hard to be an inclusive employer, to take action.
keep on striving to so everyone at Sky can be themselves and We are taking big issues that matter to achieve my goals.
This year weve our customers, like ocean health, and Kike Oniwinde increased our efforts to improve female connecting with other organisations and Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic BAME Taking high potential young people and and millions of people.
Weve launched our Women creating the conditions for them to thrive celebrated one year of Sky Ocean Rescue, in Home Service and development Five years ago we launched our by encouraging everyone to join us to programmes to better prepare mid-level scholarship journey with Sky Sports #PassOnPlastic and make simple everyday women for leadership.
This year we have grown our changes to cut down on single-use plastic.
providing training and paid placements to scholars programme, launching Sky Since then over one million people have digital creatives from BAME backgrounds, Women in Tech, and Sky Ocean Rescue shown their support.
and continue to support the MamaYouth across our European markets.
These Our research has indicated that, as the Project.
Joining existing LGBT, Parents provide a unique combination of financial leading corporate voice in the space of and Women@Sky employee networks, support, personal development, learning, ocean plastics, we have an important role we launched new networks focusing on mentoring and practical experience of to play in maintaining momentum.
Well do multiculture, mental and physical ability as the world beyond their area of expertise.
this through our commitments across the well as wellbeing.
Were also using our voice business and impactful partnerships with to inspire other organisations to create a the experts.
12 Sky plc Strategic report Sky Ocean Rescue Shining a spotlight on the issues that affect ocean health and inspiring people to make simple everyday changes that collectively make a huge difference.
Transforming our own business 33.5m Be single-use plastic Work with our business Lead the way for free in our products partners and supply other businesses people aware of Sky Ocean Rescue and operations chain to do the same in our core markets by 2020 Using our voice to inspire action Inspire our customers Call for governments to Encourage millions to join through our content, adopt policy changes us with key partnerships to make simple including Volvo Ocean Race, All new products launched have everyday changes Premier League and WWF single-use plastic free packaging Sky Ocean Rescue & WWF working Making our oceans resilient with WWF together to protect marine areas Were working with people Were finding innovative Were creating ways to across Europe who live, work and play on ways to protect marine secure protection for our our coastlines to make animals and sharing what oceans for the long term Devon and Outer Hebrides marine protected areas sure theyre making ocean we learn with governments friendly choices and businesses Harbour porpoise special areas of conservation German North Sea marine protected area & Wadden Sea National Parks The Pelagos Sanctuary 3 220 Mediterranean MPs and MEPs Sky Ocean Rescue cetacean migration corridor signed up to Scholars announced with #PassOnPlastic National Geographic Sky Ocean Ventures 25m Launched in March 2018, investing Partnerships with National in startups to accelerate ideas to Geographic Innovation Challenge Sky Ocean Ventures solve the ocean plastic crisis and Imperial College launched investment fund was launched with anchor funding by Sky plc First investments announced in summer 2018 Skipping Rocks Lab Choose H O 2 Annual Report 2018 13
