Board of Directors Key: A Audit Committee BP Bigger Picture Committee R Remuneration Committee Corporate Governance GN and Nominations Committee Committee Chairman James Murdoch 45 Jeremy Darroch 56 Andrew Griffith 47 Membership BP GN Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer Group Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer Appointed: James became Chairman in April Appointed: Jeremy joined Sky as Chief Appointed: Andrew was appointed as a 2016, having joined the Board in February Financial Officer and Executive Director member of the Board and as Chief Financial 2003.
James previously served as Chief in 2004 and was appointed to his current Officer in 2008 and became Group Chief Executive Officer from 2003 to 2007 and role in December 2007.
His current role as Chairman from 2007 to 2012. includes responsibility for Group Strategy, Skills and experience: Jeremy has extensive Corporate & Business Development, Skills and experience: James brings experience in the retailing and fast-moving Group Product, Digital and Supply Chain.
significant media sector knowledge and consumer goods sectors.
Prior to joining Sky, experience through his role at 21st Century Jeremy was Group Finance Director of DSG Skills and experience: Andrew joined the Fox.
He was Chairman and Chief Executive International plc, formerly Dixons Group plc.
Company in 1999 from Rothschild, the Officer of Star Group Limited from 2000 He also spent 12 years at Procter & Gamble investment banking organisation, where to 2003 and held Non-Executive Director in a variety of roles in the UK and Europe.
he provided financial and strategic advice roles at GlaxoSmithKline plc from 2009 Jeremy is a former Non-Executive Director to corporate clients in the technology, media to 2012 and Sothebys from 2010 to 2012. and Chairman of the Audit Committee of and telecommunications sector.
He held a Marks and Spencer Group plc from 2006 number of senior finance roles prior to his External Appointments: James was to 2013. appointment to the Board.
appointed as Chief Executive Officer at 21st Century Fox in June 2015.
He also serves as External Appointments: In February 2014, External Appointments: In March 2014, a member of the Board of News Corporation Jeremy was appointed Non-Executive Andrew was appointed Senior Independent and is a Non-Executive Director of Tesla, Inc. Director of Burberry Group plc, and serves Non-Executive Director of Just Eat plc and Yankee Global Enterprises, Vice Media, and as Chairman of the Audit Committee, from April 2017 to April 2018 served as Interim a member of the Board of Trustees of the a member of the Nomination Committee Chairman.
He also Chairs the Audit Committee Ghetto Film School.
He is and is a member of the Nomination Chairman of Business in the Community Committee.
In addition he is a Trustee and a Business Member of the National of Riverside Studios in West London, Centre for Universities and Business.
Chase Carey 64 Tracy Clarke 51 Martin Gilbert 63 R BP A GN Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Independent Deputy Chairman Director Appointed: January 2013 Appointed: June 2012 Appointed: November 2011 Skills and experience: Chase has extensive Skills and experience: Tracy brings a wide Skills and experience: Martin has been knowledge and experience of the international range of operational experience having involved in the investment management media and pay TV sectors.
He is a former spent the early part of her career in corporate industry since 1982 and has extensive President and Chief Executive Officer of banking.
She went on to take leadership of investment, finance and executive DirecTV, where he led the operations and corporate affairs, brand and marketing, media leadership experience through his role strategic direction of the DirecTV Group.
relations, human resources, and latterly, global as co-founder and Chief Executive Officer Prior to joining DirecTV, Chase was Co-Chief compliance, all with Standard Chartered Bank.
of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC now Operating Officer of News Corporation She served as a Non-Executive Director of Standard Life Aberdeen plc.
He has served subsequently renamed 21st Century Fox Standard Chartered First Bank in Korea from as Chairman of FirstGroup plc, Chaucer PLC and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 2005 to 2007 and Non-Executive Director of and was Non-Executive Director of Dynmark of the Fox Television Group.
Eaga plc from 2007 to 2011, where she chaired International Limited, a mobile messaging the Remuneration Committee.
and data applications services provider.
External Appointments: Chase is Chairman and Chief Executive of the Formula 1 Group External Appointments: Tracy is a member External Appointments: In addition to and Vice Chairman of 21st Century Fox, Inc. of the Management Team and a Director his role as Co-Chief Executive Officer of He was President, Chief Operating Officer of Standard Chartered.
In October 2015 she Standard Life Aberdeen PLC, Martin is and Deputy Chairman of 21st Century Fox was appointed Regional Chief Executive Chairman of the Prudential Regulatory from 2009 to 2015 and Executive Vice Americas and Europe and in March 2018 Authority PRA Practitioner Panel.
Martin Chairman from July 2015 to July 2016. assumed the additional role of CEO, Private also serves as a Non-Executive Director Banking.
Tracy is a Board member for England of Glencore plc, from which he has taken Netball: a co-opted member on the CBBC a temporary leave of absence which is Board: a member of the Institute of Financial expected to end in October 2018, and Services: and Fellow of the Chartered Institute as Senior Governor of the University of Personnel and Development.
32 Sky plc Governance Adine Grate 57 John Nallen 61 Matthieu Pigasse 50 A R A GN Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Director Appointed: July 2013 Appointed: November 2015 Appointed: November 2011 Skills and experience: Adine brings a Skills and experience: John is a highly Skills and experience: Matthieu brings wealth of executive, finance and investment experienced executive with strong media significant knowledge of the European management and TMT experience having and finance industry expertise.
He previously media sector and finance expertise to the operated at the top tiers of Nordic-based served as Senior Executive Vice President Board.
He is CEO of Lazard, France and Vice international business for the past two and Deputy Chief Financial Officer of 21st Chairman of Lazard Europe.
She was formerly Executive Vice Century Fox from 2001 to 2013.
John joined Global Head of Mergers and Acquisitions President and Executive Board Member News Corporation in 1995 after working at and the Global Head for Sovereign Advisory of Investor AB, owner of a number of Arthur Andersen for the previous 16 years.
He has also served in the French Nordic-based international companies, Ministry of Economy and Finance.
External Appointments: John is Senior and Chairperson of the NASDAQ OMX Executive Vice President and Chief Financial External Appointments: In addition Swedish Listing Committee.
Officer for 21st Century Fox, a role which to his role at Lazard, Matthieu has a External Appointments: Adine is Vice he assumed on 1 July 2013. number of personal interests in media Chairperson of AP7, a Swedish pension and and publishing, notably Le Monde and savings assets management company.
She is the Huffington Post France.
He is a Director of CKHH Three Scandinavia, a mobile Board member of Group Lucien Barrire telecommunications and broadband operator: SAS, an operator of luxury hotels and Sampo OY, a leading financial services and restaurants, and Derichebourg, a recycling insurance institution: and Swedavia AB, and maintenance services business.
Andy Sukawaty 63 Katrin Wehr-Seiter 48 GN R Senior Independent Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: October 2016 Appointed: June 2013 Skills and experience: Katrin is an Skills and experience: With over 30 years experienced investment management and of telecommunications media technology finance professional having worked in the experience Andy brings strong industry private equity industry for more than 17 knowledge to the Board.
He has led companies years.
She brings significant knowledge in the mobile phone, Cable TV and satellite of the European media, communications industries in the US and Europe and serves and technology sector.
Prior to joining BIP as Chairman of Inmarsat plc, a global mobile Investment Partners in 2012, she served as satellite communications provider.
a Principal of global investment firm Permira External Appointments: In addition and Senior Advisor to international private to his role as Chairman of Inmarsat plc, equity firms and corporations, having Andy has previously held a number started her career at Siemens.
Katrin was also of senior management positions in the an independent director of Sky Deutschland telecommunications industry including AG from 2010 to 2015, prior to Sky taking full Chairman of Ziggo N. V. a Dutch cable TV ownership of the company.
He has also External Appointments: Katrin is Managing served as Chief Executive Officer of Sprint PCS Director of BIP Investment Partners SA and NYSE and NTL Ltd and held the roles of Managing Director Partner of BIP Capital Chairman of Xyratex Nasdaq and Telenet, Partners SA.
She is a director of SES SA and and Deputy Chairman of 02 plc.
serves on the audit and risk committee.
Katrin is also a director of several non-listed corporations including Mercateo AG.
