Strategic Report Our product DEVELOP 2 AN INDUSTRYLEADING PRODUCT POLY4 Cornerstones POLY4 has four key attributes that benefit farmers by increasing their profits in a sustainable way through improved yields, reduced costs or both.
Efficiency Effectiveness Flexibility Sustainability Improves fertilizer Improves both Low chloride and Improves soil use efficiency by yield and quality pH neutral product strength, structure delivering greater that can be used and nutrient legacy Improves macro nutrient uptake on all plants and and micro-nutrient Reduces the soils in all growing High nutrient uptake impact of climates density supplies agriculture on the Minimises crop four macroSuccessful as a environment by losses through nutrients in one straight fertilizer or improving fertilizer disease resilience easy-to-use, as a component of use efficiency, Desirable nutrient cost-effective blend or complex reducing erosion release profile granular delivery compound and nutrient loss which matches system formulations Certified for crop demand Excellent organic use Granular product compatibility Excellent that handles, profile environmental stores, blends and Allows farmers to profile spreads effectively choose the timing of application Research and development Sirius Minerals global R&D programme provides technical, agronomic and Potato trial: India commercial validation for POLY4s use as an In 2018 we concluded a potato trial in effective multi-nutrient fertilizer suitable for India.
India is a key target market for Sirius widespread use in farming.
Our programme and is one of the largest growers of is aimed at articulating the four cornerstones potatoes globally of POLY4 and enhancing the market POLY4 improved early growth parameters: adoption of POLY4.
In 2018 we established plant height, crop canopy and leaf greenness 110 new trials across 21 countries and 32 POLY4 increased total potato yield by 11% crops, exceeding our 2018 target.
Our trials and marketable yieldby 15% over MOP S have continued to demonstrate that, in line with previous trials, POLY4 increases crop POLY4 application reduced the proportion of yields compared to existing fertilizer non-marketable potato tubers by 27% practices in a range of conditions.
compared to MOP S We tailor our R&D programme to regions Financial margins were increased by US$ 192 per hectare when POLY4 replaced and crops of interest to our existing and MOP S potential partners and customers.
MOP Muriate of potash KCl, S Sulphur elemental sulphur blended with bentonite and granulated 20 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 2018 progress Measuring Trial results showed that Performance: POLY4 has delivered Patented technology better nutrient uptake of To create our product, POLY4, we have Our product both macro and microdesigned a materials handling facility 2018 key milestones capable of producing a superior product nutrients.
This is a key with the necessary characteristics to TARGET: profit driver, as more make it attractive to farmers globally.
Expand global agronomic nutrients are delivered During 2018, work continued on the programme and establish design of our demonstration plant which 80 new trials tothe crop thereby we expect to commission in the coming 2018: COMPLETE generating improvements year.
Once operational, the plant will 110 new trials established enable us to showcase our patented in yield and quality.
across 21 countries and technology and produce meaningful 32 crops levelsof product in-house.
Our patented technology will enable us to produce a product with highly favourable product characteristics including: Particle size influences agronomic performance, storage, handling, spreading and blending.
Our granulated formula makes POLY4 compatible with existing products, machinery, storage, loading and spreading technology.
Crush strength is the minimum force required to crush individual particles.
It helps estimate expected handling and storage properties.
The crush strength of our granulated product means that POLY4 can be stored, handled and shipped to the global markets effectively.
Abrasion resistance is the resistance to the formation of dust when handling.
Ithelps to assess material loss during handling as well as, in some cases, helping to control pollution and dust hazard.
Our studies have shown that POLY4 increased abrasion resistance in urea-based NPKs.
Impact resistance is the resistance tobreakage on impact.
Our studies haveshown that the smallest inclusion ofPOLY4 promoted a reduction in losses in AN-based NPKs.
Critical relative humidity the humidity above which a product absorbs moisture.
POLY4 has performed well in testing to date.
Hygroscopicity the tendency of a material to absorb water from the atmosphere.
The moisture absorption and penetration characteristics of urea-based NPK products have been 370 shown to improve with the addition of POLY4.
TRIALS ON 42 CROPS Nutrient release profile importantly IN 28 COUNTRIES ourproduct has a longer residence time inthe soil which ensures that nutrients are available for longer and more closely aligned to the plants nutrient 110 uptake requirement.
NEW TRIALS ESTABLISHED IN 2018ACROSS 21 COUNTRIES AND32CROPS Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 21
