Strategic Report Our project BUILD A WORLD-CLASS, 1 LONG-LIFE, LOW-COST PRODUCTION FACILITY Our production facility Our chosen industry leading partners that Industry-leading design and will work with us to develop our production construction techniques are being facility are: deployed to develop the largest and Shafts DMC most efficient mine of its type anywhere in the world.
The low-impact design Mineral transport system coupled with an innovative ore delivery STRABAG system is setting a new standard for Materials handling facility sustainable mine development.
Jacobs Our mine is designed to maximise Port handling facility the exceptional nature of our polyhalite McLaughlin & Harvey resource.
The thickness and high-grade nature of our resource means nearly every Infrastructure to transport tonne of ore mined becomes a tonne minerals at a low-cost and of POLY4.
The quality of the polyhalite over the long-life ofthe Project seam enables the use of multiple mining Like the main mine shafts, the MTS is techniques to extract high volumes of critical infrastructure necessary for the mineral at low cost.
A combination of efficient and low-cost operation of our these factors and our proximity to our port mine.
As well as providing a sustainable infrastructure means we have the potential and low-impact solution to transporting to be a low-cost producer with some of materials in the NYMNP, the MTS will the highest margins in the industry.
enable us to move material from the mine head to our port quickly, efficiently and 2018 strategy in action at a low operating cost.
During the year we updated our operating Partnering with world leading cost estimates which reconfirmed the contractors to build a low-cost nature of our mine.
We anticipate world-class production facility our total life-of-mine operating costs at In 2018, we completed the procurement of 10Mtpa to be under U$35 per tonne of our major construction packages: a major product.
In particular, our efficient MTS milestone.
The Company has partnered design will enable us to move a tonne of with some of the worlds leading contractors product from the bottom ofour shafts, to enable us to construct a world-class along our MTS, to our port facility at operation capable of becoming a long-life, Teesside at an estimated US$5 per tonne.
Our MTS will have initial capacity of 20 Evolution through optimisation remains Mtpa.
This, combined with the 50 year central to our decision making process as design life of our tunnel, will ensure that we we strive to maximise shareholder value.
have infrastructure capable of maintaining During the year we took the decision the low-operating cost nature of our mine to change our preferred contractor for over the long term.
shaft-sinking activities which is a clear demonstration of our desire to partner with best-in-class organisations capable of delivering on our vision: to be a world-class fertilizer business.
18 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 2018 Construction Measuring progress Performance: Shafts 2018 Key milestones Significant construction progress has been made during the year.
The PRODUCTION SHAFT installation of the 32m diameter, 60m TARGET: deep foreshaft diaphragm walls D-wall Complete the installation are now complete for the service and of the main production shaft production shafts.
The D-walls provide foreshaft and commence protection from the surrounding near foreshaft excavation surface water bearing strata, facilitating 2018: COMPLETE the excavation of the foreshaft to 45m.
At the production shaft, the 6.75m diameter, SERVICE SHAFT 120m deep pre-sink diaphragm wall has TARGET: also been installed.
Complete main service Our service shaft foreshaft construction shaft foreshaft construction was progressed to a depth of 37m at and excavation December 2018 and was completed 2018: INCOMPLETE January 2019 which represented afew Service shaft foreshaft weeks delay to target but we are completed post period end confident we can make back the lost time with minimal impact to our overall MTS ACCESS SHAFT Project schedule.
TARGET: The VSM being used to construct the Commence Mineral Transport MTS access shaft was launched in System MTS access shaft October 2018, consistent with the construction at the Woodsmith Companys milestone for 2018.
The Mine site MTS sinking activities are progressing 2018: COMPLETE smoothly following some initial commissioning issues.
Since late LOCKWOOD BECK November cutting rates have increased INTERMEDIATEACCESS SHAFT and improvements are ongoing.
The VSM TARGET: operational performance has provided Commence main shaft sink at the Company with further confidence in Lockwood Beck the assumed advance rates for the shaft boring roadheaders that will be 2018: INCOMPLETE used to sink the main service and S haft sinking preparatory production shafts.
works are well advanced in preparation for excavation to commence Mineral transport system At our Wilton site the MTS portal, MINERAL TRANSPORT which will facilitate the launch of the drive SYSTEMPORTAL 1TBM, was completed in the year and TARGET: official tunnelling activities commenced Largely complete construction inDecember.
The MTS tunnel has ofMTS portal at Wilton since been excavated to a distance 2018: COMPLETE of 100m.
The TBM arrived at site in February 2019 and is expected to MATERIALS HANDLING FACILITY commence mechanical tunnelling TARGET: in the coming months.
Commence early works for theMHF Materials handling facility Earthworks were commenced at our MHF 2018: COMPLETE site at Wilton, consistent with the 2018 PORT FACILITY milestone, and our construction partner JACOBS completed comprehensive ground TARGET: investigation work at the site of the MHF.
Finalise harbour facility strategy and complete procurement 2018: COMPLETE MTS drive 1 construction Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 19
