Strategic Report Delivering value to our stakeholders LOW-COST, HIGH VALUE-IN-USE BUSINESS MODEL Value proposition Key inputs Our business model and strategy is designed to deliver significant value for our shareholders and stakeholders.
We believe the Company can deliver industry- 1 leading gross margins of 65-85% which will generate significant value across arange of volume and price scenarios.
The matrix below illustrates this point and also indicates how the Company expects the business to evolve.
The volume axis shows the production ramp up from 10 Mtpa to 20 Mtpa and the margin axis shows the forecasted cash margins resulting from a range of POLY4 prices.
Responsible leadership Responsible leadership will deliver sustainable operations and will enable us to build a market for our POLY4 product.
Low volume High volume Sustainable operations High margin High margin We have designed low-impact infrastructure sympathetic to the local area which is designed to be capable of maintaining the long-term operation of US$1.5bn US$3.2bn our Project.
EBITDA EBITDA People and skills We employ a highly skilled and productive workforce to deliver ourProject.
Over 900 people are employed across the Project.
Natural resources Low volume High volume We have access to 2.69bn tonnes Low margin Low margin ofpolyhalite resource, the largest knownpolyhalite resource in the world.
US$0.6bn US$1.3bn EBITDA EBITDA Our partners Our construction partners will help ustobuild a world-class, long-life production facility and we will work withour POLY4 customers and partners to builda market for our product.
Illustrative margins in an average steady state year on a price assumption of $100 t - $200 t by our values: on a real 2018 basis and at volume assumptions of 10Mtpa and 20Mtpa 26 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 LOW MARGIN HIGH MARGIN Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Development Delivering We have the worlds largest know resource of polyhalite, a value for our low-chloride, multi-nutrient mineral to be used as a fertilizer.
stakeholders To support the long-term operation of our Project, we are building a world-class, low-cost, long-life production facility.
Shareholders We aim to deliver long-term value toshareholders.
Customers Our goal is to provide our customers with access to fertilizer products in the future.
Research & Sales & Marketing In-house sales & marketing capability Partners Development tobuild a market for our POLY4 product.
We provide benefits to our industry Our global R&D programme is designed We have sold a proportion of our future leading construction partners, to to provide commercial validation for production under supply agreements local businesses and to our supply POLY4s use as an effective fertilizer and we aim to grow this further.
suitable for widespread use in farming.
Local communities We create jobs for local communities and invest in local social projects.
Government We expect to be a future contributor ofGDP and payer of taxes.
 Our people Local Management Environment We are committed to health and Community Risk Governance Safety safetyand promote a culture of ownership and team.
Underpinned Responsibility Ownership Belief Urgency Safety Team by our values: Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 27
