Our approach Our marketplace The markets in which we When looking at our business Opportunities in adjacent markets represent significant operate are constantly and the markets we are in further areas of growth.
today, we see a significant Customers are increasingly consuming content in digital Consumers are demanding growth opportunity ahead.
formats, with the transactional home video market more of the very best content We have 23 million customers valued at around 2.7 billion across our core markets.
on their terms, be it live on to whom we can offer more the main television set in the products.
In addition, around We are able to exploit this opportunity through home, or on demand when 78 million households have our own transactional video service, Sky Store.
Daily viewing yet to take pay TV in all our In addition, our advertising sales house, Sky Media, to television remains high, markets, giving us substantial operates in an advertising market worth 14 billion with consumers continually headroom to address with our across the Group.
wanting to be entertained multi-platform and streaming on a big screen.
We continue to With strong global demand for high-quality content, look at other opportunities Sky Vision, our production and distribution arm, to grow and may add new goes from strength to strength, now generating products and services to over 200 million in revenues.
our portfolio, for example We are now firmly establishing our presence in launching a triple-play the UK mobile market which is worth 16 billion.
Our strategy Our strategy is to grow our At the heart of our strategy are the steps we Across all our markets we ensure Sky is the revenues and profits while have taken to build our position as Europes home of more of the best content from around creating sustainable value leading entertainment and communications the world, with sustained innovation across for shareholders by providing business.
This year we have launched new multiple platforms, delivered by a trusted the best and broadest range and unique streaming services in Spain and brand that offers world-class customer service.
of content, market-leading Switzerland, expanding our international This customer proposition enables us to pursue innovation and world-class footprint.
In Spain, customers can access the the significant opportunities for growth in customer service: moving best of Spanish pay TV along with Sky originals the attractive markets where we operate.
into new markets, opening and a wealth of on demand content, all on a Our strategy is enabling us to deliver sustained, up new customer segments flexible, pay-as-you-go basis.
In Switzerland, broadly based revenue growth which, together and expanding our range Sky Sport largely mirrors the sports offering with our focus on operating efficiency, creates of products and services.
we provide customers in Germany, whilst Sky a consistently stronger, more profitable Show focuses on brilliant entertainment, both business and long-term shareholder value.
Although very early days for all of these services, we have strong plans in place to accelerate their growth from here.
8 Sky plc Strategic report Our business model We are focused on delivering the very best content, innovation and service for our customers.
Our strengths Great content Market-leading innovation Our customer focus We invest to deliver the best and broadest We combine our investment in We are a customer-centric organisation, range of content across the portfolio of technologies with a deep understanding focused on meeting the needs of all our channels and services we provide to of our customers to offer a great viewing customers in every market.
We are able to customers, offering something for experience whenever, wherever and meet their needs through the strength of everyone in the household.
We partner however our customers want to watch.
our trusted brand, ensuring that we offer with content owners to secure the very a market-leading TV experience and our best content from around the world, commitment to superior customer service.
and produce an increasing number of our own original productions.
Growth opportunities Growing pay TV and product penetration Selling more to customers Scaling adjacent businesses Across our core markets there is a We focus on broadening out our range of We create and pursue opportunities in significant opportunity for growth, with products and services to offer more to adjacent sectors such as advertising, 78 million households yet to take pay TV.
existing customers in ways that most suit transactional services and international We have further developed our their needs.
We have now expanded into programme sales to create and grow segmented customer offers to ensure the mobile market in the UK and will additional revenue streams.
we are well placed to persuade more launch a triple-play service in Italy.
customers to join and stay with Sky.
How we create value Growing pay TV and product penetration Driving efficiency We invest over the long term because we want to build a We underpin everything we do with a rigorous focus on business that is durable.
This means ensuring that we create operating efficiency.
By ensuring that we have an efficient the conditions for sustainable success whilst also delivering and agile operating model, we consistently drive down costs, results in the short term.
allowing us to invest more where customers see greatest value.
Seeing the Bigger Picture Investing in people We are committed to acting responsibly in all that we do.
We invest in our people because we recognise that their talent Thats because we know that to build a successful business and commitment are critical to our success.
We aim to foster over the long term, how we do business is as important as a culture which encourages our people to fulfil their potential what we do.
We also focus on making a positive impact on and strive for continual improvement in all that they do, society.
We call this seeing the Bigger Picture.
enabling us all to achieve great things together.
