10 Strategic report G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 A HIGHLY REGULATED INDUSTRY Our markets The medical device sector is highly regulated.
This is vital in determining whether products are both safe and effective.
Competing inlarge, National regulatory authorities administer and enforce a complex series of laws and regulations that govern the design, attractive markets development, approval, manufacture, labelling, marketing and sale of healthcare products.
They also review data supporting the safety and efficacy of such products.
In many countries, there is a requirement for products to be authorised or registered prior to entering the market, and such authorisation or registration needs to be subsequently maintained.
For example, the US Food and Drug Administration FDA continues to enforce The healthcare sector is a growing market driven by long-term trends.
an increase in the amounts of testing and Global healthcare spend amounted to $7.7 trillion, or10.4% of global GDP documentation required for FDA approval of new drugs and medical devices.
in 2017, andisprojected to increase at an annual rate of 5.4% over the In Europe, the European Union Medical Device five year periodto2022.
Regulations came into force in 2017 and will The medical devices and supplies segment COMPLIANCE apply from May 2020.
This will also impose of healthcare istoday worth more than tougher requirements of market entry and Interactions between medical device $400 billion per annum.
Within that, Smith post-market surveillance of medical devices.
companies and healthcare professionals & Nephews product segmentsare worth Although healthcare systems are less costly or government officials are subject to strict approximately $38 billion, growing at around in Europe than in the US, strained government control.
These include laws and industry 4% annually.
budgets and demographic challenges are codes, including the AdvaMed Code of driving an increased focus on value-based Ethics and the Med Tech Europe Code of The main drivers for healthcare demand healthcare to demonstrate the value of Business Practice.
include demographic shift towards ageing innovation through evidence.
populations and an increase in lifestyleLegislation covering corruption and bribery, related ailments such as diabetes and obesity.
The major regulatory agencies for Smith & such as the UK Bribery Act and the US The World Health Organisation WHO, Nephews products include the US FDA, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, also applies to forexample, states that obesity has nearly Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Smith & Nephew world-wide.
There is also a tripled since 1975 worldwide a major risk Agency MHRA in the UK, the Ministry of strong focus on compliance and cost control factor for diseases such asdiabetes and Health, Labour and Welfare in Japan, the in emerging markets such as China.
National Medical Products Administration committed to ensuring regulatory compliance NMPA in China, formerly the China Food globally, at all times, andto execute business Faster growing emerging markets with an and Drug Administration, and the Australian with integrity.
emerging middle class also drive demand.
The Brookings Institute estimates that 65% GEO-POLITICAL FACTORS of the global population will be middle class We are subject to regular inspections and by 2030.
Access to middle class comforts Some uncertainty continues around the UKs audits by regulatory agencies and notified encourages sedentary lifestyles that may lead exit from the European Union and its regulatory bodies, and in some cases remediation to greater incidence of diabetes, obesity and impact.
The European Union is the UKs activities have been required and will other health conditions.
Wealthier patients also biggest export market for medical devices.
continue to require significant financial try to exert more choice over healthcare and Around $2 billion worth of products are sent andresource investment.
have greater expectation of quality of life.
The number of people aged 60 years and Smith & Nephew has taken steps to prepare older will outnumber children younger than for the various Brexit scenarios, including five years by 2020, according to WHO.
moving certain of its product certifications from This change in dynamic puts healthcare BSI UK to BSI Netherlands, ensuring these providers and governments increasingly remain with a Notified Body domiciled in the under economic pressure.
There is also uncertainty ways to reduce overall healthcare expenditure around US-China trade relations, which has whilst maintaining the quality of care and resulted in tariffs onsome medical devices treatment provided.
being exported between the two countries.
Source: Deloitte 2019 Global Health Care Outlook.
11 S S Str tr tra a at t teg eg egic ic ic r r re e ep p po o or r rt t t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 OUR MARKETS continued EVOLVING MODELS OFHEALTHCARE SEASONALITY The traditional approach to healthcare There is an emerging trend for greater use Some seasonality is evident in medical provision has been symptom and volume of outpatient surgery.
This is leading to a devices.
Orthopaedic reconstruction and fee-for-service oriented which in shift in where total joint procedures take sports medicine procedures tend to be combination with current demographic place.
Historically these have been inpatient higher in the winter months when accidents trends has put upward pressure on procedures requiring an overnight stay in a and sports-related injuries are highest.
With improvements in technology, Elective procedures tend to slow down in are increasingly seeking to shift the focus from more minimally invasive techniques and better the summer months due to holidays.
Due to break-fix to a more holistic and value-based pain management, total joint procedures can the nature of our product range, there is little approach focused on disease prevention and take place in the outpatient setting for the seasonal impact on our Advanced Wound treatment results fee-for-outcome.
For example in the US there are Management franchises.
The majority of our ambulatory surgery centers ASCs, smaller business is in the Northern Hemisphere, Healthcare practitioners are no longer the clinical units with no overnight beds.
Costs are including approximately 50%inthe US and only decision-makers, but are part of larger lower when no overnight stay is required, 25% in Europe.
In the US, out-of-pocket multi-stakeholder purchasing processes.
important in the context of pressure on health costs for health insurance plans are tied to Economic stakeholders have increasing budgets around the world.
As a influence on the purchase process for medical result, households who have reached their devices.
New payment models, such as Other emerging trends include digital health, deductible or out-of-pocket cap may find bundled procedure payments, risk sharing, with connected devices monitoring patients that accessing care later in the year comes or quality incentives penalties, areshifting to prevent conditions, support rehabilitation at a lower cost, which may encourage the focus from clinical utility andsafety and measure outcomes.
Robotics is also some to schedule anyrequired treatments alone to clinical outcomes and health becoming increasingly present in the operating or procedures in thefinal months ofany economic performance.
room, offering surgeons greater precision given year.
There are a number of emerging trends which will shape our marketplace in the medium term.
1 COMPETITION MARKET SIZE Smith & Nephews franchises have several 2 ORTHOPAEDICS SPORTS MEDICINE ADVANCED WOUND competitors which differ with respect to MANAGEMENT product focus, geographic reach and overall scale.
For example, our main surgical Hip & Knee Implants Trauma & Extremities competitors are larger in scale and tend to $14.5bn 2% $6.0bn 4% $5.0bn 5% $9.0bn 5% be more exposed to the US, whereas our key wound competitors are generally not US centric.
A A E E A E A In Orthopaedics, as one of four leading D players, we compete against US-based B D D companies Stryker, Zimmer Biomet and Depuy B E B Synthes a Johnson & Johnson company.
C C C In Sports Medicine, we hold a leading position B C D behind Arthrex US, and also compete against Stryker and Depuy Synthes.
A SMITH & NEPHEW 12% A SMITH & NEPHEW 8% A SMITH & NEPHEW 26% A SMITH & NEPHEW 14% 3 B ZIMMER BIOMET 33% B DEPUY SYNTHES 43% B ARTHREX 31% B ACELITY 16% We are the second largest global Advanced C STRYKER 21% C STRYKER 26% C STRYKER 15% C MOLNLYCKE 10% Wound Management business.
We lead the 3 3 D DEPUY SYNTHES 20% D ZIMMER BIOMET 11% D DEPUY SYNTHES 12% D CONVATEC 7% somewhat fragmented Advanced Wound Care E OTHERS 14% E OTHERS 12% E OTHERS 16% E OTHERS 53% sub-segment alongside Mlnlycke Sweden 1 Data used in 2018 estimates generated by Smith & Nephew is based on publicly available sources and internal analysis and represents and ConvaTec UK.
In Advanced Wound an indication of market shares and sizes.
Devices, weare the primary challenger to 2 Representing repair products and arthroscopic enabling technologies, and excluding ENT.
Negative Pressure Wound Therapy incumbent 3 A division of Johnson & Johnson.
In ourAdvanced Wound Bioactives franchise, our key products lead their respective categories.
