23 S S Str tr tra a at t teg eg egic ic ic r r re e ep p po o or r rt t t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 Our resources The resources we need todeliver our products andserveour customers Our people & culture 24 Ethics & compliance 26 Sales & marketing 27 Manufacturing & quality 28 Medical education 29 Research & development 30 Sustainability 32 24 Strategic report G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 OUR RESOURCES By continuously improving our own Our people & culture performance, we can increase our positive influence on the world.
To encourage this, we offer advancement and development opportunities for our employees.
A unifying purpose and Employee advancement is merit-based, reflecting performance as well as demonstration of our newly created Winning cultureofcare, collaboration Behaviours, which underpin our culture pillars and replace our previous core competencies.
andcourage to win Each year Smith & Nephew conducts a comprehensive global development and capability review process to identify high potential employees and ensure they have welldefined career development plans.
Employees are provided with opportunities todevelop their skills and career through newassignments and on the job experiences.
Smith & Nephew has a proud history of more than 160 years of In addition, succession plans are in place for improvinghealth around the world.
Whilst we have grown significantly key executive roles and other critical positions across our business.
from our beginnings as a small family pharmacy in Hull, England, ourcaring spirit has remained the same.
COLLABORATION In 2018, led by our new management team, CARE Our culture pillar of Collaboration means we Smith & Nephew began the work to create a work together as a team, based on mutual Our culture pillar of Care means that we show culture that, whilst rooted in caring, was also trust and respect.
Through transparent and empathy and understanding for each other, clearly aligned on a unifying purpose and respectful communication, we are motivated our customers and patients.
We step into culture of collaboration and courage to win.
by a shared purpose and understand the our customers shoes, anticipate their needs impact of our individual contributions on our and deliver the highest levels of innovation Throughout the year, in addition to gauging collective goals.
And, by encouraging different and service.
our progress against our framework of perspectives and leveraging our global Great Place to Work GPTW, we engaged We strive to have the best understanding of experiences we achieve the best outcomes.
employees in a review of our existing the patients whom we ultimately serve, and culture and future aspirations.
GPTW Pulse In 2018, we broadened our quarterly we develop our products with them in mind.
surveys were conducted in four of our major business performance communications to And, our passion for what we do drives us to markets US, China, UK and Australia include live global webcasts featuring Namal continuously improve and expand the positive NewZealand with an overall response rate Nawana and members of his executive impact that we have on the world.
of 75% and Chinaagain receiving countryteam.
These included an open question and In 2018, our people displayed this culture level recognition.
GPTW recognition was also answer dialogue with employees around the in numerous ways, including charitable received during the year in Austria, Ireland, world in real-time.
The feedback has been donations and sponsorships of more than 50 Poland and the UAE.
tremendously positive, increasing transparency organisations in the communities where we and supporting our shared purpose.
In addition, we conducted a voluntary live and work.
This extends to support of our feedback survey and subsequent focus We provide peer-to-peer recognition to own employees in times of need.
groups with participation from nearly 40% of celebrate achievements or just say thank For example, in 2018, US employees who the workforce to review our company culture.
you via our Going the Extra Mile GEM were displaced from their homes due to a gas Together, this input formed the basis for a programme.
Awards range from simple pipeline explosion were provided lodging or new purpose, Life Unlimited see page 8, and notes to appreciation through substantial heaters until their power returned.
our culture pillars of Care, Collaboration and monetary awards.
These pillars represent the best of We encourage all our employees to volunteer We are committed to employment practices Smith & Nephew today, as well as what we their time and talents by providing paid based on equal opportunities, regardless of aspire to be in the future.
Many functions colour, creed, race, national origin, sex, age, structured their team building activities around marital status, sexual orientation, or physical group volunteering opportunities such as or intellectual disability.
We believe a persons Make a Wish Foundation events and Habitat ability to perform essential functions of a job for Humanity.
25 S S Str tr tra a at t teg eg egic ic ic r r re e ep p po o or r rt t t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 OUR RESOURCES continued In 2018, an internal evaluation showed that The strategic imperatives and annual targets REDEFINING OUR CULTURE those teams with greater diversity achieved form the basis of individual objectives of every better results.
The work also revealed that our employee in the Company according to his or 6,000 employees participated in our people understand why valuing difference is her role.
Through this process, each employee programme to define our new purpose important and our teams benefit from high can clearly see how their efforts contribute and culture pillars.
We used feedback levels of trust and respect.
to the overall success of the business, surveys and ran workshops at our sites which drives execution, accountability across the world, including in Japan.
We have raised awareness of preventing and engagement.
unconscious biases through our management and Human Resources training globally, We continued to provide opportunities for carrying out a Talent Acquisition Diversity and all levels of the organisation to strengthen Inclusion Masterclass.
We also conducted their skills through development programmes inclusion workshops at the 2018 Managing including Pioneer, Edge and Continuous Directors Meeting and numerous regional Learning Journey.
These programmes leadership business meetings.
consistently received positive feedback from participants.
We stepped-up our efforts to accelerate thedevelopment of women in our business.
Smith & Nephews compensation also We have extended our Elevate womens supports high-performance and accountability.
leadership development programme, including Employees are compensated based on nearly 300 participants in 2018.
We also sustained performance that helps deliver attended the 2018 Conference of the Society timely and tangible results to drive the of Women Engineers, to generate further business forward and support our culture.
SUPPORTING WOMEN awareness and recruit female talent in the Having a robust compensation framework is science and engineering fields.
In addition, We encourage women to follow careers vital as we seek to recruit high calibre people.
in2018, we added another female leader to inSTEM.
Our Society of Women Engineers By following this philosophy we have found our executive team.
SWE chapter is thriving, with more than that we not only attract, retain, and motivate 110 members.
We had a major presence talent, but it also helps drive better business COURAGE at the 2018 SWE Conference, recruiting results and provides an equitable work Our culture pillar of Courage is about fortalented new graduate engineers.
We are Living Wage Accredited continuous learning, innovation and in the UK, voluntarily paying above the accountability.
By staying curious, thinking government required minimum as we believe big and having the humility to challenge our employees should receive fair compensation conventional ways of thinking, we push the for the work they do.
Fostering an entrepreneurial, can-do attitude we look for solutions and achieve them through talent and force of will.
And, with a growth mindset, we have the capability and confidence to win, and we do so with integrity and the highest ethical standards.
We start each year by setting clear and measurable objectives with a clear strategy communicated Company-wide.
For more information about how we are putting people first, download our Sustainability Report from our website.
1 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 2018 2 Total employees Senior managers andabove Board of Directors 16,377 788 12 Male Female Male Female Male Female 58% 42% 73% 27% 75% 25% Life Unlimited 1 Number of employees at 31 December 2018 including part time employees and employees on leave of absence.
SMITH & NEPHEW SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2 Senior managers and above include all employees classed as Directors, Senior Directors, Vice Presidents,  all statutory directors and Directors of our subsidiary companies.
26 Strategic report G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 OUR RESOURCES continued Ethics & compliance Smith & Nephew has a strong reputation for integrity and ethical behaviour This includes: Board and executive oversight We constantly seek new ways to enhance CODE OF CONDUCT AND committees: global policies and procedures: our Compliance Programme.
New measures BUSINESS PRINCIPLES on-boarding and annual training for employees in 2018 included expanding the compliance Smith & Nephew earns trust with customers, and managers: training for distributors and ambassador process where selected sales healthcare professionals, government agents and higher-risk vendors: monitoring staff serve as compliance contact for their authorities, patients and the public by acting and auditing processes: reporting channels peers for some training and questions, in an honest and fair manner in all aspects and employee-recognition for demonstrating successfully completing a pilot for an ofits operations.
our values in their everyday work.
enhanced root cause analysis methodology for We expect the same from those with whom we recurring issues and implementing additional We provide resources and tools to guide do business, including vendors who provide processes and training on data privacy.
employees to make decisions that comply with us with products and services and distributors the law, local industry codes and our Code of and independent agents that sell our products.
We review and approve significant Our Code of Conduct and Business Principles We recruit, employ and promote employees on interactions with healthcare professionals or governs the way we operate to achieve the sole basis of the qualifications and abilities government officials in advance.
needed for the work to be performed.
We do assess existing and emerging risks in the not tolerate discrimination on any grounds and Smith & Nephew takes into account ethical, countries in which we operate.
provide equal opportunity based on merit.
social, environmental, legal and financial We assess the compliance controls in Smith considerations as part of its operating We do not use any form of forced, compulsory & Nephews businesses.
We have a robust whistle-blowing or child labour.
We support the Universal supported by data analytics, with central and system in all jurisdictions in which we operate Declaration of Human Rights of the United local monitoring.
We review the issues our which is benchmarked against industry Nations.
This means we respect the human testing generates to identify patterns.
We are committed to upholding the rights, dignity and privacy of the individual promise we make in our Code of Conduct New distributors and other higher-risk and the right of employees to freedom of to not retaliate against anyone who makes third parties are subject to screening and association, freedom of expression and the areport in good faith.
are contractually obligated to comply with right to be heard.
applicable laws and our Code of Conduct.
As a global medical technology business, Compliance training and certifications are GLOBAL COMPLIANCE Smith & Nephew recognises that we have included in this process, including guidelines PROGRAMME a responsibility to take a robust approach for those who need to enter the operating Smith & Nephew has implemented what we to preventing slavery and human trafficking.
room when acting on our behalf.
believe to be a world-class Global Compliance Smith & Nephew is committed to preventing Programme that helps our businesses comply Senior leaders, including all Vice Presidents slavery and human trafficking in its corporate with laws and regulations.
and above, are required to complete an activities, and its supply chains.
Our full annual certification to the Chief Executive policy on preventing slavery is available Officer to confirm the implementation of onour website.
Managers and employees make anannual compliance certification and conflictof interest disclosure.
27 S S Str tr tra a at t teg eg egic ic ic r r re e ep p po o or r rt t t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 OUR RESOURCES continued Sales & marketing We put customers at the heart of our commercial model Outside of the Americas, our commercial Our customers are the providers of medical and surgical treatments activities will be run through two regions and services in over 100 countries worldwide, ranging from orthopaedic Europe, Middle East and Africa, and surgeons to wound care nurses, general practitioners and other Asia Pacific each under a president.
Under thesepresidents will be country clinicians, but increasingly also economic stakeholders.
clusters, a group of countries, based on These include purchasing professionals Once a sales representative is certified, geographic proximity, critical mass of revenue, in hospitals, healthcare insurers, materials they typically spend the majority of their and similar go-to-market strategies.
They will managers and others.
time working directly with and supporting be led by a single managing director and have customers, or identifying and contacting new business unit leads for each franchise.
We serve these customers through our customers.
They help to provide in-hospital sales force and other channels.
Our sales This structure will reduce complexity and take support to aid in the safe and effective use of representatives are highly trained and skilled out administrative costs, and importantly will our range of advanced medical technologies individuals.
Becoming a sales representative bring us closer to our customers.
requires intense training, including passing In 2018, we began to make these changes astrict certification programme.
In 2018, we began the implementation of a while keeping stability in our selling and global franchise structure with dedicated Depending on their area of specialism, customer-facing organisations.
presidents of Orthopaedics, Sports Medicine representatives in our surgical businesses & ENT and Advanced Wound Management must be able to demonstrate a detailed to direct and support our customer facing knowledge of all the surgical instruments activities.
This new structure will replace used to implant a device, or have specific ourregional selling model in 2019. understanding of the various surgical techniques a customer might use.
Under the new structure, each president willlead their franchise with global upstream In our Advanced Wound Management marketing responsibility and full commercial business, sales representatives must have responsibility for their franchise in the US.
a detailed understanding of how patients They will also lead one or more shared global live with wounds and how clinicians seek commercial support teams, in the critical to prevent and treat them, as well as deep areas of professional education, sales training knowledge of the clinical and economic and healthcare economics.
In addition, benefits of using our products within thepresident of Sports Medicine & ENT has treatment protocols.
commercial responsibility for Latin America and Canada.
28 Strategic report G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 OUR RESOURCES continued We outsource certain parts of our Manufacturing & quality manufacturing processes where necessary to obtain specialised expertise or to lower cost without undue risk to our intellectual property.
Suppliers of outsourced products and services Efficiently delivering products are selected based on their ability to deliver products and services to our specification, and adhere to and maintain an appropriate quality of the highest quality system.
Our specialist teams work with and monitor suppliers through on-site assessments and performance audits to ensure the required levels of quality, service and delivery.
Our Global Supply Chain team ensures that our products reach our internal and external customers where and when they are needed, in a compliant and efficient manner.
We operate main holding warehouses for surgical products, one in each of Smith & Nephew takes great pride in its expertise Memphis TN, US, Columbus OH, US, Baar Switzerland and Singapore.
These facilities inmanufacturing products to the highest quality and consolidate and ship to local country and ensuring they reach our customers ina timely manner.
Our distribution hubs for Advanced Wound Management products are We operate manufacturing facilities in nine The majority of our Advanced Wound located in Neunkirchen Germany, Derby UK countries across the globe and have central Management products are manufactured and Lawrenceville Georgia, US.
distribution facilities in the US, Europe and Asia.
at our facilities in Hull UK, Suzhou China Products are shipped to individual country and Curaao.
We have also invested in a QUALITY AND REGULATORY AFFAIRS locations to meet customer requirements.
new facility in Fort Worth, Texas, to support Quality is of paramount importance to Smith & our Advanced Wound Bioactives franchise.
In 2018, we restructured the global Manufacturing is a dynamic process and Our Oklahoma City facility in the US produces Quality and Regulatory Affairs function to our Global Operations leadership team is and services electro mechanical capital ensure consistent high standards across the focused on successfully supporting delivery equipment as well as single-use sterile devices Group.
This function is led by the Chief Quality of the Groups strategic priorities by ensuring and also assembles some of our NPWT and Regulatory Affairs Officer, a new role our footprint and expertise is ready to devices using components from third parties.
reporting directly to the Chief Executive Officer.
respond to geographical growth, new product development, greater external regulatory We procure raw materials, components, Requirements of global regulatory agencies scrutiny and the commercial pressure to finished products and packaging materials have become more stringent in recent years beever more efficient.
and we expect them to continue to do so.
These include metal forgings and castings The team is leading a major Group-wide Products for our Orthopaedics franchise are for orthopaedic products, optical and programme to prepare for implementation made in sites in Memphis Tennessee, US, electronic sub-components for Sports of the European Union EU Medical Devices Aarau Switzerland, Tuttlingen Germany, Medicine Joint Repair products, active Regulation MDR, which came into force in Beijing China, Warwick UK, Puschino ingredients and semi-finished goods for May 2017, with athree-year transition period Russia and Devrukh India.
Memphis is our Advanced Wound Management as well as until May 2020.
The regulation includes new largest location and is home to the design packaging materials across all product ranges.
requirements for the manufacture, supply and manufacturing process of the OXINIUM Suppliers are selected, and standardised and sale of all CE marked products sold in Oxidised Zirconium, a patented metal alloy contracts negotiated, by a centralised Europe and requires the re-registration of all available for many of our knee and hip implant procurement team wherever possible, with medical devices, regardless of where they systems as part of our VERILAST technology.
aview to ensuring value for money based are manufactured.
In Sports Medicine Joint Repair, products on the total spend across the Group.
On an Quality and Regulatory Affairs has also ongoing basis, we work closely with our key are manufactured at our Mansfield provided leadership in preparing the Group Massachusetts, US and Alajuela suppliers to ensure high quality, delivery forBrexit, which has required the management performance and continuity of supply.
of changes to our European Authorised Representative strategy and Notified Body relationships.
Finally, the team continued to support the expansion of our portfolio globally through the registration of new products and existing products in new markets.
29 S S Str tr tra a at t teg eg egic ic ic r r re e ep p po o or r rt t t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 OUR RESOURCES continued Medical education Supporting the safe and effective use of our products Smith & Nephew is dedicated to helping healthcare professionals improve the quality of care for patients.
We are proud to support the development of surgeons and nurses by providing skills training and education on our products and techniques.
In 2018, we provided more than 30,000 Thousands of nurses receive face-to-face instances of training to surgeons through our training from Smith & Nephew representatives Smith & Nephew training centres in the US, every year, including attending courses at UKand China, as well as running many our centres, and through our representatives courses at third party centres around the visiting them at their place of work.
In 2018, we opened a new surgical more than 20,000 clinicians benefited 3D PRINTING OF REDAPT CUPS IN MEMPHIS training centre in Phoenix Arizona to bring from our specialist wound care education professional development and skills training training courses.
Additive manufacturing AM, commonly to customers, primarily in the West and In addition, we provide healthcare referredto as 3Dprinting, is a novel Southwest of the US, complementing Smith professionals our online resources such as manufacturing method that involves & Nephews existing US facilities in Memphis the Global Wound Academy, The Wound the use of a laser or electron beam, Tennessee, Andover Massachusetts, Institute and, for surgeons, our Education and for example, tosinter polymer ormetal Austin Texas andPlymouth Minnesota.
Recently we began utilising powdersinto a solid part that is built Working under expert guidance, attendees innovative, digital technologies to accelerate layer-by-layer.
The REDAPT Revision learn new techniques and refine skills, to the learning experience of surgeons.
In 2018, Femoral System includes a Fully Porous ensure the safe and effective use of our we provided digital training on Smith & Acetabular Cup featuring Smith & products.
These courses are attended by Nephew products and techniques to 225,000 Nephews unique CONCELOC Advanced residents, fellows and practising surgeons healthcare professionals, a 25% increase over Porous Titanium.
This mimics the structure who work together to review, discuss and the prior year.
of cancellous bone, allowing ingrowth train on current and forward-looking surgical forimproved fixation and stability.
techniques in their areas of clinical expertise.
ECC ENDORSED BY ROYAL Our courses help up-and-coming surgeons COLLEGEOF SURGEONS develop trust and gain the experience and In 2018, Smith & Nephews Expert Connect confidence necessary to become experts Centre ECC in Watford, UK became the intheir field.
first commercial surgical training facility in Europe to be accredited by the Royal College of Surgeons.
The recognition enables delegates to receive Continuing Professional Development CPD points when attending Smith & Nephew sessions, demonstrating their commitment to developing their surgical skills.
30 Strategic report G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 OUR RESOURCES continued Research & development Innovation is the lifeblood of our Company.
We strive to partner with our customers to create meaningful We are increasing our solutions for unmet needs, with the goal of improving outcomes.
Vasant Padmanabhan investment in newproducts President of Research & Development R&D works closely with the marketing, clinical, Smith & Nephews global Research & Development R&D function regulatory affairs, manufacturing and supply supports the Groups strategic imperatives by delivering innovative system chain management teams to ensure we can solutions that aim to improve clinical and healthcare economic outcomes.
produce new products to clinical, cost and time specifications.
Wedo this inpartnership with our customers, executing new product development and clinical programmes across the enterprise.
We also continue to invest in scouting for new technologies, identifying complementary In 2018, we invested $246 million in OUR ENTERPRISE R&D opportunities in our core and adjacent R&D, equivalent to 5% of Group revenue.
In addition, we invest in OPERATING MODEL Over time, we are committed to increasing small companies developing compelling Our enterprise R&D model provides thisinvestment, driven by the needs of the technologies in our franchise areas through governance and simple processes for new business to support sustainable growth.
our incubation fund, and provide our expertise product development, starting with front end In 2018, we launched a number of major new to help the development process, including innovation and research, moving through new products and publications with evidence of supporting clinical studies, and typically product development and launch, and ending clinical and economic value.
Our major new secure preferred access to technology as it with support of released products.
product launches included the full commercial nears market readiness.
release of the bi-cruciate retaining JOURNEY Project selection is critical: we focus on We work in partnership with academia.
As an projects that will make a meaningful II XR total knee arthroplasty TKA system, example, with the University of Hull we have updates and extensions to our REDAPT difference to our customers and their patients.
created one of the worlds largest Wound Care This includes investing in incremental Revision Hip System, the EVOS SMALL Plating Research Clusters and with Imperial College System in Trauma, a suite of all-suture anchor innovation to improve existing products.
It also London we are developing enhanced surgical involves driving greater efficiency through shoulder repair systems in sports medicine techniques relating to ligament function, and two new versions of our leading PICO innovation, potentially reducing our costs of biomechanics and soft tissue injuries of the knee.
Finally, we aim to transform our Single Use Negative Pressure Wound Therapy System sNPWT.
business using disruptive technologies, We look to support our innovations with services and business models.
compelling evidence of clinical and economic We published more than 200 different value.
The global R&D function includes our abstracts and publications in peerFollowing project selection, the team Clinical, Medical and Scientific Affairs CMSA challenges itself to execute flawlessly.
reviewed journals: a significant increase teams, led by the Chief Medical Officer.
This compared to previous years, and the result This means developing the right product at team ensures that, from conception, plans are the right cost and quality, and supported by of increased investment in clinical studies.
developed to support product launches with Highlights included 14 abstracts accepted at clinical evidence.
Our R&D experts in the UK, the evidence increasingly required by clinicians, US, Europe, Singapore, China and India have the World Arthroplasty Congress in Rome in payers and regulators.
Our products undergo April and the completion of one of the largest extensive customer and sector knowledge, clinical and health economic assessments both which is augmented by interaction with our multi-centre retrospective patient cohorts ever during their development and post-launch.
studied with the JOURNEY II BCS TKA system.
Strict criteria are applied to ensure new products fulfil an unmet clinical A number of studies highlighted how PICO For 2019, we have a strong pipeline, with can help manage scarring and surgical site need, have a strong commercial rationale, a number of important launches planned, andare technologically feasible.
We were also successful in securing andalso expect to maintain the high cadence the NICE Medtech Innovation Briefingfor PICO of clinical and economic evidence.
31 S S Str tr tra a at t teg eg egic ic ic r r re e ep p po o or r rt t t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 OUR RESOURCES continued TREATING DIFFICULT REVISIONS The REDAPT Revision Femoral System includes an additive, or 3D printed Fully Porous Acetabular Cup.
With a number of new REDAPT Augments, to be used in conjunction with the porous shell, we are enabling surgeons to treat more difficult acetabular revisions.
WIDENING OUR PORTFOLIO The Q-FIX CURVED, Q-FIX MINI and SUTUREFIX CURVED All-Suture Anchor systems are important additions to Smith&Nephews sports medicine portfolio.
For use in procedures where space is limited and the anatomy can be difficult to access, they are designed to aid in optimal suture anchor placement during drilling and insertion.
WORLD FIRST The new PICO 7Y Single Use Negative Pressure Wound Therapy System sNPWT with AIRLOCK Technology is the first sNPWT system to include an innovative EXPANSIVE, USER FRIENDLY SYSTEM integrated Y extension.
This enables the The EVOS SMALL Plating System is utilisation of two dressings concurrently indicated for fixation of small and long from one pump, in practice allowing for two bone fractures in adults and children.
wounds to be addressed at the same time, It is an expansive, user friendly system thereby potentially reducing cost.
with multiple fixation options including non-locking, locking, variable-angle locking, optimised plate contours and screw trajectories as well as a low profile construct.
