53 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 Chairs introduction We are making progress implementing the2018 UK Corporate Governance Code.
In particular, we have considered how we DEAR SHAREHOLDER, At the Annual General Meeting to be can listen better to the employee voice.
held on 11 April 2019 there will be some I am pleased to present the governance We feel that as a unitary Board, this is very additional Board changes.
Ian Barlow, our section of our Annual Report, which includes much the responsibility of the Board as a Senior Independent Director and former details about the Board and an explanation whole and that this responsibility should not Chair of the Audit Committee will be retiring of our individual roles and responsibilities.
fall to any one designated director or to an after nine years service to the Company.
We also summarise the activities of the Board employee representative.
We are a global Michael Friedman, Chair of our Compliance & during the year and the Chair of each Board company operating out of multiple locations, Culture Committee will also be retiring after six Committee discusses the activities of that with employees coming from many different years service.
Committee during the past year.
Elsewhere in this report, you We would like to thank both Ian and The publication by the Financial Reporting will have read about the work Namal and Michael for their outstanding contribution Council in 2018 of the new UK Corporate the executive team have done in the past to the Company through periods of change.
Governance Code the Code and the year, developing the new purpose, strategic Michael has given us deeper insight into Guidance on Board Effectiveness has caused imperatives and culture pillars.
This work regulatory matters and Ian has been a valuable us to reconsider some aspects of how we will included engagement with a large number support to me on many matters, most recently operate as a Board going forward.
We are in of our employees across the world at all in finding Namal Nawana, ournew Chief the process of reorganising the composition levels of the organisation.
The Board intends Executive Officer.
and the responsibilities of some of the Board to build on these now established means Committees to reflect the new emphasis in of engagement, so that we too can listen Robin Freestone will succeed Ian as Senior the Code on listening to the employee voice effectively and respond to the employee Independent Director and Marc Owen will and having regard to the views of all our voice.
This programme will be developed for succeed Michael as Chair of the expanded key stakeholders.
We explain our intended us by the expanded Compliance & Culture Compliance & Culture Committee.
Over the approach in the reports from the Nomination Committee and will be in addition to the course of the coming months, we shall be & Governance Committee and the Ethics & engagement we currently have with employees undertaking a search for a new Non-Executive Compliance Committee, which will become the when we undertake site visits as part of our Director with recent and relevant financial expanded Compliance & Culture Committee.
experience to be our financial expert and The scope of the Remuneration Committee has in time take over from Robin as Chair of the CHANGES TO THE BOARD IN 2018 also been broadened and this is discussed in Audit Committee.
These changes are During the year to 31 December 2018, there were the following changes to the Board: reflected in revised terms of reference, which are available on our website and in revised 1.
Namal Nawana joined the Board as Committee memberships, explained further in ChiefExecutive Officer on 7 May 2018. the individual Committee reports.
Olivier Bohuon retired from the Board We have also included a section explaining asChief Executive Officer on 7 May 2018.
Roberto Quarta how the Board has fulfilled its duties towards 3.
Roland Diggelmann joined the Board as our key stakeholders our employees, our Chair aNon-Executive Director and Member customers and suppliers, our investors and ofthe Audit Committee on 1 March 2018. governments and regulators in 2018, and 4.
Joseph Papa retired from the Board on how we plan to build on this in 2019.
