07 Company Overview STRATEGIC REPORT Governance Financial statements OUR MARKETS WE TARGET MARKETS WITH STRONG LONG-TERM GROWTH PROSPECTS MEDICAL SECURITY GENERAL TECHNOLOGY AND DEFENCE INDUSTRY Customers put their trust in our Our products make a vital contribution Our threat detection equipment products and services to support to our customers ability to save and helps keep people and assets safe.
a wide range of general industrial enhance lives.
There is growing demand Demand in the security market is applications in sectors including for medical technology worldwide, driven by persistent and evolving terror petrochemical, mining, pulp & paper, driven by ageing populations, the threats, changing security regulations, water treatment, semiconductor increasing incidence of chronic and increased global air travel and testing, heating elements, automotive diseases, and the expansion of trade.
Aftermarket opportunities rise as and rail transportation.
These sectors healthcare spending in developing the installed base grows.
The defence and others are served by John Crane, countries.
Smiths Medical focuses segment is served by Smiths Detection Smiths Interconnect and Flex-Tek, with heavily on this market and both Smiths through imaging and sensing detection growth generally tracking increases in Interconnect and Flex-Tek supply products and by Smiths Interconnect GDP worldwide.
solutions that support the manufacture through secure connectivity solutions.
Growth in this market is primarily driven by defence and security spending.
REVENUE BY MARKET SPACE AND COMMERCIAL AEROSPACE OIL & GAS John Cranes mechanical seals Satellite launches, deep space and systems support oil & gas exploration and emerging activities such operations worldwide in downstream as asteroid mining are driving demand Medical technology 29% refineries, midstream pipelines and for high reliability solutions in the Security and defence 28% gas storage activities.
Growth is driven space market.
Growth in commercial General industry 24% by increases in global demand for aerospace is coming from new fuelOil & gas 15% energy, productivity and enhanced efficient aircraft and increasing Space and commercial aerospace 4% environmental and safety requirements.
Flex-Tek All of our markets are driven by the everThere is a growing requirement for provides hydraulic hoses and fuel lines changing nature of the world.
for airframes and engines and Smiths Interconnect supplies ultra high-quality connectors, microwave components and antenna systems for aircraft and 10 satellite communications.
