9 S S Str tr tra a at t teg eg egic ic ic r r re e ep p po o or r rt t t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 Our strategic imperatives Five new strategic imperatives form our value creation plan forthe medium term GROW MEASURING PERFORMANCE Behind our strategic imperatives Achieve the full potential ofourportfolio sits a detailed dashboard of key performance indicators that Improving execution to accelerate organic performance we use to track and evaluate with a focus on i platform-specific plans, ii Ambulatory 1 our performance.
These cover Surgery Centres and iii Emerging Markets, especially Commercial, Operations, R&D, China andLatin America.
People, our SG&A and cost base, as well as return on investment Transform the business through and cash.
enabling technologies Whilst many of these are By acquiring and developing leading enabling technologies commercially sensitive, and hence 2 to transform procedures, including robotics, imaging and will not be published, they all augmented reality.
support our objective to deliver on our financial guidance for 2019.
This is detailed in the CFO review onpage 37.
Expand in high-growth segments Other published metrics include our By accelerating portfolio growth, strengthening or establishing 3 work to simplify the organisation and leadership positions, and driving meaningful synergies.
processes through our restructuring programme APEX, and our focus on turning profit into cash.
These are also described in more detail in the TOGETHER CFO review.
2018 KPIs were set against previous Strengthen talent and capabilities strategic priorities.
These measured revenue growth in our Established By developing a winning culture to improve 4 and Emerging Markets, operating retention and attract talent.
and trading profit margin and R&D investment.
These measures are reported on page 4.
EFFECTIVELY Become the best owner To drive meaningful margin expansion through operational 5 transformation and organisation simplification.
