14 Strategic report G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 Our franchises From 1 January 2019, we will serve our customers through three franchises Orthopaedics Sports Medicine & ENT Advanced Wound Management Orthopaedics includes an innovative range Our Sports Medicine and Ear, Nose and Our Advanced Wound Management of Hip and Knee Implants used to replace Throat ENT businesses offer advanced portfolio provides a comprehensive set of diseased, damaged or worn joints and products and instruments used to repair products to meet broad and complex clinical Trauma products used to stabilise severe or remove soft tissue.
They operate in needs, to help healthcare professionals get fractures and correct bone deformities.
growing markets where unmet clinical needs CLOSER TO ZERO human and economic provide opportunities for procedural and consequencesof wounds.
15 S S Str tr tra a at t teg eg egic ic ic r r re e ep p po o or r rt t t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 OUR FRANCHISES Orthopaedics With best-in-class products utilising unique materials and backed by strong data, our Orthopaedics franchise is well-positioned for further growth.
Proven products to Skip Kiil President of Orthopaedics enhance quality of life The NAVIO Surgical System provides Smith & Nephews Orthopaedics franchise includes an innovative range 12-20 accuracy, flexibility and confidence utilising of Hip and Knee Implants used to replace diseased, damaged or worn real-time imaging without the need for a joints, and Trauma products used to stabilise severefractures, correct preoperative CT scan, hand-held robotics, a portable cart, and multiple partial and total bone deformities, treat arthritis and heal softtissue complications.
knee implant options in an economically sound 21 platform.
NAVIO offers both partial and total The LEGION GENESIS II Total Knee System KNEE IMPLANTS knee options that include the first and only is a comprehensive system designed to allow Every year more than two million patients robotics-assisted bi-cruciate retaining knee surgeons to address a wide range of knee receive total, partial or revision knee procedure commercially available today.
It includes the LEGION Revision replacements worldwide.
Smith & Nephews Knee System, designed to offer surgeons Additionally, our knee systems can utilise our range of products for specialised knee improved options to deal with the complexities VISIONAIRE Patient-Matched Instrumentation, replacement procedures include leading associated with revision knee arthroplasty.
whereby an MRI and X-Rays are used to create products for total, partial and patellofemoral customised cutting guides designed to allow joint resurfacing procedures.
Customers and These systems feature VERILAST Technology, the surgeon to achieve optimal alignment of patients benefit from our unique technologies our advanced bearing surface of OXINIUM 22 the new implant.
including our proprietary advanced bearing Oxidized Zirconium with highly cross-linked surface, VERILAST, our robotics-assisted polyethylene.
The LEGION Primary Knee with platform, NAVIO Surgical System, and HIP IMPLANTS VERILAST Technology has been laboratoryour customised VISIONAIRE PatientSmith & Nephews Hip Implants franchise tested for 45 million cycles of wear simulation, Matched Instrumentation.
offers a range of specialist products for approximating 30 years of activity.
While lab reconstruction of the hip joint.
This may be testing is not the same as clinical performance, Smith & Nephews JOURNEY II Total Knee necessary due to conditions such as arthritis the tests showed significant reduction in wear Arthroplasty system is designed and 10 causing persistent pain and or as a result of compared to conventional technologies.
demonstrated to replicate normal knee hip fracture.
Every year more than two million 2-8 positions, shapes, and motions.
The range Our ANTHEM Total Knee System and patients worldwide undergo total, resurfacing includes bi-cruciate stabilised and cruciate ORTHOMATCH Universal Instrumentation 1 and revision hip replacement procedures.
retaining options, and the JOURNEY II XR, an Platform, launched in 2017, are designed to innovative bi-cruciate retaining knee implant Smith & Nephew has developed a range of provide wider market access to affordable launched in 2018, which is designed to retain primary hip systems.
Core systems include knee treatment.
ANTHEM is tailored to meet the anterior and posterior cruciate ligaments the ANTHOLOGY Hip System, SYNERGY Hip the anatomical needs of patients from Asia, ACL PCL and deliver normal perception of System and the POLAR3 Total Hip Solution.
the Middle East, Africa and Latin America and 9 movement and muscle control.
This diversity exemplifies our commitment the ORTHOMATCH instrumentation platform to providing surgeons with implant and reduces weight, footprint and unnecessary 11 instrumentation options that meet the specific cost without compromising on quality.
demands of their patients and preferred surgical approach, most notably the direct anterior or posterolateral approach.
We also market the BIRMINGHAM HIP Resurfacing BHR System, an important option for surgeons treating suitable patients.
16 Strategic report G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 OUR FRANCHISES continued Orthopaedics References Smith & Nephews portfolio also includes OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2018 1 20 18 Smith & Nephew Market Model.
the REDAPT Revision Hip System.
The need Revenue Reported Underlying 2 N oble PC, et al.
2005:431:157-165. to perform a revision can occur for a variety growth growth 3 M ayman DJ, et al.
Poster presented at: ISPOR Symposium: of reasons including infection, dislocation, May2018: USA.
Knee Implants $1,017m 3% 3% or failure of the implants to achieve biologic 4 N odzo SR, et al.
REDAPT is designed to turn 5 T akubo A, et al.
Trauma $493m 0% -1% such complex hip revisions into efficient, 6 K osse NM, et al.
Poster 99 presented at: 2nd World Arthroplasty Congress: April 2018: Italy.
reproducible surgeries, allowing surgeons In Knee Implants we delivered a market 7 K aneko T, et al.
2017:14 1 :201-206. to effectively recreate a patients unique beating growth in 2018.
This was driven by 8 G rieco TF, et al.
2017:33 2 :565-571. functionality, while quickly and easily double-digit underlying growth across our 9 S mith & Nephew 00225 V3 JOURNEY II BCS and CRDesign 23 addressing issues such as poor bone quality.
JOURNEY II Total Knee System, LEGION 10 P apannagari R, et al.
The REDAPT Fully Porous Acetabular Cup with Revision Knee System and ANTHEM Knee 11 S mith & Nephew 07147 V2 ANTHEM Total Knee System Design CONCELOC Technology is designed to allow System for the Emerging Markets.
Rationale 10.18. ingrowth through an additive, or 3D printing, 12 H erry Y, et al.
In Hip Implants, performance improved manufacturing process which produces a 13 B atailler C, et al.
Poaster presented at: ESSKA: May2018:UK.
markedly in the second half of the year, with porous implant that mimics the structure of 14 G regori A, et al.
Paper presented at: International Society for improved execution driving demand for the Computer Assisted Orthopaedic Surgery: June 2015: Canada.
The 3D printing method POLAR3 total hip solution, with its class- 15 G regori A, et al.
Abstract presented at: 15th EFORT Congress: allows for complex design geometries that June 2014: UK.
leading survivorship data, and the continued would be difficult, expensive or impossible 16 S mith JR, et al.
Poster presented at: Congress of the International roll-out of the REDAPT Revision System.
to achieve with traditional manufacturing Society of Biomechanics: August 2013: Brazil.
Paper presented at: International Society for methods.
In Trauma we delivered good growth from Computer Assisted Orthopaedic Surgery: June 2015: Canada.
INTERTAN Nails and drove an increasing 18 M itra R. Poster presented at: World Arthroplasty Congress: contribution from the new EVOS SMALL plating TRAUMA April2018: Italy.
system, offset by reduced tender activity in the 19 J aramaz B, et al.
EPiC Series in Health Sciences.
In Trauma, the TRIGEN INTERTAN hip Middle East.
Poster presented at: 19th EFORT fracturesystem allows patients to experience AnnualCongress: May June 2018: Spain.
lower riskof implant failure and re-operation, 21 S g2 Healthcare Intelligence.
Technology Guide: Orthopedic fastertime to fracture union, and a high return Surgical Robotics.
22 S mith & Nephew 2012 VISIONAIRE Design Rationale 7128-1567 Rev.
The EVOS Plate and Screw System is a 23 S mith & Nephew 10864 V1 REDAPT Revision Acetabular Augment stainless steel, highly versatile system with Design Rationale 0718.
24 S mith & Nephew 03955 V2 CONCELOC Material a multitude of plate geometries and longer Specifications 0317. screw lengths than standard mini fragment 25 S mith & Nephew 05036 V2 TRIGEN INTERTAN Claims systems.
The EVOS Small Fragment system for Brochure 0817. lower extremity fractures and general trauma 26 N ational Joint Registry for England, Wales and NorthernIreland: utilisation features more points of fixation 15th Annual Report.
2018. andgreater breadth of plate options.
T he LEGION Primary CR Knee System completed 45 million cycles of in vitro simulated wear testing, whichis an estimate of 30years For extremities and limb restoration, our range of activity.
Other LEGION VERILAST Primary Knee Systems includes the TAYLOR SPATIAL FRAME External underwent similar lab testing comparable to industry standards.
The results of in vitro wear simulation testing have not been Fixator as well as plates, screws, arthroscopes, proven to quantitatively predict clinical wear performance.
Also, instrumentation, resection and suture anchor areduction in total polyethylene wear volume or wear rate alone products for foot and ankle and hand and may not result in improved clinical outcomes as wear particle size and morphology are also critical factors in the evaluation wrist repair as well as INVISIKNOT, a unique of the potential for wear mediated osteolysis and associated syndesmotic fixation device for the ankle.
Particle size and morphology were not evaluated as part of the testing.
T hese non-IFRS financial measures are explained and reconciled to the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in accordance with IFRS on pages 194-198.
17 S S Str tr tra a at t teg eg egic ic ic r r re e ep p po o or r rt t t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 OUR FRANCHISES continued POLAR3 TOTAL HIP SOLUTION The POLARSTEM and R3 Total Hip Solution has the best survivorship figures of any total hip construct at seven years according to the worlds largest national 26 joint registry.
18 Strategic report G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 OUR FRANCHISES continued Sports Medicine & ENT We have a leading portfolio of instruments and implants for soft tissue repair, and a proud history of successfully addressing unmet Technology to clinical needs.
Brad Cannon improvehealthcare President of Sports Medicine & ENT Smith & Nephews Sports Medicine and Ear, Nose and Throat ENT franchise operates in growing markets where unmet clinical needs provide opportunities for procedural and technological innovation.
SPORTS MEDICINE JOINT REPAIR In Sports Medicine Joint Repair, our technologies, instruments and implants enable surgeons to perform minimally invasive surgery of the joints, including the repair of soft tissue injuries and degenerative conditions of the shoulder, knee, hip and small joints.
For shoulder repair, we market products primarily for Rotator Cuff Repair RCR and instability repair, two of the most commonly performed sports medicine procedures.
Our key shoulder repair products include a variety of suture anchors, such as HEALICOIL Suture Anchors featuring open-architecture REGENETEN BIOINDUCTIVE IMPLANT design and SUTUREFIX and Q-FIX All-Suture Anchors, suture passers such as FIRSTPASS Rotator cuff disease is ST, and ULTRABRAID and ULTRATAPE Sutures.
a significant and costly All these products can be used together or 3,16,17 problem that causes in conjunction with other existing products from the Smith & Nephew portfolio in a ongoing pain and limits patients single procedure, significantly expanding the 18 mobility.
The REGENETEN breadth of our comprehensive solutions for Bioinductive Implant stimulates shoulder repair.
the bodys natural healing Enhancing our RCR portfolio, the REGENETEN response to support new Bioinductive Implant, acquired in 2017, is a breakthrough technology and technique tendon growth and disrupt that balances biomechanics and biology to 3,19 disease progression.
enhance the bodys natural healing response, helping tendons heal by inducing growth 1-3 ofnew tendon-like tissue.
19 S S Str tr tra a at t teg eg egic ic ic r r re e ep p po o or r rt t t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 OUR FRANCHISES continued The REGENETEN implant is highly When mixed with water, CMC forms a ARTHROSCOPIC ENABLING complementary to our Sports Medicine cushioning gel that naturally drains from the TECHNOLOGIES AET portfolio, especially for enhancing a broad body after several days and supports healing AET products are often used in conjunction spectrum of rotator cuff repairs, serving an by maintaining a moist physical environment.
with products from SportsMedicine Joint unmet clinical need and providing a compelling Repair.
AET includes high definition imaging new treatment option for our customers.
OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2018 solutions, industry leading energy-based and mechanical resection platforms, and In knee repair, the FAST-FIX family of Revenue Reported Underlying growth growth fluid management and access technologies.
Meniscal Repair Systems, FIRSTPASS MINI Our platforms work in concert to facilitate Sports Medicine Suture Passer, and the ACUFEX Meniscal access to various joint spaces, visualise the Joint Repair $697m 11% 8% Root Repair System increase the number patients anatomy, resect degenerated or of meniscal injuries we can help surgeons AET $600m -2% -3% damaged tissue and prepare the joint for a address.
For ligaments, the ENDOBUTTON Other Surgical softtissue repair.
and ULTRABUTTON fixed and adjustable Business $209m 10% 10% loop devices, BIOSURE interference screws, The WEREWOLF and QUANTUM 2 and the new ACUFEX EXTRA-ARTICULAR In 2018, strong growth in Sports Medicine Joint COBLATION Controllers, which are used Reconstruction Guide System give surgeons Repair franchise was driven by our shoulder with a wide range of high performance multiple tools for performing single and repair portfolio.
Within this, the recently COBLATION radio frequency RF wands, complex ligament repairs.
Outside the United acquired REGENETEN Bioinductive Implant for enable surgeons to remove soft tissue States, the CARGEL Bioscaffold can be used rotator cuff repair delivered more than 130% 8 precisely and control bleeding in a variety in conjunction with microfracture to repair growth, performing ahead of expectations.
With these products, latest advance in COBLATION Technology, AET performance was held back by continued weprovide a unique package of solutions and the FLOW 50 Wand have demonstrated softness in mechanical and legacy radioused by surgeons to help them restore knee 9 faster patient recovery and better long-term frequency resection.
We expect the launch function for their patients.
10,11 12,13 patient outcomes and safety in knee of the FLOW 90 COBLATION wand for procedures.
The WEREWOLF and QUANTUM In December 2018, we announced the shoulder in the first half of 2019 to support 2 Controllers and their associated wands carry acquisition of Ceterix Orthopaedics, Inc. the better growth.
broad indications across Sports Medicine.
developer of the NovoStitch Pro Meniscal Other Surgical Businesses double-digit growth Repair System.
This unique device addresses The LENS Integrated Visualisation System reflects strong demand for our robotic NAVIO complex meniscal tear patterns not adequately provides outstanding image quality and Surgical System from both the Established and served by other repair systems and is highly functionality in a simple three-in-one Emerging markets.
complementary to Smith & Nephews leading console CCU, LED Light Source and Image FAST-FIX 360 Meniscal Repair System.
Management System, camera head and References The acquisition completed on 22 January 2019. iPad application.
Our DYONICS shaver 1 B okor DJ, et al.
2015:5 3 :144-150. blades provide superior resection due to their 2 A rnoczky SP, et al.
The Smith & Nephew joint repair portfolio 3 B okor DJ, et al.
2016:6 1 :16-25. sharpness and reduced clogging with their includes implants made from a variety of 14 4 D ouglass NP, et al.
GoFLO and biocompatible materials, including next- 5 D ata on file Smith & Nephew.
Double Pump Fluid Management Systems generation anchors made of soft, all-suture 6 D ata on file Smith & Nephew.
2013. facilitate surgical access by expanding the joint material and REGENESORB, an advanced 7 D ata on file Smith & Nephew.
2010. space, providing haemostasis, and maintaining biocomposite.
For example, the Q-FIX 8 A miel D, et al.
2004:20 5 :503-510. the saline environment necessary to perform All-Suture Anchor is ideal for a variety of 9 S pahn G, et al.
Knee Surg Sports Traumatol Arthrosc.
arthroscopic shoulder and hip repairs, offering 2008:16 6 :565573.
fixation performance superior to commonly 11 S pahn G, et al.
used all-suture anchors and traditional EAR, NOSE & THROAT ENT 2016:24 5 :1560-1568.
The SUTUREFIX ULTRA All-Suture In ENT, our COBLATION Technology has been 12 G haraibeh M, et al.
Anchor is an attractive option for procedures used to remove tonsils and adenoids for 13 V oloshin I, et al.
5 in which anatomic space is very limited, over 15 years and is preferred by surgeons 14 D ata on file Smith & Nephew.
6 while still delivering high fixation strength.
2003:4949:341-352. and patients for its ability to remove tissue Implants made from REGENESORB, including 16 W ashburn III R, et al.
at low temperatures with minimal damage to 17 M ather RC, et al.
2013:95:1993-2000. versions of the HEALICOIL Suture Anchor for 15 surrounding tissue.
COBLATION Technology 18 L in JC, et al.
2008:9 9 :626-632. shoulder repair and BIOSURE Interference is also marketed for use in turbinate and 19 S chlegel TF, et al.
Screw for knee repair, have been shown to laryngeal procedures.
be absorbedand replaced by bone within F DA cleared for use in the knee on all soft tissue types 7 Our RAPID RHINO  T hese non-IFRS financial measures are explained and reconciled 24 months in pre-clinical studies.
to the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in CMC Technology is featured in both accordance with IFRS on pages 194198. dissolvable and removable nasal and sinus I ncludes ENT and NAVIO robotics system.
dressings and epistaxis treatment products.
20 Strategic report G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 OUR FRANCHISES continued Advanced Wound Management Our customers choose the breadth and depth of our portfolio, innovation, and expertise in order to achieve their CLOSER TO ZERO goals.
Reducing the burden Simon Fraser President of Advanced of wounds WoundManagement advanced dressing, uniquely differentiated Our Advanced Wound Management portfolio provides a comprehensive by its distinct quadrilobe shape which lasts set of products to meet broad and complex clinical needs, to help for up to two times longer than any other 8 healthcare professionals get CLOSER TO ZERO human and economic dressing.
The ALLEVYN range was extended in 2018 through the launch of ALLEVYN consequencesof wounds.
LIFE Non-Bordered to ensure the portfolio continues to meet broad needs.
ADVANCED WOUND MANAGEMENT ADVANCED WOUND CARE AWC Because of the breadth and depth of our Our AWC range covers several segments The rest of our AWC range includes our portfolio we are uniquely positioned to support aimed at helping improve outcomes in the film and post-operative dressings, skincare customers who follow best practice guidelines, Infection and Moisture balance clinical goals products and gels.
Leading brands include including managing wounds with T. I. M. E. of T. I. M. E. OPSITE dressings, IV3000, PROSHIELD andSECURA.
T. I. M. E. stands for Tissue non-viable, Infection In infection management, our silver-based and or Inflammation, Moisture imbalance, dressings ACTICOAT, DURAFIBER Ag ADVANCED WOUND BIOACTIVES andEdge of wound non-advancing.
These and ALLEVYN Ag provide clinicians with represent critical barriers of wound healing.
a range ofsolutions to address individual AWB T. I. M. E. was first established as a concept for patient needs in managing wound infection.
Our AWB portfolio covers key product 1 best practice wound management in 2003 ACTICOAT, for instance, is a fast-acting, highly segments aimed at helping improve outcomes 3 by a panel of world leading experts, and has effective antimicrobial for serious infection in the Tissue viability and wound Edge since been widely adopted around the world, on a wide range of wounds.
Our Cadexomer advancement clinical goals of T. I. M. E. becoming a staple reference framework for iodine based IODOSORB dressing is indicated 2 In this part of our business we focus on routine clinical practice.
outside the US to deliver best in class efficacy the commercialisation of topical biologics effective against biofilms across numerous We use T. I. M. E. to help our customers navigate 4 and a skin substitute that provide a unique clinically relevant in vitro tests, animal biofilm the complexity of product choices they face 4 5 approach to debridement, dermal repair, models and in clinical practice.
based on which clinical goal they may have, andtissue regeneration.
and we also use it to guide our own new In exudate or moisture management our Our portfolio includes Collagenase SANTYL product and programme development, as well products are designed to respond to varying Ointment, OASIS Wound Matrix and OASIS as life cycle management, to ensure we remain levels of wound exudate providing appropriate ULTRA Tri-Layer Matrix a naturally-derived, relevant to the evolving clinical needs.
wound fluid absorption, lock in and extracellular matrix replacement product evaporation properties to promote an optimal Having supported T. I. M. E. since its inception, indicated for the management of both chronic wound healing environment.
This helps at Smith & Nephew we are uniquely and traumatic wounds and REGRANEX patients get on with their lives as well as positionedto provide customers with becaplermin Gel 0.01%.
lowering costs for materials and nursing differentiated and effective products via our time by reducing unnecessary dressing Our most significant product by sales in Advanced Wound Care AWC, Advanced changes.
Our key growth brand in this 9 this segment is SANTYL Ointment, the only Wound Devices AWD and Advanced Wound space is the ALLEVYN range with two focus FDA-approved biologic enzymatic debriding Bioactives AWB portfolio across each T. I. M. E. - variants, ALLEVYN Gentle Border dressing agent for chronic dermal ulcers and severe basedclinical need.
versatile and adaptable, so suitable for a burns.
SANTYL plays an integral role in 6,7 wide variety of chronic and acute wounds debriding chronic dermal ulcers and severely and ALLEVYN LIFE dressing our most burned areas.
21 S S Str tr tra a at t teg eg egic ic ic r r re e ep p po o or r rt t t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 OUR FRANCHISES continued PICO 7 The UKs National Institute for Health and Care Excellence NICE issued a Medtech innovation 26 briefing on the prophylactic use of PICO which highlighted its potential to be more effective at preventing surgical site infections than standard surgical dressings.
This is the only such briefing published by NICE on an NPWT device for preventing such complications.
22 Strategic report G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 OUR FRANCHISES continued References This franchise also includes the VERSAJET ADVANCED WOUND DEVICES AWD 1 S chultz et al.
Hydrosurgery system, a surgical debridement Our AWD portfolio covers key product 2 Leaper et al.
2 :119. device used by surgeons to excise and segments aimed at helping improve outcomes 3 W right et al.
Contrl 1998: 26 6 572-577. evacuate non-viable tissue, bacteria and in the Tissue viability, Moisture balance, 4 F itzgerald et al.
2017:25,1324. contaminants from wounds, burns and andwound Edge advancement clinical goals 5 Malone et al.
In the NPWT segment, the PICO Single Use 8 J oy et al.
OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2018 Negative Pressure Wound Therapy System 9 S ANTYL is indicated for chronic dermal ulcers and severely Revenue Reported Underlying burned areas.
Occasionally, slighttransient erythema has been sNPWT brings the effectiveness of traditional growth growth 10 noted in surrounding tissue when applied outside the wound.
NPWT in a modern, small portable system.
One case of systemic hypersensitivity has been reported after Advanced It is designed for both open wounds and 1year of treatment with collagenase and cortisone.
Use of Wound Care $740m 3% 1% closed incisions, and leverages our proprietary SANTYL Ointment should be terminated when debridement is Advanced complete and granulation tissue is well-established.
See full AIRLOCK dressing technology.
prescribing information for more details.
Wound Bioactives $320m -6% -6% 10 H urd et al.
During the year, we extended the PICO range Advanced 11 S mith&Nephew DOF DS.
with the introduction of two new models.
Wound Devices $215m 10% 9% 12 S mith&Nephew DOF DS 17 701 R. PICO 7 delivers a more efficient vacuum 13 D elhougne et al.
In 2018, performance in Advanced Wound 14 D ingemans et al.
Orthopaedics 2018: 42 4 : 747-753. andsuperior leak management than the Care included good growth in the US, led doi:10.1007 s00264-018-3781-6.
11 previous version, includes an industry-first by ALLEVYN LIFE and our pressure ulcer 15 F leming, et al.
Journal of Hospital Infection 2018: 99 1 : 75-80. dressing-full indicator, which is intended to doi:10.1016 j. jhin.
2017.10.022. prevention strategy, offset by softness in some help reduce unnecessary dressing changes 16 G aliano et al.
and wastage, and is over 25% quieter than 2018:6 1 :e1560.
In Advanced Wound Bioactives, performance 18 S vensson-Bjrk et al, Wound Repair & Regeneration from SANTYL, our largest product, was weaker PICO 7Y, launched in Europe in 2018, is the 2018:26 1 :77-86. than the previous year as volumes came under 19 Y amaguchi et al.
Jnl Dermatology 2018: 45 4 : 483-486. first sNPWT system to include an innovative pressure.
Following review of two large safety doi:10.1111 1346-8138.14180. integrated Y connector enabling the utilisation studies, the FDA approved the removal of the 20 I nnocenti et al.
2018:Aug 15. of two dressings concurrently from one 21 E dwards et al.
2018:14:5662. boxed warning from REGRANEX, and we will pump, in practice allowing for two wounds 22 G iannini et al, Jnl.
Wound Care, 2018: 27 8 :520-525. relaunch this product in early 2019. to be addressed at the same time, thereby 23 F orlee, et al.
Advanced Wound Devices delivered strong 24 F orlee, et al.
2006:18 8 :227-237. growth led by demand for our PICO sNPWT, The PICO evidence base continued to grow, 26 N ICE Medtech Innovation briefing MIB149 June 2018. which benefited from the launch of two new validating the patient and provider benefits models in 2018.
T hese non-IFRS financial measures are explained and reconciled of the technology, with the publication of to the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in key studies in multiple indications including accordance with IFRS on pages 194198. orthopaedics, vascular, plastics, OBGYN, 13-24 breast reconstruction and chronic wounds.
With RENASYS NPWT system, our strategy is to simplify the delivery of NPWT, combining the advantages of PICO with the simplicity and power of RENASYS TOUCH, an intuitive touchscreen traditional NPWT device delivering advanced features to manage large, 23,24 highly exuding wounds.
