4 Strategic report G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 Financial highlights REVENUE KPI REVENUE BY MARKET $4,904m Established Markets Emerging Markets 1 Reported Underlying $4,047m $857m Reported Reported 3% 2% 2% 7% Group revenue was up 3% on a reported basis 1 1 Underlying Underlying including 1% fromforeign exchange tailwind and 2% on an underlying basis.
1% 8% KPI DIVIDEND PER SHARE OPERATING PROFIT DEAR SHAREHOLDER 2018 was a busy year for Smith & Nephew.
Performance improved across the year, whilst the Company underwent a period of significant 36.0 3% $863m -8% transformation: in leadership, structure, culture and strategy.
The 3% year-on-year increase reflects the Operating profit margin of 17.6% is down growth in adjusted earnings and is in-line 200bps year-on-year due to impact of with our progressive policy.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER In 2017, Olivier Bohuon told us he intended to retire after more than seven years as Chief 1 KPI EARNINGS PER SHARE EPS TRADING PROFIT Executive Officer.
Under his leadership, Smith & Nephew experienced important and necessary change and he significantly 76.0 -13% $1,123m 7% strengthened the foundations of our Company.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank 1 The decrease reflects the impact of the Trading profit margin was 22.9%, up him for his service and wish him a long and restructuringcharges relating to the 90bpsyear-on-year reflecting both improved healthy retirement.
trading performance and cost control and a In May 2018, Namal Nawana joined Smith 50bps one-off legal settlement benefit.
& Nephew as Chief Executive Officer 1 KPI ADJUSTED EARNINGS PERSHARE EPSA R&D EXPENDITURE and was appointed to the Board as an Executive Director.
Namal is a global industry insider, an innovator, 100.9 7% $246m 10% and proven leader.
Most recently, he was Chief Executive Officer, President and a member of The increase reflects improved trading R&D expenditure was up 10% reflecting our the Board of Directors of medical diagnostics 1 performance andlower tax rate on trading.
increased investment in new products and company Alere, Inc.
Here he led the successful clinical evidence.
turnaround of this global business before its acquisition by Abbott Laboratories in 2017.
1 RETURN ON INVESTED CAPITAL ROIC Before joining Alere, Namal spent more than 15 years at Johnson & Johnson, in roles of increasing responsibility in Europe, Asia and North America, culminating in Worldwide 12.5% -180bps President of DePuy Synthes Spine.
We were The decrease reflects primarily delighted when he agreed to join Smith & the fall in operating profit.
1 T hese non-IFRS financial measures are explained and reconciled to the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in accordance with IFRS on pages 194198.
5 S S Str tr tra a at t teg eg egic ic ic r r re e ep p po o or r rt t t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 Chairs statement The phrase step change is used too often, but today I believe that Smith & Nephew stands at the startof such a transformation.
A period of significant Roberto Quarta transformation: inleadership, Chair structure, culture and strategy The five strategic imperatives are similarly Ian Barlow will step down from the Board at the LEADERSHIP & CULTURE robust.
The Board welcomes their wide-ranging Annual General Meeting in April 2019, having Since May, Namal has worked closely with scope to accelerate growth, both organically completed a nine-year term.
We have reviewed and endorsed and through acquisitions, strengthen people Smith & Nephew with great distinction as our his actions to restructure the Company.
and capabilities, and improve the operations Senior Independent Director, and previously He has rapidly built a highly experienced new ofour business globally.
as Chair of the Audit Committee.
I have been leadership team, bringing in strong external grateful for his counsel and thank him for his leaders as well as promoting from within significant contribution over the years.
Members of this team 2018 PERFORMANCE meet regularly with the Board, and we have The Board closely monitors the performance Michael Friedman, Chair of our Compliance seen for ourselves the clear focus and strong of the business through regular updates from & Culture Committee, will also be retiring at collaboration across this team.
the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial that time after six years service, and I thank Officer and other members of the senior him for his leadership in this crucial area.
The Board has long held culture as an leadership team.
Robin Freestone will replace Ian as Senior important indicator of the underlying health Independent Director and Marc Owen will of the Company.
We have welcomed the 2018 performance was solid, with an improved replace Michael as Chair of the extended importance Namal has placed on this, and his dynamic in the second half.
The Board Compliance & Culture Committee.
forensic approach to defining the Companys noted how well the new team delivered this purpose and the behaviours all employees acceleration whilst also undertaking important Smith & Nephew values diversity, and I am must display to deliver the strategy.
This was work to restructure the Group.
Whilst there is pleased that this is reflected in our Board, not an academic exercise, or conducted by still much work to be done, the new Group which, following these changes will be just the senior management team, but rather structure is now in place.
The Board endorses 30% female and include six nationalities.
a case study in how to engage employees, the guidance for further progress in 2019.
We continue to look for opportunities to with 6,000 employees contributing to the widen our outlook and expertise with an The Board is pleased that shareholders process.
The Board believes that the new expanded mandate.
will benefit from strong growth in adjusted purpose Life Unlimited and Culture Pillars earnings per share, which is reflected in the The phrase step change is used too often, but of Care, Collaboration and Courage are both 3% increase in the full year dividend to 36.0 today I believe that Smith & Nephew stands at authentic and inspiring.
The performance of our the start of such a transformation.
Whilst there shares is also noteworthy, increasing 13% from is still much work to be done, the Board is STRATEGY when Namal joined up to the end of 2018, excited by the prospects and looks forward to In December, the Board approved the new strongly outperforming the FTSE 100. supporting the new management team as they strategic imperatives that will drive value realise Smith & Nephews full potential.
creation in the medium term.
This was a BOARD CHANGES culmination of a collaborative process between Yours sincerely, During 2018, we welcomed Roland the Board and the Chief Executive Officer Diggelmann as a Non-Executive Director.
and senior leadership team over a number Roland was, until recently, Chief Executive of months.
During this process we tested Officer of Roche Diagnostics and a member their insight of, and vision for, the medical ofthe Corporate Executive Committee of technology industry and found their analysis F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd.
He brings direct of the opportunities the Company faces was experience in orthopaedics from previous Roberto Quarta detailed and compelling.
Chair senior roles at Zimmer.
