12 Strategic report G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 Our business model Value creation is driven byour newbrand purpose, culture pillars andstrategic imperatives OUR RESOURCES CREATING VALUE THROUGH Our people & culture Purpose-driven culture Attracting, developing and retaining the bestemployees is important.
We strive  culture based We believe in Life Unlimited, and have onstrongand authentic values.
threeculture pillars that guide our behaviours and build a winning team Ethics & compliance Committed to doing business the right way, spirit: Care, Collaboration and Courage.
applying strict principles to the way we work.
Sales & marketing Supporting customers through highly specialised sales teams with in-depth technical knowledge that surgeons and nursesgreatly value.
Manufacturing & quality Life Operating global manufacturing efficiently, to the highest standards, to ensure quality and competitiveness.
Unlimited Strong product portfolio Medical education We have market-leading technology Supporting the safe and effective use of ourproducts through medical education.
across our broad range of products.
We deploy our capital to drive Research & development continuedinnovation from our Innovation is part of our culture and we are increasing the amount we invest in R&Dprogrammes and invest in new products.
productand technology acquisitions, which improve outcomes and widen Sustainability access to life-changing care.
We focus on three aspects of sustainability: economic prosperity, social responsibility andenvironmental stewardship.
OUR RESOURCES OUR CULTURE PILLARS OUR STRATEGIC IMPERATIVES PAGES 23-34 PAGE 8 PAGE 9 13 S S Str tr tra a at t teg eg egic ic ic r r re e ep p po o or r rt t t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 OUR BUSINESS MODEL continued VALUE DELIVERED IN 2018 VALUE SHARED Shareholders REVENUE Strategic imperatives We have a progressive dividend policy and inrespect of 2018 our shareholders benefited $4,904m from a 3%increase in dividend.
In addition, Our five new strategic imperatives ourshares rose 14% over the course of 2018. reflect our ambition to maximise commercialadvantage from our Patients 1 OPERATING PROFIT TRADING PROFIT marketplace.
They will formour Patients in more than 100 countries were treated with our products in 2018.
We continued value creation plan for the $863m $1,123m to widen access to our products, with 17% medium term.
of revenue now coming from sales to the emerging markets.
DIVIDEND JOBS Customers We continued to expand treatment options $321m 16,000 available through R&D and acquisitions, published more than 200 pieces of clinical or economic evidence, and provided extensive professional development training.
Customer centricity EFFICIENCY PUBLISHED Employees SAVINGS CLINICAL EVIDENCE 6,000 employees engaged in the development Serving our customers is at the of our new purpose and culture pillars which $60m 200 heart of our model.
We have a are guiding revised evaluation, diversity and global franchise model led by development programmes.
management who are specialists Communities in their markets.
This keeps us PRACTITIONER PHILANTHROPIC We work in a sustainable, ethical and TRAINING INSTANCES DONATIONS close to our customers, ensuring responsible manner, making $8m in cash and product donations in 2018. we can anticipate and meet 50,000 $8m their needs.
1 T hese non-IFRS financial measures are explained and reconciled to the most directly comparable financialmeasure prepared in accordance with IFRSonpages 194198.
OUR FRANCHISES OUR RESULTS OUR RESOURCES PAGES 14-22 PAGE 4 PAGES 23-34
