10 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 A CHANGING WORLD SHAPING THE FUTURE OF SMITHS There are many possible futures for Smiths.
We monitor mega trends to inform our strategy, which drives our innovation agenda so we can create the future.
Converting information into digital formats INCREASED DIGITISATION supports connectivity, making products smarter and able to exchange information AND CONNECTIVITY with other devices and platforms.
This is driving new business models and value creative solutions for our customers.
HOW SMITHS IS WELL POSITIONED Digital solutions are central to many of our products, e. g. software in Smiths Detection equipment, Smiths Medicals connected pumps, John Cranes predictive diagnostic sensors and Smiths Interconnects digital networks for space applications We are close to our customers and offer cutting edge technological expertise Our Digital Forge centre of excellence is helping to leverage software expertise across the Group HOW SMITHS IS WELL POSITIONED AGEING POPULATION ENERGY DEMANDS Smiths Medicals digitised devices AND HEALTHCARE AND EFFICIENCIES enable remote care, and support smart hospitals through automation Energy demand is increasing DEMANDS and increased efficiency worldwide, with estimated growth The worlds population is growing and of 1.3% per annum, and a changing Customer intimacy drives continuous ageing.
The over 60 global cohort is mix with gas growing faster than oil.
improvement in our products, expected to double by 2050 and triple Environmental regulations and the need and strong and sustained R&D is by 2100.
Ageing populations increases to reduce harmful emissions are also supporting the next generation the need for medical technology.
of innovation United Nations World Population Prospects 2017.
HOW SMITHS IS WELL POSITIONED We are focusing on technology and new product development that will enable a smarter, greener future, such as John Cranes dry gas seals that help to reduce methane emissions Customer intimacy enables us to jointly deliver solutions that meet specific needs BP 2018 Global Energy Outlook.
11 Company Overview STRATEGIC REPORT Governance Financial statements MOBILITY AND ARTIFICIAL GLOBALISATION INTELLIGENCE AI AI the capability of a machine to imitate The growth of infrastructures supporting travel and trade is creating intelligent human behaviour, learn from past iterations and enhance its a smaller world for people and goods.
With this comes the need for enhanced capabilities and knowledge is nascent but evolving rapidly and applications can security and speed of transaction.
already be found in many industries.
HOW SMITHS IS WELL POSITIONED HOW SMITHS IS WELL POSITIONED We have a global footprint with operations in over 50 countries Our Digital Forge is supporting Group-wide progress in the Growth in air travel, urbanisation and application of AI global trade are key demand drivers Our Smiths Detection CORSYS for Smiths Detection software platform leverages AI to Applications at Smiths Interconnect enable our customers to make better support high speed trains and informed decisions secure connectivity for aircraft and satellite communications DEMAND FOR TALENT Advances in technology, globalisation, demographic trends and competition are NEW BUSINESS increasing the demand for specialised MODELS talent.
Our HR strategy is to attract, Business models enabled by new retain, develop, engage and inspire the technology will emerge and these right people.
Trends include HOW SMITHS IS WELL POSITIONED customisation, new service models and Our people are a sustainable source the sharing economy.
We are embracing of competitive advantage and we are this evolution to remain competitive and committed to enabling them to be the create new value propositions.
best they can be HOW SMITHS IS WELL POSITIONED We reward our colleagues for their We are asset-light, helping us contributions and enable them to to be competitive and agile in a share in our success.
We aim to sustainable way engage them so that they are more A high proportion of our revenue 57% innovative, productive, effective and comes from aftermarket services happier at work Customer intimacy and technological expertise are elements of the Smiths Excellence System, our shared operating model 62 3 WHAT IS i ?
3 i innovation, implementation and This drives our innovation agenda OUR GROUP-WIDE inspiration identifies mega and emerging and enables us to stay at the INNOVATION FRAMEWORK trends, translating them into revenue cutting edge of knowledge 23 opportunities in our markets.
