68 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENT In coming to this conclusion, the Directors In assessing the impact of each of the GOING CONCERN have taken account of the Groups risk scenarios the Directors reviewed the The Groups business activities, together management process and have paid current financial position and prospects of with the factors likely to affect its future particular attention to the Groups the Group, including current year business development, performance and position principal risks.
More information can performance, the detailed budget for are set out in the Strategic report.
FY2019 and the three-year Strategic The financial position of the Company, Plan.
Consideration was then given to the its cash-flows, liquidity position and VIABILITY STATEMENT magnitude of the gross risks and their borrowing facilities are described in During the year the Directors also potential impact, directly or indirectly, the Chief Financial Officers review.
assessed the longer-term prospects of on the Groups future performance and In addition, the notes to the accounts the Group, taking into account its current liquidity.
The assessment included stress include the Companys objectives, policies position, a robust assessment of the testing the Groups financial capacity to and processes for managing its capital: Companys principal risks, particularly absorb the impact of such adverse events, its financial risk management objectives: those which could threaten the business either individually or in combination, and details of its financial instruments and model, and a range of internal and what mitigating actions the Group could hedging activities: and its exposures to external factors.
take to respond to them in order to protect credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Directors have determined a three-year The Companys financial position, period to 31 July 2021 to be appropriate for The Directors also considered the including access to liquid resources and the viability assessment.
This is because Groups ability to raise additional liquidity.
a committed undrawn credit facility, based on the historical performance of the In performing this assessment the together with its debt maturity profile, Group a three-year outlook represents an Directors have taken comfort from the provide confidence that the Group has optimum balance of long-term projection diversity of the Groups businesses across sufficient financial resources and is and acceptable forecasting accuracy.
different markets, industries, geographies, well placed to manage its business This period also takes into account products and customers.
and its liabilities as they fall due.
As a considerations such as the maturity of consequence, the Directors believe that Based on the robust assessment, the the Groups borrowing facilities and the the Company will continue in operation for Directors confirm that they have a cyclicality of the performance of the Groups the foreseeable future and for a period of reasonable expectation the Group will underlying markets.
In order to assess the at least 12 months from the date of this remain viable for the three-year period Groups viability the Directors developed report and therefore continue to adopt being assessed and will continue to a set of plausible scenarios standalone the going concern basis of accounting operate and meet its liabilities as they fall and combined based on the Groups in preparing the annual accounts of the due.
The Directors have no reason to doubt principal risks, each with potentially highCompany and the Group.
that the Group will continue in business impact outcomes.
beyond the period under assessment.
SCENARIOS MODELLED Link to principal risks SCENARIO 1: A natural or other disaster destroys key manufacturing facilities resulting SUPPLY CHAIN in severe disruption to approximately one-quarter of Smiths Medicals production.
MANUFACTURING SCENARIO 2: A fault in a critical product within Smiths Medical causes the product PRODUCT QUALITY range to be suspended by global regulatory authorities pending further investigation.
Trade licences are subsequently revoked until the products are tested to be safe.
SCENARIO 3: A corruption scandal leads to global regulatory penalties and damage ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE to the Groups reputation.
The corruption scandal also leads to heavy penalties against the Group in its main markets.
SCENARIO 4: A major environmental disaster arises from product failure.
A severe PRODUCT QUALITY oil spill at an offshore drill causes marine damage and environmental hazards for local residents.
Investigations identify a fault in John Cranes mechanical seals as the root cause, and John Crane is judged to bear a share of the recovery costs and damages claimed.
SCENARIO 5: A product cyber-attack at a major global hub airport located in North CYBER SECURITY America.
Subsequently civil, military and governmental licences are revoked.
SCENARIO 6: Combination of scenarios 1 & 4: SCENARIO 7: Combination of scenarios 2 & 5 The Strategic report was approved By order of the Board by the Board on 20 September 2018.
ANDY REYNOLDS SMITH CHIEF EXECUTIVE 69 Company Overview Strategic report GOVERNANCE Financial statements LONG-TERM THINKING GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION 70 NOMINATION COMMITTEE 82 BOARD GOVERNANCE 71 AUDIT COMMITTEE 83 OUR BOARD 72 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS 90 THE ROLE OF THE BOARD 76 REMUNERATION REPORT 92 BOARD EFFECTIVENESS 78 DIRECTORS REPORT 112
