72 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 OUR BOARD In order to operate effectively the Board and its DIRECTOR BIOGRAPHIES Committees must be comprised of a diverse balance of skills, experience, knowledge, tenure and independence.
SIR GEORGE BUCKLEY ANDY REYNOLDS SMITH JOHN SHIPSEY Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Appointed: 1 August 2013 Appointed: 25 September 2015 Appointed: 1 January 2018 Andy spent over a decade at GKN plc, a John will stand for election by on appointment N R I complex global engineering group, before shareholders at the AGM.
Sir George has had a successful career joining Smiths.
Prior to leaving GKN he Prior to joining Smiths John was Chief in engineering and innovation, holding was Chief Executive of the Automotive Financial Officer for Dyson, a diversified the role of Chairman and CEO of 3M, a division and a member of the GKN Board.
He was part US-based global technology company Earlier in his career Andy held senior of the team leading Dysons global growth, and Dow Jones 30 component, prior management roles at Ingersoll Rand, particularly in Asia.
Before joining Dyson to joining Smiths.
His previous roles Siebe plc now Schneider Electric and John spent 13 years at Diageo plc in a include Chairman and CEO of Brunswick Delphi Automotive Systems.
His previous number of senior finance and strategy Corporation and Chief Technology Officer external appointments as Chairman of roles, including Finance Director for its for appliances, motors and controls at the CBI Manufacturing Council and as a Iberia region and Chief Financial Officer of Emerson Electric Company.
Sir George member of the Government Ministerial Schieffelin & Somerset, a US joint venture has a PhD in Electrical Engineering Advisory Group for Manufacturing between Diageo and LVMH.
John is a and his extensive experience of large, enhance the in-depth knowledge of the Chartered Accountant and has valuable multi-industry businesses operating in industry that Andy brings to the Board.
experience leading innovative companies global markets supports his effective with a global presence.
Other significant appointments: Non-executive Chairman, Stanley Black & Decker, Inc. Non-executive Director, Hitachi Ltd. Non-executive Director, PepsiCo, Inc. 73 Company Overview Strategic report GOVERNANCE Financial statements BRUNO ANGELICI OLIVIER BOHUON DAME ANN DOWLING Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed: 1 July 2010 Appointed: 1 July 2018 Appointed: 19 September 2018 A N R I A N R I A N R I Brunos career includes senior Olivier will stand for election by Dame Ann will stand for election by management roles in pharmaceutical and shareholders at the AGM.
Bruno retired Olivier was Chief Executive at Smith & Dame Ann has had a distinguished from AstraZeneca in 2010 as Executive Nephew plc, a multinational medical academic career and is currently a Vice President, International, responsible equipment manufacturing company, Deputy Vice Chancellor and a professor of for Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America until May 2018.
He has significant Mechanical Engineering at the University and MEA.
Brunos extensive experience global experience at pharmaceutical of Cambridge, where she served as brings a deeper understanding of the and MedTech companies, and his Head of Engineering from 2009 to 2014. healthcare environment and industry to previous roles include CEO at Pierre Dame Anns contribution to engineering the Board.
Bruno has an MBA from the Fabre Group and President of Abbott research is internationally recognised, Kellogg School of Management and a Pharmaceuticals.
Olivier is a member of and her knowledge and background degree in Law from Reims University.
the French Academy of Pharmacy and will offer a different perspective to the French Academy of Technologies, and Board discussions.
Other significant appointments: has extensive business and leadership Non-executive Chairman, Other significant appointments: experience.
He also has an MBA and a Vectura Group plc Non-executive Director, BP plc doctorate in Pharmacy.
Supervisory Board member, President and Chairman of Trustees, Wolters Kluwer nv Other significant appointments: Royal Academy of Engineering Senior Independent Director, Shire plc Non-executive Director, Virbac SA Vice Chairman, LEO Pharma Risk Audit Committee member A Nomination Committee member N Remuneration Committee member R Committee Chair I Independent Director 74 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 DIRECTOR BIOGRAPHIES CONTINUED TANYA FRATTO BILL SEEGER MARK SELIGMAN Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed: 1 July 2012 Appointed: 12 May 2014 Appointed: 16 May 2016 A N R I N R I A N R I Tanya has valuable experience in product Bill was appointed Chair of the Mark brings a successful career in innovation and sales and marketing Remuneration Committee on 1 July 2018, investment banking and extensive across a range of sectors.
Until 2010 and subject to re-election by shareholders experience in corporate finance and she was CEO of Diamond Innovations at the AGM will succeed Sir Kevin Tebbit capital markets to the Board.
He was Inc. a manufacturer of products for the as Senior Independent Director.
Chairman of UK Investment Banking material removal industry.
Prior to this for Credit Suisse and has served as Bill was Group Finance Director at GKN she held various senior positions during chairman of several UK listed company plc, a global engineering group, until his a successful 20-year career with GE, audit committees.
Mark is a Chartered retirement in 2014.
Before joining GKN a multinational conglomerate.
Tanya is Accountant, and has an MA in Philosophy, he held various senior finance positions a qualified electrical engineer with a Politics and Economics.
at TRW, a US-based automotive and BSc in Electrical Engineering.
aerospace group, where he spent 28 Other significant appointments: years.
Bill has had a long career in finance Other significant appointments: Senior Independent Director, in the engineering sector, gaining an inNon-executive Director, Kingfisher plc depth knowledge of global markets and Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. Senior Independent Director, has a BA in Economics and an MBA.
Non-executive Director, The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Ashtead Group plc Other significant appointments: Alternate member, Panel on Takeovers Non-executive Director, Mondi Group Non-executive Director, Spectris plc and Mergers for the Association for Financial Markets in Europe Visiting Professor, UCLA Anderson School of Management 75 Company Overview Strategic report GOVERNANCE Financial statements COMPANY SECRETARY BIOGRAPHY NOEL TATA SIR KEVIN TEBBIT KCB CMG JOHN MILLS Non-executive Director Senior Independent Director Company Secretary Appointed: 1 January 2017 Appointed: 14 June 2006 Appointed: 1 June 2018 John has gained corporate governance A N R I A N R I and legal experience in a wide range Noel is the Managing Director of Tata Sir Kevin will step down from the Board of international businesses.
He joined International Limited, a global trading at the conclusion of the 2018 AGM when Smiths in 2018, having previously held and distribution company and a trading Bill Seeger will be appointed the Senior senior roles in a variety of sectors, arm of the Tata Group, a privately-owned Independent Director.
most recently at Anglo American plc, multinational holding company.
He is RSA Insurance Group plc and Cadbury Sir Kevin held policy management and also a director of various Tata Group plc.
He has an LLB and is a Fellow of finance posts in the Ministry of Defence companies and has had a long and the ICSA: Governance Institute and a MoD, Foreign and Commonwealth successful career in global business qualified solicitor.
These roles included with extensive experience of high growth Director of GCHQ and Permanent Under economies, including Asia and Africa Secretary at the MoD between 1998 and which are key markets for Smiths growth 2005.
Sir Kevins career as a former strategy.
Noel has a BA in Economics.
senior British civil servant provides Smiths with considerable experience Other significant appointments: of government relations and the security With the exception of Kansai Nerolac and defence sectors.
Paints Ltd, each of the following companies forms part of the Tata Other significant appointments: Group.
All of the companies are listed Executive Vice President, AECOM UK Other Directors who served on the Bombay and Indian National Government and Defence during FY2018 Stock Exchanges.
Advisory board member, Imperial ANNE QUINN CBE Non-independent, NonCollege Institute for Security, Science Non-executive Director executive Chairman, and Technology Anne retired from the Board and as Chair Tata Investment Corporation Chairman, Resilience Industry of the Remuneration Committee on 1 July Non-independent, Non-executive Suppliers Community 2018.
Annes biography can be found in our Chairman, Trent Ltd 2017 Annual Report.
Non-independent, Non-executive Vice Chairman, Titan Company Ltd Risk Non-independent, Non-executive Chairman, Voltas Ltd Audit Committee member A Non-executive Director, Kansai Nerolac Paints Ltd Nomination Committee member N Remuneration Committee member R Committee Chair I Independent Director 76 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 THE ROLE OF THE BOARD COLLECTIVE RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE LONG-TERM SUCCESS OF SMITHS The Directors are responsible for setting functions to ensure that the Board is kept Board and Committee meetings the tone from the top and ensuring that up to date with management priorities and In order to operate effectively our management actions are aligned with the challenges.
External advisers are invited Board meets at least six times a year.
The Board to attend as necessary.
In addition to the The Chairman is responsible for setting is responsible for steering the Groups formal meeting schedule our Directors Board agendas and determines the culture, and for our shared values of attend informal meetings and visit style and tone of Board discussions.
integrity, respect, ownership, customer divisional sites where they meet and hear The meeting agendas are primarily focused focus and passion.
The Board is also from Smiths employees.
Our Directors are on strategy, performance, value creation responsible for setting Group strategy and able to gauge the culture embedded within and accountability.
More information about overseeing its implementation.
the business through meeting employees the Boards activity in FY2018 can be found both formally and informally.
While monitoring the effective implementation of the Groups strategy To ensure the continued effectiveness All of our Directors allocate sufficient time our Directors ensure that risk is managed of the Board, the Chairman meets to Smiths in order to remain effective.
appropriately, and that management the non-executive Directors without Individual Director attendance at Board maintains an effective system of internal the executive Directors present after and Board Committee meetings in FY2018 control.
The Board also takes the each Board meeting, and has separate is detailed below.
With the exception of Bill interests of the Companys stakeholders meetings with the Senior Independent Seeger see page 79 for more information into account, considering the impact that Director and the Chairs of the Audit all of the non-executive Directors are decisions taken have upon them.
members of the Nomination, Audit and At least annually the Senior Independent Remuneration Committees.
There is a schedule of matters which are Director consults with the other nonconsidered significant to Smiths and have Invitations to Board meetings are executive Directors, in respect of the therefore been reserved for the decision extended to divisional presidents, Chairmans performance, without the of the Board.
This is due to their strategic, business managers and heads of Chairman present.
financial or reputational implications or consequences.
The formal schedule can be found on our website and includes DIRECTOR ATTENDANCE approval of: Nomination Audit Remuneration 1 Board Committee Committee Committee Group strategy, business plans Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to and budgets Attended attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended attend Half yearly results and the Annual Chairman Report and Accounts Sir George Buckley 6 6 6 6 6 6 Acquisition or divestment of significant Executive Directors companies or businesses Andy Reynolds Smith 6 6 Changes to the structure, size and 2 John Shipsey 4 4 composition of the Board Non-executive Directors 3 Bruno Angelici 6 6 5 6 3 4 5 6 2 Olivier Bohuon 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Tanya Fratto 6 6 6 6 4 4 6 6 4 Bill Seeger 6 6 1 1 1 1 Mark Seligman 6 6 6 6 4 4 6 6 Noel Tata 6 6 6 6 4 4 6 6 Sir Kevin Tebbit 6 6 6 6 4 4 6 6 Former Directors 5 Anne Quinn 5 5 5 5 3 3 5 5 1 I n addition to the six scheduled Board meetings there were three ad-hoc meetings called at short notice.
Sir George Buckley, Mark Seligman and Anne Quinn had pre-existing commitments and were each unable to attend one of those meetings.
2 J ohn Shipsey and Olivier Bohuon joined the Board part way through FY2018 so were not eligible to attend all meetings.
3 B runo Angelici was unable to attend three Committee meetings held on the same day due to illness.
4 B ill Seeger was only eligible to attend one Nomination Committee and one Remuneration Committee meeting in FY2018 as he was not determined to be independent until May 2018.
He was not a member of the Audit Committee in FY2018.
5 A nne Quinn retired from the Board on 1 July 2018.
77 Company Overview Strategic report GOVERNANCE Financial statements FOCUSED ON OUR VISION AND STRATEGY Board activity is focused on executing our strategy while ensuring our processes continue to deliver excellence.
STRATEGY M&A OVERSIGHT PEOPLE AND CULTURE In May 2018, the Directors met for The Group Human Resources Director The Board reviews the Groups M&A two days of strategy focused Board presented the Directors with the People pipeline at each scheduled meeting meetings.
Senior leaders from each strategy in July 2018.
A report on culture and during the period approved M&A of the divisions, Asia Pacific, the briefed the Board on The Smiths Way, activity as the Group continues to 3 Digital Forge and the i team shared the first annual Smiths Day, Diversity review its portfolio.
M&A activity over their strategic roadmaps out to and Inclusion, the MySay engagement the year included: FY2023, identifying the opportunities survey, the Smiths Excellence Awards November 2017 and challenges for how Smiths will finalists and the Smiths Now colleague Flex-Teks acquisition of the heating continue to grow and achieve its smartphone app.
In FY2018, the Board element division of Osram Sylvania Inc. ambition of being one of the worlds oversaw the launch of the Groups new leading technology companies.
May 2018 Code of Business Ethics, and the Audit The sale of John Cranes Committee has enhanced oversight The Board routinely reviews all Bearings business of the programme of work to support options for the Groups portfolio of the Code.
June 2018 businesses to maximise value for John Cranes acquisition of Seebach our shareholders.
During the year, The Group Head of Health, Safety and GmbH, a high performance the Board considered a number of the Environment presents regular filtration business strategic options for the Group.
In FY2018 his reports covered safety performance and injuries at work, reduction of energy use, greenhouse gas emissions OPERATIONAL SITE VISITS and water usage for the Group.
In May, the Board visited the digital accelerator at Stanley Black and Decker in Atlanta, USA, and shared innovation ideas with other leaders in the field.
BOARD BRIEFINGS In July, the Directors were able to see the Smiths Excellence System in practice The Board continues to focus on during their visit to the John Crane site in Chicago, USA.
In addition to a tour technology and innovation, and in of the site they received in-depth business updates on FY2019 plans, financial FY2018 the Directors were briefed on performance, operations, R&D and the people strategy.
The Board were also briefed Cyber risk and security by a security on the M&A pipeline for John Crane and the progress of the Seebach integration.
services professional, and received a presentation on innovative business models for potentially disruptive digital startup companies.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE The Directors reviewed the Groups financial performance throughout the period, and particular focus was given to the half and full year results to ensure they were fair, balanced and understandable.
78 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 BOARD EFFECTIVENESS THE BOARD LOOKS TO MAINTAIN AND ENHANCE ITS EFFECTIVENESS TO CONTINUE TO DELIVER VALUE TO STAKEHOLDERS Composition of the Board A formal, rigorous and transparent BIRTHPLACE OR BACKGROUND GENDER AND ETHNICITY process is in place for appointments to the Board.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for recommending Director appointments following its regular assessment of the composition and skill set of the Board and its Committees.
2020 The Committee makes recommendations Target target 50% 40% based on the merits of the individual candidates, having due regard for the benefits of diversity, and also the need to ensure the effective functioning of US 3 Current 27% the Board at all times, especially as France 2 membership of the Board is refreshed.
India 1 The breadth of experience on the Board UK 5 45% was demonstrated when, at short notice, Bill Seeger was able to step into the role of CFO on an interim basis between May GENDER BALANCE TENURE ON THE BOARD and December 2017.
This also helped to facilitate John Shipseys induction as Chief Financial Officer and as a member of the Board.
More information can be found in the Nomination Committee report on page 82.
The rules regarding the appointment and replacement of Directors are determined by our Articles of Association and the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The Articles Female 2 18% 0-2 years 4 36% of Association can be found on our website Male 9 82% 3-5 years 3 28% and can only be amended by a special Over 5 years 4 36% resolution of the shareholders.
Diversity Correct as at 19 September 2018.
Smiths supports the principles of the Hampton-Alexander and Parker reports on gender and ethnic diversity and will work to achieve a diverse Board and, just as importantly, diverse management teams.
Members of the Board and senior management should collectively possess a diverse range of skills, expertise, national birthplace, domain knowledge and ethnic and societal backgrounds.
These are important ingredients for the effective operation of the Board and oversight of the Group.
As a multinational 79 Company Overview Strategic report GOVERNANCE Financial statements Group with operations in more than 50 and he re-joined the Nomination and confirmed that he continues to countries and over 95% of revenues Remuneration Committees.
With effect demonstrate commitment to his role as originating outside the UK, diversity of from 1 July 2018 he was appointed Chairman and as a member of the Board.
thought and background is essential Remuneration Committee Chair.
However, Sir George attended and fully participated and will therefore remain one of the key given his role as CFO on an interim basis in every scheduled Board and Committee criteria by which candidates are selected during the period, the Board determined meeting and is always available for for the Board and the pipeline for senior that Bill should not re-join the Audit consultation with management when leadership positions.
Committee until after the publication of needed.
Noel is Managing Director of the FY2018 results.
Tata International Limited, a trading arm In recognition of the value of diversity, of the Tata Group a privately-owned the Board seeks to ensure that at least In July 2018, the Nomination Committee multinational group of companies and, in 50% of its members have a birthplace assessed the performance and order to fulfil his executive responsibilities or background outside the UK and that independence of each of the non-executive for that group, is also director of various no less than 40% of the Board will be Directors, and the Committee concluded Tata Group companies.
The Board believes comprised of female plus historically that each of them contributed effectively that these appointments do not prevent under-represented ethnic groups by to the operation of the Board.
As Sir him from committing sufficient time to his 2020.
We are at 55% for birthplace or Kevin Tebbit has served on the Board for work as a Director, as evidenced by his full background and 27% combined gender 12 years a particularly rigorous review attendance and participation at all Board and ethnic diversity as at the date of of his performance was undertaken.
and Committee meetings in the year.
This is expected to increase The Board concluded that he continues current executive with contacts in higherfollowing the 2018 AGM, with 30% of to demonstrate the qualities of objectivity growth countries which are a strategic the Board being gender and ethnically and independence, and to contribute to focus for Smiths, Noel brings valuable diverse.
The Board will always seek to constructive challenge and debate at and distinct experience to discussions, appoint the best qualified candidate, but meetings.
It was therefore agreed that he and there was unanimous support from between two candidates of equal merit should continue as Senior Independent the Board to recommend his re-election the Board will, in recognition of the Director until his retirement at the 2018 to shareholders.
disproportionate under-representation AGM, when Bill Seeger will replace him as of gender diversity on the Board, give the Senior Independent Director.
Information and training preference to a female candidate when All of our Directors undergo an induction Time commitment making its next appointment.
programme on joining the Board in order Our Directors must allocate sufficient to ensure that they are able to contribute In order to help achieve these aspirations time to their work as members of the effectively to discussion and decisionthe Nomination Committee endeavours Board.
For non-executive Directors their making.
This is to provide them with the to only use the services of executive expected time commitment is set out in necessary knowledge and understanding search firms who have signed up to the their letter of appointment and includes of the Group, based on their personal Voluntary Code of Conduct on Gender time preparing for and attending Board experience and background.
Executive search firms will also and Committee meetings, meeting with on page 80 describes the induction be required to ensure non-UK nationals, shareholders as required, attending programmes for recent appointees.
women and candidates from historically meetings as part of the Board evaluation under-represented ethnic groups are process and making time to familiarise The Board recognises the importance represented on the shortlist for all themselves with business priorities and of ongoing training and our Directors Board positions.
Executive Directors will not are given the opportunity to update be permitted to take on more than one their skills and experience on a regular The Board will look to extend its work on non-executive directorship in a FTSE 100 basis.
Formal reports and updates diversity to senior leadership positions company nor the chairmanship of such a from the divisions and external advisers in the business and across the Group company.
The Directors other significant ensure that the Directors remain aware through oversight of the Smiths Diversity commitments are detailed in their of business priorities and external and Inclusion Plan, which is available on biographies on pages 7275. developments.
The Board continues to the Companys website.
More information focus on technology and innovation, and can be found on pages 62 and 63.
The Board considers the external in FY2018 the Directors received briefings appointments of each of the Directors Independence on cyber risk and security by a security twice a year, and in FY2018 the Board The Board keeps the independence of services professional, and innovative concluded that the Chairman and the nonits members under continual review.
business models for potentially disruptive executive Directors devoted sufficient time Following his appointment as CFO on digital startup companies.
The Directors to fulfil their commitments to Smiths and an interim basis during FY2017 Bill were also given training on regulatory discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Seeger was no longer considered an developments, including Corporate independent non-executive Director.
In reaching this conclusion, particular Governance reform, EU General Data He resumed his non-executive Director consideration was given to Sir George Protection Guidelines and Gender Pay responsibilities on 1 January 2018, and in Buckleys and Noel Tatas other Gap Reporting.
Particular individual May 2018 following careful consideration commitments.
Sir George has several development needs are discussed of agreed independence criteria, the other appointments, but following with Directors as part of the annual Board determined Bill to be independent due consideration the other Directors performance evaluation.
80 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 BOARD EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED In order to operate effectively our The Company Secretary maintains a their directorships of some subsidiary Directors receive accurate, timely and Register of Conflicts which forms the companies in relation to certain losses high-quality information.
This supports record of actual and potential conflicts and liabilities which they may incur or their ability to make sound decisions that exist, and any Board authorisation may have incurred to third parties in the and provide appropriate advice and granted.
The Board reviews the Register course of their professional duties for the challenge.
The Company Secretary and in September and March each year, and Company, or a subsidiary.
his team assist the Chairman and Chief retains the power to vary or terminate Director re-election Executive in ensuring effective information any authorisation.
Each year our Directors are subject to flows and that the Board is provided Advice and insurance election or re-election by shareholders with all relevant information in a timely All of our Directors have access to the at the AGM.
There are procedures in place advice and services of the Company appointed for a specified term of three to ensure that information the Board Secretary, and are able to seek years, subject to annual re-election at receives is presented in an appropriate independent professional advice at the AGM.
Reappointment for a second format and contains the level of detail Smiths expense to enable them to fulfil three-year term is not automatic, and any required for Directors to fulfil their their obligations as members of the term for a non-executive Director beyond responsibilities effectively.
In addition, the Directors and six years is subject to a particularly Conflicts of interest Officers of Smiths and its subsidiaries rigorous review.
Our Directors must avoid situations where have the benefit of a Directors and Based on the performance evaluation they have a direct or indirect interest that Officers liability insurance policy.
undertaken in FY2018 our Chairman, on conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the During FY2018, and at the date of this behalf of the Nomination Committee, best interests of Smiths.
The Directors are report, qualifying third-party indemnity has confirmed that each non-executive required to declare such interests to the provisions as defined by section 234 Director standing for re-election at Board, and in accordance with our Articles of the Act have remained in force for this years AGM continues to be an of Association and the Act, our Board can the Directors of the Company and effective member of the Board, and has authorise conflicts and potential conflicts.
certain other employees in respect of demonstrated the commitment required.
DIRECTOR INDUCTION Following their appointments in FY2018, with the President, Asia, where time They also met the winners of divisional John Shipsey, Olivier Bohuon and Dame was dedicated to learning about the Excellence Awards and discussed their Ann Dowling received tailored induction opportunities for growth in the region.
In line with normal being arranged for Olivier and Dame To support their understanding of the practice, meetings were arranged with Ann to learn more about the business business, Roland Carter, President the Chairman, the Company Secretary, and its people.
Detection, hosted Olivier and Dame non-executive Directors, Executive Ann at Smiths Detections Wiesbaden Committee members, including the site.
They were given a site tour, divisional presidents, and other senior attended management meetings, and executives.
Extensive information about discussed business performance the Group is made available to new and technologies.
Directors, including access to previous Board papers and minutes, to provide an insight into the Groups strategy, culture and values.
John Shipsey was appointed as Chief Financial Officer Designate in October 2017, creating time for a three-month handover with Bill Seeger who was still in post as CFO on an interim basis, before John was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2018.
Johns induction was tailored for his appointment as an executive Director, and in his handover period he learnt about the business while starting to collaborate with colleagues and developing relationships.
He visited sites in China 81 Company Overview Strategic report GOVERNANCE Financial statements BOARD EVALUATION PRINCIPLES Each year an evaluation of the Board, its Committees and each individual Director is conducted.
The Board uses this evaluation to monitor its effectiveness and to continue to improve its performance.
The Board conducts an externally facilitated evaluation at least every three years.
FY2017 BOARD EVALUATION ACTIONS The Board has made progress on the actions following the FY2017 internally facilitated evaluation.
Evaluation theme Actions Progress in FY2018 Board composition Review succession plans and introduce Appointed two new non-executive Directors a Board Diversity Policy and considered ongoing succession planning Approved the new Board Diversity Policy Culture, people and Increase Board oversight of these Divisional operating reviews given more time on succession planning areas and create opportunities to meet the Board agenda and invitations to Board events senior managers extended to senior managers Site visits for the Board held in Chicago, and incorporated into Director induction programmes Enhanced oversight of the new programme of work supporting the Code of Business Ethics Strategic oversight Review Board Governance framework Commenced review of the role and responsibility and governance of the Board and its Committees and updated the Committees Terms of Reference Redesign Board and Board Committee agendas Updated agendas to focus on strategic objectives New KPIs were agreed, see page 25 Board effectiveness Improve length, focus and clarity Introduction of new software for the distribution of Board papers of Board papers, and continued improvement to content and timeliness of papers Identify Director briefing opportunities Two Director briefings were held, see page 79 FY2018 BOARD EVALUATION The FY2018 evaluation of the Board was externally facilitated by Independent Audit Limited, who have no other connection to the Company.
The objective was to build on the FY2017 process and to enhance the Boards contribution to support the delivery of the Groups growth strategy.
The evaluation was focused on boardroom dynamics, strategic focus, people and culture and risk.
Independent Audit held interviews with the Board and certain members of the Executive Committee, senior managers and external advisers.
They presented their final report to the September 2018 Board meeting and the Directors will agree an action plan to address the key findings.
These included processes around succession planning for the Board itself and for executive management, and ways to increase the Boards insight into and interactions with the Group and its culture, and we will report on progress in next years Annual Report.
