74 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 MEMBERSHIP Compliance & Culture Committee report Member from Meetings attended 1 Michael Friedman Chair August 2014 4 4 formerlyEthics & Compliance Committee Vinita Bali April 2015 4 4 2 Virginia Bottomley April 2019 N A Broadening our scope to oversee 3 Ian Barlow October 2014 4 4 4 culture in addition to our focus on Roland Diggelmann April 2019 N A 5 Marc Owen 1 March 2018 3 3 compliance and quality.
6 Joseph Papa August 2008 2 2 Robin Freestone 24 July 2018 2 2 1 M ichael Friedman will retire from the Board and the Committee at the Annual General Meeting on 11 April 2019.
2 V irginia Bottomley will join the Committee on 11 April 2019.
3 I an Barlow will retire from the Board and the Committee on 11 April 2019.
4 R oland Diggelmann will join the Committee on 11 April 2019.
5 M arc Owen joined the Committee on 1 March 2018.
6 J oseph Papa retired from the Board and the Committee on 12 April 2018.
February April July October ETHICS & COMPLIANCE Overseeing ethics and compliance Noted the progress made Reviewed the ethics Noted progress on the Received Ethics & programmes, strategies and plans.
on the Global Compliance and compliance training 2018Global Compliance Compliance update in Programme Plan for 2017 programmes in place Planof Action.
newformat and noted Monitoring ethics and compliance andnoted the plan of acrossthe Group.
insights from various process improvements Reviewed significant actionfor 2018. aspectsof Global and enhancements.
Reviewed significant findingsfrom monitoring Compliance Programme.
findingsfrom monitoring, auditing, and progress Assessing compliance performance auditing and progress onCorrective and based on monitoring, auditing onCorrective and Preventative Actions.
andinternal and external Preventative Actions.
Reviewing allegations of significant potential compliance issues.
Receiving reports from the Groups Ethics & Compliance Committee meetings and from the Chief Legal andCompliance Officer.
QUALITY ASSURANCE AND REGULATORY AFFAIRS QARA Overseeing the processes by which Reviewed various Reviewed various quality Reviewed various quality Received Quality and regulatory and quality risks relating to qualitymetrics.
metrics and approved the metrics including the Regulatory report in the Company and its operations are Global Quality Plan for 2018, resultsof inspections updatedformat from Noted the plans to address identified and managed.
noting the additional work by theFDA and Notified newlyappointed Chief the potential impact on tobe done to implement Bodies, progress on Quality and Regulatory Receiving and assessing regular theGroup of both the EU theEU MDR.
handlingcomplaints andin Affairs Officer, noting functional reports and presentations Medical Device Regulations preparing for the EU MDR.
status of various Quality from the Chief Quality and EU MDR and Brexit.
and Regulatory metrics Regulatory Affairs Officer, or the andinitiatives.
OTHER MATTERS February Reviewed the sexual harassment policies and procedures As a follow up to the February meeting, reviewed inplace across the Group.
the circumstances and actions taken to address the sexualharassment allegations made in the year.
The Terms of Reference of the Compliance & Culture Committee describe the role and responsibilities more fully and can be found on our website at www.
75 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 COMPLIANCE & CULTURE COMMITTEE REPORT continued In 2018, we held four physical meetings.
Each meeting was We oversee the employee compliance training programme, ensuring attendedbyall members of the Committee.
The Company Secretary, that all new employees are trained on our Code of Conduct, which theChief Legal and Compliance Officer and the Chief Quality and sets out our basic legal and ethical principles for conducting business.
Regulatory Affairs Officer or SVP, Quality Assurance also attended We are updated on significant calls made to our whistle-blower line, allorpart of themeetings by invitation.
which enables employees and members of the public to contact us anonymously through an independent provider where allowed by At each meeting we noted and considered the activities of compliance local law and are updated on allegations of potentially significant and enforcement agencies and investigation of possible improprieties.
improprieties and the Companys response.
At every meeting a report on the Quality Assurance Regulatory Assurance QARA function was provided along with updates of During the year, we expanded our remit and reviewed the policies and productcomplaint trends.
We also reviewed a report on the activities of procedures we have in place to handle claims of sexual harassment.
the Groups Ethics & Compliance Committee and reviewed the progress of the Global Compliance Programme.
LOOKING FORWARD The Board and the Committee have considered the UK Corporate OVERSIGHT OF QUALITY & REGULATORY Governance Code 2018 and have decided to expand the role of the Product safety is at the heart of our business.
Regulatory authorities Committee to cover a broader focus.
Whilst oversight of our Ethics across the world enforce a complex series of laws and regulations & Compliance programme will continue to remain a key focus for us thatgovern the design, development, approval, manufacture, and we will monitor and assess quality and regulatory issues, we will labelling, marketing and sale of healthcare products.
During the year, also oversee culture across the organisation and relationships with we oversaw the quality and regulatory activities of our business.
We will develop the mechanism for ensuring Ateach meeting, we received a report on quality and regulatory that the Board listens to the employee voice and will oversee the matters from the ChiefQuality and Regulatory Affairs Officer, or the Sustainability Programme.
Our focus for 2019 will include: We reviewed the results of inspections carried out by the FDA and other regulators and monitored the progress of improvements following some Develop a programme to enable the Board to monitor of these inspections.
We also monitored the work being undertaken andassess the corporate culture.
tohelp ourmanufacturing sites to prepare for future inspections.
We reviewed the results of quality audits undertaken during the year, Develop a programme to enable the Board to engage with noted follow up actions and monitored progress made to address employees, building on existing processes within the Company.
OVERSIGHT OF ETHICS & COMPLIANCE Ensure oversight of the Companys Sustainability programme Doing the right thing is part of our licence to operate.
During the year, and relationships with key stakeholders.
we oversaw the ethics and compliance activities of our business.
At each meeting we received a report on ethics and compliance matters This will be my final report as Chair of this Committee, as I shall be from the ChiefLegal and Compliance Officer.
retiring from the Board at the Annual General Meeting.
I should like to We regularly review our compliance programme as it relates to thank my colleagues on the Committee and particularly Marc Owen who healthcare professionals and third party sellers such as distributors will be succeeding me as Chair of the Committee and overseeing its and sales agents, particularly in higher risk markets.
For healthcare expanded focus on culture, the employee voice and stakeholders.
professionals, this includes policies, training and certification for employees and sales agents, as well as pre-approval of consulting services and grants and fellowships.
For third parties, our programme includes due diligence, contracts with compliance terms, compliance training and certification, and site assessments to check compliance Michael Friedman controls and monitoring visits to review books and records.
Chair of the Compliance & Culture Committee We ensure that comprehensive due diligence is carried out prior to an acquisition and we ensure that following acquisitions new businesses are integrated rapidly into the Smith & Nephew compliance programme.
