71 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 MEMBERSHIP Nomination & Governance Member from Meetings attended 1 Roberto Quarta Chair April 2014 3 4 Committeereport 2 Ian Barlow April 2014 4 4 3 Erik Engstrom April 2019 N A Ensuring the Board evolves to align 3 Robin Freestone April 2019 N A withthenew Strategic Imperatives Virginia Bottomley April 2014 4 4 1 Roberto Quarta missed the meeting in April because .
andwiththe developing external 2 Ian Barlow will be retiring from the Board and the Committee attheAnnual .
General Meeting to be held on 11 April 2019, havingcompleted nine years service.
3 Erik Engstrom and Robin Freestone will join the Nomination & Governance Committee on 11 April 2019.
The terms of reference for the Nominations & Governance Committee describe the role and responsibilities of this Committee more fully and can be found on our website at www.
Early February March April October BOARD COMPOSITION Reviewing the size and composition Approved the re-appointment Considered candidates for Reviewed the composition ofthe Board.
of Directors who had the role of Chief Executive of the Board and agreed to completed three or six years Officer and agreed to appoint Robin Freestone as Overseeing Board succession plans.
service and the annual recommend to the Board Senior Independent Director Recommending the appointment appointment of Directors the appointment of to replace Ian Barlow who of Directors.
serving in excess of six years.
would be retiring from the Monitoring Board diversity.
Board at the Annual General Discussed progress on Meeting in 2019. search for a new Chief Executive Officer.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Overseeing governance aspects Reviewed and approved Reviewed current Reviewed the annual oftheBoard and its Committees.
the Schedule of Matters governance trends in cadence of Board and Reserved to the Board and the UKand particularly committee meetings.
Overseeing the review into the the terms of reference of the changes likely Considered the implications effectiveness of the Board.
to be proposed in of the UK Corporate Considering and updating the the UKCorporate Governance Code 2018 Scheduleof Matters Reserved GovernanceCode.
and in particular the totheBoard and the terms of expanded role of the referenceof the Board Committees.
Board relating to corporate Monitoring external corporate culture and relationships governance activities and keeping with stakeholders and theBoard updated.
agreed that the remit of Overseeing the Board Development the Ethics & Compliance Programme and the induction Committee be expanded processfor new Directors.
toundertake some of  on behalf of the Board.
72 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 NOMINATION & GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE REPORT continued In 2018, we held four meetings.
In addition to members of the Erik Engstrom and Robin Freestone will be joining the Nomination & Committee, the Company Secretary, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Governance Committee as additional members in April 2019 after the Human Resources Officer also attended all or some of the meetings.
Annual General Meeting and Virginia Bottomley and Roland Diggelmann Other Non-Executive Directors were invited to join the meetings to will be joining the Compliance & Culture Committee at the same time.
discuss the search for a new Chief Executive Officer.
DIVERSITY Further matters were resolved by written resolution including the We aim to have a Board which represents a wide range of backgrounds, appointment of Roland Diggelmann.
We also value a diversity of outlook, approach Since the year end, we have also discussed the future structure and style in our Board members.
We believe that a balanced Board of the Board and its Committees and completed our year end is better equipped to consider matters from a broader perspective, governance processes.
understanding the views of our stakeholders as well as our shareholders and therefore come to decisions that have considered APPOINTMENT OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER a wider range of issues and perspectives than would be the case in amore homogeneous Board.
Diversity is not simply a matter of During the early part of the year, the Committee continued its search gender, ethnicity or other easily measurable characteristics.
Diversity of for a new Chief Executive Officer to replace Olivier Bohuon who had outlook and approach is harder to measure than gender or ethnicity announced his intention to retire by the end of 2018.
The Committee but is equally important.
A Board needs a range of skills from technical recommended the appointment of Namal Nawana, who joined the adherence to governance or regulatory matters to understanding the Company as Chief Executive Officer in May 2018.
Namal brings a business in which we operate.
It needs some members with a long wealth of experience of the international medical devices industry to corporate memory and others who bring new insights from other fields.
The Nomination & Governance Committee was advised by RussellReynolds on this appointment.
Russell Reynolds also advises There needs to be both support and challenge on the Board as theCompany on other executive recruitment and appointments.
well as abalance of gender and commercial and international experience.
When selecting new members for the Board, we take these NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS considerations into account, as well as professional background.
A new The Committee has reviewed the composition of the Board and its Board member needs to fit in with their fellow Board members, but also Committees to ensure that it evolves to align with the new Strategic needs to provide a new way of looking at things.
Imperatives and with the developing external regulatory environment.
During 2018, 25% of our Board were female.
With the retirement of Ian The Committee also recommended the appointment of Roland Barlow and Michael Friedman in April 2019, this percentage rises to Diggelmann as an additional Non-Executive Director who joined 30%.
Looking forward, we are working towards a Board with 33% female theBoard in March 2018.
Roland has many years experience in the representation in line with the Hampton-Alexander Review.
From 7 May Medical Devices industry.
Russell Reynolds advised the Committee 2018, 17% of our Board were of non-white ethnicity.
This rises to 20% onthis appointment.
after the Annual General Meeting in April 2019.
Ian Barlow will be retiring from the Board and from his position as We will also look to increase ethnic diversity on the Board following the SeniorIndependent Director at the Annual General Meeting to be held Parker Review as appropriate.
We will continue to appoint our Directors on 11 April 2019, following completion of nine years service as Nonon merit, valuing the unique contribution that they will bring to the Executive Director and until 2017 as Chairman of the Audit Committee Board, regardless of gender, ethnicity or any other diversity measure.
and then latterly as Senior Independent Director.
The Committee recommended to the Board that Robin Freestone be appointed Senior SUCCESSION PLANNING Independent Director in Ians place at the conclusion of the Annual Since the appointment of Namal Nawana as Chief Executive Officer General Meeting, subject to his re-appointment by shareholders.
in May 2018, we have initiated substantial changes to our structure Robin will continue to Chair the Audit Committee, but the Committee will to move to a franchise-led model, as described on page14.
Throughout the year, the Board and Nomination & Governance undertake a search for an additional Non-Executive Director with recent and relevant financial experience who could in time succeed Robin as Committee have monitored the consequent changes to the organisational structure and approved appointments to key leadership Chair of the Audit Committee.
When considering candidates for this role, the Committee will be mindful of building a diverse Board and will aim to positions.
Individual Directors have acted as a sounding board for the executive team when considering succession plans in key areas.
ensure an appropriate balance of genders, ethnicity, backgrounds, skills and experience.
Given the level of change during 2018, this will be a continued focus ofthe Nomination & Governance Committee during 2019.
Michael Friedman will also be retiring from the Board and from his position as Chair of the Compliance & Culture Committee at the Annual General Meeting, following the completion of six years service.
He will be succeeded as Chair of the expanded Compliance & Culture Committee by Marc Owen.
73 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t Governance A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 NOMINATION & GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE REPORT continued We believe the Boards composition gives us the necessary balance of diversity, skills experience, independence and knowledge to ensure we continue to run the business effectively and deliver sustainable growth.
In order to ensure that our Board remains diverse, we analyse the skills and experiences we require against the skills and experiences on our Boardusing the following matrix.
We review this matrix regularly to ensure that it is refreshed to meet the changing needs of the Company.
CEO Financial International Healthcare Emerging market Medical Devices Four members of the Board are Two members of the Board Seven members of the Board Six members of the Board have Two members of the either current or recent CEOs have recent and relevant have international experience different levels of experience Boardhave Emerging financial experience within the Healthcare industry Marketexperience UK Governance Remuneration Gender Ethnic Other Six members of the Board Five members of the Board Nine members of the Board are Ten members of the Board Various Board members have considerable experience have Remuneration Committee male and three are female arewhite and two are bringexperiences in a variety of working in a UK listed experience withina UK listed ofAsianethnicity of fields including customer environment and four members context focus, investment markets, of the Board have experience government affairs, digital and ofthe US listed environment corporate social responsibility GOVERNANCE LOOKING FORWARD During the year, the Nomination & Governance Committee also During 2019 our focus will include: addressed a number of governance matters.
We received updates fromthe Company Secretary on new developments in corporate Search for an additional Non-Executive Director with governance and reporting in the UK.
We reviewed the independence recentandrelevant financial experience to serve on the ofour Non-Executive Directors, considered potential conflicts of interest AuditCommittee.
and the diversity of the Board and made recommendations concerning these matters to the Board.
Monitoring the implementation of the revised Board and We also took the opportunity of reviewing whether the annual cadence Committee structure to ensure that the Company complies of our Board and Committee meetings was appropriate for the work withthe UK Corporate Governance Code or explains why not.
As a result of this review, we have changed the physical October meeting to approve the third quarter trading figures to a half day Board telephone call.
We have also introduced additional monthly Board update calls for those months when we do not meet physically and will be introducing separate site visits for Non-Executive Directors to meet employees and customers.
We also considered how we would implement the requirements of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code and agreed that the Roberto Quarta Remuneration Committee would retain responsibility for provisions Chairman of the Nomination & Governance Committee relating to executive pay and pay matters generally.
This is discussed further on pages 8485.
We also agreed that the remit of the new Compliance & Culture Committee would be expanded to cover responsibility for overseeing corporate culture and relationships with stakeholders on behalf of the Board.
The revised remit of the Compliance & Culture Committee is discussed on pages 7475 and our approach to listening to the voice of our employees and other stakeholders is discussed on pages 6667.
We have noted the three options set out in the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code for listening to the Employee Voice and have determined that this will betheresponsibility of the Compliance & Culture Committee as this istoo important an issue to fall to one Non-Executive Director.
