Focus on Strategic Priorities Innovative, simple, highlyeffective cybersecurity solutions, all managed in the cloud Strategic Goals Innovative, simple Focus on Comprehensive and highly effective cybersecurity capabilities solutions Sophos continues to prioritise its The Groups industry-leading Sophos offers comprehensive investment in research and technologies are amongst the most cybersecurity, and continues to make development as it delivers innovative innovative, advanced and effective progress on its multi-year strategy to new capabilities and products at a available in the market, but are simple integrate these different products and rapid pace in order to maintain its and easy to deploy, manage and use.
enable a synchronized security leadership position.
As the Group is Sophos believes that simple, approach for its customers.
committed to IT security, it believes it integrated solutions deliver better Synchronized security delivers added has an advantage over competitors security and are easier to manage for protection for customers in addition to who often seek to address disparate organisations of any size.
and unrelated areas of technology.
Strategic 100% channel commitment focused to the cloud The Groups customers derive Sophos is committed to its channel-only significant benefits from Sophos sales strategy.
The Group has grown its Central, the single integrated cloudpartner ecosystem to more than 39,000 based management and reporting partners during the course of the year.
Cloud technology underpins seeing considerable success in helping its the channel strategy and continues to partners to be more productive and to enhance Sophos partner-centric cross-sell and upsell to existing customers.
This enables Over 7,000 of Sophos partners are now partners to easily manage, update and blue-chip, demonstrating higher levels of configure the Sophos products, and to activity.
Sophos is also helping a growing drive cross-sell and upsell number of partners as they develop opportunities.
Managed Service Provider MSP businesses, built around the Sophos product portfolio.
