Key Product and Technology Developments For the first time ever, we can memorise the entire observable threat universe Deep Learning Only Sophos has this critical combination of Labs Research and Data Science Optimal Bi-Directional Massive Accurate Models Error Data Sets Labels Correction DATA SCIENCE DATA SCIENCE LABS LABS LABS Create the most efficient Source 100s of millions Use established Labs algorithms for solving Continuously of samples for the best systems and processes hard cybersecurity incorporate feedback possible predictions to ensure labeling problems to improve system precision accuracy and predictive power Deep learning is the latest evolution of machine platform to further accelerate and automate the learning.
It delivers a massively scalable detection identification and remediation of threats.
Sophos has model that is able to learn the entire observable threat also integrated the technology into the nextlandscape.
With the ability to process hundreds of generation endpoint protection product Intercept X, millions of samples, deep learning can make more and into Sophos Sandstorm, becoming the first accurate predictions at a faster rate with far fewer security company to provide artificial intelligence in false-positives when compared to traditional machine network security protection.
Deep learning has less impact to system sandboxing solution delivers an extra layer of security performance and the capability to detect malware against unknown malware and ransomware within within 20 milliseconds.
Deep learning technology has email or file downloads.
been integrated into the SophosLabs threat analysis 26 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Sophos Central Sophos XG Firewall The integrated management platform of Sophos In October 2017, Sophos released the latest version Central continues to support the Groups of its XG Firewall with the industrys first synchronized security strategy and delivers the Synchronized App Control that enables it to identify promise of security made simple.
Customers and all traffic on the network.
Using synchronized partners are able to seamlessly manage multiple security to obtain information from the endpoint, XG combinations of critical security services from a Firewall can identify, classify and allow the control of single management screen.
The further integration all previously unknown applications active on the of Sophos XG Firewall in late 2017 has enabled an network, including those without signatures or unmatched level of network traffic visibility when which are using generic HTTP or HTTPS used with Sophos Endpoint Protection or Intercept connections.
Synchronized App Control on XG X.
Features added to Sophos Central include device Firewall is a significant breakthrough to reduce the encryption and role based administration.
The security risks associated with unidentified traffic.
following products are currently available through Sophos Central: Sophos Endpoint Security, Sophos Intercept X, Sophos XG Firewall, Sophos Mobile, Sophos Server Protection, Sophos Synchronized Encryption, Sophos Wireless, Sophos Email Security, Sophos Web Security, and Sophos Phish Threat.
Sophos Intercept X Sophos for Amazon and Azure Within 12 months of the acquisition of Invincea, Sophos provides server and network security for Sophos introduced the latest version of Intercept X. hosted environments in Amazon Web Services and This next-generation endpoint security product now Microsoft Azure.
This past year, Sophos added has malware detection powered by an advanced Sophos Server Protection for Azure.
When used with deep learning neural network.
The further inclusion Sophos XG Firewall on Azure, Sophos synchronized of new active-hacker mitigation, advanced security technology will coordinate defences against application lockdown, and enhanced ransomware cyber threats attacking multiple vectors, including protection has boosted Intercept X to previously Virtual Machines running in Azure.
unseen levels of detection and prevention.
Sophos Mobile Sophos Server Protection In February, Sophos announced that Sophos Mobile Sophos closed a critical gap in network security by was now fully available through Sophos Central, and preventing ransomware attacks that could come in when used in conjunction with Sophos Endpoint through rogue, guest or remote access users by Protection or Intercept X can provide IT adding CryptoGuard to Sophos Server Protection.
administrators with a unified endpoint management Servers are high-value targets as they contain capability for Android, iOS, Windows and Mac that proprietary financials, personally identifiable standardises access and permissions, and updates information and other key data, and become management for employees, regardless of the vulnerable when compromised devices connect to device they choose to access the network.
