Board of Directors PETER GYENES KRIS HAGERMAN NICK BRAY SANDRA BERGERON ROY MACKENZIE Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Independent NonNon-Executive Director Executive Director First Election Date 14 September 2016 14 September 2016 14 September 2016 14 September 2016 14 September 2016 Committee Membership Experience Peter joined the Sophos Board Kris joined Sophos in 2012 as Nick joined Sophos in 2010 as Sandra joined the Sophos Roy joined the Sophos Board in in 2006, bringing experience Chief Executive Officer.
Kris was Chief Financial Officer, bringing Board in 2010.
He is a partner of Apax with corporate growth and most recently CEO of Corel more than 20 years experience than 20 years security, Partners technology and value creation to the Groups Corporation, and prior to that, in the technology sector, operations and board advisory telecoms team.
He joined Apax vision for integrated threat group president, data centre extensive international expertise having previously Partners in 2003 and has been management leadership.
He management at Symantec, operational skills and significant served on the boards of involved in a variety of has four decades of experience where he led a business of public company experience on TraceSecurity Inc.
Tipping technology focussed in technical, sales, marketing more than $1.5 billion that both the London Stock Point, Netegrity, Nuance investments including Epicor and general management represented nearly 30 per cent Exchange and Nasdaq.
Nick was Communications, TriCipher Software Corporation, NXP positions within the computer of Symantecs global revenue.
most recently CFO at Micro Inc. and ArcSight Inc.
Earlier Semiconductors, and King systems and software industry Prior to Symantec, Kris was EVP Focus International plc, where in her career Sandra spent Digital Entertainment plc.
globally, and was most recently and GM, storage and server he was instrumental in the 10 years at McAfee, Inc.
Previously, Roy worked at the Chairman and CEO of management at Veritas company tripling revenue and holding a number of key McKinsey & Company, Inc. Ascential Software Corporation.
Software where, during his increasing market capitalisation executive positions focusing on consulting clients in He has also served on the tenure, the companys revenue from circa 200 million to in the high technology sector and boards of Applix Inc. more than doubled, before its excess of 1 billion.
He has also also held product management BladeLogic Software, Epicor acquisition by Symantec.
Earlier held Group CFO roles at Fibernet positions at Psion Computers Software Corporation, Lawson in his career, Kris was founder Group plc and Gentia Software Software, EnerNOC Inc. and CEO of BigBook and prior to plc, as well as senior financial Cimpress NV, Intralinks that, Affinia.
Kris also held positions at Comshare Inc. and Holdings, Inc. and webMethods positions at Silicon Graphics Lotus Software and McKinsey & Company Qualifications BA in Mathematics and an MBA, BA in Russian and Economics, First class BA in Civil MBA from Xavier University, MBA, Stanford Graduate Columbia University, New York Dartmouth College, an M. Phil.
Engineering, Aston University, Cincinnati, Ohio and a BA in School of Business and an in International Relations, and a qualified Chartered Business Administration MA in Engineering, Imperial Cambridge University, and an Accountant Cum Laude, Georgia State College, London MBA, Stanford Graduate School University of Business Key External Appointments Director of Carbonite Inc. None Non-Executive Director Director of F5 Networks, Inc. Director of Duck Creek Information Builders, Inc. of fide La Rue plc and Qualys Inc Software, Inc. and Exact Pegasystems Inc. RealPage, Holdings NV Inc. and is trustee emeritus of the Massachusetts Technology Leadership Council Qualifications ELEANOR LACEY Experience Chief Legal Officer J. D. Yale Law School and Eleanor joined Sophos in 2016 and VP of Business BA in History and English, as SVP General Counsel and Development at Corel University of Massachusetts Company Secretary.
Most Corporation, VP of Corporate at Amherst recently, Eleanor had been Development at SupportSoft, SVP, General Counsel and Inc. and VP and General Corporate Secretary at Counsel at Niku Corporation, SurveyMonkey Inc.
Prior to prior to its acquisition by Key External Appointments SurveyMonkey she has held Computer Associates Committee Membership None the roles of General Counsel 44 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Key to Committee Membership: A u di t a n d R i s k C o m m i t t e e Nominations C ommit tee Remuneration Committee Disclosure Committee RICK MEDLOCK STEVE MUNFORD VIN MURRIA OBE PAUL WALKER BOARD INFORMATION Independent NonNon-Executive Director Independent NonSenior Independent Executive Director Executive Director Director Independence excluding Chairman First Election Date 7 September 2017 7 September 2017 14 September 2016 14 September 2016 Committee Membership Independent Non-Independent Experience Rick joined the Sophos Board in Steve served as Sophos CEO Vin joined the Sophos Board in Paul joined the Sophos Board in April 2017.
Rick has 30 years of from 2006 to 2012 prior to January 2017.
Paul brings more than 30 Board Nationality experience in the financial which he had been COO, as well and CEO at Advanced Computer years of technology and senior management of large as president of Sophos, North Software and CEO of Computer leadership experience, having international technology America.
Steve led the Software Group.
Previously, Vin served for 16 years as CEO of companies.
Most recently Rick company through a period of was also a non-executive Sage Group plc.
Paul has was CFO at Worldpay until the dramatic growth, more than director of Chime previously served on the boards completion of its merger with tripling billings.
Previously, he Communications, Greenko of WANdisco plc, Diageo plc, Vantiv in February 2018 prior to was President of ActiveState Group and Concateno.
Vin was and My Travel Group plc which, Rick was CFO of Misys before its acquisition by Sophos named Ciscos Woman of the until December 2013.
Before Year and Tech Entrepreneur of joining Misys, Rick had spent the Year in 2012 and in addition, British nine years as CFO of Inmarsat Advanced Computer Software plc and seven years as CFO and was named Tech Company of Canadian company secretary of NDS the Year in 2014.
Vin received American Group plc.
He was also a an OBE for services to the non-executive director and Digital Economy and the chairman of the audit Empowerment of Women in committee of Edwards Vacuum Software and Technology in the Edwards Group Ltd.
He spent 2018 New Years Honours list the early part of his career in a Board Diversity by Gender variety of roles as CFO of a number of private equity backed technology companies in the UK and the US 22% Qualifications female MA in Economics, University BA in Economics, University of BSc Hons, an MBA, and a BA in Economics, York of Cambridge and a qualified Western Ontario and MBA from Doctorate business University, and a qualified Chartered Accountant Queens University, Ontario administration Honorary, Chartered Accountant having Edinburgh Napier University trained at Ernst & Young Key External Appointments None Chairman of Carbonite, Inc.
Independent Non-Executive Non-executive chairman of and Elastic Path Software, Inc. Director at Softcat plc and Halma plc and Perform Group interim CEO of Absolute Zoopla Property Group plc, Ltd, and a Non-Executive Software Corporation, and Senior Advisor - Rothschild Director of Experian plc serves on the boards of Global Advisory team, and Actenum Corporation, Alert a partner at Elderstreet Logic, Inc. Apica, Inc. Investments NetMotion, Inc, QuickMobile Inc. and Teradici Corporation Qualifications CHLOE BARRY Experience Group Company Secretary Associate, Institute of Chloe joined Sophos in 2016 as Prior to BG Group, Chloe has Chartered Secretaries and Deputy Company Secretary.
held roles at a number of UK Administrators Most recently, Chloe had been listed companies, including Group Secretariat Manager at Centrica plc, InterContinental Key External Appointments BG Group plc for four years until Hotels Group plc and None its acquisition by Royal Dutch Electrocomponents plc Shell plc in February 2016.
