Directors Report The Directors of Sophos Group plc the Company present their Annual Report on the affairs of the Group, together with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Auditors Report on the Group for the year-ended 31 March 2018.
There are a number of legal and regulatory requirements with which the Company must comply, such as the Companies Act 2006 theAct, the Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules the DTRs, which are addressed in thissection.
Strategic Report The Strategic Report, which forms part of this report and is presented on pages 16 to 43 of this Annual Report, includes a fair review of the business, a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and an indication of likely future developments.
Corporate Governance The Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 46 to 54 and Committee Reports on pages 55 to 81 have been incorporated into the Directors Report by cross-reference.
The majority of the disclosures required under LR 9.8.
4 R are not applicable to the Group.
The table below sets out the location of the disclosures for those requirements that are applicable: Applicable sub-paragraph Disclosure provided Publication of unaudited financial information Financial Review Details of long-term incentive schemes Annual Report on Remuneration Allotment of equity securities Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contracts of significance Directors Report Agreements with controlling shareholders Directors Report Articles of Association and Constitution Sophos Group plc is domiciled in England and incorporated in England and Wales under Company Number 09608658.
The Articles of Association of the Company the Articles may only be amended by a special resolution at a meeting of the shareholders.
The current Articles can be found on the Groups website at investors.
Directors and Directors Interests The Directors who held office during the year and up to the date of the signing of this report: Peter Gyenes Non-Executive Director and Chairman Kris Hagerman Chief Executive Officer Nick Bray Chief Financial Officer Sandra Bergeron Non-Executive Director Edwin Gillis Non-Executive Director retired 7 September 2017 Roy Mackenzie Non-Executive Director Rick Medlock Non-Executive Director appointed 3 April 2017 Steve Munford Non-Executive Director Vin Murria Non-Executive Director Salim Nathoo Non-Executive Director resigned 28 November 2017 Paul Walker Non-Executive Director A summary of the Directors remuneration, employment contracts and interests in the shares of the Company are set out in the Remuneration Report.
None of the Directors had an interest in any significant contracts of the Group or its subsidiaries, with the following exceptions: i Vin Murria is also a Non-Executive Director of Softcat plc, with whom the Company maintains an ongoing customer relationship: and ii Salim Nathoo is also a Non-Executive Director of Global Logic, with whom the Company maintains an ongoing supplier relationship.
82 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Indemnity and Insurance Throughout the year, the Company has purchased and maintained Directors and Officers liability insurance in respect of itself and its Directors, and the Directors of Group subsidiary companies.
The Directors also have the benefit of the indemnity provision contained in the Articles.
The Company has entered into qualifying third-party indemnity arrangements for the benefit of all its Directors in a form and scope which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and which were in force throughout the year and remain in force.
Relationship Agreement Pentagon Lock Sarl, Pentagon Lock 6-A Sarl, Pentagon Lock 7-A Sarl and Pentagon Lock US Sarl collectively Apax previously held more than 30 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company and still hold more than 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital as at 31 March 2018.
On 26 June 2015, the Company and Apax entered into a Relationship Agreement which regulates the ongoing relationship between the Company and Apax as the controlling shareholder in accordance with the Listing Rules.
The Board can confirm that throughout the period: the Company has complied with the agreements independence provisions: as far as the Company is aware, the controlling shareholder and its associates have complied with the agreements independence provisions: and, as far as the Company is aware, the controlling shareholder has procured the compliance of non-signing controlling shareholders with the agreements independence provisions.
Significant Agreements The following significant agreements are in place as at 31 March 2018, which include provisions that would enable the counterparties to alter or terminate the agreements upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid: a syndicated secured term loan Facility A of $235.0 million entered into on 1 July 2015: a syndicated secured term loan Facility B of 60.0 million entered into on 1 July 2015: a revolving credit facility agreement RCF 1 of $30.0 million entered into on 1 July 2015: and, a revolving credit facility agreement RCF 2 of $40.0 million entered into on 6 February 2017.
Further details of financing agreements in place are included in note 23 of the Financial Statements.
Share Capital and Substantial Shareholders The share capital of the Company is set out in note 26 of the Financial Statements: ordinary shares of three pence each are the only class of share in issue.
As at 31 March 2018 and 16 May 2018 the Company was notified under DTR 5 of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares set out in the table below.
No change in voting interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company, disclosable under the DTRs, has been notified to the Company between 31 March 2018 and 16 May 2018.
As at 31 March 2018 Ordinary Percentage of Name shares held total ordinary shares Apax 51,936,344 11.09 Jan Hruska 42,543,360 9.08 Peter Lammer 42,543,360 9.08 Franklin Templeton Institutional, LLC 23,376,977 4.99 Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited 22,724,690 4.85 Old Mutual plc 19,821,783 4.23 ODDO Meriten Asset Management 13,633,922 2.91 83 Directors Report continued v a c omposition is made with that persons creditors Voting Rights generally in satisfaction of that persons debts: All of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares of the Company have equal voting rights, with one vote per share.
vi t hat person ceases to be a Director by virtue of any There are no special control rights attaching to them.
provision of the Act or is prohibited from being a Director by law: or, Transfer of Shares vii t hat person is removed from office pursuant to the The transfer of shares is governed by the Articles which Articles.
allows any member to transfer certificated shares in any usual form or in any other form for which the Board may Powers of the Board approve.
The Board may, in its absolute discretion, refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share that is not fully Subject to provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent dealings in Articles, and to any directions given by special resolution, the Company from taking place on an open and proper basis.
the business of the Company shall be managed by the Board The Board may also refuse to register the transfer of a who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is i Dividends lodged, duly stamped if stampable, at the office or at another place appointed by the Board, accompanied by the The Directors have recommended that the Company pay a certificate for the shares to which it relates and such other final dividend in relation to the year-ended 31 March 2018 of evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the 3.5 US Cents per share.
Subject to shareholder approval, right of the transferor to make the transfer: ii in respect of combined with the interim dividend announced of 1.4 US only one class of shares: and iii in favour of not more than Cents per share, this gives a total dividend for the year of 4.9 four transferees.
The Directors continue to adopt a progressive dividend policy targeting approximately Appointment and Retirement of Directors mid-single digit per cent growth per annum, reflecting the Unless otherwise determined by ordinary resolution, the cash-generative nature of the Group.
number of Directors shall be no less than three but is not Sophos Group plc is the parent company of the Group and subject to any maximum number.
The Board may appoint a is a non-trading investment company for the Group, person who is willing to act to be a Director, either to fill a holding investments in subsidiaries financed by Group vacancy or as an additional Director and in either case companies.
Sophos Group plc has retained earnings of whether or not for a fixed term.
$946.1 million, which approximates the distributable At every AGM all the Directors at the date of the notice reserves.
At the end of the prior-year Sophos Group plc had convening the AGM shall retire from office, if the Company retained earnings of $977.1 million, after paying dividends does not fill the vacancy at the meeting the retiring Director in that year totalling $10.9 million, the distributable shall, if willing to act, be deemed to have been re-appointed reserves thereby having significant cover for the dividends unless at the meeting it is resolved not to fill the vacancy or being proposed.
The Group is strongly cash generative with unless a resolution for the re-appointment of the Director is trading activities continuing to support the dividends made put to the meeting and lost.
and proposed, details of cash on hand is included in note 20 of the Financial Statements.
A person ceases to be a Director as soon as: The dividend policy and availability of distributable reserves i n otification is received by the Company from the or cash to make future dividend payments is influenced by Director that they are resigning or retiring from office: the principal risks, and their mitigations, discussed on pages 34 to 37 which are factored into the Groups viability review ii t hat person has been absent for more than six and statement disclosed on page 86.
Prior to the proposal of consecutive months without permission of the Board a dividend the Directors review both the distributable and the Board resolves that their office be vacated: reserves and cash available on hand as well as the impact of the proposed dividend on each of them in light of other cash iii t he person has become physically or mentally commitments and investment intentions.
On the basis of incapable of acting as a Director and may remain so for the latest review the Directors consider the current dividend more than three months: policy to be appropriate and sustainable.
iv a bankruptcy order is made against that person: 84 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Annual General Meeting Share Option Plans The notice of the Annual General Meeting AGM which sets The Group operates a number of share option plans to out the resolutions to be proposed at the 2018 AGM motivate and retain staff and align their interests with accompanies this Annual Report and Accounts.
Details of these schemes are set out in note AGM will be held at 3.00pm on 30 August 2018 at: The 28 to the Financial Statements.
Pentagon, Abingdon Science Park, Abingdon, OX14 3YP.
Branches Employees The Group, through various subsidiaries, has established The Group continues to invest to drive future growth.
A key branches in a number of different countries in which the objective of the Group is to achieve a shared commitment by business operates.
all employees to the success of the business.
Throughout Financial Instruments the Group, there is consultation between employees and management on matters of mutual interest and information Details of the Groups financial risk management policies is disseminated through team and Company briefings.
and risks are set out in note 25 to the Financial Statements.
Updates on the operations of the Group and its performance are shared with all employees via quarterly all-hands which Authority to Issue Shares and Authority to are led by the CEO and SMT and are recorded and made Purchase Own Shares available on the Groups intranet site.
Employees are The Company was authorised by shareholders at the 2017 encouraged to promote and participate in the progress and AGM to allot shares and also to make market purchases of profitability of the Group through the share option plans and up to 10 per cent of the Companys issued share capital, as other incentive schemes.
permitted under the Companys Articles.
The Company did not repurchase shares during the year or make any shares The Group provides full consideration to applications for the subject of a charge.
The Company will seek to renew employment from disabled persons where the requirements these authorities at the 2018 AGM, within the limits set out of the role can be adequately fulfilled by a disabled person.
Where existing employees become disabled it is the Groups policy, wherever practicable, to provide continuing Shares Held in the Employee Benefit Trust employment under normal terms and conditions and to provide training and career development to disabled The Trustees of the Employee Benefit Trust will abstain from employees wherever appropriate.
voting or exercising any other rights in respect of any shares held by them and in which no beneficial interest is held by Research and Development any beneficiary unless otherwise directed by the Company.
The Group continues to undertake research and Greenhouse Gas Emissions development activity relating to its principal activities.
In the year-ended 31 March 2018, the Group spent 19.0 per The Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHG disclosures for the cent of its billings on research and development FY17: Group, as well as environmental considerations, have been 18.6 per cent.
Development expenditure is capitalised if included in the Corporate Responsibility Report, see page 43. the requirements of IAS 38 have been met, further details are included in note 3 of the Financial Statements.
Political Donations The Groups policy is not to make any political donations.
Accordingly, no political donations were made in the year-ended 31 March 2018 FY17: no political donations were made.
85 Directors Report continued Going Concern Post Balance Sheet Events Having made appropriate enquiries and considered the There have been no material events from 31 March 2018 Groups forecasts, the Directors consider that the Group to the date of this report.
has sufficient resources to continue for the foreseeable Auditors future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
KPMG LLP has expressed their willingness to continue in Further details regarding the adoption of the going concern office as auditors of the Company and accordingly a basis can be found in the viability statement below.
resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG LLP as auditors of the Company is to be proposed to the shareholders at Viability Statement the 2018 AGM.
The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over Disclosure of Information to Auditors a three-year period, taking into account the Groups current position and the potential impacts of the principal risks The Directors who held office at the date of approval of documented on pages 34 to 37 of the Annual Report.
Based this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each on this assessment, the Directors confirm that they have a aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to Companys auditors are unaware and each Director has taken continue to operate and to meet its liabilities as they fall all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director due over the three years to 31 March 2021. to make them aware of any relevant audit information.
The Group prepares annually, and on a rolling basis, a Statement of Directors Responsibilities in strategic plan, which is predicated on a detailed year one Respect of the Annual Report and the Financial budget and higher-level forecasts thereafter.
The output of Statements this plan is used to perform debt and associated covenant The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report headroom profile analysis, which includes sensitivity to and the Group and parent Company financial statements in business as usual risks such as billings and EBITDA impacts.
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
A bottom-up operating plan is prepared on an annual basis for presentation to the Board.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Following assessment of the planning process, the Directors Under that law they are required to prepare the Group have determined that a three-year period is an appropriate financial statements in accordance with International period over which to assess the Groups viability.
Whilst the Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Directors have no reason to believe that the Group will not be Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law.
As viable over a longer period: the period of three years has explained in note 3 to the Group financial statements, the been chosen as this matches the term of the majority of the Group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to Groups sales typically one to three years in duration, with a apply IFRSs as adopted by the EU, has also applied IFRSs as weighted average contract life of around twenty eight issued by the International Accounting Standards Board months which therefore aids the accuracy of forecasting IASB.
Under company law the Directors have elected to with a single renewal cycle, thereby providing a greater prepare the parent company financial statements in degree of certainty and, in the view of the Directors, still accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS provides an appropriate long-term outlook.
102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK In making this viability statement, the Board carried out a and Republic of Ireland.
robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Where individual principal risks did not impact the future viability of the Group, consideration was given to potential principal risk combinations.
The process of identifying, assessing and managing principal risks is set out in the Audit and Risk Committee Report on pages 57 to 61.
86 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Under company law the Directors must not approve the Responsibility Statement of the Directors in financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give Respect of the Annual Financial Report a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the statements, the Directors are required to: applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit select suitable accounting policies and then apply them or loss of the company and the undertakings included in consistently: the consolidation taken as a whole: and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable, the strategic report includes a fair review of the relevant, reliable and prudent: development and performance of the business and the for the Group financial statements, state whether they position of the issuer and the undertakings included in have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a by the EU: description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK accounting standards have been We consider the annual report and accounts, taken as a followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the explained in the parent company financial statements: information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups assess the Group and parent companys ability to position and performance, business model and strategy.
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, By order of the Board matters related to going concern: and use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company Chloe Barry or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but Company Secretary to do so.
16 May 2018 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
