d e C p l a o p y i t m a e l n t e t c e n k e r s a e M r O p e p x e c r e a l STRATEGY Our evolving STRATEGY Our strategy Strategic priorities Description As customer requirements evolve, so too Focus on innovative Our strategy has continued to evolve does the offering that Spectris provides to customer solutions from being a supplier of hardware them.
Our long-term customer relationships and technical know-how mean we can products towards the provision enhance our offering to them, whether that of solutions to our customers involves the supply of improved equipment a combination of our high-quality or a packaged solution combining hardware, instruments alongside associated software and or services.
We build leadership positions in attractive Increase presence markets where we believe there are opportunities in key strategic for technology-led productivity enhancement.
markets These markets currently include segments within the life sciences and pharmaceuticals, automotive, electronics and semiconductor, metals minerals mining and technology-led industrials sectors, but we also review and actively pursue opportunities in new markets.
In response to a customer base that is extending Expand business its international operations and becoming globally increasingly sophisticated, we seek to expand our business globally, with emphasis on markets such as Asia, particularly China.
We strive for continuous improvement in all Accelerate operational In November, a strategic review was aspects of our business operations, both to excellence initiated by our new Chief Executive enhance customer experience and to generate to explore the potential to reduce efficiency and productivity gains.
In addition, we seek to improve performance and profitability complexity and establish a more by driving synergistic opportunities within and focused organisation.
The initial between our operating companies, and across findings of that review are set out the Group as a whole.
in the Chief Executives Review on We acquire businesses which materially Deploy capital pages 8 to 11 and further appraisal strengthen our operating companies through for both platform work will continue during 2019. broadening their customer offering, reaching and bolt-on M&A new customer segments or expanding their We will report our progress on this geographical presence.
These are typically at our Capital Markets Day in June bolt-on in nature, i. e. integrated into one of our and in the 2019 Annual Report operating companies.
In addition, we invest in new platform or stand-alone businesses in order and Accounts.
to establish a presence in strategic markets or For 2018, we have continued to complementary capabilities.
report our progress and our key Project Uplift was our productivity enhancement performance indicators KPIs Project Uplift programme which was seeing increased against the strategic priorities detailed collaboration and common processes being adopted across the Group to simplify the opposite as they are the ones relevant business, increase efficiency and productivity and to our performance in the year.
drive continuous improvement and growth.
14 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 l t e i n o c n e e s a v n l i t o a i v t u o l n o n s I E x g p l o a b n a d l l i y n g Strategic Report Progress in 2018 Our KPIs Invested 103.4 million in R&D 6% of sales.
Spectris Advance, showcasing our IIoT New product launches: Malvern Panalyticals capabilities in specific end markets, LFL sales growth particle characterisation products the combining our instrumentation, connectivity Zetasizer Ultra Pro systems and Morphologi and analytics expertise to provide more static imaging systems: PMS Quality cross-group solutions.
5% Assurance data management system and Acquisition of Concept Life Sciences whose new software products from BKSV and HBM.
activities in integrated drug discovery, Merger of BKSV and HBM to better deliver development and analytical testing integrated data solutions to our customers.
Adjusted operating Launch of our digital solutions brand, margin Acquisition of Concept Life Sciences, Millbrook, expanding both Millbrooks which provides integrated drug discovery, offering to customers and presence in North 15.5% development and analytical testing in America, a key growth market.
Millbrook the pharma and biotechnology sectors also expanded its automotive testing service which complement the activities of capacity and capability at both its Finland Malvern Panalytical.
Adjusted earnings Acquisition of Revolutionary Engineering, Acquisition of VI-grade, a leading global per share growth an automotive test system and service provider of vehicle simulation software, provider in the USA, specialising in driveline systems and services which complements the 7% test services and solutions.
Revolutionary software and simulation capability of the Engineering has been integrated into automotive segment within HBK.
Delivered strong LFL sales growth in Asia 10%, particularly in China and in India.
Cash conversion Acquisition of Revolutionary Engineering adds US-based automotive testing and services.
59% Merger of BKSV and HBM to deliver Launched new profit improvement integrated test, measurement and data programme to deliver enhanced operational solutions to our customers and improve gearing from 2019.
Focus on Lean manufacturing initiatives with 196.8m Kaizen events held across our businesses to improve on-time delivery, quality and operational efficiency.
Acquisition of Concept Life Sciences, Acquisition of Revolutionary Engineering and Energy efficiency per m revenue which provides integrated drug discovery, VI-grade expands automotive offering with development, analytical testing and a US presence and in software simulation, environmental consultancy services, as well as respectively.
66.5MWh development and analytical services for the food, consumer and environmental industries.
Reportable accidents per 1,000 employees Project Uplift programme initiatives resulted in to harmonise activities and leverage the 2.9 gross recurring savings of 17.3 million being Group scale to enhance terms.
realised during 2018, an annualised run-rate Completed study on shared service centre of 21 million and on track to at least meet project for Phase 2 and took decision not to See pages 16 to 17 the 25 million total in 2019. proceed, given the cost of implementation for more information Group-wide direct and indirect procurement versus the speed of returns.
contracts signed, such as freight provision, Spectris plc 15
