Governance DIRECTORS REPORT Overview of the information required to be disclosed This section sets out the information required to be disclosed by the Company and the Group in the Directors Report in compliance with the Companies Act 2006 Companies Act, the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR.
Certain matters that would otherwise be disclosed in this Directors Report have been reported elsewhere in this Annual Report.
This report should therefore be read in conjunction with the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 43 and pages 44 to 78 of the Corporate Governance Report which are incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
The Strategic Report and this Directors Report, together with other sections of this Annual Report and Accounts including the Corporate Governance Report on pages 44 to 78 incorporated by reference, when taken as a whole, form the Management Report as required under Rule 4.1.
Disclosure Reported in Page reference Acquisitions and disposals Strategic Report 11, 28 and 29 Amendment to Articles of Association Directors Report 80 Annual General Meeting Directors Report 80 Appointment and removal of Directors Directors Report 80 Authority to allot shares Directors Report 81 Business model Strategic Report 6-7 Change of control Directors Report 80 Community and charitable giving Strategic Report 43 Corporate governance Corporate Governance Report 44-83 Directors conflicts of interest Directors Report 81 Directors details Corporate Governance Report 46-47 Directors indemnity Directors Report 81 Directors responsibility statement Directors Report 83 Disclosure of information to auditor Directors Report 82 Diversity, equality and inclusion Strategic Report 40 Employee engagement Corporate Governance Report 40, 50 and 51 Employee equal opportunities Strategic Report 40 Employee share plans Directors Report 81 Employees with disabilities Strategic Report 40 Financial instruments Directors Report 81 Future developments and strategic priorities Strategic Report 14-15 Going concern Directors Report 81 Greenhouse gas emissions Strategic Report 42 Ongoing director training and development Corporate Governance Report 49 Political donations Directors Report 81 Powers of Directors Directors Report 81 Principal risks and risk management Strategic Report 31-36 Research and development activities Strategic Report 6 and 26 Restrictions on transfer of shares Directors Report 81 Restrictions on voting rights Directors Report 81 Results and dividends Strategic Report 4 Rights and obligations attaching to shares Directors Report 81 Share buyback Directors Report 81 Share capital Directors Report 81 Substantial share interests Directors Report 82 Viability Statement Strategic Report 37 Spectris plc 79 DIRECTORS REPORT continued Non-financial information statement and index This statement is made in compliance with the Companies Act 2006 and is intended to provide an understanding of our development, performance and position on key non-financial matters.
The table below sets out where information relating to non-financial matters can be located.
Some of our relevant Page Reporting requirement policies and standards Where to find out more information reference Anti-bribery and Code of Business Ethics Ethics and values standards 4 and 39 corruption Culture, integrity and commitment to our values 4 and 39 Ethics hotline 39 Ethical leadership 39 Principal risk Compliance with laws and regulations 33 Business model Our business model 6-7 Environmental matters Environmental policy Environmental management 42-43 ISO 14001 Energy performance 42 Greenhouse gas emissions GHG 42 KPI Energy efficiency 17 Employees Code of Business Ethics Fair employment and diversity 40 Health and safety policy Board diversity 49 OHSAS 18001 Employee engagement and Workforce Engagement Director 50-51 SA 8000 Health, safety and wellbeing at work 41-42 KPI Accident incidence rate 17 Principal risks Compliance with laws and regulations 33 People 33 Human rights Human Rights policy Legal and regulatory compliance 41 Code of Business Ethics Risk Compliance with laws and regulation 33 Non-financial KPIs Energy efficiency 17 Accident incident rate 17 Social matters Community involvement 43 Results and dividends Auditors re-appointment and remuneration The results for the year are set out on pages 92 to 162.
In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act, a resolution Adjusted operating profit for the year amounts to 248.3 million for the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditor is 2017: 239.3 million.
to be proposed at the forthcoming 2019 AGM.
A further resolution is to be proposed at that meeting to authorise the Directors to An interim dividend of 20.5 pence per share was paid on agree the remuneration of the auditor.
9 November 2018 in respect of the half year ended 30 June 2018.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 40.5 pence per Branches share, making the total dividend for the year of 61.0 pence per Spectris Group, through various subsidiaries, has established share 2017: 56.5 pence per share.
Dividend details are given branches in a number of different countries in which the in Note 9 to the Financial Statements.
Subject to approval business operates.
of shareholders at the 2019 Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 28 June 2019 to those shareholders Change of control on the register at 24 May 2019.
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Group following Articles of Association Articles a takeover, such as bank loan agreements and Company share The Companys Articles contain specific provisions and restrictions plans.
None of these are deemed to be significant in terms of regarding the Companys power to borrow money.
Powers relating their potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
to pre-emptive rights: the allotment of shares: and share buybacks It is also possible that funding arrangements for the Groups of the Companys shares are also included in the Articles and such defined benefit pension arrangements would need to be authorities are renewed by shareholders each year at the Annual enhanced following a change of control if that resulted in General Meeting.
The Articles also give power to the Board to a weakening of the employer covenant.
appoint and remove Directors and require Directors to submit themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting The Company does not have any agreements with any Director following their appointment and for annual re-election at that would provide for enhanced compensation for loss of office subsequent AGMs.
The Articles may be amended by special or employment following a takeover bid.
The Companys Articles are Directors available on the Companys website: www.
Details of the Directors who served during the year are set out Annual General Meeting AGM on pages 46 and 47, other than John OHiggins who retired from the Board on 28 September 2018.
Directors are appointed and The AGM will be held at 12.30pm on Friday 24 May 2019 at Great Fosters, Stroude Road, Egham, Surrey TW20 9UR.
replaced in accordance with the Articles, Companies Act, and the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016.
The powers of the Directors The notice of the AGM accompanies this Annual Report.
are set out in the Articles and the Companies Act.
80 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Directors conflicts of interest Financial instruments The Board has an established process to review at least annually, Information on the Groups financial risk management objectives and, if appropriate, authorise conflict or potential conflict of and policies, its exposure to foreign currency risk, interest rate risk, interests.
Any transactional conflicts are reviewed as they arise.
liquidity risk, credit risk and capital management is contained in Directors are asked to review and confirm reported conflicts Note 28 to the Financial Statements on pages 144 to 146. of interest as part of the year-end process.
Going concern and Viability statements Directors remuneration and interests Having reviewed the Groups plans and available financial facilities, Details of Directors remuneration and their interest in the the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Group has Companys shares can be found in the Directors Remuneration adequate resources to continue in operational existence for at least Report on pages 60 to 78.
12 months following the signing of the accounts.
For this reason, it continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Directors and officers indemnities and insurance Groups accounts.
The Companys Viability Statement can be found The Spectris Group maintains liability insurance for its Directors on page 37. and officers.
The Directors, Company Secretary and members Related party transactions of the Executive Committee have also been granted a third-party indemnity, under the Companies Act, which remains in force.
Related party transactions are set out in Note 32 to the Financial Neither the Companys indemnity nor insurance provides cover Statements on page 147. in the event that an indemnified individual is proved to have acted Political donations fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Groups policy is not to make any political donations and none Directors powers were made during the financial year 2017: nil.
Subject to the Companys Articles, UK legislation and any Post balance sheet events directions given by special resolution, the business of the There were no post balance sheet events.
Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Share capital Borrowing powers The share capital of the Company comprises ordinary shares The Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company of 5 pence each: each share carries the right to one vote at general to borrow money.
The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, together with movements in the Companys Pre-emptive rights and new issues issued share capital during the year, is shown in Note 22 to the Subject to the Articles and applicable laws and regulations, the Financial Statements on page 132.
The Articles, available on the Directors may allot, grant options over, offer or otherwise deal with Companys website, contain provisions governing the ownership or dispose of shares of the Company to such persons at such times and transfer of shares.
and generally on such terms and conditions as they may determine.
Shareholders rights and obligations attaching to Purchase of own shares and share buybacks shares The Company was authorised by shareholders at the 2018 AGM to purchase in the market up to 10% of the Companys issued Restrictions on shareholders rights share capital, as permitted under the Companys Articles.
All of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares of the Company have equal voting rights, with one vote per share.
There are This standard authority is renewable annually: the Directors will no special control rights attaching to them.
seek to renew this authority at the 2019 AGM.
Following the sale of Microscan in October 2017, which Alteration of share capital and variation of rights produced post-tax cash proceeds of 91.9 million in March 2018, The Company may reduce or vary the rights attaching to its the Directors commenced a 100 million on-market share buyback share capital by special resolution.
Such matters are subject to programme.
The Board considers the buyback process to be the relevant provisions of the Articles and applicable laws and a flexible distribution method which provides shareholders with the regulations.
Further details in relation to rights and restrictions choice as to whether to participate.
The programme was completed applying to the Companys shares are set out in the Articles.
on 13 August 2018 and the total number of ordinary shares Transfer of shares of 5 pence each purchased amounted to 3,825,802 shares There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares beyond those representing 3.31% of the issued share capital excluding treasury required by applicable law under the Articles or under any shares as at 31 December 2018 at an average price of 24.83 per applicable share dealing policy.
All purchased shares were duly cancelled.
Details of the impact of the share buyback on relevant performance metrics Voting related to the Performance Share Plan and Annual Bonus Plan are Subject to any special rights or restrictions, every shareholder on set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 67 and 69. the Register not less than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the time fixed for a general meeting, will have one vote for Employee share plans every fully-paid share that they hold.
Shareholders may cast votes Details of employee share plans are set out in the Remuneration either personally or by proxy, and a proxy need not be a Policy summary table on pages 62 and 63 and in Note 23 to the shareholder.
Details relating to the appointment of proxies and Financial Statements on page 133. registration of voting instructions for the 2019 AGM are set out in the Notice of AGM accompanying this Annual Report.
Spectris plc 81 DIRECTORS REPORT continued Substantial share interests As at 31 December 2018, the Company had received formal notifications of the following holdings in its ordinary shares in accordance with DTR5.
Shareholding in Percentage of issued share Spectris shares Date of notification capital at date of notification Massachusetts Financial Services Company 12,754,748 12 Oct 2018 11.04% Fidelity Management & Research Company 6,403,655 23 Nov 2016 5.37% Oppenheimer Funds, Inc 5,720,217 15 Jun 2018 4.83% No changes in disclosable holdings under DTR5 have been notified to the Company between 31 December 2018 and 19 February 2019.
An updated list of the Companys major shareholders is available on page 163.
Treasury shares Shares held by the Company in treasury do not have voting rights and are not eligible to receive dividends.
Disclosures required under UK Listing Rule 9.8.
4 There are no disclosures required to be made under UK Listing Rule 9.8.
4 other than in respect of long-term incentive schemes, details of which are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 78.
Disclosure of information to auditor The Directors who held office at the date of approval of the Directors Report confirm that: so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information, which would be needed by the Companys auditor in connection with preparing its audit report, of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
By order of the Board Mark Serfz General Counsel and Company Secretary 19 February 2019 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of Directors responsibility statement the Annual Report and the Financial Statements We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report and the Group and Company applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the and regulations.
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: Under the Companies Act, the Directors are required to prepare the Group and Company Financial Statements in accordance with the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 43 and the Directors Report International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by on pages 44 to 83 include a fair review of the development and the European Union EU and Article 4 of the IAS regulation and performance of the business and the position of the Group and have also elected to prepare the Company Financial Statements the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Reduced Disclosure Framework.
that they face: and Under company law, the Directors are required to prepare such the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole, is fair, Financial Statements for each financial year and must not approve balanced and understandable, and provides the information the Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company business model and strategy.
and of their profit or loss for that period.
The Strategic Report and the Directors Report were approved In preparing each of the Group and Company Financial Statements, by the Board on 19 February 2019. the Directors are required to: By order of the Board select accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Andrew Heath Clive Watson and prudent: Chief Executive Group Finance Director for the Group Financial Statements, state whether they have 19 February 2019 been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: for the Company Financial Statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Company Financial Statements: and prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
