Strategic Report VIABILITY STATEMENT Viability STATEMENT In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2016 UK Corporate The following severe, but plausible, potential scenarios were Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the viability of the analysed: Company over a three-year period, taking into account the Groups A no-deal Brexit outcome, giving rise to: current position and the assessment of the principal risks and Weakening Sterling against the Euro and Dollar.
uncertainties as set out on pages 32 to 36.
A decline in sales across the UK and Europe.
The Directors have determined that a three-year period to An extensive variety of operational and administrative 31 December 2021 constitutes an appropriate period over which events that impact our individual operating companies and to provide its Viability Statement.
The selection of this period for have been documented through the work of our Brexit the assessment is supported by the following considerations: Steering Committee.
The approach taken by our peers.
The impact of existing tariffs, and planned additional tariffs, The Group budgeting, forecasting and strategic planning cycles.
on trade between the USA and China, leading to a decline The maturity of the Groups credit facilities.
in sales across both markets.
The assessment of our operating company and Group The translational foreign exchange impact of major movements principal risks.
and volatility in key Group currencies Sterling vs the Euro and The variety of industry cycles and geographies that our businesses the Dollar.
A combination of all three of the above risk scenarios and a consequential global recession similar to 2009.
In considering an assessment beyond three years, we have weighed the benefits of such an extended projection against the decrease in A marked economic slowdown or downturn in the data availability and the reliability of predicting events, both of Chinese economy.
which decrease exponentially beyond three years.
Legal regulatory breaches modelling a fall in sales volumes The Directors have considered the above and believe that this arising from a theoretical debarment from operating in certain supports the selection of a three-year period over which the key markets.
Viability Statement is made, presenting users of the Annual Report Mitigations considered as part of the stress testing included cost with a reasonable degree of confidence while still providing a reduction, a reduction in the Groups dividend, a reduction in longer-term perspective.
capital expenditure and re-financing of the Groups credit facilities.
The Directors carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks The results of the above stress testing demonstrated that the Group facing the Group, including those that could threaten its business would be able to withstand the impact of each of these scenarios model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
This assessment materialising over the course of the assessment period.
This is in was made with reference to the Groups current position and part due to the Groups operating model and organisational prospects, the Groups strategy and the Groups principal risks, structure which gives it the ability to respond rapidly in the event including how these are managed, as detailed on pages 31 to 36. of heightened risk in the external environment, and also partly due to the Groups financial position and access to additional funds.
In considering the Groups prospects, the Directors also noted the broad spread of markets, products and customers maintained by Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm that they have the Group.
This natural diversification provides mitigation against a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue in the risk of a serious economic downturn in a particular market or operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period the risks associated with dependence on a specific sector or to 31 December 2021. customer.
At the same time, the Directors noted the Groups strong financial position coupled with its ability to react promptly in adjusting our cost base in the event of a material change in the trading environment.
Similarly, in making the assessment, the Directors also considered the ability of the Group to raise finance and deploy capital in the context of the principal sources of facility for credit, the maturity of those facilities, the Groups ability to re-finance debt as it falls due and the overall level of headroom available.
While the review encompassed all of the principal risks identified by the Group, the following were focused on for enhanced analysis including stress testing : political and economic: compliance with laws and regulations: and fluctuations in exchange rates.
