COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The UK Listing Rules stipulate that listed companies must include in their annual report a statement of whether they have complied with all the relevant provisions of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, which can be found at www.
During 2018, Spectris complied fully with the Code.
The notes below are intended to assist with the evaluation of Spectris compliance during 2018 and the processes put in place to support the continuation of best governance principles.
Effectiveness continued The Board determines, through the Nomination Committee, the independence A.
1 The role of the Board of its members.
The Board considers all of its Non-executive Directors to be The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success of Spectris and the independent and free of any business relationships that could compromise the operation of effective governance arrangements with a view to the creation exercise of independent and objective judgement.
Conflicts of interest are of strong, sustainable financial performance and long-term shareholder value.
The steps the Board takes to facilitate this are outlined in the Governance Report set out on pages 44 to 83.
2 Appointments to the Board The Board held seven scheduled meetings in 2018 in order to review the The Nomination Committee leads all appointments of new Directors to the Board, Companys performance and strategy against set objectives.
Details of Board and applying a rigorous and transparent process mindful of merit, objectivity and Board Committee attendance for 2018 are set out on page 45. diversity.
Details of its activities undertaken during the year, including the search and selection process that led to the appointment of the new Chief Executive, The Board has adopted a clear schedule of matters reserved for its specific succession planning and talent management, can be found in the Nomination approval, including a framework for those decisions which can be delegated to Committee report on pages 52 and 53. committees or otherwise.
A full list of matters reserved to the Board is available at www.
Details of the Companys diversity policy are set out on page 49.
All Directors are covered by a directors and officers insurance policy.
The terms of reference for the Nomination Committee are available at www.
2 Division of responsibilities The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, with both having B.
3 Commitment distinct and clearly defined responsibilities which are established in written The Nomination Committee considers on appointment and annually the time terms of reference that have been agreed by the Board and which are available needed to fulfil the roles of Chairman, Senior Independent Director and at www.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and Non-executive Director and ensures that the Non-executive Directors will effectiveness of the Board, and the Chief Executive is responsible for leading the have sufficient time to fulfil their duties.
day-to-day management of the Company within the strategy set by the Board.
On appointment, and as at the date of this report, the Chairmans significant listed company interests are as chairman of Imperial Brands plc and senior A.
3 The Chairman independent non-executive director of National Grid plc.
The Board has formally The Chairman sets the agenda for meetings, manages the meeting timetable and reviewed the Chairmans other commitments and noted the announcement on facilitates open and constructive dialogue during the meetings.
11 February 2019 that Mark Williamson will step down as chairman of Imperial The Chairman was independent on appointment.
Brands plc when a suitable successor has been found.
Notwithstanding this change, the Board confirms that it believes that the Chairmans obligations to the A.
4 Non-executive Directors Company are properly fulfilled.
Indeed, the Board is appreciative of the additional The Chairman promotes an open and constructive environment in the boardroom skills and experience the Chairman brings to the Board arising from these and actively invites the Non-executive Directors views to help develop proposals directorships.
on strategy and scrutinise the performance of management against set goals and objectives.
They should satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial Clive Watson has been a non-executive director of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc information and that financial controls and systems of risk management are since 2009 and the senior independent non-executive director since May 2018. robust and defensible.
4 Development Russell King is the Senior Independent Non-executive Director and is available New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining and the to meet with shareholders if required.
The Chairman meets with Non-executive Chairman reviews and agrees subsequent training and development needs with Directors in the absence of the Executive Directors at regular intervals during the the Board on at least an annual basis.
year, and the Senior Independent Non-executive Director leads a meeting with the In April 2018, the Board visited Servomex and in October 2018, the Board visited Non-executive Directors without the Chairman present at least once a year.
our Millbrook facility to support its familiarity with the Groups operations.
Further During the year, the Directors had no unresolved concerns about the running details are set out on page 49. of the Company or any proposed action.
5 Information and support The Chairman is responsible for the delivery of accurate, timely and clear information to the Directors, with support from the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Effectiveness Directors are able to solicit independent professional advice at the Companys expense where specific expertise is required in the course of discharging their B.
1 The composition of the Board duties.
All Directors have access to the General Counsel and Company There are currently six Non-executive Directors in addition to the Chairman and Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring compliance with appropriate statutes two Executive Directors on the Board.
The composition of the Board is reviewed regularly by the Nomination Committee B.
6 Evaluation to ensure that there is an appropriate mix of skills, experience, diversity including The Board and the Board Committees undertook an internal evaluation in gender, independence and knowledge on the Board.
Board members 2018 which was led by the Chairman and the Committee Chairmen and included biographies are provided on pages 46 and 47, which identify the experience each a review of Committee membership, a review of Non-executive Directors whose Director brings to the Board.
The 2018 Board evaluation determined that the length of service was more than six years, the external commitments of all Board continued to be effective and that the current Directors backgrounds Directors and a review of the skills of each of the Directors.
Further details are set provided a good mix to meet current and future needs.
58 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance B.
7 Election re-election D. 1 The level and components of remuneration Each Director is subject to election at the first AGM following their appointment, The Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 78 outlines the implementation and re-election at each subsequent AGM.
In determining whether a Director of remuneration during 2018, including salary, bonus and share awards.
should be proposed for re-election at the 2019 AGM, the Board took into account Details of John OHiggins remuneration relating to his non-executive director the Nomination Committees advice based on the results of a peer group review role at Johnson Matthey during the period of his directorship and Clive Watsons of each Directors contribution to the Boards effectiveness, which formed part remuneration relating to his non-executive director role at Spirax-Sarco are set out of the internal Board evaluation.
This review confirmed that all Directors continue on page 77. to be effective and demonstrate commitment to their roles and the Committee accordingly recommended their re-appointment.
The Board believes that the current Remuneration Policy, as approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM, remains appropriate and fit for purpose.
The Board considers that Executive Director remuneration is an appropriate balance between fixed and performance-related, immediate and deferred remuneration, C. Accountability with the latter being subject to demanding performance conditions aligned with the Groups strategic objectives, including appropriate circumstances for Spectris C. 1 Financial and business reporting to recover sums paid or to withhold payment of sums.
A statement of the Directors responsibilities regarding the Financial Statements, including the status of the Group as a going concern, is set out on page 83, with D. 2 Procedure an explanation of the Groups strategy and business model, together with relevant During 2018, the Remuneration Committee comprised four Non-executive risks and performance metrics, which are set out on pages 1 to 36.
Directors and has delegated authority for setting the remuneration of the A further statement is provided on page 83, confirming that the Board considers Executive Directors and the Chairman.
The fees payable to the Non-executive that the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced Directors are determined by the Board.
Full details of responsibilities are set out and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders in the terms of reference for the Committee, available at www.
to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
During 2018,  LLP acted as the independent remuneration adviser to the Remuneration Committee.
The external auditor has provided a report to the shareholders on their reporting responsibilities on pages 84 to 91.
During 2018, no individual was present when their own remuneration was being discussed.
C. 2 Risk management and internal control The Company maintains its system of risk management and internal control with a view to safeguarding shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the E. Relations with shareholders Company, including an assessment of the prospects of the Group.
Further details can be found on pages 32 to 36.
E. 1 Dialogue with shareholders The Directors have assessed that the appropriate period of longer-term viability The Board recognises that meaningful engagement with institutional and retail for the Group is three years, as disclosed in the Viability Statement on page 37. shareholders is integral to the continuing success of the Company.
Throughout The Viability Statement includes an explanation of how the Directors have the year, the Board has sought to actively engage with shareholders on a number assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have done so and of occasions through meetings and roadshows.
why they consider that period to be appropriate.
It also includes a statement that Shareholders representing in excess of 2.5% of the Companys issued share the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group can continue in capital receive a standing invitation to meet with the Chairman, the Senior operation over the three-year longer-term viability period.
Independent Director or Non-executive Directors.
Such meetings supplement The Board determines the Companys risk appetite and has established risk but do not replace the regular meetings with the Chief Executive and the Group management and internal control systems.
At least annually, the Board Finance Director.
The Board is kept informed of the views, needs, expectations, undertakes a review of their effectiveness.
Further details are set out on pages 31 major issues and concerns of shareholders through periodic reports including, and 57. but not limited to, market feedback on investor relations, shareholding analysis and consensus.
The Company operates a robust internal control framework which is routinely monitored through a combination of certification, self-assessment and internal E. 2 Constructive use of general meetings audit reviews, complemented by a sound risk management process.
This process The next AGM will be held on 24 May 2019 and is an opportunity for is overseen by the Audit and Risk Committee.
shareholders to vote on certain aspects of Group business, in person, and have the opportunity to meet and question the Chairman and Board members.
C. 3 Audit committee and auditor The Audit and Risk Committee Report on pages 54 to 57 sets out details of the The results of proxy votes are available at the AGM.
These are then published composition of the Committee, including the expertise of members, and outlines on the Companys website.
how the Committee has discharged its responsibilities during 2018.
At the AGM in 2018, there were no significant votes against any of the The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Audit and Risk resolutions put before shareholders.
Committee, including: financial and narrative reporting: management of the external and internal audit processes: internal controls: and risk management systems.
Full details are set out in the terms of reference for the Committee, published at www.
