OUR BUSINESS MODEL CREATING VALUE for stakeholders What we do We provide hardware, software We provide value-enhancing We employ highly-skilled people and services for some of the solutions for our customers with deep application expertise, most  which enable them to shorten who play an essential role in the industrial applications.
development cycles, increase development of new products yield and streamline processes.
We invest around 67% of sales We build long-term relationships We offer a broad range of each year in R&D to maintain our with our customers and seek to aftermarket services and support, market positions.
develop a deep understanding including training, technical of their business and processes.
support, spare parts, calibration and maintenance.
R&D expenditure Number of acquisitions Dividend growth 6% 40 10% of sales in 2018 since 2008 CAGR since 1988 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Operating model High-quality businesses How Our sales model is based predominantly We have a portfolio of businesses with on direct routes to market through a high-quality technologies and strong we do it worldwide network of sales, marketing market positions.
and support offices, so that we are Acquisitions close to our customers wherever they Organic growth is supplemented are located.
by selective acquisitions to access We are structured in a way that enables new or complementary products and our businesses to respond quickly to any technologies, and exploit disruptive change in the trading environment.
Our businesses are predominantly Culture asset-light, focusing on the investment Our businesses are united by the same where we can build market-leading values and corporate strategy, which expertise and competitive advantage, shape our culture across the Group.
People Strong customer relationships, Our people play an essential role combined with our innovative products, in our success and we seek to attract services and significant sales footprint, and retain the best talent.
Many of our help sustain high barriers to entry, which, employees are highly qualified and have in turn, lead to pricing power, retention in-depth product, application and of market share and high gross margins.
Improving productivity Increasing connectivity Key In an increasingly competitive Customers are increasingly looking marketplace, customers are continually to access and exploit valuable drivers seeking to bring new products to market manufacturing data to drive productivity more quickly and cost-effectively.
for Increasing regulation in markets such as Focus on attractive markets pharmaceuticals life sciences, automotive growth The fundamentals of our core and process industries brings greater addressable markets are attractive, emphasis on compliance, quality control with many displaying GDP and data integrity.
growth characteristics, in particular, the pharmaceutical, automotive, Customers are increasingly seeking electronics semiconductor, metals greater insights into their processes, minerals mining and technology-led increasing the requirements and industrial markets.
Each of these end sophistication for test and measurement markets is witnessing significant trends equipment and associated software that are favourable for our businesses.
Shareholders Around 40% of sales come from Creating customer operating expenditure budgets Our asset-light manufacturing model ensures high gross margins and low or aftermarket, providing more resilience value to revenues.
Balance sheet strength enables a People for progressive dividend policy 10% We work hard to build a creative working CAGR since flotation in 1988. stakeenvironment for our people, with scope for individual responsibility and personal Strong cash conversion and holders achievement.
Our training programmes balance sheet ensure flexibility to help our employees to develop both fund acquisitions.
personally and professionally to reach Our strategy for profitable growth their full potential.
is aimed at improving our operating We believe that maintaining a strong margins through asset optimisation and consistent corporate culture supports and capital allocation, providing long-term performance and that running dependable dividend income.
our business in an ethical way makes Customers us successful.
Long-term relationships with our Suppliers customers bring high levels of repeat We work with our supply chain and business: around 80% of sales are from endeavour to build a collaborative customers who have purchased from us working environment with a strong in the preceding two years.
