STRATEGIC REPORT OUR MARKETS WE ARE FOCUSED ON CAPTURING NEW MARKET OPPORTUNITIES NETWORK CONNECTED AND 5G CYBER SECURITY CLOUDIFICATION VIRTUALISATION AUTONOMOUS VEHICLES The development and deployment of As cyber security threatsgrow globally, Enterprises adopt the cloud As network operators develop, Connected and autonomous vehicles have ever-increasing Market driver mobile 5Gnetworks and applications therequirement to  asan increasingly important trial and implement virtualised complexity.
As vehicles adopt higher levels of Assisted Driver & is fuelling new investments in telecom andperformance of securityproducts part of their information network functions, developers Safety functions the in-vehicle networking becomes complex, infrastructure and innovative applications, becomesparamount.
and operators are faced with the networking becomes critical, and the reliability of GNSS such as autonomous vehicles and challenges to test and deploy is essential.
The security testing market is forecasted The worldwide public cloud to grow from $3.3 billion in 2016 to services market is forecast The global market for connected and autonomous vehicles 2 The global 5G equipment market was $7.6 billion in 2021, a CAGR of18 per cent.
to grow by 18 per cent to The service provider network will reach 907 billion by 2035 with a 63 billion market for 5 estimated at $2.4 billion in 2015 and is $247billion in 2017. functions virtualisation market for theconnected and autonomous vehicle technologies.
forecast to reach $9.6billion by 2020, a purchase of hardware, software, compound annual growth rate CAGR of and services will grow from 1 32per cent.
$10 billion in 2016 to almost $37 billion in 2021, a CAGR of 4 30per cent.
New test systems are required for the Solutions are required to verify the Service providers and Solutions are required to New testing solutions will be needed to test and secure Opportunities for Spirent development and management of 5G effectiveness and performance of enterprises seek benchmark virtualised network networking technologies used by vehicles.
The development of devices, networks and applications.
security products as they are developed to understand the performance functions under various conditions autonomous cars will require real-world simulation solutions and and deployed.
in the laband then, as they emulation of GNSS cyber attacks.
are deployed in the network, operators are challenged to understand their performance on an ongoing basis and to isolate and diagnose problems as network conditions change.
We have products for 5G development.
We provide a comprehensive security We developed a new product We have test systems to benchmark Spirent was the first company to provide a certified V2X Our response We have a new channel emulator for 5G testing product Spirent CyberFlood Spirent CloudScore, the virtualised network functions in the emulation test bed to complement our existing broad set of base stations and fronthaul testing Spirent andservices Spirent SecurityLabs.
industrys first comprehensive lab and to verify their performance solutions for testing the conformance and performance of Vertex.
We have products that automate baseline and benchmarking in networks using our active Automotive Ethernet.
performance and security testing of solution.
It provides an serviceassurance and analytics We stay current with emerging threats Cloud RAN virtual environments Spirent assessment and comparison solutions SpirentVisionWorks.
andprovide test solutions quickly when Spirent provides software to simulate GNSS in a real-world TestCenter and CyberFlood.
We have of the performance of any newthreats are discovered.
environment that can interface to other industry-leading performance test systems for 5G backhaul virtualised or cloud infrastructure.
Sensor Fusion drive test simulation solutions.
Spirent provides and testing and benchmarking virtualised best-in-class GNSS simulation and emulation solutions to test We are a founding member ofthe industry network functions Spirent TestCenter.
the performance and reliability of GNSS receivers and their group NetSecOPEN, focused on defining We have products Spirent Landslide to integration into the vehicle, including their reliability when new open standards for testing enterprise emulate the 5G core network to test 5G jammed or spoofed.
New Radio NR and totest the evolution of the core network.
We haveproducts that Spirents SecurityLabs services have been used by leading We earned global CREST accreditation will be ready to actively testand assure 5G global automotive companies to test the security of their forpenetration testing.
UK-based CREST production networks SpirentVisionWorks.
vehicles and their connection to cloud infrastructure.
isan accreditation and certification body that supports the information security market.
16 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Read more on pages 20, 22 and 26: Strategy at a glance, KPIs and Principal risks.
Technavio, Global 5G Equipment Market October 2016.
MarketsandMarkets, Security Testing Market October 2016.
Forbes, Roundup of Cloud Computing Forecasts, 2017 April 2017.
IHS Technology, NFV Hardware, Software & Services Tracker November 2017.
Catapult Transport Systems Market Forecast for Connected and Autonomous Vehicles July 2017.
NETWORK CONNECTED AND 5G CYBER SECURITY CLOUDIFICATION VIRTUALISATION AUTONOMOUS VEHICLES The development and deployment of As cyber security threatsgrow globally, Enterprises adopt the cloud As network operators develop, Connected and autonomous vehicles have ever-increasing Market driver mobile 5Gnetworks and applications therequirement to  asan increasingly important trial and implement virtualised complexity.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 17
