Governance Report Regulatory disclosures Strategic Report This is set out on the inside front cover to page 65 of the Annual Report.
Spirax Sarco prides itself on being Risk management and principal risks agood corporate citizen.
A description of risk management and the principal risks facing the business are on pages 28 to 33 and 86 to 89.
Andy Robson General Counsel and Company Secretary Constructive use of AGM We are delighted when our shareholders attend our AGM.
Those who are unable to attend are encouraged to vote online or using the proxy card mailed to them.
In 2018, 71.83% of the proxy votes received were lodged electronically through the CREST system.
At the AGM, the Group Chief Executive will give a short presentation about the previous year and, more generally, about current trading and the Groups future plans.
The Chair and other Board members are available to answer questions raised by shareholders.
Shareholders are invited to vote on the resolutions by way of a polled vote.
The results are announced instantaneously at the AGM using the Equiniti Vote Now polling system, and on the London Stock Exchange and the Groups website, www.
com, shortly after the conclusion of the meeting.
Following the AGM the Board is available to answer questions and meet informally with individual shareholders.
The Notice of Meeting convening the AGM, to be held on Wednesday, 15th May 2019, and an explanation of the resolutions sought, is set out in the Circular posted on our website and sent to shareholders in the format selected by them.
Results The Groups results for the year have been prepared in Principal activities accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc is a multi-national industrial as adopted by the European Union.
They are set out in the engineering group that is domiciled and incorporated in the UK Consolidated Income Statement, which appears on page 133. under registration number 596337 and which has expertise in Dividend steam, electrical thermal energy solutions, peristaltic pumping and fluid path technologies.
An overview of our principal The Directors are proposing the payment of a final dividend of activities, by business, is given on pages 4, 6 to 7 and 12 to 13 71.0p 2017: 62.0p which, together with the interim dividend of the Strategic Report.
If approved at the AGM, the final dividend will Future development be paid on 24th May 2019 to shareholders on the register at the An indication of likely future developments in the Group is given close of business on 26thApril 2019. in the Strategic Report.
As at 31.12.18 As at 15.02.19 Number of % of issued Number of % of issued Substantial shareholdings Ordinary shares share capital Ordinary shares share capital Sun Life Financial, Inc. 6,369,176 8.6% 6,408,922 8.7% Fiera Capital Corporation 4,678,819 6.4% 4,637,989 6.3% The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 4,569,526 6.2% 4,704,351 6.4% BlackRock, Inc. 4,242,880 5.8% 4,165,564 5.7% APG Groep N. V. 4,000,000 5.4% 4,000,000 5.4% Mawer Investment Management Ltd 2,968,363 4.0% 2,966,445 4.0% The Vanguard Group, Inc. 2,288,146 3.1% 2,303,277 3.1% 120 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 Directors interests Share capital The interests of the Directors in the share capital of SpiraxAs at 28th February 2019 there were no treasury shares held by Sarco Engineering plc as at 31st December 2018 are set out on the Company.
Details of shares issued during the year are set out page 105. in Note 21 on page 160.
As at 31st December 2018 the Companys share capital was Substantial shareholdings made up of Ordinary shares which each carry one vote at general The voting rights in the table, on page 120, have been determined meetings of the Company.
Except as set out in the Articles of in accordance with the requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys Association or in applicable legislation, there are no restrictions on Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR5, and represent 3% the transfer of shares in the Company and there are no restrictions or more of the voting rights attached to issued shares in the on the voting rights in the Companys shares.
Company as at 15th February 2019 and 31st December 2018.
There are no Controlling Founder Shareholders.
The Company is not aware of any agreements entered into between any shareholders in the Company which restrict the Directors and Officers Insurance transfer of shares or the exercise of any voting rights attached to The Company provides Directors and Officers Insurance for the shares.
Board members, Directors of the Groups operating companies and senior officers.
Powers of the Directors and purchase of own shares The Company has also provided each Director with an indemnity Subject to the provisions of the Articles of Association, the to the extent permitted by law in respect of the liabilities incurred Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company.
as a result of their holding office as a Director of the Company.
A shareholders authority for the purchase by the Company of a Appointment and replacement of Directors maximum of 10% of its own shares was in existence during the year.
However, the Company did not purchase any of its shares The appointment and replacement of Directors is governed by the during that time.
This authority expires at the forthcoming AGM Companys Articles of Association, the Code, the Companies Act and it is proposed that a similar authority be approved.
The total 2006 and related legislation.
number of shares in issue as at 31stDecember 2018 was All Directors will seek election or re-election as the case may be 73,666,646. at the AGM, with the exception of Clive Watson who retires at the end of the meeting.
PSP and Employee Benefit Trust EBT The number of shares held in the EBT at 31st December 2018 The Directors stand for election or re-election on an annual basis was 46,249 for the purpose of satisfying the vesting of awards at each AGM, in accordance with the Code.
The Board considers and options granted to employees under the various Company that all Directors standing for election or re-election continue schemes.
Dividends on shares in the EBT are waived.
to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles.
In addition, the Board considers that all Directors have the Significant contracts necessary skills and experience, as set out in their biographies on The Company is not a party to any significant agreements that pages 72 to 73. take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Conflicts of interest Company following a takeover bid.
Under the Companies Act 2006 and the provisions of the There are provisions in the Executive Directors service Companys Articles of Association, the Board is required to agreements which state that following a takeover or change of consider potential conflicts of interest.
The Company has control, if the Executive Directors employment is terminated then established formal procedures for the disclosure and review of both salary benefits and a sum in respect of lost future bonus any conflicts, or potential conflicts, of interest which the Directors opportunity become payable as a lump sum.
may have and for the authorisation of such matters of conflict by The Strategic Report contains all the information required to the Board.
To this end the Board considers and, if appropriate, comply with Section 414 c of the Companies Act 2006 and there authorises any conflicts, or potential conflicts, of interest as they are no contractual arrangements that need to be disclosed which arise and reviews any such authorisation annually.
are essential to the business of the Group.
New Directors are required to declare any conflicts, or potential conflicts, of interest to the Board at the first Board meeting Disclosure of information to the auditor after his or her appointment.
The Board believes that the As at the date of the approval of this Annual Report, as far as procedures established to deal with conflicts of interest are each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of operating effectively.
which the Companys auditor is unaware.
Each Director has taken all such steps as he or she ought to have taken as a Director Articles of Association in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit The Companys Articles of Association are available from information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware Companies House in the UK or by writing to the General Counsel of that information.
and Company Secretary at the Groups registered office in This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Cheltenham.
Amendments to the Articles of Association can only with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. be made by means of a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders of the Company.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 121 Annual Report 2018 Governance Report Governance Report Regulatory disclosures continued As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well Auditor placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Companys auditor throughoutthe period of this Annual Report was DeloitteLLP, who was appointed on 20thMay 2014.
The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, consider that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office continue in operational existence and that the Directors intend to as auditor and a resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP will be do so, for at least one year from the date the Financial Statements proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
were signed, and that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report.
Research and development The Group continues to devote significant resources to the Scope of the reporting in this Annual Report research and development and the updating and expansion The Board has prepared a Strategic Report including the of its range of products in order to remain at the forefront of its Chairs Statement, the Group Chief Executives Report and the world markets.
The R&D functions in Cheltenham Spirax Sarco Group Chief Executives Review of Operations which provides Steam Specialties, Falmouth WMFTG, Bremen Gestra and the an overview of the development and performance of the Product Development function in Pittsburgh and Utah Chromalox Groups business in the year ended 31stDecember 2018 and are tasked with improving the Groups pipeline of new products, its position at the end of that year, and which covers likely future decreasing the time to launch, expanding the Groups addressable developments in the business of the Company and the Group.
market and realising additional sales.
Further information on the expenditure on R&D is contained in Note 1 on page 140.
For the purposes of compliance with DTR4.1.
5 R 2 and The amount of R&D expenditure capitalised, and the amount DTR4.1.
8R, the required content of the management report can amortised, in the year, are given in Note 14 on page 154. be found in the Strategic Report and these Regulatory disclosures, including the sections of the Annual Report incorporated Treasury and foreign exchange by reference.
The Group has in place appropriate treasury policies and The Strategic Report and the Directors Report were approved procedures, which are approved by the Board.
The treasury by the Board on 6thMarch 2019.
Pages 120 to 122 form the function manages interest rates for both borrowings and cash Directors Report for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006. deposits for the Group and is also responsible for ensuring there is sufficient headroom against any banking covenants contained The Annual Report contains the information required for within its credit facilities, and for ensuring there are appropriate compliance with the Companies, Partnerships and Groups and facilities available to meet the Groups strategic plans.
In order to mitigate and manage exchange rate risk, the Group For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4C R, the information required to be routinely enters into forward contracts and continues to monitor disclosed by LR9.8.
4 R is set out in the following table.
exchange rate risk in respect of foreign currency exposures.
Section Topic Location All these treasury policies and procedures are regularly monitored 1 Interest capitalised Not applicable and reviewed.
It is the Groups policy not to undertake speculative 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable transactions which create additional exposures over and above 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes Remuneration those arising from normal trading activity.
Report, pages 101-102 Political donations 5 Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable The Group has a policy of not making political donations and no 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable political donations were made during the year 2017: nil.
7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable Greenhouse gas emissions 8 Item 7 in relation to major subsidiary undertakings Not applicable Details of our greenhouse gas emissions can be found on 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable page 63.
10 Contracts of significance Regulatory Disclosures, Going concern page 121 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable The Groups business activities, together with the main trends and factors likely to affect its future development, performance 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Regulatory Disclosures, and position, and the financial position of the Group, its cash page 121 flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities, are set out in the 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends Not applicable Financial Review on pages 50 to 54.
In addition, Note 29 on page 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable 170 includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, its financial instruments and hedging activities, its exposures to credit Andy Robson risk and liquidity risk.
General Counsel and Company Secretary The Group has considerable financial resources together with 6th March 2019 contracts with a diverse range of customers and suppliers across Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc different geographic areas and industries.
No one customer Registered no.
596337 accounts for more than 1% of Group turnover.
122 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018
