CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT This section contains additional information which the Directors are required by law and regulation to include within the Annual Report.
This section along with the information from the Board of Directors and the Directors statement on corporate governance on pages 56 to 65 which are incorporated herein by reference constitutes the Directors Report for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006.
FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS The Company has chosen, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Section 414C II, to include the disclosure of likely future developments in the Strategic Report on pages IFC to 53.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Company has chosen, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Section 414C II, to include the disclosure of research and development in the Strategic Report on pages IFC to 53.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS AND GENDER DIVERSITY Information on environmental matters and disclosures relating to diversity, gender and human rights are contained in the Sustainability section on pages 50 to 53.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The consolidated income statement is on page 111.
Profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders amounted to $55.8 million.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 2.73 cents per Ordinary Share to be paid.
Subject to approval by shareholders at the 2019 AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 3 May 2019 to shareholders on the Register of Members at close of business on 15 March 2019.
This final dividend, together with the interim dividend paid in September 2018, will represent a total dividend of 4.49 cents per Ordinary Share for the year ended 31 December 2018 2017 4.08 cents.
DIRECTORS The names of the persons who were Directors of the Company during the period under review and as at 7 March 2019 appear on page 60.
All current Directors are standing for election or re-election at the 2019 AGM.
APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS The Companys Articles of Association the Articles give the Directors power to appoint and replace directors.
Under the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, an appointment must be recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the Board.
The Articles require Directors to submit themselves for election at the first AGM following their appointment and all Directors who held office at the time of the two preceding AGMs to submit themselves for re-election.
The Articles notwithstanding, all Directors will stand for election or re-election at the AGM this year in compliance with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Details of unexpired terms of directors service contracts are set out in the Directors report on remuneration on page 80.
POWERS OF DIRECTORS The Directors are responsible for managing the business of the Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, to any directions given by special resolution and to the Companys Articles.
Powers relating to the issuing of shares are included in the Articles and such authorities are renewed by shareholders at the AGM each year.
DIRECTORS SHARE INTERESTS Details regarding the share interests of Directors and their connected persons in the share capital of the Company, including any interests under long-term incentive plans, are set out in the Directors report on remuneration on page 81.
EMPLOYEES The average number of Group employees during 2018 was 1,457 worldwide 2017 1,505.
The Group strives to maintain the following principles: 96 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Equal opportunities The Group is committed to offering equal opportunities in recruitment, training, career development and promotion to all people, including those with disabilities, having regard for their particular aptitudes and abilities.
As a matter of policy, full and fair consideration is given to applicants with disabilities and every effort is made to give employees who become disabled whilst employed by the Group an opportunity for retraining and continuation in employment.
It is Group policy that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be the same as that of other employees.
Health and safety Health and safety are considered as equal in importance to that of any other function of the Group and its business objectives and the Group is committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace to protect all employees, visitors and the public from foreseeable work hazards.
Harassment Sexual, mental or physical harassment in the workplace will not be tolerated.
It is expected that incidents of harassment are reported to the appropriate Human Resources director.
Human rights The Group provides opportunities that promote human rights and dignity every day through the employment created, both directly and indirectly in its global supply chains and through the positive contribution its products make to peoples lives.
Further details on the Groups approach to human rights can be found in the Sustainability section of the Strategic Report on pages 50 to 53.
Communication Employees are briefed on all relevant matters on a regular basis to achieve a common awareness of all the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group.
Information relevant to employees will be provided to them.
Employees are provided with information on the performance of their business unit and their involvement is encouraged in a variety of ways, such as through engagement surveys, town hall meetings and management presentations.
The Group encourages an open culture in all its dealings between employees and people with whom it comes into contact.
The Groups whistleblowing procedure sets out guidelines for individuals who feel they need to raise issues in confidence with the Company or their own business unit or through an independent third party.
Every effort is made to protect the confidentiality of those who raise concerns and employees may come forward without fear for their position.
CHANGE OF CONTROL PROVISIONS The Company does not have agreements with any director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover except that provisions of the Companys share incentive plans may cause outstanding unvested options and awards granted to employees under such plans to vest on a takeover as follows: Share incentive plan Change of control Effect on vesting provisions in the rules Performance condition 2005 Employee Incentive Plan Yes Pro-rated Still applies Spirent Long-term Incentive Plan Yes Pro-rated Still applies The Company is not aware of any significant agreements to which it is party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 97 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6 2, the Company has been notified of the following significant interests in its Ordinary Shares pursuant to Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 5: The following notifications have been received during the period 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 or earlier as applicable: per cent of Companys total voting Date of notification Total holding rights Ameriprise Financial, Inc 15 March 2017 92,804,839 15.17 Teleios Capital Partners LLC 26 October 2018 63,229,576 10.34 Prudential plc 14 March 2018 59,795,222 9.77 AXA Investment Managers SA 18 October 2011 47,515,946 7.77 Standard Life Investments Limited 27 January 2011 32,370,026 5.29 PrimeStone Capital LLP 13 November 2015 31,215,569 5.10 Aberforth Partners 17 August 2017 31,012,618 5.07 Brandes Investment Partners LP 3 March 2016 30,537,440 4.99 Neptune Investment Management Limited 24 July 2018 29,775,214 4.87 Artemis Investment Management Limited 6 November 2017 29,195,146 4.77 Schroders plc 9 October 2014 26,986,598 4.41 Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada UK Limited 5 December 2008 23,382,347 3.82 Kames Capital 6 February 2012 18,507,514 3.03 No further notifications have been received during the period 1 January 2019 to 7 March 2019.
SHARE CAPITAL The Company has a single class of share which is divided into Ordinary Shares of 3&1 3 pence each.
Each Ordinary Share carries one vote and all of the Ordinary Shares rank pari passu.
There are no special control rights relating to any of the Ordinary Shares.
At the date of this Report, 611.7 million Ordinary Shares of 3&1 3 pence each had been issued which are fully paid up and are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company also operates a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR programme with each ADR representing four Ordinary Shares.
The ADRs trade on the US over-the-counter market and BNY Mellon is the authorised depositary bank for the programme.
Further details on share capital are set out in note 31 to the consolidated financial statements and note 16 to the parent Company financial statements.
The rights, including those relating to voting, obligations and any restrictions on transfer relating to the Companys Ordinary Shares, as well as the powers of the Companys Directors, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, a copy of which can be found on our website at https: corporate.
com or can be obtained from Companies House or by writing to the Company Secretary.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
The most recent changes to the Articles of Association were approved at the 2010 AGM and became effective at the close of that meeting on 5 May 2010.
The Company has established two employee benefit trusts in connection with the operation of the Companys share incentive plans: the Spirent Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT and the Spirent Sharesave Trust SST.
The trustees of both trusts have waived their right to receive dividends on any Ordinary Shares held by them except for a nominal amount of 1 pence other than for those Ordinary Shares held in the ESOT which are the beneficial property of an employee shareholder.
For further details on the employee benefit trusts see Investment in own Ordinary Shares in note 31 to the consolidated financial statements and note 16 to the parent Company financial statements.
Trustees of both trusts do not vote their Ordinary Shares, except for those Ordinary Shares held in the ESOT that are the beneficial property of an employee shareholder, which the trustees will vote in accordance with the instructions received from the beneficial owner.
98 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION RESTRICTIONS ON SHARE TRANSFERS There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary Shares in the capital of the Company other than certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by law, for example insider trading law.
In accordance with the Market Abuse Regulation, certain employees are required to seek the approval of the Company prior to dealing in its securities.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The Company is also not aware of any contract of significance between itself or any subsidiary undertaking and a controlling shareholder.
POWERS FOR ISSUE OF NEW SHARES During the year to 31 December 2018 and to the date of this Report, no new Ordinary Shares have been allotted as a result of the exercise of options and rights pursuant to the Companys share incentive plans.
At each AGM, the directors seek authority to allot shares for cash and to disapply pre-emption rights within prescribed limits.
At the 2019 AGM, authority will be sought to allot new Ordinary Shares up to a nominal value of 6,797,132, which is equal to approximately 33.3 per cent of the Companys issued share capital as at 7 March 2019.
RETURN OF CAPITAL The Company was first authorised to repurchase up to 14.99 per cent of its own issued Ordinary Shares, within certain limits and as permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, at the 2006 AGM.
This authority has been renewed at each subsequent AGM, reducing to 9.99 per cent at the 2010 AGM and subsequent AGMs.
The authority from the 2018 AGM remains valid until the earlier of the 2019 AGM or 30 June 2019.
Since the Company began returning capital to shareholders in May 2006, a total of 270.2 million has been returned, through the repurchase of 397.6 million Ordinary Shares.
No shares were repurchased during 2018 or to the date of this Report.
The Company will seek authority to repurchase up to 9.99 per cent of its own Ordinary Shares at the 2019 AGM to facilitate any further return of capital if the Board concludes that it is in the best interests of shareholders to do so.
POLITICAL DONATIONS In accordance with the Groups Ethics Policy, no political donations were made during the year 2017 nil.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Details of the Groups use of financial instruments, together with information on our risk objectives and policies and our exposure to price, credit, liquidity, cash flow and interest rate risks, can be found in note 29 to the consolidated financial statements.
GOING CONCERN After making appropriate enquiries and taking into account the matters set out in the Principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 26 to 29 of this Annual Report, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis when preparing the financial statements.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 99 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a period significantly longer than 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements and concluded whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over that period.
The Board has concluded that the most appropriate period for this assessment should be three years.
This period was selected for the following reasons: the Groups strategic planning cycle covers a three-year period: the Board reviews a three-year financial corporate plan: it reflects the period over which the principal risks would be realised: and when considering a major investment in product development, three years is considered by the Board to be a reasonable time horizon in which the product should achieve meaningful sales.
The Boards assessment has been made with reference to the Companys current financial position and prospects, the budget for 2019, the Groups long-term strategy, the Boards risk appetite and the Groups principal risks and uncertainties as set out on pages 26 to 29 of this Annual Report.
The plans and cash flow projections used as the basis for the assessment were the 2019 budget and the three-year strategic plan.
They were drawn up on the basis that the Group ends 2018 with a cash balance of circa $120 million and maintains a cash balance sufficient to fund normal operations, and that there will be no material changes to the business structure, throughout the review period.
The Board has reviewed plausible and severe stress tests based on the occurrence of a combination of the principal risks to which the Company is exposed, considering the potential impact of these risks on the business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity over the period.
Based on this assessment and the expected successful impact of mitigating actions, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period.
POST-BALANCE SHEET EVENTS No post-balance sheet events are required to be disclosed in the consolidated financial statements.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITOR Each of the Directors of the Company at the date of this Report confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no information needed by the Companys auditor in connection with preparing their Report of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any information needed by the Companys auditor in connection with preparing their Report and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR As described in more detail on page 72 of the Audit Committee report, the Board will be proposing a resolution to re-appoint EY as auditor at the 2019 AGM.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The 2019 AGM will be held at 12.30pm on Wednesday 1 May 2019 at the offices of FTI Consulting, 200 Aldersgate, Aldersgate Street, London EC1A 4HD.
By Order of the Board Angus Iveson Company Secretary 7 March 2019 Spirent Communications plc Company number 470893 100 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018
