of other The Chair Non-Executive Executive Independence At year end roles roles Jamie Pike was appointed to lead the Board as Chair at the AGM Independent Non-Executive Directors on 15th May 2018, following the retirement of Bill Whiteley that Jamie Pike Chair 1 same day.
Jamie has been a member of our Board, and our Senior Independent Director, since May 2014.
Having served over Peter France 1 four years on the Board, we consider him to have retained his Jane Kingston 2 independent status.
Trudy Schoolenberg 3 As part of his commitment to meeting his Chair responsibilities, Clive Watson 1 Jamie resigned as Chair and Director of Ibstock plc in May 2018.
Full-time Executive Directors Responsibility Nicholas Anderson Jamies responsibilities are outlined in the table overleaf.
In his Kevin Boyd 1 tenure to date we consider him to have upheld the responsibility Neil Daws of the Chair as described in the Principle of the 2018 Code, such as his independence, ability to work well with others and Jay Whalen leadership skills.
Senior Independent Director A balanced Board Following Jamie Pikes appointment to the Chair, Clive Watson Our Board comprises four Executive and four five, with effect became Senior Independent Director, effective 15th May 2018. from 5th March 2019 Non-Executive Directors excluding the With expertise in finance, tax and treasury and engineering, Chair, which ensures that no one person or group of individuals the Board is satisfied that Clive has the necessary qualities and dominates the Boards decision-making.
All of our Non-Executive financial expertise for this role.
Non-Executive Director meetings Performance As per best practice, our Non-Executive Directors met with the auditor and Willis Towers Watson, independent remuneration The Chair confirms that, following a formal performance evaluation, each Directors performance continues to be effective consultants, separately from our Executive Directors.
and each Director demonstrates commitment to the role.
Division of responsibilities Non-Executive Directors An overview of the division of responsibilities as set out in the 2018 Code is provided in the table opposite and we comply with all Our Non-Executive Directors provide independent challenge Principles and provisions.
and review, bringing wide experience, specific expertise and a fresh objective perspective.
The Board is confident that the The responsibilities of the Chair, Group Chief Executive, Senior Non-Executive Directors have sufficient time to meet their Board Independent Director, Board and Committees are set out in writing responsibilities.
External appointments held by our Non-Executive and agreed by the Board.
A clear division is made between the Directors and full-time Executive Directors are set out on pages 72 leadership of the Board and Executive leadership.
to 73 and a summary is provided in the table that follows.
Group General Counsel and In September 2018, we announced that Peter France had been appointed Chief Executive Officer of ASCO.
This appointment Company Secretary was discussed and approved by the Board in advance, taking into The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary supports consideration an indication of the time expected to be taken as the Chair and the Committee Chairs in making sure members part of this external appointment.
As this is Peters only external are equipped for informed decision-making and that they appointment, this was approved by the Board.
appropriately allocate their time to subjects.
All Directors have access to the advice of the Group General Counsel, who is responsible for advising the Board on all governance matters.
Both the appointment and removal of the Group General Counsel is a matter for the whole Board.
74 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 Division of responsibilities based on 2018 Codes Principles FI Leads the Board Chair Responsible for overall effectiveness in directing the Company Demonstrates objective judgement Promotes a culture of openness and debate Facilitates constructive Board relations Facilitates effective contribution of all Non-Executive Directors Ensures Directors receive accurate, timely, information Holds meetings with Non-Executive Directors, without Executive Directors present Board key matters The approval of corporate and strategic business plans The approval of the annual and interim results Trading updates Integrated risk management framework Major acquisitions disposals Major capital expenditure Director appointments Material litigation Governance structure Provides a sounding board to the Chair Senior Independent Director Serves as an intermediary for the other Directors and shareholders Leads annual meeting of Non-Executive Directors to appraise Chairs performance Non-Executive Directors Provide constructive challenge, strategic guidance and offer specialist advice Hold a prime role in appointing and removing Executive Directors Scrutinise and hold to account the performance of management and individual Executive Directors against agreed performance objectives Group General Counsel and Advises the Board on all governance matters Supports the Board to ensure that it has the policies, processes, information, time and resources Company Secretary it needs for the Board to function effectively and efficiently Advises the Board on important legal and regulatory matters There is a clear division of responsibilities between the leadership of the Board and our Executive Executive leadership leadership.
Our Group Chief Executives roles and responsibilities include: management of the Groups short, medium and long-term performance: stewardship of capital, technical and human resources: corporate and business strategy: internal risk management controls: and organisational structure.
Governance structure Group Board See pages 72-73 Further reading Board Committees overview The Terms of Reference for all Board Committees are set out in detail on the Groups website, Nomination Audit Risk Remuneration www.
com, on the Policies Committee Committee Management Committee and procedures page, within the Governance See pages 78-79 See pages 82-85 See pages 90-119 Committee section.
These terms are subject to regular review.
com Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 75 Annual Report 2018 Governance Report Governance Report 2.
Division of responsibilities continued The Board of Directors Board activity 2018 The Board relies on Executive management to run the business The Board ensures good governance practices are embedded and monitor management activities, and holds them accountable throughout the Group as they are an integral part of running a against targets and standards.
The Board also approves successful business.
In the chart on page 77 we have set out how long-term corporate and strategic plans after a full review and the Board spent its time during 2018. assessment of market and technology trends, business drivers The Board agendas are carefully planned to ensure focus on and risks.
Having a senior management team that is capable of the Groups strategic priorities and key monitoring activities, as executing the strategic plans is a key focus for the Board.
well as reviews of significant issues.
During 2018, the Board The formal schedule of matters reserved for the devoted considerable time to ensuring that the post-acquisition Boards decision is available on the Groups website, plans relating to the Gestra and Chromalox businesses were www.
This was supported by the Boards visit to Gestras also has an Authority Limits Policy that sets out clearly the primary operation in Bremen in June preceded by the ACHEMA trade responsibilities, controls and authorisation limits on matters exhibition in Frankfurt, where we were able to see our businesses affecting the Groups business.
in action with our customers against the backcloth of their industry competitors.
Board meetings We also updated the strategic plan and strategic risks in June.
The Board meets as often as is necessary to discharge its duties.
One outcome from this update was identifying that HygroMatik did In 2018, the Board met seven times.
All Directors are expected not fit with the plan and that the timing was right to maximise the to attend all Board meetings andrelevant Committee meetings sale price, which was realised with the completion of the sale of unless prevented by prior commitments, illness or a conflict of this business in December for 52.3 million.
Directors unable to attend specific Board or Committee meetings are sent the relevant papers and asked to provide We monitored the significant investment we are making in comments in advance of the meeting to the Chair of the Board AflexHose where we are consolidating our four sites into a or Committee.
In addition, all Board and Committee members purpose-built facility that will streamline our processes and receive the minutes of meetings as a matter of course.
prepares us for the growth we are anticipating in this business.
We looked at a number of important finance matters during 2018 Board attendance 2018 including the renewal and extension of our revolving credit facilities Board meetings Attendance provided by Barclays Bank plc and HSBC plc.
J. Pike 100% Health & Safety is of fundamental importance to the business and N. J. Anderson 100% is considered at each Board meeting.
It is also considered in detail at each Group Executive Committee meeting.
1 K. J. Boyd 86% The Board also concentrated its attention on formulating a N. H. Daws 100% proactive Brexit strategy, looking at both the challenges and 2 P. France 100% opportunities for the Group posed by a UK exit from the EU.
J. S. Kingston 100% The Board continued to engage with shareholders on governance, J. L. Whalen 100% remuneration and trading during the period.
G. E. Schoolenberg 100% Board focus for 2019 C. G. Watson 100% We will continue to support the Executive Committees with their W. H. Whiteley attended three meetings prior to his retirement on 15th May 2018. growth plans across all of our businesses.
Key management 1 K. J. Boyd absence due to illness.
presentations and discussions are planned for WMFTG in the USA 2 P. France appointed to the Board 6th March 2018. and UK and Chromalox and Spirax Sarco in the USA.
Time will be devoted to the Steam Specialties business new product How the Board spent its time development function.
Strategy We would like to consolidate our position as part of the FTSE 100 5% 20% through both organic and inorganic growth.
Acquisitions 10% Operations and risk We see many opportunities to build on our success and we look Governance forward to realising and sharing these with our shareholders as we 20% and shareholders effect them through our strategic plan.
People and succession 15% Finance New product development 15% 15% 76 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 Key Board activities in 2018, by meeting February March Draft Annual Report 2017 financial results General Data Protection Regulation 2017 final dividend Acquisition of small pre-revenue company, with Review and approval of Annual Report emphasis on post-acquisition implementation plans Aflex Hose expansion Business review EMEA, Asia Pacific Steam business Business review Chromalox Management presentation Americas WMFTG Management presentation Southern Europe Appointment of Senior Independent Director Steam business Deloitte Academy Governance Update May June Report by Risk Management Committee Gestra, Bremen, and ACHEMA, Frankfurt New ERP system Steam business Succession planning Business review Americas Steam business Business and corporate strategy Management presentation Americas Steam business Strategic risks Business review Gestra Management presentation Gestra August October Half-year results Divestiture of HygroMatik GmbH 2018 interim dividend Hedging programme Group litigation report Acquisition target Capital markets day review Business review Supply Steam business Group IS Strategy Management presentation India Steam business Business review WMFTG Management presentation Finance Steam business Standing agenda items An Environmental, Health and Safety update is the first operational December matter addressed by the Board at each meeting Approval of budget The Group Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer report on External Board effectiveness review monthly, quarterly, bi-annual and annual trading, as appropriate Draft Annual Report and Circular to shareholders The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary regularly 2019 Plan and divisional presentations updates the Board on changes to relevant laws and regulations Report by Risk Management Committee including Company share performance and shareholder analyst feedback is Brexit, cybersecurity and climate change discussed at most Board meetings Board visit case study Board visit to ACHEMA 2018, Frankfurt ACHEMA is the world forum for chemical engineering, process engineering and biotechnology.
Every three years the worlds major fair for the process industry attracts around 4,000 exhibitors from over 50 different countries to present new products, processes and services to 170,000 professionals from all over the world.
The spectrum ranges from laboratory equipment, pumps and analytical devices to packaging machinery, boilers and stirrers through to safety technology, materials and software.
Spirax Sarco, WMFTG, Gestra and Chromalox exhibited, each tailoring their new products and demonstrations to focused market sectors.
The Board was impressed by the quality of our exhibitions and it was insightful to meet many of our existing and new customers face-to-face to understand close up what they are looking for in our service delivery.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 77 Annual Report 2018 Governance Report Governance Report 3.
Composition, succession and evaluation Committee role and responsibilities The main role of the Nomination Committee is to recommend Nomination Committee changes to the Board and consider succession planning for the Jamie Pike future.
The Committee: Chair of Nomination Committee makes appropriate recommendations to the Board for the appointment, re-appointment or replacement of Directors: reviews the structure and composition of the Board with regard to the overall balance of skills, knowledge and experience against current and perceived future requirements of the Group: recommends any proposed changes to the Board: and considers succession planning arrangements for the Directors and, more generally, senior executives.
Meetings The Nomination Committee met four times in the year to address the following matters: Executive Director succession planning: re-appointment of Non-Executive Directors: and Audit Committee Chair succession.
Members Key Nomination Committee activities 2018 Our Nomination Committee comprises: February No.
of meetings attended Attendance Appointment of Senior Independent Director total no.
meetings held % 1 Jamie Pike Chair 4 4 100% Nicholas Anderson 4 4 100% June Peter France 3 3 100% Executive Director succession planning Jane Kingston 4 4 100% Re-appointment of Non-Executive Directors Trudy Schoolenberg 4 4 100% Clive Watson 4 4 100% W. H. Whiteley attended one meeting prior to his retirement on 15th May 2018.
October 1 Appointed Committee Chair 15th May 2018.
Audit Committee Chair succession process and schedule How the Committee spent its time December Executive succession 40% Audit Committee Chair succession update Non-Executive succession Diversity 20% 40% Further reading Our Diversity and Inclusion Policy can be found on our website.
aspx 78 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 Chairs review of 2018 Diversity and inclusion are key elements in our Group strategic Board changes sustainability project where we undertook the following: In March 2018, we welcomed Peter France to the Board and in May 2018 I took over as Chair.
Our rigorous process for managing engaged the wider Executive team on how to increase diversity both appointments was described on page 76 of the 2017 Annual and promote inclusion across our organisation by way of Report.
Peter France undertook an extensive induction and shares a thought-provoking and stimulating session delivered by his thoughts on page 80.
Following my appointment as Chair, JohnUzomaAmaechi, OBE, psychologist and consultant: Clive Watson took over as Senior Independent Director.
published our new Diversity and Inclusion Policy on our website www.
com, under Governance and Once again, Korn Ferry was appointed in relation to the shared across the Group: specification, search and evaluation of the new appointments reviewed external talent pools to increase the number of detailed below.
In our latest Non-Executive Director search female candidates: we instructed Korn Ferry to include candidates that advanced established an Executive mentoring programme for female both our gender and ethnicity representation.
Korn Ferry is an talent with male and female mentors: and independent search and recruitment agency and provides no completed an equal pay audit for all UK employees.
other services to the Group.
Gender reporting I am delighted that Caroline Johnstone joined the Board as During 2018, Board gender diversity remained unchanged with an Independent Non-Executive Director on 5th March 2019. seven males and two females.
During 2018, we participated in the Carolines financial, people and advisory skills, together with her FTSE Women Leaders Hampton-Alexander Review.
With 22.2% international business experience across a range of different female representation on our Board and 18% of the combined industries, will benefit the further development of the Group.
Executive Committees and their direct reports being female, we With Carolines appointment, female representation on our Board were ranked 151st in the FTSE 250 for senior management gender increases to 30%.
We recognise that further actions need to be taken to A new Chair of the Audit Committee is being appointed.
The increase the representation of women.
timing of this appointment will allow for a handover of responsibilities As a Group we are committed to gender diversity and to achieving from Clive Watson, the outgoing Chair, following the conclusion a minimum target of 33% female representation on the Board, the of his nine-year tenure as a Director.
An announcement will be Group Executive Committee and their direct reports.
We ensure made indue course regarding this position and the new Senior that this target is taken into account in our succession planning Independent Director.
Clive shares his reflections on his time with and recruitment and, as previously mentioned, following the the Company on page 80. appointment of Caroline Johnstone, at time of publication we have Managing a diverse pipeline for succession 30% female representation on our Board.
We strive for greater diversity on our Board and across the Group More detailed figures on gender diversity can be found on page and in our succession planning take the following into account: 59 in our Sustainability Report.
Diversity and Inclusion Policy Committee Focus for 2019 We believe that the Boards perspective and approach is greatly In 2019, we will focus on the implementation of the Board evaluation enhanced by gender, age and cultural diversity and it is our policy actions and diversity at the Board and Executive levels of the Group.
to consider overall Board balance and diversity when appointing new Directors.
As shown on page 66, the range of nationalities and experience of our Board is particularly relevant given the Jamie Pike broad international reach of the Group and we will seek to increase Chair of Nomination Committee the diversity of our international footprint with future appointments to the Board.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 79 Annual Report 2018 Governance Report Governance Report 3.
Composition, succession and evaluation continued Peter France induction I have enjoyed working with the Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Board and other colleagues during the past year, and have Spirax Sarco is an exciting business been impressed by the teamwork and strong governance in evidence across the Group, which I have experienced first-hand with strong customer focus, and I as a member of the Audit Committee.
I would like to extend my am enjoying every minute.
thanks to Jamie Pike and my fellow Directors who have made me extremely welcome in my first year and encouraged me to Peter France bring my experience to bear and to learn from their experience in Independent Non-Executive Director equal measure.
Since joining the Board in March 2018, I have had the opportunity to visit a number of Group companies, from Watson-Marlows operations in Falmouth, UK, to Gestra in Bremen, Germany, and visited customers with field-based engineers.
In all of these meetings I have felt welcomed by my new colleagues and came away impressed by the strong customer focus demonstrated across the business.
As a Board, during 2018, we focused extensively on organic growth opportunities and also embedding the recent acquisitions, Gestra and Chromalox.
We are committed to taking the Group forward based on a well-founded and excellently executed strategic plan.
Forward thinking is evident in the workings of the Nomination Committee where I have seen thoughtful and thorough succession planning undertaken to ensure long-term business continuity both for the Board and senior management.
The Group is at an exciting phase of its development and I look forward to playing a part in its continued success.
Spirax Sarco has a culture and set Clive Watson reflections Looking back over my nine years as a Non-Executive Director of Values reinforcing the highest of Spirax Sarco, it has been an honour and a pleasure to serve integrity in everything it does.
as the Audit Committee Chair and, more recently, as the Senior Independent Director, overseeing the strengthening of, and Clive Watson commitment to, a robust internal control framework developed Independent Non-Executive Director in response to a successful and profitable growth strategy.
Senior Independent Director The Group has embraced all good governance practices and, in many cases, been an early adopter in order to mitigate current and potential risks.
Risk management is now firmly embedded in day-to-day decision making.
Throughout, the Company has not hesitated to invest in appropriate resources to maintain the highest standards including, recently, the appointment of a Head of Internal Audit.
In closing, I would like to emphasise that Spirax Sarco has a culture and set of Values reinforcing the highest integrity in everything it does.
I wish the Company the very best for the future and extend my great appreciation for the support provided by my colleagues on the Board, the Audit Committee and the legal and finance functions.
80 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 Board evaluation External evaluation process Board evaluation process One-to-one In 2018, we commissioned an  Board Meeting interviews with effectiveness review conducted by Independent Audit Ltd. observation Board members, Briefing Independent Audit Ltd provides no other services to the Group.
Review of Group General and Board Our aim was to capture open and constructive feedback from information Counsel, Group observation Board members which would: flow HR Director and key advisers provide insight into our effectiveness: point to actions for improving our performance: and establish a benchmark for measuring future progress.
The review was carried out in accordance with the guidance in the Code.
The Board evaluators approach involved a Board Results collected, summarised observation: one-to-one interviews with all Directors, the Group and evaluated General Counsel, Group Human Resources Director and key advisers, such as Deloitte LLP and Willis Towers Watson: individual feedback meetings: and a Board discussion.
Each participant was asked to evaluate the Board and its Committees.
Subjects covered included the work of the Board, the Board environment and the Boards use of time.
Directors were asked for their views Feedback on shareholder engagement and relationships and how these shared with relationships might be improved.
Views were sought on the Boards Feedback to Board Chair of and Board discussion input into strategy discussions, governance and compliance, risk Board and management and succession planning.
Views were also sought on Committees the Board culture and the relationships with senior management as well as how new Board members are selected and inducted.
The review was based on a careful analysis of the Boards approach to its work, its contribution to the Groups success and its preparation for the future.
Review process Strengths The Board is unanimously seen as having contributed actively and constructively to the development of the Group.
The expertise and experience of the Board provided much-needed confidence Action plan agreed in the face of some difficult decisions.
That the Board was able to play such a significant role in the acquisitions process also bears testament to the positive relationships it enjoys and the atmosphere of trust and respect that these engender.
The Board has a sound grasp of the business and its objectives.
The Chair Outcome and agreed actions following complements the strengths of the Group Chief Executive.
Similarly, the Non-Executive Directors are knowledgeable, engaged and the 2018 external Board evaluation bring a diverse range of skills and experience to their roles.
Actively search for an additional Non-Executive Director They enjoy the collegiate atmosphere and work extremely well withappropriate international and financial experience with the Executive Directors.
In line with best practice, the Board All Board members and the General Counsel to attend consistently questions itself to avoid any risk of complacency and Board pre-meetings to ensure it is fully prepared for the unforeseen.
Strategy meetings to allow Non-Executive Directors and The Non-Executive Directors challenge the Executive Directors with executives to collaborate in more big-picture discussions regard to both short-term plans and long-term horizon-scanning.
and future planning The Non-Executive Directors have a wide experience of other organisations and industries and therefore have an important role Progress employee engagement initiatives see page 71 to play in being able to challenge from a broader perspective.
Group Chief Executives Board report to highlight main Constructive questioning is a way for the Executive Directors to challenges and uncertainties stress-test their thoughts and ideas in a supportive environment.
Action lists to be adopted by the Board and Committees Recommendations The recommendations by Independent Audit Ltd, which we will work on throughout 2019 and evaluate our progress at the end of 2019, are set out in the adjacent box.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 81 Annual Report 2018 Stage 5 Stage 4 Stage 3 Stage 2 Stage 1 Governance Report
