Strategic Report Our business model Creating value through meeting customer needs At the heart of our value creation, and our Our purpose Our Company purpose is to create sustainable value for all our key competitive differentiator, is our deep stakeholders, by helping the users of our products and services to: engagement with and understanding of our increase operational efficiency, customers and their processes, which is reduce environmental impacts, achieved through our direct sales approach.
improve product quality, provide safer working environments, and This closeness enables us to meet our achieve regulatory compliance.
customers needs as we combine our Further reading specialist knowledge and locally-available, By focusing on our core purpose delivered through our core activities we are able to create sustainable value for a wide set of stakeholders.
industry-leading products and services to See pages 13-15 deliver value-adding engineered solutions.
Customer case studies show how we are fulfilling our purpose.
See pages 16-19 Competitive strengths Customer needs Value creation Driving sustainable growth and stakeholder value Customer closeness Applied engineering Wide product range Regional manufacturing Our direct sales business model It is not our products alone that The breadth of our product offering Local availability of a wide range of creates a unique understanding provide value to our customers is unmatched by our competitors products, which meet applicable of our customers needs and it is the application of our extensive and our one-stop shop approach regional design codes, is critical to enables us to build deep, longknowledge of systems design, simplifies the procurement our business model and enhances term relationships as we help operations and maintenance.
process for our customers who are top-line revenue growth.
We have our customers solve their difficult Our customers increasingly rely increasingly seeking partnerships strategically located our major productivity, control and energy on our expertise to deliver unique with competent full-service manufacturing plants across the efficiency problems, and improve engineering solutions to achieve suppliers.
We are committed to world in Europe, North America, their operational performance enhanced and sustainable R&D to further widen our range Latin America and Asia.
of products and pre-fabricated engineered packages.
12 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 Our core activities Our core activities are those things we do that enable us to meet the needs of our customers and achieve our Company purpose.
Innovate Manufacture Sell Our core products encompass With a direct sales presence in & design industrial and commercial 62 countries and distributors Through innovative R&D we steam system products, in a further 53 countries, develop and enhance our electrical process heating and we serve customers in 115 already broad range of products, temperature management countries worldwide.
72% of our pre-fabricated packages and site products, and peristaltic and revenue is generated through services, ensuring that we meet niche pumps and associated our direct sales channels, with customers changing needs.
over 100,000 direct buying Our technically-expert direct We manufacture over customers.
The remaining 28% sales force allows us to leverage 1,500 core product lines in of our sales are via distributors.
these new products and develop 26 manufacturing plants, located new applications for existing across four continents.
products, which increases the amount of plant spend that we can capture in the small-scale projects and maintenance activities that lie at the heart of our business.
Educate Monitor & measure Apply & solve We also help our customers to We offer a comprehensive range It is not our products alone identify in-house engineering of site audits, maintenance that provide value to our knowledge skill gaps and offer a services and digital monitoring customers it is the application wide range of training courses, solutions, to keep our of our extensive knowledge of delivered in our 57 training customers systems operating systems design, operations centres worldwide, to help plug efficiently.
We combine those knowledge gaps.
our revenue is derived from our our specialist knowledge with end users maintenance, repair our industry-leading products and overhaul activities.
and services to deliver valueadding engineered solutions to customers, who increasingly rely on our service, solutions and expertise to achieve enhanced and sustainable operating efficiencies.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 13 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Our business model continued Our direct sales approach Our direct sales approach is instrumental in creating value-adding opportunities for self-generated growth.
Routes to market Sector specialists Customer closeness Self-generated growth Our direct sales approach plays We allocate sector specialists Our direct sales approach Our sales and service an important role in all routes to our core industries or, allows our expert sales and engineers spend a lot of to market whether direct or where this is not practical or service engineers to stay time in our customers plants indirect as our engineers appropriate, by geography.
close to our customers, and are highly effective call on end users to highlight The specialist,  their day-to-day at self-generating growth the benefits of our products, based knowledge of our process requirements and opportunities as they identify solutions and services.
sales and service engineers apply their technical expertise often unrecognised customer End users can then purchase enables them to build deep, to help solve their complex needs and design solutions to from us directly, specify our long-term relationships with productivity, process, control meet those needs.
Importantly, products in OEM equipment, our customers, who trust and efficiency problems.
these small improvement request that contractors specify them as valued engineering projects are generally funded our products, or purchase from partners and expert advisers through operating expenditure a distributor.
budgets and have a short payback period for the customer.
Routes to market Sales companies Over 100 Spirax Sarco, Gestra, Chromalox and Watson-Marlow sales companies, supplied by our manufacturing units, holding stock locally and selling our products and services to customers.
Direct sales channels Indirect sales Sales and Sales and service service Contractors engineers engineers End users OEMs Distributors & consultants Over 1,600 Over 1,600 specialist sales and specialist sales and service engineers service engineers identifying end identifying end 40% 20% 12% 28% user requirements.
Users of our products and services Industrial and commercial steam, electrical process heating and peristaltic and niche pump users, across a wide range of markets, purchasing from usdirectly, specifying our products, or buying from distributors.
Unique benefits of our direct sales approach: a summary Bridge the Focus on Self-generate Develop innovative Leverage knowledge gap value-creating growth products and information Many users of our solutions opportunities solutions from our unique products and services We act as a trusted Our sales engineers Our deep understanding databases no longer have the adviser to identify use their wide industry of end user processes Leveraging information in-house knowledge or efficiency improvement experience and drives product from our large and engineering resources opportunities and knowledge to identify innovation.
We lead unique customer to understand and provide value-creating often unrecognised the way in developing databases enables fix their problems.
problems or efficiency convenient, effective and our sales engineers to We bridge that opportunities, reliable ready-to-install establish relationships knowledge gap.
with key decision makers and positions us well to achieve sales growth.
14 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 Engineering sustainable value for our stakeholders We recognise the importance of operating in a way that delivers long-term sustainable value for our stakeholders.
We engineer sustainable value creation as we manage relationships in a way that reflects our Values: effectively use financial, human and natural resources: understand our associated risks and opportunities: and implement our strategy for growth.
Further reading Further reading Examples of how we engage with and manage Our six strategic themes and an update on our See pages 65, 71 and 94 See pages 20-25 relationships with a wider set of stakeholders.
Customers Employees 5.7 million 350 million Engaging with customers to create We engage with our employees tonnes of CO saved by paid in wages, 2 mutual value is at the heart of our through a wide array of our customers annually salaries and pension purpose and is exemplified by our communication channels, including from a select range of contributions in 2018. direct sales approach.
a Global Employee Survey, to identify energy management improvement areas and ensure We create sustainable value for our products sold in 2018 open and honest dialogue between customers as we provide products employees and senior management.
and services that enable them to improve operational efficiency, We create value for employees productivity and safety, meet by investing in developing their regulatory requirements and increase knowledge and skills, providing a safe their sustainability.
and inclusive working environment and remunerating them fairly for the work that they do.
See pages 16-19 and 64 See pages 58-60 and 71 Shareholders Suppliers 500 million 67 million We engage with our suppliers We maintain an active dialogue with paid to suppliers for paid as dividends throughout the tender and our principal investors, institutional materials and services to shareholders in 2018 procurement process and on a shareholder advisers and the in 2018. continuous improvement basis.
120% We use a range of local and national We create value for our shareholders TSR over 3 years suppliers who adhere to our Supplier as we achieve growth that Sustainability Code, which embeds outperforms our markets and sustainability criteria into our continue to deliver our track record purchasing processes and promotes ofshareholder value.
We have a our strategic objective to continuously progressive dividend policy, that improve the sustainability of our endhas delivered over 50 years of to-end supply chain.
See pages 52 and 91 See page 61 Communities Environment 600,000 5% reduction We engage positively with We create value for the environment in cash, in-kind in CO e emissions 2 our local communities through our by providing products and services donations and intensityin 2018 network of community engagement that improve the sustainability of our employee time champions and recognise their end users operations.
However, we to community initiatives through the Groups annual also recognise the environmental engagement activities Community Engagement Award.
impacts that our core activities have.
worldwide in 2018 We offer support through financial We are as committed to minimising and in-kind charitable donations, our own environmental impacts employee volunteering and through reducing energy educational provision.
consumption, emissions, water use and waste as we are to delivering solutions to help our customers to reduce theirs.
See pages 24 and 65 See pages 62-64 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 15 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report
