Strategic Report Our strategy Five years ago, we undertook an extensive strategic review and developed our strategy for growth, the aim of which is to deliver selfgenerated growth that outperforms our markets.
We identified six Group strategic themes, which help us to do better what we already do well.
Nicholas Anderson Group Chief Executive Our strategic objective Our strategic focus To deliver self-generated growth that Doing better what we already do well outperforms our markets How do we What industries and What strengths are How do we measure self-generate growth?
Read about the importance of our Read about the industries we serve Read about our competitive Our Group KPIs are used direct sales approach and how and our total addressable market, as differentiators, in our direct sales to measure our overall our specialist sales and service well as our long-term growth drivers.
engineers uncover opportunities thatdeliver growth.
See pages 12-19 See pages 6-9 See pages 12-14 See pages 26-27 Our six strategic themes 1.
Broaden our effectiveness through and skills of our expert global presence market sector focus sales and service teams 4.
O perate sustainably R&D investments chain effectiveness and help improve our customers sustainability How do we manage risk?
See pages 28-33 Read about our approach to risk, our risk appetite and how we manage our principal risks.
Progress in 2018 Further reading During 2018, progress was made in the implementation of each of Our Divisional Directors provide Read about the implementation of our our Group strategic priorities, which are outlined on the following additional disclosure on our strategic sustainability strategy and progress pages.
Overall, our robust progress against these strategic priorities progress at the segmental level.
in 2018. was a significant contributing factor to the good financial results See pages 38-49 See pages 55-65 and strong organic growth achieved during the year.
We increased the effectiveness of our direct sales organisation, leveraged our strength in key sectors, identified and took advantage of attractive opportunities, and directed our resources effectively to improve business performance.
20 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 2.
Increase direct sales effectiveness through and skills of our expert market sector focus sales and service teams As we sectorise our sales and service engineers around key The knowledge of our sales and service engineers is a industries, and align our products and services in support of this, key differentiator.
We invest extensively in the professional we increase our ability to self-generate growth and provide value development of our people, building a level of expertise that is to customers.
Progress in 2018 Progress in 2018 Sectorisation is a core component of Gestras integration plan, We continued to develop the programmes of the Spirax Sarco with Gestra and Spirax Sarco focusing on those industries that Academy in 2018, with orange belt programmes rolled out in best suit their respective strengths and expertise.
Gestra, for 16 languages to over 1,200 people.
The green belt learning example, has a strategic focus on boiler OEMs, Power Generation materials have been created and rolled out in English, with 15 and the Chemical industry, while Spirax Sarcos strategic focus additional languages to follow in 2019.
In April, Watson-Marlow is directed towards industries such as Food & Beverage and delivered a training event in the USA, attended by nearly 200 Healthcare.
Throughout the year, our operating units have international sales engineers from across the organisation, continued to sectorise their sales teams balanced against focused on the Food & Beverage, Industrial and Environmental geographical coverage requirements.
We have continued to focus sectors.
Online training materials about the products of recent on market development, with industry managers setting strategic acquisition, Aflex Hose, were developed and have been rolled out direction in their respective industries and creating communities of across the Watson-Marlow organisation in Europe and the Middle practice across the organisation.
New product development has East as part of the conversion from distributor to direct sales for been aligned with our sector focus and we have continued to raise Aflex.
Watson-Marlow also launched a new skill assessment the efficacy of our marketing efforts through campaigns clearly tool to enable better analysis of individual development and targeted at specific industries.
Focus for 2019 Focus for 2019 Developing industry and application-focused products and Continuing development and roll out of the programmes of the engineered solutions to align our offering with the needs of Spirax Sarco Academy customers in our target industries Increasing sectorisation of Watson-Marlows training materials Continuing sectorisation of sales and service engineers globally, Watson-Marlow Biotechnology and OEM conferences for as appropriate sales engineers Strategy in action Strategy in action Combining products designed to meet specific industry Lukas Grech joined Spirax Sarcos graduate programme in requirements with the application knowledge of our sectorised Cheltenham, in 2013.
Following several placements around the sales engineers, increases direct sales effectiveness.
To this end, business he took a permanent role in Spirax Sarco Australia and in response to a customer request, within 18 months Spirax as a sales engineer and is now Sales Manager for the state of Sarco developed the innovative STAPS ISA100 Wireless Steam Victoria.
The Spirax Sarco Academy has played a key role in Trap Monitoring device, specifically designed for use in the Oil & Lukas progression in the company.
He used it to develop his own Gas industry, to drive down energy and water wastage.
Due to the product and applications knowledge and now uses it to measure large trap population on many Oil & Gas facilities, failed traps can and meet his teams development needs.
The Academy benefits go unnoticed for an extended period of time.
Wireless monitoring my team said Lukas, by placing 100 years of Spirax knowledge enables customers to identify and quickly address failed traps, at their fingertips.
My team is young and the Academy allows them reducing costs and environmental impacts.
STAPS ISA100 to fast track their knowledge intake, which in turn ensures that is certified as safe to operate in areas where there is a risk of they can provide the advice and quality of service that customers explosion or restrictions due to flammable atmospheres.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 21 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Our strategy continued 3.
Leverage our global presence R&D investments Our strong global infrastructure enables us to rapidly branch into We leverage R&D investments to meet changing customer neighbouring markets or leverage our existing infrastructure to requirements, improve our offering, respond to market trends, pioneer the introduction of our businesses and technologies into expand our addressable market and maintain our market-leading new markets.
position in each of our business niches.
Progress in 2018 Progress in 2018 New Spirax Sarco operating units began trading in the Maghreb, Within the Spirax Sarco Steam Specialties business our applied Hungary and Romania, a direct sales presence was established in research model enables us to feed the product development and Ghana.
A new Watson-Marlow operating unit beginning trading in solutions pipeline, developing new technologies in support of our the United Arab Emirates UAE and a direct sales presence was strategy for growth.
Such research, in 2018, included a world first established in the Philippines.
We have accelerated a programme thermal energy to electricity transformation cycle.
During 2018, of international expansion for Gestra and Chromalox, leveraging Gestra developed a range of new market-leading boiler controls, Spirax Sarcos global presence to facilitate ease of entry into new ready for launch in 2019, while Chromalox developed an extensive markets.
During the year, Chromalox established an operating range of new products including a new line of electric steam unit in Brazil and a direct sales presence in Chile, Spain, Sweden, boilers see below.
Within the Watson-Marlow Fluid Technology Norway and the UAE, countries previously served by distributors.
Group, Bredel launched two hose range extensions that Gestra established a direct sales presence in Brazil, the Middle incorporate new hose materials, the first is designed for use in East, Korea, Indonesia, Thailand and Malaysia, and set up its first water treatment and chemical pumping applications, the second new operating unit post-acquisition in China.
has the benefit of reducing maintenance frequency.
WatsonMarlow also extended the Qdos pump range, launched a new Focus for 2019 range of ASEPCO valve actuators and developed a new Flexicon Continued geographical expansion and strengthening of Gestra fully automated filling system, ready for launch in January 2019. and Chromaloxs direct sales presence internationally Focus for 2019 Strengthening Watson-Marlows direct sales presence in Asia and Latin America Sector-aligned new product development Strengthening Spirax Sarcos direct sales presence in Core product range extensions, broadening their application developing markets scope and meeting a wider range of customer needs Strategy in action Strategy in action In 2016, Watson-Marlow established an office in the United Arab In December 2018, Chromalox launched a new line of steam Emirates UAE, located in Spirax Sarcos premises in Sharjah, to boilers, incorporating patented DirectConnect technology.
Having demonstrated that there The high capacity steam boilers are uniquely designed was a demand for Watson-Marlows product offering, a trading for large industrial applications and offer steam output of company was established and direct sales commenced in March up to 9,685kg hr, and standard pressures of up to 31 bar.
Reon Durgapersad, a sales manager from Watson-Marlow Chromalox DirectConnect boilers operate with an advanced South Africa, transferred to the UAE in 2016 and leads the small, power control system that delivers instantaneous power but growing, team.
Experiencing high levels of investment in the conversion to heat energy and ensures that all available power is Water, Biotechnology and Food & Beverage industries, and having directly delivered to the process.
The boilers are the first of their customers that value globally recognised brands with a strong kind in the industry: no other technology exists that can match the voltage range, third-party certifications, and patented control reputation for reliability and quality, the Middle East is a relatively methodology of Chromaloxs DirectConnect medium voltage untapped market with strong growth potential for Watson-Marlow.
This technology provides customers with safe, highly During its first year of trading, the new company performed in line efficient, emission-free and cost effective electric solutions for their with plan, meeting stretching performance targets.
22 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 Q&A with Nicholas Anderson: Update on 2017 acquisitions Q: How significant were the acquisitions?
Q: How are the businesses performing?
A: As a reminder, the 2017 acquisitions were the largest by value A: I am delighted to say that both Gestra and Chromalox in the history of the Group.
A rare opportunity arose in 2017 to are performing in line with their respective acquisition plans.
acquire two outstanding businesses: steam specialist, Gestra, for Both businesses saw strong organic sales growth in their first 186 million: and electrical thermal energy management solutions fullyear of ownership.
The acquisitions expanded our Q: Do you foresee any more significant acquisitions total addressable market by over 2 billion, increased our market inthe short term?
share in the Steam Specialties business, increased the diversity of our product and service offering and will provide opportunities A: In May 2017 we announced a self-imposed moratorium for growth.
on acquisitions for 12-18 months, to enable us to focus on the safe delivery and integration of the Gestra and Chromalox Q: What have been the key operational challenges acquisitions.
That period ended in the second half of 2018 and opportunities associated with bringing these new and we resumed our analysis of potential acquisition targets.
While acquisitions contribute to the Groups development, our A: To date, the key operational challenge associated with these business strategy continues to be one of organic growth and acquisitions has been their safe delivery into the Group, without we will only acquire businesses that meet stringent strategic losing business, customers, any of their talented people, and and financial criteria.
Acquisitions will generally be bolt-ons that without affecting our reputation in the market.
I am pleased to say expand the capabilities of our niche businesses through new that this has been fully achieved.
technologies, skills or geographic coverage, or that increase the addressable market of our businesses.
We do not foresee Both businesses provide opportunities for revenue growth and significant acquisitions outside of our three core businesses.
Following an initial period of accelerated investment in the first few years post-acquisition, we will look One never has control over when potential acquisition targets to expand the operating margins of these businesses to Group could become available.
As it happens, on 18th February levels.
We have given ourselves 10 years to achieve this margin 2019, we announced our intention to acquire Thermocoax expansion, applying many of the same tools and techniques that Developpement and all of its group companies Thermocoax, we have implemented in the rest of the business, to achieve the for 158 million 139 million.
Thermocoax, headquartered strong margins we have today.
Revenue growth will be achieved in Paris, is a leading designer and manufacturer of highly as we leverage Spirax Sarcos global presence to broaden Gestra engineered electrical thermal solutions for critical applications and Chromaloxs direct sales presence outside of their core in high added-value industries.
Upon acquisition, Thermocoax geographic markets.
will become part of our Chromalox business.
Acquisition integration case study Strengthening the Gestra brand When steam specialist Gestra joined the Spirax Sarco family in 2017, many in the industry thought the German companys name would disappear.
However, Gestra is a well-respected business with a strong name for engineering excellence so, instead, the Spirax Sarco and Gestra teams worked together to re-energise and relaunch the brand.
The new logo was revealed in June at the high-profile ACHEMA show in Frankfurt.
It was the centrepiece of Gestras stand, sending a strong message that Gestra is back with a long-term strategy to serve steam customers.
The companys new strap line Engineering steam performance reflects Gestras strengths as an expert engineering provider of high-quality products and solutions that assist customers to achieve optimum efficiency from their steam systems.
Maurizio Preziosa, Divisional Director Gestra Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 23 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Our strategy continued 5.
Operate sustainably and chain effectiveness help improve our customers sustainability We operate a regional manufacturing strategy and focus on In a resource constrained and competitive world, sustainability increasing supply chain agility and compressing lead times to enable makes good business sense.
As we focus on improving our own greater responsiveness, reduce costs and improve customer service.
sustainability and deliver innovative solutions that improve the sustainability of our customers operations, we create value and Progress in 2018 drive growth.
On Time To Request OTTR is a key supply chain effectiveness Progress in 2018 metric used by our sales companies to monitor customer service.
Throughout 2018 we focused on stock management 2018 saw a step-change in sustainability awareness and training to ensure that we have the right products, in the right place at across the Group as we commenced the roll out of a Group the right time to improve our OTTR performance.
In its first year, Essentials online training programme, to be completed by all our new Steam Specialties Distribution Centre in Singapore employees.
The programme, which will be supplemented by has delivered a significant improvement in OTTR in South East additional local and job-specific training, contains modules on Asia and has reduced inbound air freight costs to Singapore.
Sustainability: our updated Values: Health and Safety at Work: Recent investments in quality monitoring and management Driving Safety: and Anti-Bribery and Corruption.
The programme solutions, supply site audits and stronger governance, includes electronic assessment and also requires on-the-job have improved our oversight of product quality metrics and assessment, to be overseen by each employees manager.
Our commodity strategy strategic sourcing has Throughout 2018 we also strengthened the sustainability delivered financial and, most importantly, customer service programmes and governance structures in recent acquisitions improvements, and regional champions have been established Gestra and Chromalox, and continued to implement our strategic in our steam business to improve the service that Spirax Sarco priorities in each of our 10 material sustainability topic areas.
delivers to internal and external customers.
Focus for 2019 Focus for 2019 Complete the roll out of the Group Essentials training Improving alignment and communication between sales and programme to all Group companies and monitor compliance supply companies to support OTTR improvements Drive improvements in health and safety performance Training employees so that they understand the role that they Continue to make progress against targets and objectives in individually play in delivering outstanding customer service each of our 10 sustainability topic areas Strategy in action Strategy in action We strive to deliver outstanding customer service, with On Time During 2018, employees of Spirax Sarco Thailand worked together to Request OTTR a key operational metric.
During 2018 Spirax to build a chicken and a mushroom farm at a rural school in Sarco France conducted detailed process analysis and identified central Thailand.
The project, which also included the design and a programme of initiatives to improve OTTR performance.
installation of an irrigation system, was funded by Spirax Sarco These included changes to customer touchpoints, with a new and employees contributed working and free time over a period format developed for quotations and a new process for customer of two months to complete the project.
Children at the school order collection: closer collaboration with customers to understand many of whom previously went hungry as their parents could not their needs: more effective credit hold management systems afford to pay for school meals will now receive nutritious lunches to prevent delays if customers unknowingly exceed their credit and will be taught agricultural skills to increase their self-sufficiency limits: and weekly cross-functional team meetings to increase in the future.
Spirax Sarco Thailand is the small company winner collaboration, resolve delays, identify process improvements and of the Groups 2018 Community Engagement Award and plans to establish shared priorities.
As a result of these initiatives, Spirax spend the 5,000 prize money constructing greenhouses and an Sarco France has seen a strong improvement in OTTR over the integrated duck and fish farm at the school.
24 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 Further reading Group sustainability strategy overview More information on our sustainability reporting structure and Driven from the top updated information on targets and performance is provided inour Sustainability Report.
Our Group Chief Executive is responsible for our sustainability strategy and is supported by the Board of Directors.
Our dedicated See pages 55-65 Sustainability Committee comprises five Senior Managers and is responsible for overseeing strategy implementation and reviewing progress against strategic objectives.
Our sustainability vision: To engineer a more sustainable future Our sustainability mission: We will operate sustainably through responsibly managing our business for on-going financial success: operations in accordance with laws and regulations: social and environmental impacts: ethical and social responsibilities: and customer and supplier relationships, to improve thesustainability of their operations.
Our sustainability objectives: We commit to engineering a sustainable future by focusing on five core areas, setting objectives and targets each.
Our supply chain Diversity and equality a focus on sustainability Zero tolerance approach to Incorporate sustainability bribery and corruption factors into product and Develop knowledge and skills design process Limit the environmental impacts Provide products and services 3.
Our customers of our operations water, effluent that improve the sustainability and waste of our customers operations Minimise the environmental impacts of our operations energy and carbon emissions Engage positively with 5.
Our communities the communities in which we operate Group strategy outlook Our strategic priorities are designed to enhance performance Our Group strategy is primarily one of organic growth, and deliver organic growth through strengthening our business supplemented by strategic acquisitions.
Opportunities to model, whether that be through developing the knowledge of our make large acquisitions, such as those of 2017, are rare.
direct sales people, ensuring that our product offering continues Acquisitions are most likely to be bolt-ons that expand the to develop to meet customer needs, or maximising efficiency in technical capabilities or product offering of our existing our supply chain.
Our strategy is delivering good growth in our businesses, such as the acquisition of Thermocoax that focus industries and improving operating efficiencies across the we announced on 18th February 2019, or that expand their business.
addressable markets in related sectors.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 25 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report
