Strategic Report Realising our purpose Customer case studies Processing time reduced by 2 3 of the time previously taken Increasing process efficiency Reducing virus filtration time The issue Pumps previously utilised by Goodwin Biotechnology Inc. USA, were unable to meet challenging process efficiency requirements in a high-volume, two-stage virus purification, filtration and concentration process that produces a protein solution for use in biopharmaceutical manufacture.
Dramatically reduced processing time with The solution highly accurate, lowDesigned specifically for single-use, downstream bioprocessing applications, the revolutionary Quantum 600 pulsation pumping.
pump, launched by Watson-Marlow in 2017, is able to deliver a consistent, low-pulsation flow, regardless of changes in Tony Barrass downstream pressure, making it the ideal filtration feed pump Product Manager, for this challenging application.
Watson-Marlow The result Processing time has been dramatically reduced.
1,500 litresofproduct can now be concentrated to 100 litres injustsevenhours, one third of the time taken previously.
16 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 Reducing environmental impacts Increasing fuel efficiency The issue Firewood accounts for up to 70% of energy consumption during the tea drying process in Kenya.
Steam is used to heat the air that dries the tea leaves.
Although a renewable fuel source, the overuse of firewood has potentially damaging environmental and social impacts.
KTDA Olenguruone, a tea manufacturing customer, turned to Spirax Sarco East Africa in a drive to increase fuel efficiency.
The solution Spirax Sarco designed a bespoke solution, including six control valve stations, to modulate the flow of steam to the drying bed, reducing steam use and increasing fuel efficiency.
Steam use optimised and energy saved in a The result The solution, which had a 17 month payback period, tea drying application.
reduced firewood consumption by 12% per annum, saving 11,000 in fuel costs per year and reduced the customers environmental impacts.
James Mburu Sales Manager, Spirax Sarco East Africa 12% reduction in firewood use Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 17 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Realising our purpose continued Improving product quality Maximising rice grain length The issue Par-boiling and drying of paddy prior to milling reduces grain breakage during the fide-husking process.
A customer of Spirax Sarco India was experiencing rice grain breakage as steam system inefficiencies were preventing the dryer from reaching the required temperature.
Looking to reduce grain breakage, they turned to Spirax Sarco.
3% The solution reduction in rice A bespoke engineered steam solution that included automatic grain breakage pump traps and steam injectors with temperature and pressure controls, to enable the efficient drying of rice.
The result 3% reduction in rice breakage: reduced wastage: increased product quality, leading to higher customer revenue: and energy and water savings.
Increased productivity and product quality in rice milling process.
Bhrigu Bhatia Senior Sales Engineer, Spirax Sarco India 18 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 Reduced risk of explosion Providing safer working environments $200,000 Saved per annum in Safely warming operating costs liquefied natural gas A safe and efficient The issue temperature When cooled to approximately -160C, natural gas liquefies, management solution making it significantly easier to transport.
However, the temperature of the product and cold weather conditions can from Chromalox.
cause pipes and pumps to freeze.
If warming is not carefully controlled, the liquefied natural gas reverts to its gaseous Mark Malloy state, producing a risk of explosion.
Proposal and Estimating Engineer, Chromalox USA The solution A Chromalox temperature management system, including line-sensing technology, self-regulating heat tracing cables, and IntelliTRACE temperature control panels, for precision warming.
The result Safe, reliable heating: significantly reduced health and safety risk.
The cost efficient solution saved US$300,000 in installation costs andUS$200,000per annum in operating costs.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 19 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report
