Governance Report Board of Directors Collegiate, transparent and willing to table 1 challenging viewpoints Nicholas Anderson BSc Engineering, MBA Kevin Boyd BEng, CEng, FIET, FCA Group Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer RK N RK Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board March 2012.
Appointed Chief Operating Officer May 2016 in August 2013 and Group Chief Executive in Areas of experience January 2014 Finance and accounting, engineering, pensions, Areas of experience international, M&A International, operational, industrial, sales and Background marketing, engineering, strategy, M&A Before joining the Group in 2016, KevinBoyd Background was Group Finance Director for Oxford Before joining the Group in 2011 as Director Instruments plc.
Prior to that he was Group EMEA, Nicholas Anderson was Vice-President Finance Director of Radstone Technology plc of John Crane Asia Pacific part of Smiths and previously held senior finance positions Group plc, based in Singapore, and President within Siroyan Ltd and the TI Group now Smiths of John Crane Latin America, based in the USA.
Kevin is a Chartered Engineer, a Jamie Pike MBA, MA, MIMechE Previously, Nicholas held senior positions with Chartered Accountant and a Fellow of the Chair Alcoa Aluminio in Argentina and the Foseco Institute of Chartered Accountants and the N Minsep Group plc in Brazil.
Institution of Engineering and Technology.
Appointed to the Board External appointments May 2014 Non-Executive Director of EMIS Group plc.
Areas of experience Senior management, engineering, international Background Jamie Pike joined Burmah Castrol in 1991 and was Chief Executive of Burmah Castrol Chemicals before leading the Foseco buy-out in 2001 and its subsequent flotation in 2005.
Prior to joining Burmah, he was a partner at Bain & Company.
Jamie was educated at Oxford, holds an MBA from INSEAD and is a Member of the Institute of Mechanical Engineers.
Clive Watson B Comms Acc, ACA, CTA Peter France External appointments Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman of RPC Group.
& Senior Independent Director A N R A N R Appointed to the Board March 2018 Appointed to the Board July 2009 Areas of experience International, operational, industrial, sales and Areas of experience marketing, engineering Finance, tax and treasury, engineering Background Background Peter France was Chief Executive Officer of Clive Watson held several tax and finance Rotork plc from 2008 to 2017.
He also gained roles before joining Black & Decker in 1988 as wide experience in a number of key roles at Director of Tax and Treasury Europe.
He was later Rotork plc from 1989 to 2008 including acting appointed Vice-President of Business Planning as Chief Operating Officer and Director of and Analysis in the USA.
Clive then joined Thorn Rotork South East Asia based in Singapore.
Lighting as Group Finance Director before working Peter is a Chartered Director of the Institute for Borealis as Chief Financial Officer and Executive of Directors.
He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants External appointments and the Chartered Institute of Taxation.
Chief Executive Officer of ASCO Group Limited.
External appointments Executive Director and Group Finance Director of Spectris plc, due to step down from the Board no later than April 2019.
72 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 Neil Daws CEng, FIMechE Jay Whalen BA, MBA Andy Robson LLB Law Barrister Managing Director, Steam Specialties Executive Director Watson-Marlow Group General Counsel and RK Fluid Technology Group Company Secretary RK Appointed to the Board Appointed as Group General June 2003 Appointed to the Board Counsel and Company Secretary March 2012 Areas of experience June 2012 Manufacturing, engineering, product Areas of experience development, sales and marketing, broad Areas of experience Sales and marketing, engineering, product operational experience International law, corporate governance, development, operational, international international business development business development Background including mergers and acquisitions, Neil Daws joined the Group in 1978 and held Background business restructuring, information positions in production and design engineering Jay Whalen joined the Group in 1991 as technology, contract negotiation prior to being named as UK Supply Director.
President of Watson-Marlow Inc. in the USA.
Following this, Neil has held responsibility for Background He was named Sales and Marketing Director Asia Pacific, Latin America, the Groups Supply Before joining the Group in 2012, of the global Watson-Marlow business in 2002 operations, including the Groups health, safety AndyRobson was General Counsel and and in 2010 was appointed to his current Group and environmental matters and, more recently, Company Secretary of RM Plc, a role he position of President, Watson-Marlow Fluid EMEA.
Prior to this, Andy was Technology Group.
Prior to joining WatsonEuropean General Counsel with Cendant Marlow, Jay was Vice-President Operations for Corporation headquartered in Baltimore, Harvard Bioscience, Inc. USA.
Jane Kingston BA Trudy Schoolenberg PhD As previously announced, CarolineJohnstone was appointed as an Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director witheffect from A N R A N R 5thMarch 2019.
Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board September 2016 August 2012 Areas of experience Areas of experience Human Resources, remuneration, international, Engineering, product development, oil engineering and petrochemical Background Background From 2006 until her retirement in December Prior to her most recent position at AkzoNobel, 2015, Jane Kingston served as Group Human Trudy Schoolenberg served as Vice-President Resources Director for Compass Group PLC.
of Global Research & Development at Wrtsil Prior to this, she served as Group Human Oy.
Trudy previously held senior management Resources Director for BPB plc.
Jane has positions with Royal Dutch Shell plc and Further reading worked in a variety of sectors, including was Head of Strategy for Shell Chemicals.
Read about our Board diversity, roles with Blue Circle Industries plc, Enodis Until October 2016, Trudy served as Director composition, succession and evaluation.
plc and Coats Viyella plc and has significant of Integrated Supply Chain and Research, international experience.
Development and Innovation, Decorative Paints See pages 78-81 Division of AkzoNobel.
External appointments Non-Executive Director of National Express External appointments A Group plc and Inchcape plc.
Non-Executive Director of COVA and Low Audit Committee & Bonar PLC.
Non-Executive Director and N Nomination Committee Senior Independent Director of Accsys R Remuneration Committee Technologies plc.
RK Risk Management Committee Denotes Committee Chairman Flag denotes country of citizenship 1 Quote from 2018 external Board evaluation.
For more information see page 81.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 73 Annual Report 2018 Governance Report
