Governance Report Chairs Introduction A collective responsibility for preserving long-term value An updated Board Following the announcement of Bill Whiteleys intention to retire as Chair in May 2018, the Boards succession plan moved into We welcome the publication of the action.
In March 2018, we welcomed Peter France as a new Independent Non-Executive Director, I was appointed Chair from 2018 Corporate Governance Code, the close of the AGM in May 2018 and CliveWatson became our which reinforces the importance Senior Independent Director.
On 1st March 2019, we announced the appointment of Caroline Johnstone as an Independent of diversity, long-term thinking Non-Executive Director.
Carolines financial, people and advisory and stakeholder engagement.
skills, together with her international business experience across a range of different industries, will be of benefit to the further In preparation to report fully against development of the Group.
Clive will retire at the 2019 AGM, the new Code next year, we have as this is the AGM following his ninth year as a Director, and a structured this years Governance separate announcement will be made regarding the new Senior Independent Director and the new Chair of the Audit Committee.
Report against the new Principles, Board biographies can be found on pages 72 to 73. while remaining in compliance with An updated Code the prevailing Code.
In July 2018, the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 2018 Jamie Pike Code was released which puts the relationships between Chair companies, shareholders and stakeholders at the heart of long-term sustainable growth in the UK economy.
We fully support the shorter, sharper 2018 Code and we have embraced its changes in the following ways: workforce and stakeholders: we are currently exploring the most effective methods to achieve greater Board engagement with the workforce to understand their views: culture: we have reviewed our values to create a culture which aligns Company Values with strategy and to ensure that our Board has the right mix of skills and experience, constructive challenge and to promote diversity: we have emphasised these elements in our Board refreshment and succession planning: and remuneration: the 2018 Code emphasises that the 2016 Code compliance Remuneration Committee should take into account workforce In running our business in 2018, we were fully compliant remuneration and related policies when setting Director with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 Code and remuneration, which we already address and will strengthen we detail our compliance, on a Code  throughout 2019. basis, in the Governance section on our website: www.
An enlarged FTSE 100 company Our business has continued to grow organically and increase in size with the acquisitions of Gestra and Chromalox in 2017.
Section 172 We have successfully integrated and driven performance The Directors have performed their duty under section 172 of improvement in our acquisitions.
We are pleased to have entered the Companies Act 2006 duty to promote the success of the the FTSE 100 in December 2018, as this symbolises a recognition Company.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the by investors of the significant value creation delivered by the hard Strategic Report can be found on pages 1 to 65.
Details of work of the entire organisation.
the Groups goals, strategy and business model are on pages 12 to 25.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the An opportunity to reflect Governance Report can be found on pages 66 to 123.
Recent Board changes and the publication of the 2018 Code provided the opportunity to reaffirm our individual and collective responsibilities as a Board and to test our understanding of what Fair, balanced and understandable good governance means to us and why it is important.
In accordance with the Code, the Directors confirm that Further reading they consider the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, All governance-related policies and procedures are balanced and understandable and provides the information available to view and download: necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups www.
com Governance Pages policiesperformance, business model and strategy.
aspx 68 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 external and internal communications issued: Key Board activities 2018 Brexit project charters updated: During 2018, we paid particular attention to succession planning Brexit Contingency Plan finalised and issued: and for the Board with the appointments set out earlier in this section.
We also focused on our Values, culture, strategic risks and opportunities, including Brexit and diversity.
We are preparing for no deal Brexit and the application of tariffs for goods moving in and out of Europe.
However, we are Revising Values poised to take advantage of opportunities that are presented and We reviewed and revised our Values.
Values are the guiding to mitigate any adverse trading impact on the Group.
principles that we use across the Group to underpin 93% of our sales revenues are generated outside of the UK, decision-making, guide our conduct and define our culture going while close to a third of our cost of goods sold is manufactured forward.
By working together with these Values, every day, we in the UK.
Therefore, a devaluation of sterling would produce build a sustainable business that is more successful and a better translational and transactional net benefits for the Group.
Diversity Assessing and monitoring culture As a Group we are committed to gender diversity and to Our culture is one of the main reasons for our measured achieving a minimum target of 33% female representation progress and success.
As we grow it is vital that we retain such a on theBoard, the Group Executive and their direct reports.
The refreshing of our Values was designed to We ensure that this target is taken into account in our create a culture which aligns Company Values with strategy.
Our Group Diversity and In considering methods to achieve greater Board engagement Inclusion Policy has been published on the Groups website.
with the workforce, one of our objectives will be to ensure that the With the appointment of Caroline Johnstone as an Independent Board is able to gauge and monitor our culture and to ensure it is Non-Executive Director, at the time of publication we have 30% both embedded and retained in our Company.
Evaluating risks and opportunities We also attach importance to ensuring that our people can At the Board meeting at Gestra, Bremen in June 2018 we progress to the highest levels in their business careers regardless considered the business risks arising from our strategy for growth.
of their socio-economic background, race or sexual orientation.
The key risks included channel conflicts, increased reliance on We accept Sir John Parkers recommendation that our Board sales engineers and increased exposure to large projects.
In each should have at least one director from an ethnic minority case we addressed the actions that we are taking to mitigate the background by 2021. risk under the auspices of a steering committee.
Focus for 2019 This strategic risk review complements the work of the Risk We would like to consolidate our position as part of the Management Committee in relation to the principal risks affecting FTSE100 through both organic and inorganic growth.
We see the Group, and the effective management and mitigation of those many opportunities to build on our success and we look forward risks, as explained on pages 28 to 33. to realising and sharing these with our shareholders through our strategic plan.
Brexit On 24th June 2017, following the Referendum vote to exit the I look forward to reporting on our progress.
EU, an emergency steering committee meeting was called to Jamie Pike implement our Brexit Contingency Plan.
Since then the following Chair actions have taken place: Board engagement case study Revised Values Our revised Values are: Collaboration we are more successful when we trust each other and work together.
Customer focus customers are the heart of our business.
Excellence we approach challenges with passion, aiming for excellence in everything we do.
Respect everyone matters, both inside and outside our Company.
Integrity we work in a way that is fair and honest, and we do the right thing at all times.
Safety the safety and wellbeing of people is our first consideration.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 69 Annual Report 2018 Governance Report Governance Report 1.
Board leadership and Company purpose Adopting the spirit of the 2018 Code We have summarised some of the key words from the 2018 Codes Principles A-E in the graphic below and provided cross-references for further reading.
This is our own interpretation and serves to direct our readers to narrative that explains how we have applied some of the Principles.
In addition, we report on relevant provisions later within the scope of the Governance Report.
With many relevant examples already covered in the Strategic Report our aim is to reduce repetition and demonstrate the integrated spirit of the 2018 Code.
Company purpose See pages 12, 16-19 Culture Business model and Values See pages 12-15 See page 59 and 69 Sustainable thinking Strategy See pages 20-25 Leading an effective See pages 25, 55-65 and entrepreneurial board for long-term sustainable success Resource Stakeholder capital allocation engagement See pages 53-54 See pages 71 and 94 Effective controls Workforce and frameworks practices See pages 82-89 See pages 58-60 Our approach to governance Leading by example The Board relies on the Executive management team to run the Governance helps us to ensure our shareholders receive a business.
The Board holds this team accountable against targets good return on their investment: behave with integrity: treat our and standards.
The Board ensures that we have strong and customers, employees, suppliers and local communities properly: effective leadership in place to execute the strategic plan.
During 2018, the Board approved changes to the Authority Limits In the Governance Report we describe the responsibilities of the Policy, which sets out controls and authorisation limits on matters Board and its Committees, the key activities during 2018 and the affecting our business.
The ways in which we have addressed compliance with some of Effective and entrepreneurial the key elements of the prevailing Code and the 2018 Code, and The Non-Executive Directors provide effective challenge and our leadership on these matters are highlighted below.
review, bringing wide experience, specific expertise and a fresh objective perspective to major decisions.
Long-term sustainable success The emphasis is on growth and on an entrepreneurial approach The Board is focused on long-term corporate and strategic with a strong governance culture.
To ensure that the Board plans.
It engaged in a full review and assessment of market and remains effective, in 2018 we engaged Independent Audit Ltd to technology trends at its strategic meeting in June 2018.
As part of carry out an external Board effectiveness evaluation.
The process this review, the Board considered the business risks arising from and actions of this evaluation are detailed on page 81. our strategy for growth.
70 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 Using stakeholder views to shape Engaging with employees decision-making In 2018, the Remuneration Committee, under the leadership of JaneKingston, engaged in a shareholder consultation with 17 of our top shareholders representing over 50% of our total shareholding.
This was a comprehensive exercise which resulted in helpful and constructive advice from our shareholders and proxy advisers ISS, The Investment Association and Glass Lewis to help shape both our 2019 Executive remuneration proposals, explained in JaneKingstons Statement on pages 91 to 92, and our new Remuneration Policy for 2020.
A clear understanding of shareholder views Our Chair ensures that the Board, as a whole, has a clear understanding of our shareholder views.
He achieves this by seeking regular engagement with major shareholders outside formal general meetings to discuss their views on governance and our performance against strategy.
We also encourage Committee In 2017, we introduced a global employee engagement survey Chairs to talk to shareholders on significant matters related to their to capture feedback from employees to ensure we have an areas of expertise.
open dialogue about their experience of working for the Group.
Employees gave detailed feedback on their engagement Employee whistle-blowing with the business, views of senior leadership and manager The Group is committed to promoting a safe and effective culture capability.
As a direct result of this engagement process, we in which employees can raise genuine concerns without fear of have implemented action plans across all Group companies.
To this end, and as a matter of best practice, in 2014 Survey results and action plans were shared with the Group the Group adopted a Whistle-blowing Policy.
Linked to this was Executive Committee and the Board on a six-monthly basis to the implementation of a multi-lingual whistle-blowing helpline, track and monitor progress.
facilitated by Safecall, to ensure that employees can freely access an independent third party.
The whistle-blowing helpline continues In 2019, the survey will be expanded to include Chromalox and to be made available throughout the Group and in 2018, five Gestra.
We have built on the process to encourage greater calls were received from individuals.
Each matter was thoroughly participation of all employees and enhance our Values and investigated by a relevant management team member and culture.
The results will be reviewed by the Board in June 2019 follow-up actions implemented, where required.
and will provide a basis for conversations with teams across the Group to improve engagement and involve employees in During 2018, managements response and handling of reported creating a better place to work.
cases continues to be considered appropriate and satisfactory.
The Board has also been closely involved in the development Both the Board and the Audit Committee are involved in the of a Diversity and Inclusion Policy, which includes the regular review of whistle-blowing cases.
mentoring of talented women to encourage recruitment and retention of women at an executive level in the Group.
Identifying and managing conflicts of The Board was also involved in the evolution of our Values.
interest The Policy and our updated Values have been communicated Our Board has a Conflicts of Interest Policy and has put in place to all employees.
procedures for the disclosure and review of any potential or actual conflicts.
During 2018, no conflicts of interest were raised either in As illustrated by the Boards visit in June 2018 to Gestra in relation to shareholders or in dealings with external consultants, Bremen see page 77 the Board visits our Group companies suppliers, etc.
across the world and Directors take time to meet employees and hear their views.
The Board are actively engaged in assessing further opportunities to increase employee participation across a complex, global company in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In addition to the engagement survey and direct face-to-face meetings between Board Directors and employees, during 2019 we will also comply with the Code requirements by introducing more forums for employee participation with the Further reading Board, which reflect our global diversity.
Details on how we engage with our shareholders, specifically in relation Further reading Sustainability Report.
See page 94 See page 59 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 71 Annual Report 2018 Governance Report
