Strategic Report The industries we serve Pharmaceutical We apply our expertise in engineering & Biotechnology products and solutions across a of Group 16% revenue diverse range of sectors and end users.
Oil & Gas of Group 7% revenue Food of Group 17% revenue Chemical of Group 7% revenue Beverage of Group 3% revenue OEM Machinery of Group 14% revenue Food Oil & Gas Steam is used for blanching, cooking, baking, packaging, Electrical heating products increase fluid viscosity, deliver cleaning and sterilising.
Electric heating elements are used freeze protection and help separate natural gas, crude oil in commercial food equipment.
Pumps are used to meter and water during extraction.
Our steam products enable ingredients, deliver food to process lines and handle optimum steam system performance and reduce energy process waste.
use during oil and gas production.
Beverage Chemical Steam is essential for brewing and distilling processes.
Steam and electricity are widely used as an energy It is used to protect product quality and flavour, and source in chemical production and product processing, ensure compliance with industry standards.
Pumps are while our pumps are used to safely and accurately used to transfer fruit, juice, concentrates, yeast and transfer and dose critical chemical components.
Healthcare Pharmaceutical & Biotechnology Steam is used in hospitals and clinics for space heating, Clean steam reduces the risk of product and process hot water production, humidification and sterilisation.
contamination: electrical heating is used in a wide range Pumps and associated equipment are used in the of process heating applications: our peristaltic pumps, manufacture of products for the Healthcare industry.
valves and single-use components enable precise flow Power Generation control and fluid isolation.
Electrical heat technologies are widely used to optimise OEM Machinery power generation.
Steam turbines transfer chemical Original Equipment Manufacturers OEMs are companies energy in fuel into electrical energy and steam is used to that build and supply machines for use in industry.
distribute and re-use waste heat formed during the power Our activities with OEMs vary from simple product supply generation process.
to advising on machine performance improvements and process plant design.
6 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 Water & Wastewater of Group 3% revenue Power Generation Core product expertise of Group 4% revenue Healthcare Steam of Group First for Steam Solutions Specialties 4% revenue Industrial and commercial steam systems, including condensate management, controls and thermal energy management products and solutions Typical uses: heating and curing, cleaning and sterilising, hot water generation, space heating and humidification Pulp & Paper of Group Characteristics of steam: high energy content, 2% revenue easy to control, environmentally safe, clean and sterile Buildings Typical customer benefits: improved process of Group efficiency, product quality and safety: reduced 4% revenue waste: lower CO emissions, energy and water use: 2 less maintenance downtime: and compliance with industry standards Electrical thermal Mining & Precious energy solutions Metal Processing of Group Electrical process heating and temperature 3% revenue management solutions, including industrial heaters and systems, heat tracing and a range of component technologies Typical uses: electrical heating for industrial processes, freeze protection and component heating for industrial heaters and systems Buildings Characteristics of electrical solutions: easy to Steam is used to provide space heating, humidification incorporate, install and maintain, high temperatures, and hot water in public and private buildings, while our controllable, no emissions at point of use electrical products are used for hot water and heat Typical customer benefits: more efficient industrial generation, snow melting, gutter and roof fide-icing, and processes through improved thermal energy frost-heave prevention.
management and control systems Mining & Precious Metal Processing Peristaltic pumps reduce water, energy and chemical use Peristaltic pumping & and increase productivity while moving and processing associated fluid path Fluid Technology Group abrasive ores and slurries.
Electrical heating is used for temperature maintenance and space heating for workers.
technologies Water & Wastewater Peristaltic and niche pumps and associated fluid path Peristaltic pumps are used to dose chemicals during technologies, including pumps, tubing, specialty filling water treatment processes and to transfer viscous and systems and products for single-use applications abrasive slurries.
Electrical heating solutions provide Typical uses: fluid transfer in a wide range of pumping freeze protection, temperature maintenance and space applications from those requiring sterility and accuracy heating in water treatment plants.
to high volume pumping of corrosive materials Pulp & Paper Characteristics of peristaltic pumps: fluid is Our steam, electric and pump products facilitate contained within a tube: a sterile tube makes a sterile the accurate control of critical processes, such as pump, and abrasive or corrosive fluids cannot damage washing, bleaching, dyeing, drying and finishing, in the the pump: gentle and highly accurate pumping: manufacture of paper and a wide range of domestic and low maintenance industrial tissues.
Typical customer benefits: more accurate, reliable and efficient fluid transfer Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 7 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report
