o p e x Strategic Report Investment case 1 Significant income from maintenance and operations expenditure 85% Maintenance and repair sales of Group revenue is generated from annual maintenance 50% that maintain existing systems, and operational opex budgets, rather than from capital 15% supported by the end users opex capex budgets.
budgets, withatypical invoice value of around 1k Why is this important?
Small project sales that improve existing systems, supported by Capex budgets are more likely to be cut during periods of the end users opex budgets, with a slower growth or recession.
Therefore, the high proportion of typical invoice value of 10k-50k revenue deriving from opex budgets gives us resilience during Large project sales that build economic downturns.
Additionally, through our direct sales new systems, supported by the end 35% users capex budgets, witha typical approach, we are able to self-generate business by providing invoice value of over 100k bespoke engineered solutions, typically with better margins.
2 Food Serving less cyclical industries Beverage P harmaceutical & Biotechnology OEM Machinery 50% 17% Oil & Gas 1% 14% Chemical 1% of Group revenue is derived from defensive, less 2% Healthcare cyclical end markets, including: Food & Beverage, 3% 3% Power Generation Pharmaceutical & Biotechnology, Healthcare and 16% 3% Buildings Water & Wastewater.
4% M ining & Precious Metal Processing 4% Why is this important?
Water & Wastewater 4% Pulp & Paper Not only do we derive revenue from a diverse range 14% 7% Rubber & Plastic of industry sectors, we also have an excellent balance 7% between higher-growth end markets and those that are Textiles more defensive and resilient.
Other B ased in internal estimates.
Where there is little visibility of end user industry sector primarily in sales via distributors, sales have been allocated across industries on a pro-rata basis.
In 2018 these unknown sales accounted for 22% of total revenue.
OEM sales to identifiable industries have been allocated to those industries.
Sales to OEM customers accounted for 20% of Group revenue in 2018.
3 Targeting self-generated growth Why is this important?
By focusing on self-generated growth we unearth problems 35% and design solutions that deliver significant operational benefits of revenue is derived from self-generated opportunities.
Typically, these bespoke, engineered projects This reflects our overall strategic objective to deliver have higher margins and relatively quick sign-off timeframes self-generated growth to outperform our markets.
as they are funded by maintenance and operational budgets We achieve this by staying close to our customers at plant level.
As we deliver engineered solutions we reinforce through our direct sales approach understanding their our customers trust in our engineering expertise and forge system requirements and providing them with innovative sustainable partnerships.
products and solutions to solve their process challenges.
Further reading Our direct sales approach is our greatest competitive advantage and is covered in more detail in our business model and customer case studies.
See pages 12-19 Based on internal estimates.
8 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 b s u t x d e e g g p e d a t u c s b 4 Our long-term market growth drivers remain positive Long-term market growth drivers 14% Population growth Increased consumption and demand in all our major industry sectors.
share of our addressable markets, which were valued at 8.5 billion at the end of 2018.
Our markets have Economic development in emerging markets significant growth potential due to a number of positive New markets and increased consumption.
long-term market drivers see table opposite at a Ageing population macroeconomic and sector level.
Increased demand for healthcare and pharmaceutical products.
National and international climate change mitigation Our long-term growth prospects are promising.
Despite being strategies Requirement for companies to manage energy more efficiently, the market leader in both steam and peristaltic pumping, increasing demand for energy management products and services.
we have a relatively small share of these large addressable markets.
With just a 6% share of the electrical thermal energy Increase in global energy consumption market globally we have good opportunities for growth.
Increased investment in the Oil & Gas industry and demand for energy We can grow by targeting self-generated sales, extending our management solutions.
geographical reach and increasing our addressable markets Industrial production through innovative product development.
In addition, our overall Our markets reflect changes in industrial production but our sales addressable markets and sectors continue to demonstrate have consistently outperformed them as we have expanded our headroom for long-term growth.
addressable markets, extended our geographic penetration and grown our market share.
Further reading Global industrial production growth rates give a good indication of market conditions.
See pages 38-49 Our competitive landscape As the global market leader in both steam systems and 1.4bn peristaltic pumping, and a significant player in the electrical Niche pumps and associated 4.6bn thermal energy market, we have a strong competitive position equipment market Steam Specialties in relatively fragmented markets.
market 19% Our competitors generally fall into two categories: system Watson-Marlow specialists that supply a wide range of products and services, market share and product specialists that compete on a small part of our product range.
Most system specialists are relatively small, privately owned, regional players, while product specialists lack the whole system expertise and application knowledge offered Total addressable by our direct sales force.
Our broad product range, global market size presence, applications knowledge and direct sales business model give us a strong competitive advantage in our markets.
8.5bn Pharmaceutical & Biotechnology is a key growth industry for Watson-Marlow that we are uniquely placed to serve due to our wide product range and 2.4bn expert direct sales force.
Electrical thermal energy 16% management market Kavita Winn Steam Specialties Pharmaceutical & Biotechnology market share Marketing Manager, 6% Watson-Marlow Chromalox market share Steam Specialties Chromalox market share addressable market Watson-Marlow addressable market Steam Specialties market share Chromalox addressable market Watson-Marlow market share Based on Spirax Sarco internal estimates.
The revised market size reflects underlying changes in market segment sizes, expansion of the addressable market as a result of product development and the impact of exchange movements.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 9 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report
