OUR BUSINESS Founded by Mike Ashley as a single Store in Maidenhead in 1982, Sports Direct International plc today operates a diversified portfolio of sports, fitness, fashion, and lifestyle fascias.
The Group's approximately 26,500 people work together with our suppliers and our third party brand partners to serve customers in over 20 countries.
The Group aspires to be an international leader in sports, lifestyle, and luxury retail by offering our customers a dynamic range of iconic brands.
The Board is committed to treating all people with dignity and respect.
We value our people, our customers, our shareholders - and we strive to adopt good practices in our corporate dealings.
We aim to deliver shareholder value over the medium to long term, whilst adopting accounting principles that are conservative, consistent and simple.
BUSINESS MODEL Our business model is focused on delivering an unrivalled range, availability and quality of products both third party brand and Group branded products.
This includes different customer value propositions across our Sports Retail and Premium Lifestyle fascias.
To this end, we are elevating across all channels to enhance the customer journey at every step of the way.
The Group's business model is explained in greater detail below.
This includes an outline of our fascias and retail channels, our elevation strategy including the management of our property portfolio, our people, our third party brand partners and our centralised support functions and Group brands.
BUSINESS STRUCTURE The Group is structured across five business segments: UK Sports Retail, European Sports Retail formerly International Retail, Premium Lifestyle, Rest of World Retail and Wholesale & Licensing formerly Brands.
In UK Sports Retail, we offer a complete range of sporting apparel, footwear and equipment through our predominant fascia, SPORTSDIRECT.
This segment includes our lifestyle fascia USC.
Our current forward-looking view is that the majority of our offering to customers must include leading third party brands.
The elevation of our sports retail proposition is key to ensure we are fully aligned with the future directions and ambitions of these brand partners.
The UK Sports Retail segment also includes our fitness division, which currently consists of 31 gyms.
In European Sports Retail, we are evolving our customer proposition in line with the elevation strategy, while also seeking to increasingly tailor our proposition to the local markets where we operate.
These include the Republic of Ireland and continental Europe.
In Rest of World Retail, at the beginning of FY18 we acquired 49 stores trading as Bob's Stores and Eastern Mountain Sports.
We also have 30 stores trading as SPORTSDIRECT.
In Premium Lifestyle, we are developing the Group's premium offering, which primarily consists of the Flannels fascia, along with Cruise and van mildert.
We aim to offer fashion-conscious consumers a luxurious, multi-brand retail destination with high-end and on-trend products.
This is a core component of the elevation strategy and includes the provision of a new flagship Flannels store on Oxford Street in London which is anticipated to open in 2019.
In Wholesale & Licensing, the Group retains a portfolio of world famous heritage brands, which we offer via our fascias, and also wholesale and license to partners internationally.
Our own brands include Karrimor, Slazenger and Everlast.
The Group is also proud to have a number of sporting and entertainment personalities as ambassadors, as well as supporting sporting events and venues.
MULTI-CHANNEL ELEVATION STRATEGY Our elevation strategy continues to work towards improving our offering to customers across all of our channels, including marketing, social media, product, digital and in-store.
This aims to enable the Company, along with our third party brand partners, to connect with customers via a consistent voice across multiple platforms, including online, mobile, and on the high street.
This strategy enables our stores and our online operations to complement each other.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 55
