CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT OVERVIEW FY18 has seen the Group continue to make good progress in elevating our retail proposition in order to deliver enhanced levels of excellence to our customers.
Our new generation of flagship stores continue to out-perform our expectations, and I would like to thank all our people for their loyalty and hard work.
I am very pleased that our results have come in at the top end of the expectation that Mike Ashley mentioned in his outlook statement last year.
We have consistently used Underlying EBITDA as one of our Alternative Performance Measures, this has increased 12.2% year on year.
FY18 Underlying Profit before tax was up 34.5% to 152.9m, largely as a result of maintaining a strong trading performance in the UK as we undergo the strategic shift to the elevated store and online offering, whilst starting to see the benefits of increased efficiencies in the UK and Europe.
There have been improvements in the currency hedging rates used year on year as well as the advantage of a strong Euro for the European divisional results.
In terms of statutory reporting, our Profit before taxation has reduced by 72.5%, which arises predominantly from the profit on the sale of the Dunlop business and the profit on the sale of JD Sports shares included in the results for the prior period and the recognition of the net losses on our strategic investment in Debenhams in the current period.
During the year, the Group generated free cash flow of 326.2m, and undertook capital expenditure of 213.4m, including 140.0m on property acquisitions.
Net debt increased from 182.1m to 397.1m as a result of overall investment in our elevation strategy and an increased spend on our strategic investments.
The Group continues to maintain substantial financial resources and a strong balance sheet.
ELEVATION STRATEGY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES The enhancement of our retail proposition, on the high street and elsewhere, continues to be a strategic priority.
In line with this, our multi-channel elevation strategy is a key driver towards achieving our long to medium term goal of delivering an unrivalled multi-brand offering to customers across sport, lifestyle and fashion.
This strategy began on the high street with the active management of our property portfolio, which is seeing us continue to open a new generation of stores.
These include regional flagship stores with multiple fascias in key retail locations.
This is enabling us to work closely with our third party brand partners to ensure greater integration of key products within improved retail space.
The elevation strategy further encompasses how we connect with the consumer across all our channels, including social, digital and in store.
It is also creating opportunities for staff and it aims to increase value for shareholders in the long term.
OUR PEOPLE AND OUR PRACTICES As always, the wellbeing of our people is a priority consideration, and the Board is committed to treating all staff with dignity and respect.
During FY18 we completed an organisational development programme to give staff improved visibility over career options within the Group.
This has resulted in an improved system for staff appraisals.
This activity included a review of staff wages at all levels of the Company within the UK, in order to ensure that our people continue to be rewarded for their loyalty.
I can confirm that all staff, including casual workers, continue to be paid hourly rates above the levels set by the National Minimum Wage or above the new Statutory National Living Wage if aged over 25.
In addition, the Company pays commission and other rewards to staff worth approx.
Eligible employees participating in the Company share bonus scheme received shares worth 45.5m in FY18.
The Company continues to meet its obligation to ensure staff in the UK, including casual workers, receive holiday pay on an accrued basis and statutory sick pay.
Further details of our arrangements for staff are set out in the Our Business section on pages 55 to 58 and 77 to 86 of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report including details of a new proactive occupational health programme, entitled SD Wellbeing, which offers support to staff via a range of measures.
