WORKERS' REPRESENTATIVE'S REPORT Working for a bright future for our people A MESSAGE TO STAFF FROM ALEX BALACKI, WORKERS' REPRESENTATIVE AT SPORTS DIRECT One year ago I had the honour of being elected by the people who work at Sports Direct to represent staff at meetings of the Board of Directors.
As somebody who originally started with the company as a Casual Sales Assistant when I was in my teens, I know first hand what a great contribution staff make towards the success of business.
An important part of my role today is helping to make sure that our casual sales staff are treated with the same respect that I received when I was finding my way as a young Saturday worker.
I'five spent a huge amount of time listening to my fellow members of staff in different stores and in other parts of the business up and down the country.
Like me, the vast majority are proud to work at Sports Direct - and we're pleased the company is doing well at a time when sadly so many other retailers are struggling.
Over the last 12 months, I'five attended every meeting of the Board, and I'five also regularly met face to face with senior management, including Mike Ashley.
I contributed to the Company's wage review, which saw wage bands being adjusted to keep them competitive and fair.
I can also confirm that there are improved measures in place to ensure that any changes in scheduled hours for casual staff are monitored at head office to ensure fairness.
I also regularly read and reply to contributions to our staff feedback initiative, 'Your Company, Your Voice.
Two subjects that are constantly raised by our people are requests for improved staff discounts on products sold by the company, plus better uniforms.
I'five therefore raised the subject of discounts with the Board and as a result I am pleased to report that the company is now trialling an enhanced scheme that we hope to make available to staff later in the year.
Plans for new uniforms are also being fast-tracked.
Finally, I'd like to thank everybody who voted for me - I'll do my best to keep working towards a bright future.
Kind regards Alex Alex Balacki has been with the company since 2004.
In addition to being elected as Workers' Representative in 2017 18, he is a Store Manager in the West Country.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 59
