Strategic Report About SSE MARKET OVERVIEW THE ENERGY SECTOR IS TRANSFORMING Electrification creates Infrastructure investment SSE operates in a fast-changing new opportunities is key to security of supply industry.
As it supports the drive Electrification will also drive major change The UKs Industrial Strategy is set on towards decarbonisation of in the sector.
The trend to electrification of upgrading the critical infrastructure that drives vehicles is clearly illustrated by changes in the the economy.
Public infrastructure investment the economy, electrification transport sector and the UK Governments is expected to double over the decade to of transport and modernisation moves to ban the sale of new diesel and 2023.
This presents opportunities for SSE and of critical infrastructure, it does petrol cars from 2040.
By 2030 there may be aligns with its commitment to playing its part so with a commitment to nine million electric vehicles connecting into in maintaining security of supply as the energy the distribution networks helping to reduce system is transformed.
maintaining and growing a range carbon emissions and improve air quality of complementary businesses in urban areas.
As an electricity generator, SSEs diverse current and future portfolio that have energy and related distributor and utilities services operator, has a large role in this.
Its fleet of hydro SSE sees a major role for itself in this shift natures batteries, thermal generation and services at their core.
and is already positioning its businesses to gas storage provides crucial flexibility to the optimise the likely opportunities.
system, while its transmission and distribution Decarbonisation remains networks ensure this flexibility connects and a driver of change At the same time, small-scale, distributed matches demand.
Looking ahead, a range of The need to meet carbon targets remains energy continues to decentralise the energy options exist to help ensure electricity and gas a fundamental driver of change across system.
Distribution networks are critical in customers across the UK and Ireland benefit the energy sector in both GB and Ireland.
connecting and managing these new forms from a secure and progressive system of The Climate Change Act celebrates its 10th of demand and supply.
This will create new energy provision.
birthday in 2018 and the UK Governments opportunities and challenges for SSEs Clean Growth Strategy published 2017 sets electricity distribution business, in particular out plans for an 80% reduction in power in becoming a Distribution System Operator sector emissions to 2032, so the pace of DSO with greater active management of change remains fast.
In addition, SSE Enterprise is well positioned to prosper from these trends Increasingly these carbon targets can be met by providing bespoke decentralised energy at a lower cost to customers.
Auctions for services, including EV charging infrastructure.
long-term offshore wind contracts CfDs are now well established and there has been very strong competition.
These mechanisms work and SSE is well placed to play its part in this growth market, with first power from Beatrice wind farm expected in Summer 2018 and strong new project options in the UK Dogger Bank, Seagreen and beyond in Ireland Arklow.
Onshore wind costs have fallen significantly since 2009 and it remains one of the lowest-cost forms of energy for customers.
Eligibility for onshore wind to compete in the UK auctions remains on hold but the case for future build is strong and policies may follow.
In Ireland, EU renewables targets continue to drive the need for new onshore wind and a new support scheme is expected to be announced this year.
Onshore wind development and operation are core SSE strengths, so it is well placed to take advantage of this.
10 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 AFFORDABILITY AND LEGITIMACY ISSUES PERSIST At the same time, the economy is becoming While SSE meets the challenges increasingly digitalised.
Energy customers of a transforming sector it also expect a seamless digital interaction with faces major political pressures.
their provider and SSE has made gains in this area in recent years while investing Political debate about affordability heavily to meet the UK Governments and the role of the state in energy smart meter targets.
provision means the need to show how private utilities operate Market trends have lowered financing costs clearly in the public interest is as Energy is a capital-intensive sector and great as ever.
The next set of price therefore a low cost of capital is critical to controls for networks RIIO2 are reducing costs for consumers.
In recent years, the low interest rate environment also being developed in this has helped to lower the cost of financing political context.
energy infrastructure with particular benefits in reducing the cost of renewables.
In addition, there has been an increased supply SSE is well set up for this environment with of capital and entry by infrastructure funds, a clear conviction to act in the interests of all institutional investors and private equity.
This stakeholders, as explained elsewhere in this has implications for the valuations placed on Annual Report.
assets and for the returns that can be earned from investment.
At the same time, it has The domestic energy also created strong financial partnering market is not what it was opportunities for SSE.
A market that once featured the so-called Big 6 is now populated by closer to around Climate change and the policies to mitigate 80 suppliers of varying scale competing to this are increasingly being factored into the provide a range of new products and services financial value of firms.
The Task Force on to GB household energy customers.
This is Climate-related Financial Disclosures will good for customers and it means the market formalise this helping to ensure risks and is extremely fluid, with customer switching opportunities are properly accounted for at historically high levels and further change and enabling capital flows to the most expected with the roll-out of smart meters.
As a business This, combined with SSEs operating profit positioned to thrive in the transition to a increasingly coming from economically low-carbon future, SSE stands to benefit regulated networks and from renewable from this shift in financial markets.
energy, and the conviction that a new market model would be in the best interest of all, including customers, led to the proposal to combine the resources and experience of SSEs household energy supply and services business in GB with those of another established player in the market.
A market that once featured the so-called Big 6 is now populated by closer to around 80 suppliers.
