Strategic Report About SSE OUR BUSINESS EXPLAINED 6.8M 0.49m SSE Energy Services customer accounts GB SSE Business Energy accounts GB ER ET ES ED E ES GD RETAIL demerger proposed WHAT SSE DOES Supplying energy and services DEVELOPING, OWNING AND OPERATING to household customers in GB SSE supplies energy and other services to the GB household market through SSE Energy Services, a wholly-owned subsidiary formed in early 2018 in preparation for the proposed merger with npower.
This is intended to create an efficient new Delivery of SSEs strategy is dependent on the shared talent, independent energy supply and services business in GB and help develop a new market model by skills and values of the people in its balanced range of core combining the resources of and experience of and complementary businesses.
In Retail, the household two established players with the focus and agility of an independent supplier.
energy supply and services business in GB is the subject of a planned demerger: but SSE intends to continue to supply energy and provide energy and infrastructure services to ES Energy supply Retailing domestic electricity and gas to business and public sector customers throughout the UK GB households as part of the SSE Energy and Ireland and to household customers in Northern Ireland Services subsidiary.
The economically regulated Networks ER Energy-related services businesses transmit electricity in Scotland and distribute Providing energy-related products and services to GB households as part of electricity and gas to homes and work places in Scotland SSE Energy Services.
And Wholesale produces energy that powers the UK and Irish economies, as well as providing gas storage facilities for the UK.
Read more about our businesses from page 46.
16 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 8.3bn 3,826MW Networks Regulated Asset Value Renewable generation capacity GS GP EM RETAIL demerger proposed RETAIL to remain in SSE Networks Wholesale Supplying energy and infrastructure Delivering energy safely Creating value by sustainably services to businesses and the public to homes and businesses sourcing and producing energy SSE owns and operates electricity distribution SSE is a leading generator of electricity from sector and to households across Ireland networks in the north of Scotland and central renewable sources in the UK and Ireland.
It provides SSE supplies energy and provides infrastructure southern England, and the electricity transmission sustainable energy and related services for wholesale services to business and public sector customers network in the north of Scotland.
SSE also has an customers through energy portfolio management through its Business Energy and Enterprise divisions.
ownership interest in gas distribution in Scotland and electricity generation, gas production and It also supplies energy and related services to and southern England.
These businesses are gas storage.
household customers on the island of Ireland regionally defined and subject to regulatory through SSE Airtricity.
Business Energy and Enterprise controls set byOfgem.
work closely with customers to meet their specific requirements in innovative and sustainable ways.
SSE Airtricity provides a range of related services to customers, including green energy.
ES Energy supply Business ED Electricity distribution EG Electricity generation Supplying electricity and gas to business, Using low voltage overhead lines and Using turbines to convert energy from water, commercial and public sector organisations underground cables to deliver electricity wind, gas, coal, oil and multi-fuel to generate across GB.
EPM ES Energy supply SSE Airtricity ET Electricity transmission Energy portfolio management Supplying energy and related services to Using high voltage overhead lines and Managing energy procurement and contracts.
customers across the island of Ireland.
underground and subsea cables to carry electricity from generating plant to the GP Gas production distribution network.
E Enterprise Extracting natural gas from fields in the North Providing innovative energy solutions to Sea and west of Shetland, on the outer margins business and the public sector.
GD Gas distribution of the Atlantic.
Using pipes to distribute gas from the transmission network to homes and GS Gas storage businesses in Scotland and southernEngland.
Playing a role in security of supply by storing natural gas underground in large caverns for future use.
SSE plc Annual Report 2018 17 Strategic Report About SSE OUR BUSINESS EXPLAINED CONTINUED HOW SSE CREATES VALUE The resources and STAKEHOLDER relationships we rely on Financial capital Public services Human capital SSE requires funds to produce goods or Public services enable SSE to function and The success of SSE depends on the people provide services.
This is obtained through thrive.
It relies on the provision of good who work for it and their innate abilities and investors and profits generated byoperations.
emergency services, public infrastructure learned skills: the human capital embodied and health and education services.
in each of its direct employees and those in its supply chain.
SSE Has over 300,000 SSE WORKS WITH SSE Employs around 21,000 direct Shareholders Government Employees and regulators SSEs shareholders own the company Governments and regulators play a SSE depends on the shared talent, and expect to earn a return on central role in shaping the energy sector.
skills and values of its employees.
we Develop, own and operate THE LONG-TERM VALUE WE CREATE Financial capital Public services Human capital Delivering returns for shareholders.
Paying a fair share of tax supports Developing our people.
Total taxes paid in the UK and Ireland.
Investment in pipeline programmes and employee learning and development.
18 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 Infrastructure Natural environment Goods and services SSE invests significantly in the building of Natural resources are essential to support SSEs Beyond expenditure on capital projects, SSE assets and infrastructure, such as power business operations and value creation from relies on a wide range of goods and services stations and networks, which support its using wind and water to produce energy, to the to support its business operations.
operations and the delivery of energy resources used to build its assets.
throughout the UK and Ireland.
SSE Has Millions Of SSE Engages with SSE works with over 8,000 direct Energy NGOs and Suppliers and Customers civil society Contractors SSEs electricity distribution and energy NGOs and civil society bring specialist SSE relies on its supply chain to deliver supply customers expect a quality service and distinctive perspectives, contributing projects and ensure it operates successfully.
Infrastructure Natural environment Goods and services Creating wider economic impacts.
8.6bn 806m 307gCO e KWh c. 2.9bn 2 2017: 9.3bn 779m 2017: 304gCO e KWh 2017: c. 3.0bn 2 Contribution to UK and Carbon intensity of electricity Total procurement expenditure.
SSE plc Annual Report 2018 19 Strategic Report About SSE OUR BUSINESS EXPLAINED CONTINUED SSES Stakeholders SSEs success depends on its ability to engage effectively and work constructively with stakeholders who have an interest in SSE and the wider industry.
Listening and responding to their views and needs helps SSE better achieve its business objectives and deliver the best outcomes for customers, shareholders and wider society.
Interacting with stakeholders in this way is consistent with the ethos of Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 which sets out that a director should have regard to stakeholder interests when discharging their duty to promote the success of the company.
Detail of key stakeholder engagement carried out by SSEs Board is set out on page 116.
SSE SSE engages with six key stakeholder groups shareholders, PROVIDING ENERGY government and regulators, employees, energy customers, NGOs RESPONSIBLY and civil society, and suppliers and contractors.
There are multiple methods of engagement, for example, at the most strategic level the SSEN Stakeholder Advisory Panel advises Scottish and Southern Electricity Networks on its business plans.
Whereas in Retail, Customer Forums provide guidance to the business as it maintains its focus on meeting day-to-day requirements of energy users, whilst ensuring the interests of vulnerable customers are protected.
SHAREHOLDERS SSE is committed to maintaining constructive dialogue with shareholders and engages with them regularly to understand their concerns and ensure these are considered in its decision making.
Engagement methods Material issues SSEs extensive investor relations programme includes meetings and roadshows, as well as Financial performance Investment plans correspondence on a reactive basis.
It has ongoing dialogue with key institutional investors, Operational performance analysts and ratings agencies around financial and operational matters, and increasingly around ESG performance the management of environmental, social and governance ESG issues.
GOVERNMENT AND REGULATORS SSE works constructively with the governments and regulators in the UK and Ireland in order to protect the long-term interests of energy customers.
Engagement methods Material issues SSEs approach to public and regulatory affairs is to directly engage with policymakers and pursue Security of energy supplies Cost effective decarbonisation positive and constructive relationships.
SSE employs dedicated teams responsible for engaging with Fair treatment of customers governing and regulatory bodies.
The key issues for engagement include SSEs business strategy and Economic impact of investments investment decisions, particularly for large capital projects, and the development of regulation and Conduct of large businesses policies that could impact on SSEs customers and the energy system.
20 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 EMPLOYEES SSE has a framework for continuous engagement and feedback between itself and employees on employee matters as well as SSEs operations and performance.
This helps ensure SSE creates an engaging and supportive environment where people want to work.
Engagement methods Material issues SSE seeks to create an engaging working environment in which employees have the opportunity to Opportunities for development and progression provide feedback on employment issues and SSEs business activities.
It does this through continued Flexible, agile and family-friendly and structured career conversations, all-employee engagement surveys and internal communication working patterns channels such as its intranet news and blog feed, the SSE employee app and employee conferences.
Inclusion and diversity SSE recognises, and has positive relationships with, four recognised trade unions and its Joint The opportunity to have a say and make Negotiating and Consultative Committee JNCC which provides the structure by which industrial a difference within SSE relations are conducted.
ENERGY CUSTOMERS SSEs ongoing customer engagement allows it to gain a better understanding of customer needs, as well as how it can deliver continuous improvement in customer service.
Engagement methods Material issues In the provision of its services, SSE engages with customers daily through customer calls and social Affordable and accessible energy Responsiveness to need and vulnerability media activity.
To engage at a deeper level, SSE undertakes qualitative research and detailed surveys, Quality customer service and holds customer forums and consultation events to better understand its customers needs and Using energy efficiently expectations, and gain their feedback on SSEs initiatives.
Impact of industry change NGOS AND CIVIL SOCIETY SSE engages with a number of key NGOs and civil society groups that focus on social, environmental and other energyand business-related issues on behalf of energy customers and wider society.
Engagement methods Material issues SSE works, and has ongoing dialogue, with a wide variety of NGOs and civil society groups Environmental protection and decarbonisation Customer vulnerability and fuel poverty with interests in energy, the environment and wider social issues.
In recognition that more can Employment standards including the real be achieved to solve key societal issues by working with these stakeholders, SSE actively seeks their Living Wage and the gender pay gap engagement through means including direct feedback on reports, participation in public events and SSEs economic contribution and its responses to surveys and consultations.
approach to tax SUPPLIERS AND CONTRACTORS SSE aims to build strong relationships with suppliers and contractors so it can maximise cost efficiencies and enhance positive economic, social and environmental outcomes.
Engagement methods Material issues Fair expectation in the delivery of projects SSE has a structured approach to engaging with its most strategic supply chain partners, to establish Manage and mitigate health and safety risks long-term relationships which create sustainable value for both SSE and its suppliers.
In addition to on sites regular engagement and audits, SSEs procurement function also engages directly with suppliers Deliver economic opportunities to local around key issues to ensure its values are upheld throughout its supply chain.
supply chains Ensure social and environmental impacts, such as modern slavery, Living Wage and resource use, are managed and mitigated SSE plc Annual Report 2018 21
