THE BOARD DR KEITH HELLAWELL QPM Non-Executive Chairman, Chairman of the Nomination Committee Appointed: 24 November 2009 Committees: Nomination and Remuneration Committees Previous roles: Prior to joining the team at Sports Direct International plc, Dr Hellawell spent over 40 years in public sector management being a former Chief Constable of two British police forces.
While working directly for the Prime Minister between 1998 and 2002 he wrote and coordinated the United Kingdom national and international anti-drugs policy.
Dr Hellawell has been involved in the private sector since 1998 when he joined Evans of Leeds, a fully listed property company.
Since then he has served on the Boards of both Dalkia plc and Sterience Limited, subsidiaries of the French company Veolia Env.
He was Non-Executive Chairman of Goldshield Group plc, a marketing-led pharmaceutical and consumer health company, from May 2006 to its sale in December 2009.
He has held a number of other NonExecutive Board positions in private companies in sectors such as vehicle manufacturing and IT.
Present roles: Dr Hellawell is currently a Non-Executive Director of Mortice plc, a Singapore-based facilities management company, a Director of the Super League team Huddersfield Giants and Non-Executive Chairman of Smart Witness Limited, a leading designer, manufacturer, and supplier of in-vehicle cameras, recorders, and software.
He also runs his own management and training consultancy company.
There have been no changes to Dr Hellawell's significant commitments outside the Company during FY18.
Key skills and experiences: Dr Hellawell has worked in both the public and private sector for over 50 years.
Throughout this time he has built up a wealth of experience which he brings to the Group to ensure the successful and effective operation of the Board.
MIKE ASHLEY Chief Executive Appointed: 1982 founder Previous roles: Mike established the business of the Group on leaving school in 1982 and was the sole owner until the Groups listing in March 2007.
He was Executive Deputy Chairman prior to being appointed Chief Executive in September 2016.
Key skills and experiences: Mike was the founder of the Group and has the necessary skills for formulating the vision and commercial strategy of the Group.
With over 30 years in the sports retail business with Sports Direct he is invaluable to the Group.
JON KEMPSTER Chief Financial Officer Appointed: 11 September 2017 Previous roles: Jon has been a listed plc Finance Director for most of his career.
He was previously Finance Director of Wincanton plc, Delta plc, Low & Bonar plc, Linden plc, fii plc and of AIM listed Utilitywise plc.
Present roles: Jon is a director of JVM Ltd, a private group who have exclusive dealerships to sell construction equipment in Russia.
Jon is also a Non-Executive Director of Redcentric plc, an AIM listed IT managed services provider and a Trustee of the Delta Pension Plan.
Key skills and experiences: Jon is a Chartered Accountant and has extensive experience working in listed company environments.
94 SIMON BENTLEY Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee Appointed: 2 March 2007 Committees: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees Previous roles: Simon qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1980 and in 1987 joined Blacks Leisure Group plc where he was Chairman and Chief Executive for 12 years.
Present roles: Simon chairs and is on the board of a range of companies and organisations.
Among these, he is Chairman of the hair brand Umberto Giannini, is the principal owner and Chairman of the leading mobile ATM operator Cash on the Move, is a Supervisory Board Director of Global Home, a designer and manufacturer of indoor furniture for retailers, based in Vietnam, and is Chairman of Yad Vashem UK Foundation.
Key skills and experiences: He has lengthy experience of the sporting goods industry, and has the recent and relevant financial experience and accounting background necessary to be Chairman of the Audit Committee.
DAVID DALY Non-Executive Director Appointed: 2 October 2017 Committees: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees Previous roles: David has held a number of positions during a 30 year international career with Nike, focussing on the football industry.
He started in a sales role in 1986 and retired in 2015 as a Senior Director for Nikes Club and Federation business, responsible for global merchandising business for all of Nikes leading Soccer Clubs.
Present roles: David is a Non-Executive Director of Fulham Football Club.
Key skills and experiences: David has strong international experience in marketing and merchandising in the sports industry.
DAVID BRAYSHAW Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Appointed: 8 December 2016 Committees: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees Previous roles: David is a very experienced senior investment and commercial banker.
He has over 30 years experience with organisations such as Barclays Capital, HSBC, Citigroup and Pilkington plc.
Key skills and experiences: David graduated from Oxford in 1975 with a Masters of Arts in Chemistry.
He has spent a long career in the field of corporate financing for a number of major financial institutions, and completed time as the Group Treasurer of Pilkington plc.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GOVERNANCE 95
