Strategic Report Financial and operational performance RETAIL SUPPLYING ENERGY AND SERVICES SSE supplies energy and related services to households, businesses and public sector customers in the UK and Ireland.
SSE Energy Services supplies energy and related services to households in Great Britain and is subject to a proposed demerger and combination with npower to create a new, independent company.
SMART METERS Retail adjusted reported SSE Airtricity adjusted reported operating SSE connected 474,850 operating profit m profit m domestic smart meters in 2017 18.
402.8 328.0 33.0 26.9 SSE is involved in supplying energy and related services to SSE Airtricity supplies energy to households and business and households, businesses and public sector customers in the public sector customers across the island of Ireland.
SSE Energy Services adjusted reported SSE Business Energy adjusted reported INCLUSIVE operating profit m operating profit m SSE Energy Services 278.7 221.8 64.2 64.2 secured the British Standard for Inclusive Within the Retail segment, SSE Energy Services supplies Within the Retail segment, SSE Business Energy supplies energy and related services to households in Scotland, electricity and gas to business and public sector customers Service Provision, England and Wales.
in Scotland, England and Wales.
recognising and adapting to customers vulnerabilities, in March SSE Energy Services customer accounts m All-island energy customer accounts 2018.
Ireland m 6.8 0.74 SSE Energy Services customer accounts cover provision of SSE Airtricity supplies energy to households and business and energy and related services such as telephone, broadband public sector customers across the island of Ireland and is and boiler care.
the only retailer to operate in all of the competitive gas and electricity markets across the island.
Our shared goals in leading what is now SSE Energy Services through this period of change are clear.
They are to retain and attract more customers: reduce our costs: deliver smart meters in a safe and customer-focused way: and build on SSEs customer-centric culture.
Sustainable success in supplying energy and related services in what is an extremely competitive market will require these priorities to be very clearly pursued in 2018 19.
The shared commitment to delivery across the SSE Energy Services team stands the business in good stead.
Stephen Forbes Tony Keeling Chief Commercial Officer Chief Operating Officer and Co-Head of Retail and Co-Head of Retail 60 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 RETAIL SSE plc Annual Report 2018 61 Strategic Report Financial and operational performance RETAIL CONTINUED Retail key performance indicators March 18 March 17 SSE Energy Services SSE Energy Services Energy Supply households GB adjusted operating profit m 260.4 260.8 SSE Energy Services Energy Supply households GB reported operating profit m 203.5 171.7 SSE Energy Services Energy Related Services households GB adjusted operating profit m 18.3 12.7 SSE Energy Services Energy Related Services households GB reported operating profit m 18.3 5.5 Total SSE Energy Services adjusted operating profit 278.7 273.5 Total SSE Energy Services reported operating profit 221.8 177.2 Retail Businesses remaining after the proposed transaction Energy Supply Business Energy adjusted operating profit m 64.2 89.4 Energy Supply Business Energy reported operating profit m 64.2 73.0 Energy Supply SSE Airtricity adjusted operating profit m 33.0 42.7 Energy Supply SSE Airtricity reported operating profit m 26.9 42.7 Enterprise adjusted operating profit m 26.9 16.7 Enterprise reported operating profit m 15.1 16.7 Total Remaining within SSE adjusted operating profit m 124.1 148.8 Total Remaining within SSE reported operating profit m 106.2 132.4 Capital expenditure SSE Energy Services m 110.8 184.0 Capital expenditure Business, Airtricity & Enterprise m 63.4 59.0 Electricity customer accounts GB domestic m 3.82 4.06 Gas customer accounts GB domestic m 2.53 2.70 Energy Related Services GB domestic m 0.45 0.47 Total SSE Energy Services customers m 6.80 7.23 Energy customers accounts Business Energy sites m 0.49 0.45 All-Island energy market customers Ire m 0.74 0.79 Total Retail Customer accounts 8.03 8.47 Electricity supplied household average GB kWh 3,788 3,793 Gas supplied household average GB th 454 440 Household small business aged debt GB, Ireland m 85.8 80.2 Bad debt expense GB, Ireland m 46.0 47.9 1 Customer complaints to third parties GB 1,616 1,322 1 Ombudsman: Energy Services and Citizens Advice.
Smart Meters on supply Over 850,000 Over 500,000 energy consumption due to unseasonably Providing energy and related Financial performance in Retail cold weather.
services in Great Britain and Ireland During the 12 months to 31 March 2018, total SSE is one of the largest energy suppliers adjusted operating profit in Retail including SSE Energy Services Energy-related operating in the competitive energy markets Enterprise was 402.8m compared with services households in GB : adjusted in Great Britain and Ireland.
The principal operating profit increased to 18.3m in it supplied electricity and gas to 7.58 million movements were as follows: 2017 18, from 12.7m in 2016 17, reflecting household and business accounts.
It also increased profitability of SSEs home services provides other related products and services, SSE Energy Services Energy supply and telco businesses, which was partially including telephone, broadband and boiler households in GB : adjusted operating profit offset by a reduction in revenues from the care, to 0.45 million household customers.
was flat at 260.4m in 2017 18 compared to heritage metering business.
While electricity tariffs The Retail business area includes those increased to recognise rising non-energy Energy Supply Business Energy : adjusted businesses which are subject to the costs, overall profits were also impacted by operating profit decreased to 64.2m in planned SSE Energy Services transaction.
customer account losses and the introduction 2017 18, from 89.4m in 2016 17.
While of price caps for certain customer groups, underlying profits remained similar, 2016 17 offset by ongoing efficiency savings.
The included a larger prior year reconciliation business also benefited, in the last quarter catch up.
of the financial year, from higher customer 62 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 Energy Supply SSE Airtricity : adjusted supply business models and they must evolve and will lead the work to prepare for the operating profit decreased to 33.0m in and adapt in order to be sustainable in the formation and listing of the new company.
2017 18, from 42.7m in the previous medium to longer term.
On 8 November Her role during that period will not include any year, due to a combination of increased 2017, SSE set out that following discussions involvement in the leadership or management competition and increased energy costs.
with innogy SE innogy, SSE had identified of either existing organisation.
an opportunity subject to the necessary Enterprise: Adjusted operating profit regulatory and shareholder approvals to Facing up to the core challenges increased to 26.9m in 2017 18, from 16.7m combine its household energy and services Energy supply businesses in GB face a in the previous year, due to a combination business in GB with that of innogys subsidiary, number of headwinds due to the rapidly of higher revenues and focused cost cutting.
npower, to create a new, independent evolving and increasingly competitive nature company to be listed on the London Stock of the market.
These headwinds can be Reported Retail operating profit: increased Exchange.
Both SSE and innogy believe the characterised as four core challenges to to 328.0m from 309.6m in prior year due planned SSE Energy Services transaction has which SSE Energy Services must respond to the reasons outlined above in addition to potential to drive real benefits for customers, in order to stay relevant and sustainable: the impact of exceptional items and certain employees, shareholders and the wider re-measurements.
In the year, the Group has energy market by combining the expertise Competition: the energy supply market recorded exceptional impairments totalling and resources of two established providers continues to intensify with around 80 63.0m as a result of its decision to demerge with the focus and agility of an independent suppliers now competing to win and retain its UK domestic gas and electricity supply supplier in what would be a unique model in customers, the arrival of new entrants from business.
In addition, there was an exceptional the market.
With its own dedicated Board and start-ups to major multi-nationals such as impairment of 11.8m in the Heat Networks expert management team, the new company Shell, Vattenfall and Engie, and record levels business due to a re-evaluation of some of would be well positioned to respond of customer switching, according to Energy the contracts within the business.
In the prior to changing customer and stakeholder UK data.
As a result, despite ongoing efforts to year impairments totalled 112.7m.
expectations by becoming more efficient, attract and retain customers, in 2017 18 SSE agile and innovative.
GB domestic electricity and gas customer Consolidated segmental statement accounts numbers fell to 6.35m compared In line with its licence condition, SSE The planned SSE Energy Services transaction with 6.76m at 31 March 2017. will publish in June 2018 a Consolidated is subject to approval by the Competition Segmental Statement CSS setting out and Markets Authority CMA and a merger Operating costs: in this environment, the revenues, costs and profit or losses notice was formally submitted to the CMA ensuring controllable costs are as low as of businesses in its Wholesale and Retail on 28 February 2018.
Following an initial possible is key to staying competitive and segments in Great Britain for 2017 18.
The Phase One investigation, on 8 May 2018, the offering customers value while delivering for CSS will be fully reconciled to SSEs published Competition and Markets Authority referred shareholders: however, the cost of supplying financial statements and reviewed by SSEs the planned transaction for a so-called Phase energy is increasing and there is upward auditors, KPMG.
It is expected to show that 2 investigation, by a group of independent pressure from a number of areas principally SSEs operating profit margin from supplying panel members.
The deadline for the final the many and varied impacts of the smart electricity and gas to British households in report from that investigation is 22 October meter roll-out, falling underlying energy 2017 18 was slightly down on the previous 2018.
The transaction is also subject to consumption, regulatory intervention and year, at 6.8%.
approval by SSEs shareholders and a lower customer numbers.
shareholder circular will be published on Within this, SSE has previously highlighted 27 June 2018 in advance of a vote at a Regulatory intervention: there will always an increasing divergence between gas and General Meeting to take place immediately be intense political interest in the energy electricity margins due to increasing policy after the SSE Annual General Meeting on market and this has major implications for the costs being levied predominantly levied on 19 July 2018.
As stated in November 2018, regulatory environment in which SSE Energy electricity.
However, following the increase significant synergies are also anticipated, and Services operates.
The Domestic Gas and to electricity prices only in April 2017, margins further detail on these will be set out in the Electricity Tariff Cap Bill 2017-19 is expected are more balanced across fuels in 2017 18 shareholder circular.
Taking these timetables to receive royal assent in Summer 2018 and than the previous year.
into account, the planned SSE Energy Services Ofgem is already consulting on how to transaction remains on track for completion implement this market-wide cap on standard Retail financial outlook for 2018 19 in the last quarter of the 2018 calendar year household energy prices.
Although SSE has Retails adjusted operating profit attributable or first quarter of 2019. warned against the unintended consequences to SSE will be subject, amongst other things, of such a significant intervention in a rapidly to the progress and timing of the planned Until such time as approval is given and evolving and highly competitive market, it is transaction relating to SSE Energy Services the transaction is completed, SSE Energy engaging constructively with Ofgem to help and the timing and impact of the Domestic Services and npower remain entirely separate ensure the methodology used to set and Gas and Electricity Tariff Cap Bill.
and compete with one another as normal.
update the cap is robust, fair and takes account However, integration planning work is under of the real costs and risks of supplying energy Adapting to a changing environment way to make necessary plans and preparations to a large and diverse range of customers.
At Preparing SSE Energy Services for for the new business, to the extent allowed the same time, transformational regulatory the future within the letter and spirit of competition law.
projects are being undertaken in the form In its full-year results statement for 2016 17, A number of key milestones have already been of the smart meter roll-out and the faster SSE stated that the rapidly evolving and reached, including the appointment of Katie switching programme.
increasingly competitive market for the supply Bickerstaffe as Chief Executive Designate of energy and related services presents a of the future combined business.
Katie will number of challenges for traditional energy take up her new appointment later this year SSE plc Annual Report 2018 63 Strategic Report Financial and operational performance RETAIL CONTINUED As well as introducing an unprecedented offering to fix their customers boiler for free, Forums and the company has engaged with amount of change, implementing these even if they dont have cover at the point of over 60,000 consumers through a programme projects requires a significant commitment breakdown.
This has contributed to strong of research which includes its 3,000-strong of resources.
performance in SSEs Energy-Related Services online Customer Connect community.
SSEs business and, having successfully completed focus on delivering excellent customer service Evolving customer expectations: the its transition to a regulated insurance model in has seen it sign up to the Energy Switch energy market does not exist in a vacuum Home Services, SSE sees further opportunities Guarantee and the Energy UK Billing Code and customers expectations continue to for growth in this area, as well as improving and these commitments have helped maintain increase, informed by their experiences energy customer retention through valuea strong performance in the Citizens Advice of other companies and markets.
Energy Supplier rating, including SSE once is growing for more tailored, personalised again being identified as having the lowest services underpinned by data used Reducing our cost to serve: given the levels of complaints to third parties amongst responsibly, seamless customer experiences competitive environment, upward pressure the major energy suppliers in Great Britain.
SSE across channels and devices, and an on costs and the need to keep energy as remains very mindful of its responsibilities in enhanced ability to self-serve via useraffordable as possible for customers, efforts respect of supporting customers in vulnerable friendly, intuitive digital platforms.
In the to drive efficiency improvements across SSE circumstances: to that end, it committed longer term, the development of disruptive Energy Services are vitally important.
Through to attaining the British Standard for Inclusive technologies from smart meters to domestic further embedding lean methodology and Service Provision, which is widely regarded as micro-generation, storage and electric continuous improvement hubs, with more the gold standard in recognising and adapting vehicles could change fundamentally the than 300 staff now trained as part of the service to customer vulnerability in all its forms.
nature of the services customers require.
lean academy, this programme continued SSE achieved the Standard in March 2018, to deliver cost efficiencies in 2017 18.
Also in for the key areas of Complaints, Credit Setting and delivering on the 2017 18, SSE Energy Services made further Management and Sales.
right strategic priorities progress in its efforts to digitalise its front In the longer term, SSE believes the planned and back-office systems, rolling out further Delivering for business SSE Energy Services transaction is the right process automation to reduce administrative energy customers strategic response to these issues, creating an costs and helping more customers to Business Energy supplies energy to business independent business with singularity of focus self-serve online, as demonstrated by and public sector customers throughout and the ability to be more agile and responsive a 200% uplift in phone and broadband Great Britain, to a market which consumes to changing market and customer dynamics.
sign-ups online following improvements a total of around 180TWh of electricity and to the customer journey.
8 billion therms of gas annually.
However, this is subject to regulatory and shareholder approvals and in the interim SSE Delivering smart in a safe, cost-effective Business Energy continued to perform robustly Energy Services remains focused on its own and customer-centric way: the smart meter across all customer segments, this strong internal strategic priorities for addressing roll-out represents an opportunity to transform position is built on solid core competencies in these challenges across both Energy Supply the relationship between customers, their meeting business customers energy needs.
and Energy Related Services: energy supplier and the energy they consume.
Competencies such as excellent customer SSE remains committed to delivering on its service and sales channels exist within Business Attracting and retaining more customers: obligations under the roll-out in a way that Energy, whilst others are leveraged across the in a fiercely competitive market, winning and is safe, minimises where possible costs to wider SSE Group, for example, the ability to keeping customers is challenging and a key customers, and maximises the net benefits develop products that navigate the increasing area of focus.
In 2017 18, SSE Energy Services to customers by engaging them with their complexity of the GB energy market.
continued to leverage its investment in energy use.
To that end, as of 31 March 2018, entertainment sponsorship to offer additional SSE had more than 850,000 smart meters on In 2018 19 the focus remains on growing rewards to customers in order to engage supply in customers homes.
Despite ongoing Business Energys core market segments, and retain them and more than 2.5m people challenges associated with the availability of whilst broadening into related services such visited SSE-sponsored venues during this key enabling technology, generating demand as energy optimisation and demand side 12-month period alone.
In exploring ways from customers and timing the ramp-up of its response where there is an opportunity to use to engage customers in new ways, SSE is workforce, SSE was pleased to deliver against data and technology to improve outcomes developing partnerships with leading retail its binding targets agreed with Ofgem for 2017 for customers.
brands such as WH Smith, nectar and Argos.
It and is now preparing to make the transition to will also soon launch a renew 1-year fix tariff the enduring SMETS2 solution, once available.
Supplying energy and essential through which it will automatically sign up Given the degree of complexity and up-front services across Ireland customers whose fixed-term deal is ending investment costs involved, SSE has consistently In Irelands all-island energy market, SSEs to a new fixed-term tariff with no exit fees argued that the roll-out and associated targets retail arm SSE Airtricity is the second-largest giving them price protection and, critically, should be kept under review so that pragmatic, provider of energy and related services across introducing a new prompt to engage with informed decisions can be made that lead to the Republic of Ireland ROI and Northern their tariff choices on renewal each year.
the highest possible net benefits to customers Ireland NI, and the only retail energy brand These efforts are also supported by innovative from the programme as a whole.
operating in each of the competitive gas and new propositions such as offering low-cost electricity markets across the island.
unlimited broadband and the popular Boiler Building on SSEs customer-centric culture: Rescue offer of a free emergency boiler repair throughout a year of change, SSE has At 31 March 2018, SSE Airtricity supplied to any customer who then signs up to a new continued to put customers at the heart of electricity and natural gas to 0.74 million boiler care subscription.
This makes SSE everything it does.
Senior managers met household and business customer accounts Energy Services the only energy provider regularly with customers in SSEs Customer in ROI and NI, reflecting a fall in household 64 SSE plc Annual Report 2018
