Directors Report Corporate Governance Effectiveness ANNUAL EVALUATION The Board recognises that it does have to Evaluation process Actions agreed for 2017 2018 Progress made and Board observations Actions agreed for 2018 19 adapt to the changing environment in which The performance and effectiveness of the Enhancing Board engagement and strategy SSE operates, and a number of areas for Board and its Committees is monitored on improvement going forward were therefore Continue to assess the opportunities The continual importance of the strategy session as an Seek to continually improve the strategy development process and an ongoing basis, and is subject to formal identified.
Details of some of the priorities to enhance strategic discussion and opportunity to engage and provide uninterrupted focus to introduce the use of key tools which proactively monitor progress review through the annual evaluation process.
for 2018 19 are set out opposite, alongside debate throughout the year.
It was noted that significant against agreed plans.
As with the previous reporting period, the an overview of progress against the actions Continue to build both dedicated progress has been made in linking agenda items and matters Increase the engagement and use of external speakers in relation Board and Committee evaluations were agreed for 2017 18. non-Executive Director and Board that are brought for Board consideration, to the outcomes of to key themes relevant to the Boards strategic considerations.
This is ahead of engagement time into the formal the strategy session and the agreed strategic aims.
The overall Continue to seek and identify opportunities for the Board to the three yearly external evaluation which Board Committees meeting calendar.
quality and content of strategic discussions was agreed to have engage with internal and external stakeholders, and to enhance is scheduled to take place next year.
There continues to be an effective relationship improved as a result.
employee understanding of the role of the Board and its subbetween the Board and its Committees, and Formal time for the non-Executive Directors and Chairman Committees.
Stage 1. Review, plan and design further details of the findings from each of was built into the calendar for the year, with full Board At the start of the evaluation process, the the individual Committee evaluations are set engagement having been facilitated by the standing Board Chairman with the support of the Company out in their respective reports that follow.
dinners and additional sessions such as: the culture event in Secretary considered the design and approach Forbury, see page 98: the dedicated strategy session, see page to be adopted.
A comprehensive questionnaire Individual Director 98: and site visits, see page 104. was developed for the Board and for each During the year each Director participated The Board noted the importance of creating opportunities for Committee, with questions structured to in a detailed review of individual performance stakeholder engagement and the insights that such meetings capture feedback on: previously agreed which was carried out by the Chairman.
have provided over the year.
actions: areas for further improvement: and The process for evaluating the Chairman any additional observations.
In setting the was managed by the Senior Independent questions, particular consideration was given Engaging in Board development Director, which involved a separate meeting to developments in the reporting period which Opportunities for further Board The Board have continued to seek further information in No specific actions have been identified for 2018 19, as the Board with the non-Executive Directors and included could impact upon the work and focus of the development, both SSE specific and areas where they believe that further detail or understanding recognise the development process to be well established and as feedback from the Executive Directors.
Board and its Committee going forward.
more generally, will be monitored and is required, and further information of the activities to support continuing to work effectively.
Director development can be found on page 104.
The above were carried out in consideration Stage 2.
Issue questionnaire of the conflicts of interest and independence The relevant questionnaires were issued to review as detailed on page 108, which each of the Directors for consideration and Considering succession planning confirmed the continuing independence and inclusion and diversity comment, and appropriate time provided of each non-Executive Director.
Receive feedback on planned The Board agreed that oversight of HR strategy has increased Continue to monitor the diversity of the Board, senior engagement between the Nomination positively at both Board and Nomination Committee level management and internal talent pipeline, providing support Through the review, the effective and positive Stage 3.
Compilation of Committee and HR and consider ways throughout the year, and has been supported by initiatives to the Nomination Committee as required.
contribution which each Director continued responses and report back in which the visibility of the talent which have increased visibility of succession plans and the As appropriate, consider initiatives to drive positive change to make to the Board was confirmed, and The Company Secretary compiled the pipeline can be increased.
in the area of diversity, whilst giving regard to their ability to individual objectives were agreed for each individual Director responses, and following Continue to challenge and strengthen Board and Nomination Committee focus on inclusion and support enhanced performance and culture.
Director as required and will be reviewed analysis of the comments provided a report the work on inclusion and diversity.
diversity at Director and Group level has heightened throughout Apply challenge to ensure that any long-term succession plans throughout the year.
One specific action, to the Chairman for consideration.
There is recognition and support of the benefits support agreed objectives in respect of diversity.
was the agreement to introduce a Chairmans setting out the findings, including any that diversity brings, and acknowledgment of the work Consider a non-Executive Director appointment with executive Report to the standing Boardagenda.
progress made in the year, along with that is required in this area.
experience from the sector see Evaluation progress opposite proposed actions, was put to the Board in respect of this action.
Following the agreement of actions for Governance and corporate culture 2018 19, a number of workstreams were Stage 4.
Agree actions initiated which have resulted in progress and monitor progress Explicitly support culture through the The requirement to ensure that cultural considerations are The breadth of site visits completed to date should be assessed, having been achieved within the period.
Following discussion, the Board agreed reporting and monitoring of a number embedded within all of the Boards work is well recognised, in order to identify whether there are any gaps in Board oversight In respect of initiatives to drive positive objectives for its own performance and that of existing and new initiatives, including as significant efforts have been made to understand the culture, and whether a systematic approach to these engagements change in the area of diversity, the of its Committees for the next 12 months.
thoughts and views from different cross sections of the workforce should be developed.
Nomination Committee and Board approved Chairman and Company Secretary agreed to and business.
Feedback on relevant observations and any comments provided the ambitions which were developed to monitor and facilitate the implementation of New initiatives including the culture event at Forbury, see page 98 by employees should continue to be captured, with the Board support an increase in female representation any actions as required.
and existing engagements such as site visits, see pages 97 and driving any future actions as they deem necessary.
across senior roles, and also SSEs response 104, continue to provide relevant insights and are highly valued Consider an external assessment of corporate culture.
to the Hampton-Alexander Review see Evaluation findings by theBoard.
When considering Board Board refreshment and succession planning, the As with previous years, the annual evaluation benefits of having a non-Executive Director process highlighted areas in which the Board with executive experience from the sector, was operating well and identified areas of was one of the objective criteria considered focus for the coming year.
Overall, it was the in the process which resulted in the collective view of the Directors that the Board appointment of Tony Cocker see page 106. is effective in discharging its responsibilities, something which is supported by good working relations.
Non-Executive Directors insight and experience is always welcomed and challenge continues to be encouraged.
102 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 Actions agreed for 2017 2018 Progress made and Board observations Actions agreed for 2018 19 Enhancing Board engagement and strategy Continue to assess the opportunities The continual importance of the strategy session as an Seek to continually improve the strategy development process and to enhance strategic discussion and opportunity to engage and provide uninterrupted focus to introduce the use of key tools which proactively monitor progress debate throughout the year.
Continue to build both dedicated progress has been made in linking agenda items and matters Increase the engagement and use of external speakers in relation non-Executive Director and Board that are brought for Board consideration, to the outcomes of to key themes relevant to the Boards strategic considerations.
engagement time into the formal the strategy session and the agreed strategic aims.
The overall Continue to seek and identify opportunities for the Board to meeting calendar.
quality and content of strategic discussions was agreed to have engage with internal and external stakeholders, and to enhance improved as a result.
employee understanding of the role of the Board and its subFormal time for the non-Executive Directors and Chairman Committees.
was built into the calendar for the year, with full Board engagement having been facilitated by the standing Board dinners and additional sessions such as: the culture event in Forbury, see page 98: the dedicated strategy session, see page 98: and site visits, see page 104.
The Board noted the importance of creating opportunities for stakeholder engagement and the insights that such meetings have provided over the year.
Engaging in Board development Opportunities for further Board The Board have continued to seek further information in No specific actions have been identified for 2018 19, as the Board development, both SSE specific and areas where they believe that further detail or understanding recognise the development process to be well established and as more generally, will be monitored and is required, and further information of the activities to support continuing to work effectively.
Considering succession planning and inclusion and diversity Receive feedback on planned The Board agreed that oversight of HR strategy has increased Continue to monitor the diversity of the Board, senior engagement between the Nomination positively at both Board and Nomination Committee level management and internal talent pipeline, providing support Committee and HR and consider ways throughout the year, and has been supported by initiatives to the Nomination Committee as required.
in which the visibility of the talent which have increased visibility of succession plans and the As appropriate, consider initiatives to drive positive change pipeline can be increased.
in the area of diversity, whilst giving regard to their ability to Continue to challenge and strengthen Board and Nomination Committee focus on inclusion and support enhanced performance and culture.
the work on inclusion and diversity.
diversity at Director and Group level has heightened throughout Apply challenge to ensure that any long-term succession plans the year.
that diversity brings, and acknowledgment of the work Consider a non-Executive Director appointment with executive that is required in this area.
experience from the sector see Evaluation progress opposite in respect of this action.
Governance and corporate culture Explicitly support culture through the The requirement to ensure that cultural considerations are The breadth of site visits completed to date should be assessed, reporting and monitoring of a number embedded within all of the Boards work is well recognised, in order to identify whether there are any gaps in Board oversight of existing and new initiatives, including as significant efforts have been made to understand the culture, and whether a systematic approach to these engagements relevant supporting data.
Feedback on relevant observations and any comments provided New initiatives including the culture event at Forbury, see page 98 by employees should continue to be captured, with the Board and existing engagements such as site visits, see pages 97 and driving any future actions as they deem necessary.
104, continue to provide relevant insights and are highly valued Consider an external assessment of corporate culture.
SSE plc Annual Report 2018 103 Directors Report Corporate Governance Effectiveness BOARD KNOWLEDGE corporate governance developments and Board induction Director development the evolving landscape in this area.
On joining the Board, all Directors receive Throughout the reporting year, the Directors a tailored induction programme designed participate in a range of engagements outside Legislative update to suit their individual needs.
This takes into of the Boardroom and formal meeting SSEs legal advisers provided a briefing account any existing experience, and the calendar.
These include visits to SSEs on the UK Listing Regime and other responsibilities of their position on the Board operational sites in both Great Britain and relevant legal and regulatory obligations, and any Committees as appropriate.
The Ireland: briefing sessions from specialists including an overview of upcoming and comprehensive programme is facilitated by or technical experts: and attendance and current developments relevant to UK the Chairman and Company Secretary, and participation at internal conferences, forums Listed Companies.
can involve meetings with key personnel: and round-table sessions.
Spending time in technical briefings: site visits: and dedicated the business allows the Directors to learn, Board insights courses.
During the induction programme, observe and listen to the thoughts and views Through the Board meeting and engagement each Director is invited to identify areas in of different teams and individuals from across calendar, time was spent getting to know which they would like additional information SSE.
It also enhances understanding of culture each of the non-Executive Directors and or further meetings, which the Company and the day to day business operations, and gathering insights into the operations of Secretary will then arrange.
The induction for allows the Directors to see first-hand how theBoard.
Martin Pibworth which took place following these support the execution ofstrategy.
his appointment as Executive Director is set External view of SSE out below.
The above engagements can originate from A meeting with SSEs broker, Morgan Stanley, the annual evaluation process as an identified was arranged to provide an up-to-date Previous experience training requirement, or may be a specific view of investor, shareholder and market Martin has over 20 years sector experience request or an area of interest to a Director or sentiment, and an overview of the brokerand has been with SSE since 1998.
Feedback from all site visits and .
member of SSEs Management Board and engagements is always provided at the next then Group Executive Committee since 2012, full Board meeting, and details of some of that The role of the External Auditor he has a sound understanding of: SSEs Group provided throughout the year is set out below.
The lead audit partner provided a session structure and its different business areas: the on the role and duties of the External Auditor, elements within the five related frameworks Directors are further encouraged to request KPMG, including the relationship with the which make up SSEs System of Internal additional information and support at any Audit Committee and the Board.
Control see page 114 : and the operating time and the necessary resources will be and regulatory environment.
Future meetings Further engagements which are due to Induction programme take place include: a meeting with SSEs Governance broker Credit Suisse: and a one-to-one An externally facilitated Board update covered meeting with the Senior Independent the role, duties and legal responsibilities of a Director, CrawfordGillies.
Director, and provided an overview of relevant Engagement Visit covered Insights or support provided Thermal site the different activities currently being carried out on the options post-decommissioning including relevant Wholesale regeneration: site, including: the decommissioning of Ferrybridge C: security and safety considerations.
Ferrybridge the operations of Ferrybridge Multifuel 1 FMEL 1 : and the operations of FMEL 1. the construction of Ferrybridge Multifuel 2 FMEL 2. importance of the relationship with contractors and an overview of challenges faced.
the learnings that can be gained by bothparties.
Gas storage: meetings with operational leaders and staff.
Aldborough and Atwick an overview of key performance drivers and safety the differences between sites including both layout considerations.
and their role in the market.
Business energy: changes in the management team and future talent.
non-Executive Director input on: wider market trends Perth an overview of strategy implementation.
and responses in other industries: and organisational change and leadership.
Electricity networks meetings with the operational teams within the understanding of: the interface between the business Networks operations: Networks Management Centre and Networks and customers: how the Network responds to Portsmouth ControlRoom.
exceptional events: and the delivery of efficient a briefing on the regulatory, compliance and operations.
Operations and a tour of operations including sales, customer service understanding of the commitment to Retail performance: andmetering.
Belfast and Dublin an update on the operating environment and energy the business dynamics of operations in Ireland.
Utility infrastructure an overview of: the portfolio of district heat and key considerations in the management Enterprise and energy networks: cooling networks: the role of low-carbon multi-utility and delivery of large work programmes.
Riverdale and solutions: and future opportunities in this area.
the opportunities for future growth.
Victoria Nova a meeting with one of the operational delivery teams.
104 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Dear Shareholder, Katies stepping down from the Board, The role of the and Helen Mahy will become Chair of the Nomination Committee During 2017 18 the Nomination Committee Safety, Health and Advisory Committee when The Nomination Committee is responsible for has continued to provide dedicated focus Jeremy leaves the role.
The membership ensuring that the Board, its Committees and to people matters, with consideration of position across all Board Committees is SSEs senior management have the correct both Board-level plans to ensure orderly currently under review, and any resultant balance of skills, knowledge and experience, refreshment of membership, and longer-term recommendations for further change will to effectively lead the Company both now talent strategy to ensure the development of a be made in compliance with the Code and and in the longer term.
This is achieved skilled workforce which will support SSE in the other relevant guidance, with due regard for through effective succession planning and future.
The integration of initiatives to build an the work that they each carry out.
talent development, and an understanding inclusive and diverse workplace has also been of the changing competencies required to prominent on the agenda, and considered Diversity in its widest sense has been support the Companys strategy, purpose, within many of the Committees discussions.
considered in detail by the Committee, culture and values.
The Committee also plays The importance of all of the above in nurturing and has involved analysis of relevant metrics a key role in supporting inclusion and diversity and supporting a sustainable culture is well and strategic plans to encourage and support throughout the whole of SSE, which at Board recognised by the Committee and as such the progress in this area going forward.
As level involves reviewing and monitoring the broader and longer-term context underpins outlined in the report that follows, we note range of perspectives and attributes, to ensure many of our considerations.
that female representation at Board level will that they remain appropriate and continue be 22% following the changes outlined above, to promote an open and cohesive culture.
The Committee met five times in the year, and we commit to keeping this position under The full responsibilities of the Nomination and our work in respect of succession review when assessing options for future Committee are set out in its Terms of planning has supported a number of changes Board membership.
Our objectives and Reference which are available on the to Board membership during the period.
On ambitions in relation to inclusion and diversity SSEwebsite, sse.
com 1 September 2017, Martin Pibworth joined the have been further communicated in the year, Board in an executive capacity as Wholesale through the publication of a revised Board Nomination Committee Director, and we announced on 29 March Diversity Policy and our response to the activities in 2017 18 2018 that Tony Cocker would be appointed Hampton-Alexander Review, details of which Board succession non-Executive Director from 1 May 2018. are also provided in the following pages.
Throughout the reporting period, the Katie Bickerstaffe stepped down from the Committee continued to focus on the Board on 30 April 2018 and Jeremy Beeton Throughout 2018 19 we will continue to succession pipeline for the Board and will step down following conclusion of the assess the suitability of our agreed plans, and senior management, with areas of particular 2018 AGM both Katie and Jeremy joined monitor their integration with the Groupsconsideration being, the experience and as non-Executive Directors in 2011. wider people strategy, in order to build on knowledge of the evolving operating the progress which has been made to date environment, and the capabilities which Following the changes outlined above, the in relation to people development.
I hope would best support the renewed focus Board will comprise the Chairman, Senior that you find the report that follows of SSEs group of businesses following Independent Director, four non-Executive interesting and reflective of these efforts.
the planned SSE Energy Services transaction.
Directors and three Executive Directors.
Considerations were further informed by shareholder feedback received during In respect of Committee membership, Sue the year, and the findings of the annual Bruce joined the Remuneration Committee Board and individual Director evaluations on 1 December 2017 and assumed the which highlighted that increased relevant position of Chair on 1 May 2018 following Richard Gillingwater CBE operational experience would be a strong Chairman of the Nomination Committee addition to the Board.
24 May 2018 Members and meetings Independent nonMember Attended Members Executive Director since scheduled Richard Gillingwater Committee Chairman N A 2008 5 5 1 Jeremy Beeton Yes 2014 4 5 2 Katie Bickerstaffe Yes 2011 5 5 Sue Bruce Yes 2014 5 5 Crawford Gillies Yes 2015 5 5 3 Peter Lynas Yes 2014 4 5 Helen Mahy Yes 2016 5 5 The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Nomination Committee.
1 Jeremy Beeton was unable to attend the Committee meeting in March 2018 due to illness.
2 Katie Bickerstaffe stepped down from the Nomination Committee in line with her stepping down from the Board on 30 April 2018.
3 Peter Lynas was unable to attend the Committee meeting in November 2017 due to a prior commitment.
SSE plc Annual Report 2018 105 Directors Report Corporate Governance Effectiveness NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED In line with the continuous and pro-active Executive Director, and to progress the search to form.
Katie will take up her new nature of succession planning, the Company for a new non-Executive Director.
appointment later this year and will lead the has contingency, medium and long-term preparatory work for the formation and listing arrangements in place to ensure that change The Zygos Partnership Zygos, who have no of the new company.
During this time, her to the Board is well-managed and effective.
other connection with the Company, was role will not include any involvement in the This includes talent development plans to engaged to support the Committee in the leadership or management of either existing build future capability, which during the identification of potential candidates for the organisation.
year allowed the Committee to consider role.
In line with the commitment made in the the internal appointment of an additional SSE Board Diversity Policy, Zygos is accredited As announced on 24 May 2018, Jeremy Executive Director.
Through engagement with under the Enhanced Code of Conduct for Beeton will also step down from the Board, the leadership consultancy Wickland Westcott, Executive Search firms.
following seven years of service, at the who has no other connection with SSE, the conclusion of the AGM on 19 July 2018.
Committee initiated a comprehensive review The objective criteria against which potential process which involved assessment against candidates should be assessed was agreed The outcomes of the succession planning an agreed Executive Director role profile.
The by the Committee and provided to Zygos.
outlined above have ensured that the Board role profile considered both the current and These centred on relevant sector experience is well placed to deal with these changes.
likely future skills that would be required of and a comprehensive understanding of the an Executive Director of SSE, and gave due external environment in which SSE operates.
Changes to senior management consideration to the challenges and demands Based on this remit, a shortlist of individuals Having completed five years service with of the future operating environment and likely was provided to the Committee for the company, Will Morris stepped down as opportunities for growth.
Assessment against consideration, and was supported by a MD, Retail at the end of September 2017 in the role profile confirmed that Martin Pibworth detailed benchmarking exercise.
In-depth order to pursue new opportunities.
To ensure would be a valuable addition to the Board discussions surrounding what candidates continuity in the leadership and operation as Wholesale Director, and following would bring to the Board then followed, of this business area, the responsibilities of consideration, the Nomination Committee and meetings between each Board member Managing Director were shared between two recommended and the Board approved his and the preferred individual were arranged.
new co-Heads, who stepped into expanded appointment from 1 November 2017.
Feedback from each Director signified by roles Stephen Forbes was appointed Chief unanimous consent that Tony Cocker was Commercial Officer and Tony Keeling, Chief Full details of Martins experience within SSE the best candidate for the role.
The Committee remained following his joining of the Company in 1998, confirmation of the time commitment advised of all related considerations as are set out in his biography on page 91, and required and a review of existing they progressed, and Board oversight of the information surrounding his tailored Board engagements for any actual or potential Retail business has been retained through induction programme can be found on conflicts of interest, a recommendation was continued engagement in line with the page 104. made to the Board, and on 29 March 2018, agreed Board agenda.
it was announced that Tony Cocker would Through ongoing review of current nonjoin SSE as a non-Executive Director on Talent development Executive Director tenure, the Committee 1 May 2018.
Tony has 20 years experience Internal talent development, and the ability to can monitor and assess any likely short to of senior roles in the energy sector, and will attract, retain and progress skilled individuals medium-term changes in the skill set, diversity bring invaluable objective and independent within an inclusive environment is an area and independence of the Board, and ensure insight to the Boards deliberations.
A suitable which has continued to receive Committee that Board refreshment is progressive and induction programme is currently being focus in the period.
This has been facilitated planned.
In 2017 18, this tenure review was developed and options for Board Committee through enhanced engagement with HR, and conducted as part of a wider horizon scanning membership are under review.
by spending time reviewing the ways in which exercise, which considered relevant external the broader people strategy supports the developments and their potential impact At the beginning of April 2018, SSE was development of the internal talent pipeline on Board composition.
This included the notified by Katie Bickerstaffe of her intention and ensures access to a diverse and inclusive proposed changes to the Code, and the to step down from the role of non-Executive external talent pool.
Some key discussion recommendations of the Hampton-Alexander Director with effect from 30 April 2018.
This points have included the ability to identify, and Parker Reviews in relation to gender and followed Katies successful appointment harness and accelerate the development ethnic diversity.
The outcome of this tenure and as Chief Executive Designate of the new of talent at lower levels, and the assessment horizon scanning review, was the agreement independent energy supply and services of successor readiness in respect of to build on the appointment of Martin as a new company which SSE and innogy have agreed senior positions.
Director age range as at 31 March 2018 Director gender split as at 31 March 2018 Non-Executive tenure as at 31 March 2018 41-50 3 Female 3 1-3 years 2 51-60 3 Male 7 3-6 years 2 61-70 4 6-9 years 2 9 years 1 106 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 In order to further understand the existing Additional oversight of the talent pipeline has are wholly recognised by the Committee and capabilities at a senior level, benchmarking been further provided through a large number is evidenced through the commitments made and role specific talent assessments were of site visits and leadership events which the in the Board Diversity Policy.
The objectives of conducted by two external leadership Directors have attended, and through inviting which, are to ensure that Board membership consultancies.
This process has developed individuals from within the business to present remains appropriately balanced and relevant future focused role profiles for key roles, at Board meetings and strategy sessions.
to the Companys operations, and that and assessed potential future candidates Through these engagements the Directors measures are adopted to support and against these roles providing both a market have interacted with a large number of embrace difference within the context of an benchmark and a readiness assessment.
employees from across the business divisions inclusive culture.
In line with various external This allows consideration of the strength and central functions in 2017 18. initiatives and recommendations, including of the internal bench and also the specific those made within the Hampton-Alexander development experiences necessary to The risks presented by ineffective human Review, Parker Review and proposed revisions make internal candidates more ready for capital and talent management processes, to the Code, this Policy was reviewed and future roles.
The output from this key process are recognised by the Board and Nomination updated during the year to ensure that it has been managed through the existing Committee through the People and Culture remained relevant and stretching.
The full performance management framework and Principal Risk which is explained in detail on Board Diversity Policy is available to view the results used to advance and re-focus page 32. on sse.
the talent agenda where required.
The Committee has also agreed that going Additional information on the strategic When considering new appointments to forward, it will use this process to assess development plans to further people the Board, the Committee always apply the several individuals against key roles each year.
development across the Group can be principles set out within the Board Diversity found on page 81.
Policy, which ensure that appointments In the area of emerging talent, the Committee are made on merit, but require processes has also overseen SSEs training and Inclusion and diversity to be employed such that a diverse pool of development teams partnership with another The aim of making SSE a truly inclusive candidates can be identified and considered.
third party consultancy, to assess and develop workplace, has formed the backdrop for It also ensures that a thorough understanding future talent and high potential leaders, with the many discussions held during the year of SSEs needs is at the heart of any 30 successful applicants now benefiting from surrounding diversity, where the Committee recruitment process.
At present, work interventions to increase their experience, has considered difference in its broadest is currently ongoing to develop options exposure and education in order to enhance sense, and at all levels within the Group.
for future Board member refreshment in their leadership and business capability.
A key recognition of the recent changes to SSEs component of this process is active business Within the Board, the Committee has Board composition, with due regard being sponsorship by MDs and this development reflected upon the current composition given to the above and relevant external programme is being run again in 2018 19. and membership, and considered how the recommendations.
different perspectives and characteristics In the area of longer term talent, members amongst the Directors support the At senior management level, the talent of the Committee were involved in an furtherance of strategic objectives, and development processes described previously engagement session with a cross section complement the Companys culture and have been enhanced throughout the year of current graduates, technical staff trainees values.
With female representation reducing to support the recommendations of the and apprentices, further details of which are from 30% to 22% following the Board Hampton-Alexander Review.
This work was set out on page 97.
This session allowed changes outlined previously careful led by Group HR to ensure alignment with Committee members to hear first hand consideration has been given to the use of existing strategy, and has been reviewed and how these key succession programmes targets and ambitions in this area.
This also approved by the Committee.
Full details of the areprogressing, and to engage in discussion extends to ethnic diversity where the current initiatives and workstreams which were on the structure of the programmes, the composition of the Board is all white British.
agreed to support the effective acceleration candidate experience and the impact of of diversity within senior management, are the Company focus around securing an Additional measures which are used to assess explained in the formal response to the increasingly diverse candidate base.
the diversity of the Board, are set out below Hampton-Alexander Review which was and opposite.
com, and details of the targets which were agreed can be found Although no targets have been set at present, on page 81. the benefits that diversity brings to the Board Number of Directors with experience in key sectors and areas relevant to the Boards work, as at 31 March 2018 10 10 6 6 5 5 4 Banking, Large Capital Retail Utilities Governance Leadership Public Corporate Projects Business Regulation and and Risk Experience Sector Finance Management Experience Sector Experience SSE plc Annual Report 2018 107 Directors Report Corporate Governance Effectiveness NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Group-wide initiatives have been deployed Through her other roles, Sue has served on The Committee recognises the circumstances through SSEs inclusion and diversity strategy the Remuneration Committee of a number of set out in the Code which could compromise since 2014, and the positive progress made organisations including within the educational a Directors position and this is also taken has been recognised through a number of and charitable sectors, and therefore holds into account as appropriate.
Each Director external accreditations and relevant index recent and relevant experience in respect abstained from authorising and confirming listings.
The effectiveness of strategic plans of remuneration matters.
To facilitate her his or her own position.
in achieving the agreed objectives is subject induction, meetings were also arranged with to constant review, and in 2017 18 the a number of external bodies in order to Following review, the Committee Committee considered revisions to SSEs discuss current trends and issues in the areas recommended to the Board that each conflict inclusion strategy following completion of a relevant to the Remuneration Committees authorisation remained appropriate and that review by the independent inclusion specialist work.
In light of the above, the Nomination any new actual or potential conflict situations Equal Approach: which recommended that Committee believed that Sue was an excellent be approved.
The continuing independence SSE would gain most impact by widening its candidate to succeed Katie Bickerstaffe of each non-Executive Director was also focus to the development of an action plan as Chair of the Remuneration Committee confirmed.
that sought to maximise SSE as an inclusive following her stepping down from the Board, employer.
With the reshaping of the plan, the and this recommendation was put forward for Performance of the Committee has now engaged in discussions consideration.
Following Board agreement, Nomination Committee surrounding how SSE uses this new wider Sue was appointed to chair the Remuneration The performance of the Committee was approach to accelerate its impact and create Committee with effect from 1 May 2018. considered through the annual Board visible representation of change across the evaluation process, in which members business, and as this work continues into The Committee further recommended the were requested to provide specific feedback 2018 19, the Committee will continue to appointment of Helen Mahy to the position using a tailored questionnaire.
From the monitor and report on progress.
Further of Chair of the Safety, Health and Environment responses provided, it was confirmed details of the insight gained from this work Advisory Committee, when Jeremy ceases in that the Committee continued to operate along with details of SSEs approach as a the role at the conclusion of the AGM.
Having effectively and that progress had been made Responsible Employer can be found on pages served on the Safety, Health and Environment in the year, however, a number actions for 76 to 85 and in SSEs Sustainability Report.
Advisory Committee since 2016, Helen further improvement were also agreed.
possesses a firm understanding of, and Going forward, focus will continue in respect Board and Committee tenure commitment to, the areas of the Committees of inclusion and diversity at all levels, with In May 2017, the Committee recommended work, which was noted by the Board when areas such as shortlisting of candidates and the re-appointment of Katie Bickerstaffe, Peter endorsing this recommendation.
objectives at senior level to receive further Lynas and Jeremy Beeton to the Board for consideration.
The visibility and engagement a further three year term, subject to annual Any further changes to the membership between the Committee and the HR function re-election by shareholders.
This followed of the Board Committees, in light of recent which has been strengthened over the last 12 confirmation of their continuing and effective directorate changes, is currently under review.
months will also be built on, with updates on contribution to the Board, for which each All recommendations made will ensure talent development and internal progression individual abstained from their own review.
At continuing compliance with the Code and to be provided and monitored throughout this time, the re-appointment of Peter Lynas consider additional relevant guidance.
2018 19. and Sue Bruce to the Audit Committee for a further three year term was also confirmed.
Director conflicts and independence Changes to Remuneration Committee In January 2018, the Committee conducted membership also occurred during the period, its annual review of individual director conflict with Sue Bruce becoming a member on authorisations as recorded in the Conflicts 1 December 2017.
This appointment was of Interest Register.
The Conflicts of Interest made following the horizon-scanning review Register is maintained by the Company outlined above, and a discussion of evolving Secretary, and sets out any actual or potential best practice, which recommends that the conflict of interest situations which a Director Chair of the Remuneration Committee has disclosed to the Board in line with their should have suitable prior experience.
In order to form a view recognised that this appointment would surrounding Director independence, when provide the Committee with flexibility in reviewing the above conflict authorisations, respect of this position going forward.
consideration was also given to other appointments held by each Director as well as the relevant outcomes of the annual individual Director and Board evaluations.
