Directors Report Corporate Governance Accountability AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Dear Shareholder, critical judgements and estimates made by Audit Committee responsibilities management and details of these are provided The Committees Terms of Reference, On behalf of the Audit Committee, I am on page 112.
In addition, the Committee has which were updated in November 2017, are pleased to present our report for financial reviewed the work undertaken in preparation available on sse.
The responsibilities of year 2017 18. for the change in revenue recognition under the Committee are explained in this report IFRS 15.
Management has been pro-active and fell under the following areas.
The Committee has continued to play a in analysing the effect of this new standard, key role within the Corporate Governance and we will report on this in the 2018 Half Financial reporting Framework to support the Board in matters Year Results.
review the integrity of the interim and relating to: the integrity of Financial Reporting: annual financial statements: the relationship with the External Auditor: the Looking ahead, the Committee will focus on review the appropriateness of accounting effectiveness of the Internal Audit function: the tender of the external audit contract in policies and practices: and the effectiveness of the System of Internal accordance with the timeline set out on page review the significant issues and Control and Risk Management Framework.
113, and for ensuring there is a smooth and judgements considered in relation to Over the following pages we provide insight orderly transition to the new independent the financial statements, including how into the workings and activity of the external auditor.
Shareholders will be invited each was addressed: and Committee throughout the year.
to approve the appointment of the new review the content of the Annual Report external auditor at the AGM in 2019.
Over and Accounts and advise the Board on The Committee held four meetings during the next 12 months, the Committee will also whether taken as a whole, it is fair, the year and has met once since the end be focusing on some significant accounting balanced and understandable.
I would like to thank issues, including monitoring the impact of the members of the Committee, the IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, IFRS 16 Leases External Audit management team and KPMG for the open and the resultant disclosures.
review and monitor the objectivity and discussions that take place at our meetings independence of the External Auditor, and the importance they all attach to its work.
including the policy to govern the The Committees performance was assessed provision of non-audit services: as part of the annual Board evaluation.
I am review and monitor the effectiveness of pleased to report that the Committee is the external audit process and the ongoing regarded as operating effectively and the relationship with the External Auditor: and Board takes assurance from the quality of Peter Lynas review and make recommendations to the the Committees work.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Board on the tendering of the external 24 May 2018 audit contract, and the appointment, The Committee continued to exercise its remuneration and terms of engagement responsibility for ensuring the integrity of of the External Auditor.
SSEs financial statements by challenging the Internal Audit review and monitor the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function, including approval of the annual audit plan.
Risk management and internal control review and monitor the effectiveness of the management of risk and overall System of Internal Control: review the framework and analysis to support both the going concern and the long-term viability statement: and oversee appropriate whistleblowing and fraud prevention arrangements.
Members and meetings Independent nonMember Attended Members Executive Director since scheduled 1 Peter Lynas Committee Chairman Yes 2014 4 4 Sue Bruce Yes 2014 4 4 Crawford Gillies Yes 2015 4 4 2 Helen Mahy Yes 2016 4 4 The Deputy Company Secretary is Secretary to the Audit Committee.
1 Recent and relevant financial experience as the current Group Finance Director of BAE Systems plc and a Fellow of the Chartered Association of Certified Accountants.
2 Energy sector experience through previous role as Company Secretary and General Counsel of National Grid plc.
SSE plc Annual Report 2018 109 Directors Report Corporate Governance Accountability AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED reviewed and developed to meet the level of insight into particular items of Meetings and activities in 2017 18 changing needs of the Group.
Outwith the cycle of scheduled Meetings of the Committee are scheduled at the key matters considered at each meeting meetings, the Committee Chairman meets key times in the Groups financial reporting is provided below.
separately with the Finance Director, Director and audit calendar, and take place in advance of Risk, Audit and Insurance and KPMG to of Board meetings to allow the Committee Meetings of the Committee are also routinely ensure the work of the Committee is focused Chairman to provide a timely update to the attended by the: Company Chairman: Finance on key and emerging issues.
The matters considered at each Director: Director of Risk, Audit and Insurance: meeting are aligned to the financial and audit the External Auditor: and the Deputy During the course of the year, the timely calendars, and informed by a forward plan of Company Secretary who is Secretary to the circulation of reports and information, business which is designed to ensure the Committee.
The Committee invited other together with ongoing challenge, debate Committee is able to discharge its senior finance and business managers to and engagement, has enabled the Committee responsibilities in line with its Terms of attend certain meetings to provide a deeper to discharge its responsibilities in full.
The forward plan is regularly Key matters considered by the Committee during the year May 2 017 Considered the appropriateness of the accounting in relation to the Significant Financial Judgements and Exceptional Financial Reporting Items in 2016 17.
Reviewed the Preliminary Results and 2017 Annual Report, including alternative performance measures, viability statement and going concern.
Received a report on the Groups tax position, ongoing HMRC enquiries, areas of potential tax exposure and tax reporting, including SSEs Fair Tax Mark accreditation.
Received reports on the status of various accounting projects including: IFRS 15 Revenue Recognition and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
Reviewed letters of representation issued to KPMG for the full year results prior to them being agreed by the Board.
Considered the accounting, financial control and audit issues from KPMGs report on the 2016 17 audit.
External Audit Reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit process.
Reviewed the independence of KPMG.
Monitored the level of non-audit fees and approved any new non-audit engagements.
Held a private meeting with KPMG.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
Internal Audit Received a report on delivery of the 2016 17 Internal Audit plan and progress with the 2017 18 Internal Audit plan.
Reviewed Treasury operations, including the funding plan, liquidity and going concern.
Risk management and internal control Reviewed the procedures and outputs for the identification, assessment and reporting of Principal Risks.
Received an update on fraud and corruption risk governance, and considered progress with the fraud risk audit plan.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the System of Internal Control and made a recommendation to the Board.
Received a report on the disclosure of information to KPMG.
Governance Received a report on the Fair, Balanced and Understandable Assurance Framework.
Agreed the narrative of the 2016 17 Audit Committee Report.
September 2017 Agreed the project plan to streamline and simplify the corporate structure.
Financial Reporting Agreed the external audit strategy and scope for 2017 18.
External Audit Agreed the external audit engagement and audit fee for 2017 18.
Discussed the Financial Reporting Councils latest Audit Quality Review on KPMG.
Agreed revisions to the Non-Audit Services Policy.
Monitored the independence, level of non-audit fees and approved any new non-audit engagements.
Received an update on progress with the 2017 18 Internal Audit plan.
Internal Audit Received an update on the work of the Group Compliance function.
Risk management and internal control Reviewed the arrangements, incidents and trends arising from whistleblowing further details on page 85.
Considered changes to the Audit Committee Terms of Reference and made a recommendation to the Board.
Governance November 2017 Considered the Key Accounting Judgements and the Interim Financial Results.
Financial Reporting Reviewed letters of representation issued to KPMG for the half year results prior to them being agreed by the Board.
Considered the accounting, financial control and audit issues from KPMGs report on the 2017 18 half year audit.
External Audit Reviewed the independence of KPMG.
110 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 Internal Audit Received an update on progress with the 2017 18 Internal Audit plan.
Approved the Internal Audit Charter setting out the independence, authority and responsibilities of the Internal Audit function.
Risk management Reviewed Treasury operations, including the funding plan, liquidity and going concern.
and internal control Received an update on an exercise to test SSEs defences against cyber security threats.
Reviewed the procedures and outputs for the identification, assessment and reporting of risk.
Received an update on the Group-level fraud risks and progress against the fraud risk audit plan.
Governance Approved the Audit Committee forward plan of business.
March 2018 Received an update on accounting projects, including the adoption of IFRS 15 Revenue Recognition and Financial Reporting business separation.
External Audit Monitored the level of non-audit fees and approved any new non-audit engagements.
Internal Audit Agreed the Internal Audit Plan for 2018 19.
Received an update on the work of the Group Compliance function.
Risk management and internal control Considered a report on the key risks and controls arising from operations within Energy Portfolio Management.
Considered the scenario stress testing to support the long-term viability statement.
Discussed the first iteration of the Audit Committee Report.
Governance Agreed an update to the policy on employing former auditors.
May 2018 Considered the appropriateness of the accounting in relation to the Significant Financial Judgements and Exceptional Financial Reporting Items in 2017 18.
Reviewed the Preliminary Results and 2018 Annual Report, including alternative performance measures, viability statement and going concern.
Received reports on the status of various accounting projects including: IFRS 15 Revenue Recognition : IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 16 Leases.
Received a report on the Groups tax position, ongoing HMRC enquiries, areas of potential tax exposure and tax reporting.
Considered the accounting, financial control and audit issues from KPMGs report on the 2017 18 audit.
Assessed the plan for the re-tender of the external audit contract.
Internal Audit Received an update on delivery of the 2017 18 Internal Audit plan and progress with the 2018 19 Internal Audit plan.
Risk management and internal control Reviewed the viability statement and supporting analysis.
Received an update on SSEs preparation for the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation.
Agreed the narrative of the 2017 18 Audit Committee Report.
Financial reporting and significant financial judgements Financial reporting The Annual Report and Accounts seek to provide the information necessary to enable an assessment of the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee assists the Board with the effective discharge of its responsibilities for financial reporting, and for ensuring that appropriate accounting policies have been adopted and that management has made appropriate estimates and judgements.
During the year, the FRC carried out a review of the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
There were no questions or queries the FRC wished to raise with SSE, however the FRC made several suggestions which have been addressed in the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts.
The FRC noted that its review provides no assurance that the report and accounts are correct in all material respects: the FRCs role is not to verify the information provided but to consider compliance with reporting requirements.
Significant financial judgements In preparing the Financial Statements for 2018, there are a number of areas requiring the exercise by management of judgement or a high degree of estimation.
Throughout the year, the Finance team has worked closely with KPMG to ensure SSE provides the required level of disclosure.
This section outlines the significant areas of judgement that have been considered by the Committee through discussion and detailed reporting by both management and KPMG to ensure appropriate rigour has been applied.
SSE plc Annual Report 2018 111 Directors Report Corporate Governance Accountability AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Significant financial judgements for the year ended 31 March 2018 How the Audit Committee addressed these significant financial judgements Carrying value of certain non-currents assets: The carrying value of The basis and outcome of this review is presented to the Committee certain non-current assets in the Group including power generation by management, and includes a description of the assumptions plants and goodwill are assessed by reference to the recoverable applied in deriving the recoverable values.
The Committee reviewed value value-in-use or fair value less costs to sell of the asset or the and challenged the assumptions and projections and also considered associated Cash Generating Unit.
An annual valuation impairment the findings of KPMG.
Following this review, the Committee supported exercise is carried out.
The assumptions applied in this exercise require the recommendation to recognise exceptional charges of 213.3m judgements on the economic factors associated with the assets under in relation to certain assets in the financial year.
Further details are provided in Notes 4.1 i and Note 15 to the Financial Statements.
Accounting for estimated revenue: Revenue from energy sales in The Committee reviewed the practical process issues and the Retail division include estimates of the value of electricity and gas assumptions applied in determining the basis of recognition of supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading and unbilled debtors, with particular reference to domestic electricity the financial year end.
These are based on estimates and assumptions and gas.
The Committee also considered the findings of KPMG.
in relation to the consumption and valuation of that consumption.
Following this review, the Committee supported this judgement.
Further details are provided in Notes 4.1 ii and Note 18 to the Financial Statements.
Accounting for Group pension obligations: The assumptions in The assets and liabilities of the Groups defined benefit retirement relation to the cost to the Group of providing future post retirement schemes are regularly reviewed.
Advice is taken from independent benefits are set after consultation with independent actuaries and actuaries on the IAS 19R valuation of the schemes.
The Committee can have a significant material impact on the financial position of was updated on the schemes valuation and also considered the the Group.
Further details are provided in Notes 4.1 iii and Note 23 to findings of KPMG in relation to the schemes key assumptions relative the Financial Statements.
Following this review, the Committee supported these judgements.
reporting by the External Auditor of any During the year, the Committee was briefed Going concern and Viability Statement material inconsistencies: and on the arrangements the External Auditor After making appropriate enquiries, the comprehensive review by the Directors has in place to maintain an independent Directors have a reasonable expectation that and the senior management team.
and objective approach to the audit process.
the Company and the Group have adequate KPMG provided specific assurance to the resources to continue in operational existence The Committee and Board received Committee on compliance with FRC Auditing for the foreseeable future 12 months.
The confirmation from management that the and Ethical Standards in relation to the audit Financial Statements are therefore prepared assurance framework had been adhered to engagement.
The Committee also oversees on a going concern basis.
Further details for the preparation of the 2018 Annual Report.
policies and receives reports on employing of the Groups liquidity position and going former auditors and the supply of non-audit concern review are provided in A6.3 External Audit services.
Accompanying Information to the Financial KPMG were appointed as the External Auditor Statements.
The Directors statement of longer in 1999.
At the 2017 AGM, shareholders Non-Audit Services Policy term viability 3 years can be found on page 29. re-appointed KPMG as the External Auditor The Non-Audit Services Policy governs of the Company for the year ended 31 March the engagement of the External Auditor Fair, balanced and understandable 2018, and authorised the Committee to fix to provide non-audit services and was assurance framework their remuneration.
The current lead Audit revised during the year.
For the purposes The assurance framework used in the Engagement Partner, Bill Meredith, is in the of approval, non-audit services are divided preparation of the 2018 Annual Report and fourth year of his term.
into 3 categories: Accounts to assist the Directors discharge Audit-Related Services, where the type their requirement to state they are fair, Independence and objectivity of work is usually pre-approved by the balanced and understandable and provide The Committees assessment of the Committee as part of their approval the information necessary for shareholders independence and objectivity of KPMG is of the total annual audit fee: to assess the companys performance, achieved through: the assurances provided Permitted Non-Audit Services, where business model and strategy is described on the safeguards in place to maintain the Committee has approved the use of in this section.
independence: the implementation of the External Auditor for the type of work comprehensive guidance issued to a robust non-audit services policy: the subject to the following limits: the Finance contributors, including the FRC Letter, implementation of a policy on employing Director up to 50,000: the Committee Summary of key developments for 2017 former auditors: and from its review of the Chair up to 100,000: and the Committee annual reports, which was issued to the effectiveness of the External Auditor.
It is also above this amount: and Audit Committee Chairman and Finance based on the Committees experience of the Prohibited Non-Audit Services, where Director in October 2017: External Auditor gained in meetings through the External Auditor is not permitted a verification process dealing with the constructive challenge and professional to deliver the type of work as it could factual content: scepticism.
Collectively, this provides the compromise independence.
comprehensive reviews undertaken Committee with an insight into the culture, independently by senior management quality and mind-set of the External Auditor.
in Finance and Regulation to consider messaging and balance: comprehensive reviews undertaken by the Companys brokers to ensure consistency and balance: 112 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 The Committee reviews a report at each Effectiveness Re-appointment of the External Auditor meeting on the services being provided The effectiveness of the External Auditor is With insight gained from the matters above, by KPMG.
Fees for Audit and Audit-Related considered on an ongoing basis.
In addition supported by further discussions with KPMG Services incurred during the year amounted to the structured framework described below, and management separately, the Committee to 1.3m and 0.8m for Permitted Non-Audit discussions with KPMG have focused on concluded that it is satisfied with the Services.
Fees paid to KPMG during the year are maintaining audit quality in the period leading objectivity and independence of the External made in Note 6 to the Financial Statements.
up to the tender and rotation of the External Auditor, and that the effectiveness of the Auditor.
The Committee recognises the external audit process remained robust.
The With the exception of the appointment of contribution of management in being Committee proposed to the Board that it seek KPMG to provide services in relation to the fully engaged, and thereby enhancing the shareholder approval for the re-appointment planned SSE Energy Services transaction as effectiveness of, the external audit process.
of KPMG for the financial year ending explained in the Strategic Report and also in The practice of briefing management on 31 March 2019. the Case Study on page 100, KPMG were not their obligations in relation to the provision instructed to provide any significant new of information to the External Auditor has Tendering of external audit contract non-audit services for the Group in 2017 18. continued and the Committee received While the Committee has continued to keep Aside from the fide-merger related services, assurance that such obligations had under review all aspects of the relationship 0.2m of Permitted Non-Audit Fees incurred been discharged.
During the year, the with the External Auditor, no formal tender in 2017 18 principally related to a review of Committee reviewed: of the external audit contract has been carried various regulatory returns and information the quality of audit planning covering out since KPMGs appointment in 1999. validation requests arising in Networks and the approach, scope, and level of fees Retail.
The Committee was satisfied that the for the audit: The Committee keeps under review the timing work was best handled by KPMG because of delivery and execution of the agreed of the external audit contract tender and their knowledge of the Group and the skills external audit process for 2017 18: considers the quality, stability and continuity and expertise brought to the assignments.
quality, knowledge and expertise of the provided by the relationship with the current KPMG audit engagement team: External Auditor: the audit tendering The Committee determined that it was the FRCs Audit Quality Review of KPMG recommendations set out previously in appropriate for KPMG to provide the required and progress to address the matters raised: the UK Corporate Governance Code and the due diligence and reporting accountant the competence with which KPMG requirements of the CMA Audit Order, EU services in respect of the fide-merger.
The handled and communicated the key Audit Regulation and EU Audit Directive: and appointment was also subject to an ethics accounting and audit judgements: the lead time required to ensure potential review by KPMG, which concluded that the the communication and engagement audit firms are not restricted in their ability to proposed services were consistent with the between management, KPMG and the tender for the external audit contract arising FRCs Revised Ethical Standards 2016 and that Committee: and from existing contracts for non-audit work.
there were appropriate safeguards in place to the output from a questionnaire preserve KPMGs independence as External completed by senior management As reported in the SSE Annual Report since Auditor.
The estimated fee for this work seeking views on KPMGs capability 2014, the Board believes it is in the best is around 1.43m, and 0.5m of this was and performance in providing external interests of the Company and shareholders paid during the year and is included within audit services.
to tender the audit contract in line with the the total reported 0.8m for Permitted timeline set out below.
The Committee has initiated a tender process for the external audit contract for the year ending 31 March 2020.
Given the length of their current engagement, KPMG will not be invited to join the tender process.
The expected timeline for the external audit tendering process during 2018 2019: July July 2018 October January 2019 February July 2019 September 2019 March 2020 October 2018 Re-appointment December 2018 Approval by Board May 2019 Approval of New auditor to New auditor to Selection of KPMG by Interviews of of selection of New auditor new auditor undertake review complete audit and issuance shareholders shortlisted New Auditor.
observes the by shareholders of half year results.
of tender at AGM for candidates.
The Audit Committee at 2019 AGM.
Audit Committee in February and to audit firms.
to agree two shadow KPMG choices with a for full year preferred candidate results audit.
to present to the Board for approval.
2018 2019 2020 The five year rotation of the current lead Audit Partner will end on completion of the audit for the financial year ending 31 March 2019.
The tender timeline above complies with the provisions set out in The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
There are no contractual obligations with a third party which restrict the choice of external auditor, and the tender process will be based on a clear selection and assessment criteria.
SSE plc Annual Report 2018 113 Directors Report Corporate Governance Accountability AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED divisions.
These evaluations provide assurance identified, processes are in place to ensure Internal Control and in respect of 10 key management areas that necessary action is taken and that Risk Management and include planned improvements to progress is monitored.
The five related frameworks which, enhance controls where necessary.
These combined, comprise SSEs System of Internal improvements are tracked, with updates Internal Audit Control are set out in the diagram below.
reported to the Chief Executive on a Internal Audit plays an important role in regular basis.
SSE, helping the organisation to deliver The Board has delegated responsibility for its objectives by bringing a risk-based, reviewing the effectiveness of SSEs System The Groups Risk Management Framework is independent and objective approach of Internal Control to the Audit Committee.
designed to manage rather than eliminate the to evaluating and in turn improving the This covers all material controls including risk of failure to achieve business objectives, effectiveness of risk management, internal financial, operational and compliance and can only provide reasonable and control and governance processes.
To inform the Committees review, not absolute assurance against material the different elements of each of the misstatement or loss.
During the year, the The Director of Risk, Audit and Insurance has frameworks Corporate Governance, Board has carried out a robust assessment management responsibility for the Internal Strategic, Risk Management, Assurance of the Principal Risks facing the Group as Audit function.
In addition to the normal and Standards and Quality that make set out on pages 28 to 32, being those that corporate reporting structure, he has the up the System of Internal Control have could threaten its business model, future right of direct access to the Audit Committee, been evaluated by relevant key stakeholders.
Chief Executive, and Company Chairman.
These evaluations have in turn been assessed by the Finance Director who has provided The Committee has reviewed and the Board The annual Internal Audit Plan is structured a letter to the Committee summarising the has agreed the continued effectiveness of to align with SSEs strategic priorities and key work conducted in the year to improve SSEs System of Internal Control, including risks and is developed by Internal Audit with the control environment, together with a risk management, in accordance with the input from senior management.
An integrated recommendation on the overall effectiveness requirements of the FRC Guidance on Risk assurance mapping and planning process of the System of Internal Control.
Management, Internal Control and related is undertaken each year to ensure that all Financial and Business Reporting.
The Board Internal Audit work is appropriately aligned When undertaking the review of effectiveness confirms that no significant failings or to, and co-ordinated with, the activities of of the System of Internal Control, the weaknesses were identified during the year other relevant assurance providers across Committee also considers the Assurance and up to the date of this Annual Report.
The Internal Audit Plan comprises Evaluations undertaken annually by the Where areas for improvement have been both fixed and flexible elements to ensure Managing Directors of each of SSEs operating System of Internal Control The Corporate Governance Framework is designed Corporate Governance Strategic to ensure focus on the key components of high Framework Framework quality and effective decision making clarity, accountability, transparency and efficiency.
For further details please see page 94 of the Directors Report.
The Strategic Framework comprises the Groups Board and strategic objectives, financial objective and Board Committees responsibility framework.
For further details please see pages 12 to 27 of the Strategic Report.
The Strategic Framework forms the basis for all activity within the Risk Management Framework.
The Risk Management Framework is underpinned Strategic by the fundamental principle that everyone at SSE Objectives is responsible for the management of risk.
The Risk Group Executive Committee Management Framework supports each Division in Financial and Executive managing its risks and helps to ensure that the Board Objective sub-Committees is able to meet its obligations.
Group Audit, Group Framework Compliance, Group Safety, Health and Environment and Large Capital Projects Services work together to provide an integrated programme of audit and assurance activity that is independent of the day to day operations of the Divisions and Divisions and Corporate Functions.
Corporate The Standards and Quality Framework sets out the Support Functions expected standards and guidelines to be followed in the delivery of the Groups core purpose.
114 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 flexibility to respond to changing priorities and requirements and, in addition to considering Internal audit Management SSEs principal risks, will typically include feedback Feedback audits of key transformational programmes, Report on development Output of post-Audit Surveys financial control and areas relating to and delivery of audit plan Views from Chief Executive, responsible behaviour and non-financial risk.
Report on delivery of actions Finance Director and other from last reviews Senior Management At each meeting, the Committee reviewed Report on audit resource the progress of the 2017 18 Internal Audit and expertise Plan, including significant findings and the Report on management awareness and priorities tracking of agreed remedial actions.
The Committee also tracked the number of overdue actions which remains a key performance indicator and an area of continuing management focus.
The Committee assessed the Internal Audit function using the framework illustrated and concluded that it is satisfied with its overall Internal Auditor Assessment effectiveness.
An external review of SSEs feedback Audit Committee Internal Audit function was last carried out in Feedback from the Paper to May meeting the 2015 16 financial year and in accordance External Auditor summarising the feedback with best practice standards, an external External Independent review Views from the Director of review of the Internal Audit function should every 3 years next due in Risk, Audit and Insurance be carried out every 3 years.
An external 2018 19 Discussion covering assessment of the function will therefore be observations and interaction with Internal Audit and quality carried out during the 2018 19 financial year.
of reporting Risk Management Assurance Standards and Quality Framework Framework Framework Group Risk Management and Internal Control Policy External Audit Group Policies Review of the Effectiveness of the Internal Audit System of Internal Control Group Compliance Principal Risk Self-Assessment Group Safety, Health and Risk Appetite Statement Governance Environment Manuals Viability Assessment Large Capital Key Risk Indicators Projects Services Divisional Risk Approach Business Divisional Procedures, Assurance Evaluation Assurance Processes and Systems Risk Blueprint SSE plc Annual Report 2018 115
