Further information on relationships with our people can be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 77 to 86 and on pages 55 to 58 of Our Business review.
DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES The Groups recruitment policy is to match the capabilities and talents of each applicant to the appropriate job.
Factors such as gender, race, religion or belief, sexual orientation, age, disability or ethnic origin should be ignored and any decision which is made with regard to candidates should be irrespective of these.
Discrimination in any form will not be tolerated under any circumstances within the Group.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are given full and fair consideration for all vacancies, and are assessed in accordance with their particular skills and abilities.
The Group endeavours to meet its responsibilities towards the training and employment of disabled people, and to ensure that training, career development and promotion opportunities are available to all.
The Group makes every effort to provide continuity of employment when our people become disabled.
Attempts are made in every circumstance to provide employment, whether this involves adapting the current job role and remaining in the same job, or moving to a more appropriate job role.
Job retraining and job adaptation are just two examples of how the Group works in the interests of its workforce to promote equal opportunities in order that an individuals employment within the Group may continue.
The Group values the knowledge and expertise that our people have gained throughout their time with us, and therefore does not wish to lose valued members of staff.
With the aim of restoring a balance of female representation on our Board, we are in the process of interviewing a number of female candidates for non-executive directorships.
Further information on our approach to diversity can be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 78 to 79.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Group designs clothing and some footwear for sale in stores and has arrangements with suppliers for the research and development of goods.
CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS During the year, the Group made charitable donations of 66k 2017: 117k in the UK.
No political donations were made 2017: nil.
There have been a number of further donations of sporting equipment made to worthy causes.
DIRECTORS Details of current Directors, dates of appointment, their roles, responsibilities and significant external commitments are set out on pages 94 to 95.
David Daly joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 2 October 2017.
Jon Kempster joined the Board as Chief Financial Officer on 11 September 2017.
Claire Jenkins resigned as a Director on 3 May 2017 and Dave Singleton resigned as a Director on 6 September 2017.
Although the Companys Articles of Association require retirement by rotation of one third of Directors each year, the Group complies with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code and at each AGM all of the Directors will retire and stand for reappointment.
Information on service contracts and details of the interests of the Directors and their persons closely associated PCAs in the share capital of the Company at 29 April 2018 and at the date of this report is shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 115 to 128.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GOVERNANCE 99 DIRECTORS' REPORT Continued Copies of the service contracts of Executive Directors and of the appointment letters of the Chairman and NonExecutive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM.
No Director has a directorship in common or other significant links with any other Director.
DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Board has formal procedures to deal with Directors conflicts of interest.
During the year the Board reviewed and, where appropriate, approved certain situational conflicts of interest that were reported to it by Directors, and a record of those situational conflicts is maintained and reviewed.
The Board noted any transactional conflicts of interest concerning Directors that arose and were declared.
No Director took part in the discussion or determination of any matter in respect of which he had disclosed a transactional conflict of interest.
DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES The Group has granted the Directors with Qualifying Third Party Indemnity provisions within the meaning given to the term by Sections 234 and 235 of the Companies Act 2006.
This is in respect of liabilities to which they may become liable in their capacity as Director of the Company and of any company within the Group.
Such indemnities were in force throughout the financial year and will remain in force.
SPORTS DIRECT EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST We note that the Trustees of the Sports Direct Employee Benefit Trust have waived their right to receive dividends on the ordinary shares comprised in the trust fund.
No dividends were paid by the Company for the period ended 29 April 2018.
DISCLOSURES REQUIRED UNDER UK LISTING RULE 9.8.
4 The information required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4 is set out in the table below:- Applicable sub-paragraph within LR 9.8.
4 Disclosure provided 1 Interest capitalised by the Group N A 2 Publication of unaudited financial information N A 3 Requirement deleted from the Listing Rules - 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes only involving a N A director 5 Waiver of emoluments by a Director N A 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a Director N A 7 Non pro-rata allotments for cash issuer N A 8 Non pro-rata allotments for cash major subsidiaries N A 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary N A 10 Contracts of significance N A 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Page 122 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Page 100 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends N A 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Page 97 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS See page 85.
100 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The 2018 AGM will be held on 12 September 2018 at Academy House, 36 Poland St, London, W1F 7LU.
The meeting will commence at 11:00am.
The Board encourages shareholders to attend and participate in the meeting.
GOING CONCERN The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chief Executive's Report and Business Review on pages 60 to 69.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 70 to 76.
In addition, the Financial Statements include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group is profitable, highly cash generative and has considerable financial resources.
The Group is able to operate comfortably within its banking facilities and covenants, which run until November 2021, and is well placed to take advantage of strategic opportunities as they arise.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the continued uncertain economic outlook.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonable possible changes in trading performance, and its exposure to foreign currency movements in respect of future purchases in US Dollars, and the forward contracts and written options entered into to sell Euros, show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of the current facility.
Having thoroughly reviewed the Groups performance and having made suitable enquiries, the Directors are confident that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
On this basis, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis for the preparation of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT A statement by the Auditor can be found on page 139 to 140 detailing their reporting responsibilities.
The Directors fulfil their responsibilities and these are set out in the responsibility statement on page 129.
AUDITOR I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are part way through the process of undertaking an audit tender.
In order to achieve an efficient and orderly handover, our current intention is to ask our shareholders to approve reappointment of Grant Thornton for one further year at the AGM.
In accordance with Section 489 4 of the Companies Act 2006, resolutions to determine remuneration are to be agreed at the AGM.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS See note 40 of the Annual Accounts.
By Order of the Board Cameron Olsen Company Secretary 18 July 2018 SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GOVERNANCE 101
