customer numbers due to increased published by the Commission for Regulation In Ireland, SSEs key priorities are to: competitive pressures, particularly in of Utilities.
attract and retain energy supply customers electricity markets.
in increasingly competitive markets: In April 2018, SSE Airtricity announced a 40% deliver customer value through costFocused cost-management alongside acquisition of Activ8 Solar Energies, a leading management and investment in digitised competitive product pricing ensured that supplier of Rooftop Solar systems to home services: SSE Airtricity continued to deliver value to and business customers, with an option to further expand its commercial and existing and new home energy customers, acquire a further 10 per cent after two years.
domestic Energy Services solutions: and while enabling further investment in digitised The acquisition marks yet another step optimise its Energy Markets capabilities service offerings, including the introduction forward in the development of the companys ahead of the introduction of the Integrated of a new video-chat customer channel.
As commercial and domestic energy services Single Electricity Market I-SEM.
a result, SSE Airtricity was named Best for solutions.
Customer Service in February 2018 for the In Business Energy, SSEs priorities are to: second year running by leading Irish internet SSEs Energy Markets trading team in Ireland further strengthen SSEs strong position comparison site Bonkers.
is at the final stages of preparation for the in meeting the core energy needs of introduction of the Integrated Single Electricity business and public sector customers In NI, SSE Airtricity increased household Market I-SEM this year, under which new leverage internal capabilities across the electricity prices by 7.5% from 1 October 2017 balancing obligations will be established.
SSE Group to broaden the customer while in ROI electricity prices increased by offering to include smarter products 5.6% from 1 November 2017.
These were the Retail conclusion and priorities such as energy optimisation and demand first such increases in both markets since 2013 After a solid performance in the 12 months side response.
and were as a result of increases in the cost to 31 March 2018, 2018 19 promises to be of supply including wholesale and regulated another year of change and transition as SSE Beyond these immediate priorities, work will networks costs.
On 1 April 2018, SSE Airtricity continues to adapt to the rapidly evolving continue to: complete the separation of SSE increased its regulated natural gas prices in competitive markets in which it operates.
Energy Services within the SSE Group: engage NI by 7.8% for home and small business At the same time, it must retain a keen with shareholders and the CMA to secure customers.
This increase was examined focus on its core operations and delivering the necessary approvals: plan and prepare and approved by the NI Utility Regulator.
on its strategic priorities to ensure it is well for integration: and complete the planned positioned for the future, regardless of the transaction.
This, combined with a continued SSE Airtricity Business Energy increased outcome from the proposed merger.
focus on delivering strong operational customer load across the island by 12% in performance in the interim, will help position the 12 months to 31 March 2018, while the In Great Britain, SSE Energy Services remains both the merged retail business and remaining companys Eco team has facilitated energy focused on: SSE businesses for long-term success efficiency initiatives that are saving businesses attracting and retaining more customers: following the expected completion of the almost 110GWh of primary energy annually.
reducing its operating costs: transaction, subject to approvals, in the last For the second year running SSE Airtricity delivering smart in a safe, cost-effective quarter of 2018 or first quarter of the 2019 received the highest supplier satisfaction and customer-centric way: and calendar year.
rating 81% in the Irish SME electricity market, building on its customer-centric culture.
according to the latest Annual Survey Enterprise key performance indicators March 18 March 17 Enterprise adjusted operating profit m 26.9 16.7 Enterprise reported operating profit m 15.1 16.7 Capital expenditure m 61.9 58.7 SSE Heat network customer accounts Over 9,400 Over 6,500 Number of Enterprise Telecoms infrastructure projects connecting businesses 363 260 Number of Bollore EV charge points installed to date in London by Enterprise Contracting 583 315 Number of train stations maintained or improved by Enterprise Rail 1,002 517 Looking ahead, Enterprise will continue Financial performance in Enterprise Playing to the core strengths to engage with its significant restructuring Enterprise: Adjusted operating profit increased of Enterprise exercise which is designed to drive out to 26.9m in 2017 18, compared to 16.7m SSE Enterprise is a group of businesses unnecessary cost and thereby ensure the the previous year, due to a combination of that provides energy and telecoms services business is best placed to seek out and win higher revenues and focused cost cutting.
to industrial, commercial and public sector new growth opportunities.
Safety remains a customers across the UK and Ireland.
To fulfil key priority for Enterprise, with an objective Reported operating profit decreased to 15.1m that need the business has developed the to reduce reported accidents in line with in 2017 18 from 16.7m in 2016 17 due to the capacity to build, own, operate and maintain the targets of SSE Group.
factors above, offset by an impairment of Heat assets.
Its four business areas are: Contracting, Networks assets and a provision against future Utilities, Telecoms and Rail.
contracts following an operational review of that area of the business.
SSE plc Annual Report 2018 65 Strategic Report Financial and operational performance ENTERPRISE There is a pipeline of significant opportunities With national infrastructure investment set Telecoms which the four Enterprise business streams to increase, there are major opportunities SSE Enterprise Telecoms continues to are well placed to tap into.
These include within Enterprises existing core markets.
accelerate new network development to bigger and better opportunities in mechanical These include: help bring major UK data centres on net and electrical, energy storage, distributed The move towards distributed energy and and expand its commercial footprint energy, electric vehicle infrastructure, fibre energy as a service: throughout the UK and especially on key networks, 5G infrastructure, and rail power The significant spend on rail infrastructure.
strategic routes by unbundling more BT and communications infrastructure.
For example, the combined value of the Exchanges.
It is winning long term core spend on such projects as HS2 and network agreements with new clients in the Moving forward, the role of Enterprise, within Network Rails Control Period 6, is banking, transportation and service provider SSE Group, will be to consolidate and grow its expected to be in excess of 100bn: markets.
It is also supporting both broadband existing market share as well as explore new The emergence of the clean growth rollout and Mobile Network Operators with opportunities in areas that are complementary agenda and the increasing requirement their 5G network preparation.
In Ireland, SSE to the Groups core energy portfolio.
Enterprise for EV infrastructure for public and private is a member of a consortium that has been is one of several adjacent businesses which vehicles: participating in a competitive tender dialogue can benefit directly and indirectly from the The migration towards 5G and the fact process with the Irish government to deliver strength and depth of SSE Groups experience that broadband is increasingly seen as Irelands National Broadband Plan.
a fifth utility: and The development of the smart city Rail To ensure Enterprise is a growth driver for the agenda, which involves elements of SSE Enterprise Rail continues to grow thanks SSE Group it aims to: multi-utility, telecoms and contracting.
to its reputation for delivering an outstanding Focus on growth in its existing core markets: quality of work as evidenced by recent Develop larger projects which give longer Performance summary PRISM scores from Network Rail.
SSE term visibility of earnings and build on of four business streams Enterprise Rail has a unique service offering the strengths of the companys diverse Contracting because it can be a local service provider: business areas and multi-utility capabilities: On the back of a substantial and successful whilst retaining the capability to bid for work Develop further the capacity of the efficiency programme, SSE Enterprise on major infrastructure projects such as HS2, business to build, own, operate and Contracting has made further progress in drawing on the experience of SSE Group.
The maintain assets: and putting in place the building blocks for future award of a significant quantum of work via the Focus on providing innovative solutions to growth.
It retains a clear focus on mechanical national Building and Civils Framework shows meet the changing needs of customers.
and electrical as well as power activity as the that the business can become a supplier of foundations of its success.
SSE Enterprise choice for Network Rail through its scale and A dynamic player in an evolving Contracting is also pursuing larger scale quality capabilities.
energy environment opportunities using a disciplined approach to Developing strategic partnerships will pick the right segments and right customers Enterprise conclusion continue to help Enterprise deliver value and to engage with.
and priorities support SSE Group to meet the changing 2017 18 represented a very positive year needs of the energy and telecoms sector.
Utilities for the Enterprise business, thanks primarily For example, helping to deliver electric SSE Enterprise Utilities aims to be a leader to its focus on efficiency and delivering for vehicle infrastructure in the UK represents both in its core utility infrastructure market customers in its core markets.
That disciplined an exciting opportunity for Enterprise to and the fast-growing market for distributed approach will continue into 2018 19, to build on the success of its London project energy networks.
It is looking to increase ensure the Enterprise business is well placed for electric buses at Waterloo bus depot.
the scale of the energy assets and networks to deliver further growth to SSE Group.
Likewise, the Utilities business will be aiming it currently builds, owns, operates and Enterprises key priorities are: to play a bigger role in distributed energy maintains.
The business is set to target the To continue to improve its safety and energy as a service.
rapidly growing electric vehicle market, and is performance in line with SSE Group involved in the installation and power supply objectives: In Rail, work awarded through the national of EV infrastructure.
In response to demand, To continue its relentless focus on Building and Civils Framework will transform it is seeking to deliver solutions to integrate consolidating and growing its presence the size of the business.
In Contracting, there energy generation, storage and utility in core markets: are opportunities arising from supporting infrastructure.
On the back of strong growth To ensure it is meeting the changing needs the infrastructure growth agendas and by Slough Heat and Power in its private of its customers with innovative solutions: further investments in High Voltage, and large electricity network, the business is aiming to and scale projects across the UK.
And finally, the recreate this capability across the UK market.
To ensure that 2018 19 is another year Telecoms business has secured an important of progress.
contract agreement with Three UK, which will see the two companies working together to support the mobile networks growth and expansion goals.
66 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 DELIVERING ENERGY SOLUTIONS SSE Enterprise provides energy and telecoms services to industrial, commercial and public sector customers across the UK.
In recent years it has developed the capacity to build, own, operate and maintain assets through its four business areas of Contracting, Utilities, Telecoms and Rail.
13,700km SSE Enterprise adjusted reported operating Adjusted capital expenditure m Distance spanned by profit m Enterprise Telecoms UK network.
26.9 15.1 61.9 SSE Enterprise represents a growth area within the The UK Governments strategic focus on upgrading critical SSE Group as it continues to deliver smart energy and national infrastructure presents growth opportunities in communication solutions.
SSE heat network customer accounts Telecoms projects 1m 9,400 363 Number of street lights Enterprise Utilities delivers multi-utility infrastructure and Enterprise Telecoms offers its clients leading edge distributed energy networks across the UK, in the emerging connectivity across the UK through its private network, in maintained by Enterprise era of distributed energy and energy as a service.
an age where broadband is becoming seen as a fifth utility.
EV charging points installed across Rail stations and depots served Greater London by Enterprise Rail 583 1,002 The growing demand for widespread electric vehicle Enterprise Rail has now firmly established its reputation for infrastructure means Enterprise Contracting can build on outstanding service and it is well placed to capitalise on the the success of its existing London car and bus projects.
increasing spend on rail infrastructure.
SSE Enterprise will continue with its restructuring to drive out unnecessary cost and to deliver smart energy and communication solutions for business and the public sector.
Our primary focus will be on growth in core markets and there is a notable pipeline of major opportunities in mechanical and electrical, distributed energy, electric vehicle infrastructure, fibre networks, and rail power and communications infrastructure, for us to tap into.
The future role of Enterprise within SSE Group will be to consolidate and grow its existing market share, as well as explore new opportunities in areas that are complementary to the Groups core portfolio.
Neil Kirkby SSE Enterprise Managing Director SSE plc Annual Report 2018 67 Strategic Report Our role in society OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY 68 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 CONTRIBUTING SSE plc Annual Report 2018 69 Strategic Report Our role in society SSES NON-FINANCIAL IMPACTS SUMMARY 2017 18 The new EU Corporate Social Responsibility Directive 2014 95 EC requires additional disclosure of non-financial impacts.
SSE welcomes this development and the table below summarises the requirements of the new reporting expectation, pointing to where additional information can be found.
The non-financial information provided in SSEs Strategic Report summarises the material issues SSE has identified in line with the new requirements, alongside information around risks, action taken, due diligence and performance for these topics.
Specifically, SSEs response to its material environmental impacts, social impacts, employee issues, respect for human rights, anti-corruption and anti-bribery is outlined.
Further disclosure around all of these areas can be found in SSEs Sustainability Report 2018.
Material issue Relevant Group Principal Risk Action taken Due diligence Targets for carbon intensity of electricity generated and leading GHG data assured by PwC and CDP Climate Change Programme Greenhouse gas GHG emissions Politics, Regulation and Compliance renewable energy generator across the UK and Ireland.
and contribution to climate change PROTECTING Environment and climate Pages 72 to 75 Environmental impacts of Minimise adverse environmental impacts and enhance positive ones Compliance with environment agencies standards and Environmental Safety and the Environment development, construction arising from SSE activities.
Impact Assessments for major projects.
and operation of assets Proactive approach to paying a fair share of tax with leading disclosure Independent Fair Tax Mark accreditation.
Responsible approach to tax Politics, Regulation and Compliance and advocacy around a responsible approach to tax.
in both the UK and Ireland SHARING Social contribution Contributing to the UK and Irish Use of local or nationally-based suppliers when feasible and enhanced Annual economic contribution and jobs supported analysis by PwC.
Politics, Regulation and Compliance economies and sustaining inclusive jobs understanding of local and national economic contribution.
Pages 76 to 78 Efficient business operations with additional programmes to support Achievement of the British Standard for Inclusive Service Provision Providing affordable and inclusive Energy Affordability vulnerable customers.
in Retail and Networks businesses.
service for all Sharing value with local communities Large private funder of community projects in both the UK and Ireland.
Majority of SSEs Community Investment Funds are awarded through Development and Change panels which are independent to SSE.
Implementation of 50by20 Safety initiative and roll-out to wider Safety audits conducted on a regular basis at SSE sites for direct Health and safety for direct employees Safety and the Environment employee population of enhanced health and safetytraining.
and contractors DEVELOPING People SSE and npower are meeting with their trade union partners using Competition Markets Authority review and assessment of the planned Impact of the planned SSE Energy People and Culture their current consultation mechanisms and supplementing this with SSE Energy Services transaction.
Services transaction Pages 79 to 82 additional meetings with officials.
Dedicated, two-way employee communications channels established.
Predicted skills gap in the energy sector Recruitment into talent pipeline programmes and continued Recruitment and training data closely monitored.
Independent People and Culture investment in training and skills development for employees.
interviews carried out with leavers.
Inclusion Strategy 2017-2020 created and year one actions Inclusion Strategy created with inclusion specialists Equal Approach, Lack of diversity in SSEs workforce People and Culture implemented across the Group, with new ambitions set for who continue to monitor progress along with the Board and women in senior leadership positions by 31 March 2021.
Mandatory anti-bribery training for all employees.
Launch of internal Incidents reported internally or to the externally-hosted whistleblowing Reinforcing an ethical business culture People and C ulture campaign to encourage employees to Speak Up against wrongdoing.
and reducing the risk of bribery and REINFORCING corruption occurring Culture Human rights violations of direct Roll-out of modern slavery training for all procurement professionals Activities monitored by the Human Rights Steering Group and any Pages 83 to 85 Major Projects Quality and supply chain employees and risk assessment of Tier 1 supply chain spend.
reported incidents are fully investigated.
70 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 Material issue Relevant Group Principal Risk Action taken Due diligence Targets for carbon intensity of electricity generated and leading GHG data assured by PwC and CDP Climate Change Programme Greenhouse gas GHG emissions Politics, Regulation and Compliance renewable energy generator across the UK and Ireland.
