Strategic Report Financial and operational performance NETWORKS POWERING COMMUNITIES EVERY DAY SSE owns and operates an electricity transmission network in Scotland and two electricity distribution networks, in Scotland and southern England.
Through its 33.3% stake in Scotia Gas Networks, it is also involved in the distribution of gas.
95m Adjusted reported operating profit m Total Networks RAV m Regulatory funding secured for innovative projects since 2010.
763.1 669.6 8,304 Profit for this business covers activity across all electricity and SSE is on target to take the Regulated Asset Value of its gas networks SSE has interests in.
Adjusted capital expenditure and Transmission networks capital expenditure 10bn investment m m Forecast SSE energy 326.1 434.2 networks Regulated Asset Value in 2023.
SSE owns and invests in two electricity distribution SSE owns and invests in one electricity transmission company companies: Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission.
and Southern Electric Power Distribution.
Adjusted and reported distribution Adjusted and reported transmission operating profit m operating profit m 402.2 195.6 Scottish and Southern Electricity Networks SSEN, operating Scottish and Southern Electricity Networks SSEN, operating as Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution SHEPD and as Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission under licence, is Southern Electric Power Distribution SEPD under licence, responsible for maintaining and investing in the electricity is responsible for maintaining the electricity distribution transmission network in the north of Scotland.
networks supplying more than 3.8m homes and business across central southern England and north of the central belt of Scotland, the Mull of Kintyre and the Scottish islands.
Economic regulation of energy networks can appear complex, but it is in fact a straightforward equation.
If we deliver for our customers improving network reliability, excelling in customer service and progressing innovation we will share in the rewards.
This means we have to operate our businesses to the highest possible standard on a 24 7 basis, while also looking to the future needs of customers and communities as the move to a greener, smarter, more flexible energy system gathers pace.
SSEs networks are well-positioned to deliver on both of these key priorities.
Colin Nicol Managing Director, Networks 52 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 NETWORKS SSE plc Annual Report 2018 53 Strategic Report Financial and operational performance NETWORKS CONTINUED Networks key performance indicators March 18 March 17 Electricity transmission Transmission adjusted and reported operating profit m 195.6 263.7 Regulated Asset Value RAV m 3,070 2,685 Capital expenditure m 434.2 505.0 Electricity distribution Electricity distribution adjusted and reported operating profit m 402.2 433.4 Regulated Asset Value RAV m 3,406 3,246 Capital expenditure m 326.1 284.7 Electricity Distributed TWh 39.2 39.3 Customer minutes lost SHEPD average per customer 55 60 Customer minutes lost SEPD average per customer 48 43 Customer interruptions SHEPD per 100 customers 57 68 Customer interruptions SEPD per 100 customers 55 48 Scotia gas networks SGN SSEs 50% share reducing to 33% from 26 Oct 2016 SGN adjusted operating profit SSEs share m 165.3 239.4 SGN reported operating profit SSEs share m 71.8 151.7 Regulated Asset Value m 1,828 1,748 Uncontrolled gas escapes attended within one hour % 98.2 98.7 SGN gas mains replaced km 1,000 989 growth with the RAV Regulatory Asset Value its electricity transmission business and its Owning, operating and on course to reach 10bn by 2023, across share in SGN: and from April 2023 for its two investing in Networks SSEs electricity and gas networks interests.
Energy networks continue to play a pivotal role in the transition to a low-carbon economy, Through Price Controls, Ofgem sets In its consultation, Ofgem has set out that providing the critical national infrastructure the framework through which network it expects the range of available returns for required to support the ongoing shift companies can earn index-linked revenue network businesses to be lower for the next to a decarbonised energy system and through charges levied on users to cover round of Price Controls, while maintaining electrification of transport.
costs and earn a return on regulated assets.
high levels of innovation and reliability.
It has also set out its strongly minded to position SSE is the only energy company in the UK These , lower-risk to revert to five-year price control periods to be involved in electricity transmission, businesses provide relative predictability and and confirmed a stronger voice for customers electricity distribution and gas distribution.
Its stability for SSE and balance its activities in the and stakeholders in the development of electricity networks businesses are collectively market-based parts of the energy sector.
They Price Control business plans through the known as Scottish and Southern Electricity are core to SSEs strategy in the short, medium establishment of independent user groups Networks SSEN.
and long-term and contribute significantly to and panels.
its commitment to the payment of dividends SSEs interests in  to shareholders.
Despite its focus on lower returns, Ofgem energy networks support the maintenance has confirmed it is still expected that high of a balanced range of assets, operational Looking ahead to RIIO-2 performing companies will continue to be efficiency and disciplined investment.
On 7 March 2018, Ofgem published a rewarded through outperformance of the SSEs capital expenditure and investment consultation on the regulatory framework incentive based regulatory framework.
programme for its electricity networks in the for the next Price Control periods, RIIO-2, five years to 2023 is forecast to be around which for SSE will run from April 2021 for SSE will continue to engage constructively 2.8bn.
This will support future earnings and with Ofgem and other stakeholders as the regulator further develops its proposals for Company Network SSE Ownership Geography Covered RIIO-2, helping to ensure the evidence base is robust, the outcomes are clear and the views Scottish Hydro Electric Scottish Hydro Electric 100% North of Scotland of customers, communities, stakeholders and Transmission Plc Transmission SHET investors are fully considered.
Scottish Hydro Electric Scottish Hydro Electric 100% North of Scotland Power Distribution Plc Power Distribution SHEPD Southern Electric Power Southern Electric Power 100% Central Southern Distribution Plc Distribution SEPD England Scotia Gas Networks Scotland Gas Networks 33% Scotland Southern Gas Networks Southern England 54 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 Gas Distribution: as expected, SSEs share Engaging stakeholders Financial performance in Networks of SGNs adjusted operating profit fell to in decision making As expected, total adjusted operating profit in 165.3m in 2017 18, from 239.4m in the SSEN continues to place its customers and Networks for FY2017 18 decreased to 763.1m, previous year, mainly due to SSEs disposal stakeholders at the forefront of its decision compared to 936.5m in the previous year, of a partial equity stake 16.7% in October making and during 2017 18 it held three with the principal movements as follows: 2016, but also due to the phasing of major stakeholder engagement events for regulatory revenue and the sharing of each of its three licenced electricity networks.
Transmission: as expected, adjusted operating out-performance with customers, as part profit decreased to 195.6m in 2017 18, from of the RIIO Price Control.
The impact on The events focused on SSENs performance 263.7m in the previous year.
This was mainly operating profit of the part disposal in the against its business plan and will lead to a due to the phasing of capital expenditure on full financial year 2017 18 was 55m.
number of changes to its practices and significant projects and the resulting impact priorities during 2018 19 and beyond as on regulatory revenue, along with the impact Reported Networks operating profit: a direct result of the feedback received.
of the sharing of the previous years total decreased to 669.6m, from 848.8m, expenditure totex underspends with primarily for the reasons outlined above.
SSENs independent Stakeholder Advisory customers.
In addition, SGN had an exceptional gain Panel is now firmly established and working in 2016 17 of 19.5m due to the change in alongside its Board, and continues to provide Distribution: as expected, adjusted operating Corporation Tax rate.
key external input to help scrutinise business profit decreased to 402.2m in 2017 18, from performance in meeting SSENs business 433.4m in the previous year.
While base Networks financial outlook 2018 19 plan commitments.
revenue increased in line with the growing Total adjusted operating profit in the RAV Regulatory Asset Value, this was offset  Networks segment In January 2018, SSEN also established the by the expected net reduction in underis expected to increase by a mid-single digit industrys first Inclusive Service Panel, bringing recoveries and losses incentive income, percentage, mainly as a result of the phasing together representatives with expertise ranging outlined in the table below.
of income recovery in Electricity Transmission from mental and physical disability to religious and a higher expected contribution from SGN.
The Panel is already There are several factors which contribute providing invaluable insight and making to RIIO Price Control earnings which practical recommendations to help ensure can be found on the Ofgem website in SSEN delivers a truly inclusive service for all.
the Transmission and Distribution Licence, Price Control Financial Handbook and Price The commitment to place its stakeholders at Control Financial Model.
the heart of its business will help ensure SSEN is well placed to adapt to the evolution of the regulatory framework, RIIO2, and to the enhanced and enduring role its customers and stakeholders will play in the development of its future business plans.
This table also gives an indication of the expected impact of underor over-recoveries in future years and also income from incentives: FY2016 17 FY2017 18 FY2018 19 FY2019 20 Under over recovery 38m 5mc.
14m over-recovered from 2 yr. previous FY under-recovered under-recovered over-recovered from 2017 18.
A further from 2014 15 from 2015 16 from 2016 17 -10m related to 2017 18 over recovery will be absorbed in 2021 22 DPCR Losses incentive 35m 15m income FY2017 18 performance FY2018 19 performance FY2019 20 performance Incentives Performance earned in 2015 16 earned in 2016 17 earned in 2017 18 Interruptions Incentive Scheme IIS 18.45m 13.9m 6.81m Customer Satisfaction and Engagement Customer Satisfaction Survey 1.70m 2.78m 2.73m Stakeholder Engagement and Vulnerable Customers 1.13m 0.82m 1.15m Connections 2.33m 1.73m 1.77m Total 23.61m 19.23m 12.46m Numbers shown are in the price base of the year in which incentives are earned, and under the price control are inflated to the price base of the year in which they are recovered.
A requirement for continual improvement is built into the incentives framework, this means if performance measures do not demonstrate improvement year on year, incentive income falls.
Estimated outturn actual not determined until later in 2018.
SSE plc Annual Report 2018 55 Strategic Report Financial and operational performance NETWORKS CONTINUED Offshore Windfarm 96MW, both of which In addition to its base case capital and Electricity transmission were successfully connected during investment plans of 1.2bn, SHE Transmission SSEN, operating as Scottish Hydro Electric March 2018. has visibility on a further 700m of contingent Transmission plc, is responsible for maintaining projects that are dependent on the progress and investing in the electricity transmission SSEN continues to work with its generation of onshore wind developments against a network in the North of Scotland.
customers to provide timely and efficient continued uncertain policy regime.
This connections to its network, including means the timing and ultimate need for them In addition to the base rate of return WACC Dorenell wind farm 220MW due to connect is not yet clear.
Several of these relate to on the RAV, we are able to earn incentives in 2018 19: Beatrice Offshore Wind Farm potential onshore reinforcements in Argyll as part of the RIIO framework.
In RIIO-T1 588MW also due to connect in 2018 19: and and Kintyre and across the Highlands.
This list the financial incentives available are driven Moray Offshore Renewable Limited MORL also includes projects which came forward primarily by totex outperformance and 504MW due to connect in 2020 21. in January 2018, when the System Operator, the potential to deliver savings in capital National Grid, published its Network Options investment to the benefit of customers.
Given Investing to provide the infrastructure Assessment NOA report, which gave SSEN the significant capital investment programme to support a decarbonised energy the signal to proceed with plans to reinforce that SSEN has undertaken, the outcome of system the existing North East and East Coast efficiency savings will be dependent on the Since the start of the RIIO-T1 Price Control, onshore transmission system.
successful completion of multi-year large SSENs capital investment in its transmission scale projects and the close out of RIIO-T1 network has totalled over 2.3bn, with this Once complete, the reinforcements will after 2021.
It is currently expected that SSEN investment playing a pivotal role in providing provide additional network capacity to will deliver totex savings over the course of the key national infrastructure to facilitate the facilitate the planned connection of significant RIIO-T1 of which, under the price control UKs transition to a low-carbon economy and offshore wind generation across the north agreement, 50% will be retained by SSEN, a largely decarbonised energy system.
east of Scotland, the increase in transmission supporting returns for RIIO-T1, with the entry capacity TEC at Peterhead Power remaining 50% returned to customers.
SSEN continues to make progress with the Station and the proposed NorthConnect delivery of its Caithness-Moray transmission interconnector to Norway.
Operating a rapidly growing network link.
With an agreed allowance of 1.1bn, SSENs first priority is to provide a safe and the project is the largest single investment Preparing to connect Scotlands reliable supply of electricity to the communities undertaken by any part of the SSE Group to island groups it serves.
SSEN has established a dedicated date.
Construction progress on most aspects The potential transmission links to the Scottish and experienced team within its transmission of the project continues to be excellent, islands groups provide further potential for business to deliver operational excellence, although as with any project of this size and future growth.
including improved asset management and complexity there are challenges to overcome timely preparation for the introduction of in terms of construction risk and quality Following confirmation that the UK new types of plant and technology.
SSEN continues to work very Government intends to allow remote island closely with its key contractors to make the onshore wind to complete in the next During the current period of rapid growth necessary progress in the coming months Contracts for Difference auction in spring in transmission development, including so that the commissioning and energising of 2019, SSEN continues to work with its commissioning of substantial new assets and the reinforcement is successful and remains generation customers and other stakeholders the connection of large volumes of renewable on track for delivery by the end of 2018. across the three island groups to take generation capacity, SSEN has maintained an forward proposals to provide transmission impressive reliability of over 99.9% in 2017 18.
Despite the changes affecting onshore wind connections to enable the connection of policy, SHE Transmission still has a healthy renewable electricity generation.
Connecting renewable electricity pipeline of projects for the remaining three generation years of the current price control period.
In March 2018, SSEN submitted to Ofgem SSENs strategic priority for the RIIO-T1 period This comprises: a Needs Case for the Orkney transmission has been to enable the transition to a lowplanned projects associated with onand link.
SSENs proposed solution would deliver a carbon economy through building the off-shore wind generation developments: phased approach to reinforcement, which will transmission infrastructure necessary to and, initially deliver a single 220MW subsea cable in connect and transport renewable energy.
projects to renew ageing infrastructure October 2022, followed by a second cable of dating back to the 1950s and 1960s.
similar specification once further generation Since the beginning of RIIO-T1, the installed has committed and the economic case has renewable electricity generation capacity These projects represent a forecast pipeline been made for the further investment.
connected to SSENs transmission network of investment of around 900m in the next has grown significantly, from 3.7GW to over three years and mean the business is on track SSEN also intends to submit Needs Cases for 5GW and is forecast to grow to over 6GW by to increase the Transmission RAV to around both the Western Isles and Shetland during the end of the current Price Control period.
3.6bn by the end of the current Price Control the second half of 2018 and will continue to This successful and timely connection period in 2021.
This investment pipeline, plus engage positively and constructively with of renewable electricity generation is a further 300m of Transmission capital and developers, Ofgem, Government and other contributing significantly to Government investment expenditure in the period to 2023, stakeholders to take forward its proposals renewable and climate change targets.
means the RAV is forecast to grow to 3.8bn in a timely manner, as soon as developer by 2023.
This total of 1.2bn of spend in the commitment and all necessary regulatory and During 2017 18, generation assets connected five years to 2023 is one component of SSEs planning approvals are confirmed.
Together, to SSENs transmission network included Group capital and investment plans of 6bn these three island links could provide an Stronelairg wind farm 228MW : and Aberdeen over the five years to 2023. investment opportunity of 1.5bn.
56 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 After a good performance in 2016 17, SSEN Addressing competition in transmission Electricity distribution experienced a fall in IIS incentive income from In January 2018 Ofgem published an update SSEN, operating as Scottish Hydro Electric 13.9m to 6.8m in 2017 18.
This was largely to its plans to introduce competition into Power Distribution SHEPD and Southern due to an unusual and sustained pattern of onshore electricity transmission for new, Electric Power Distribution SEPD under weather in the south of England leading to separable and high value onshore licence, is responsible for maintaining the pockets of unplanned supply interruptions transmission assets.
electricity distribution networks supplying that did not qualify under Ofgems over 3.7 million homes and businesses exceptional event definition.
With a strong track record for connecting across central southern England and renewable energy developments on time and north of the central belt of Scotland.
In SSENs central southern England network within budget, SSEN believes the experience it region, CI increased to 55 48 in 2016 17 has gained both in-house and with its supply Delivering for customers under and the average CML increased to 48 43 chain means that it is well placed to participate the incentive based framework in 2016 17. in competitive delivery arrangements.
SSEN is now three years into the RIIO-ED1 Price Control and continues to deliver In SSENs north of Scotland network region, SSEN remains supportive in principle of the significant changes to its operations, CI decreased to 57 68 in 2016 17 and the introduction of competition, where it can be processes and standards to ensure the needs average CML decreased to 55 60 in 2016 17. clearly demonstrated that it delivers benefits of its customers remain at the forefront of to energy customers and the wider economy decision making.
SSENs commitment to providing a safe and as well as maintaining the efficient delivery of secure electricity supply and to minimise transmission infrastructure.
It does, however, SSENs performance is assessed against the unplanned interruptions requires a continuous have a number of concerns about its commitments made in its business plan and programme of investment in the network.
In particular, SSEN believes this drives the revenue which is earned.
The includes the refurbishment and reinforcements Ofgems proposals would effectively reopen key areas addressed are: network availability of assets: upgrades to automation which the current Price Control without following and reliability: social obligations: safety: reduces the number of customers affected and due process: and they are not underpinned by environmental impact: connections: and the duration of faults: minimise the impact of legislation and they risk delays to the delivery customer satisfaction.
tree related damage: as well as investments in of well-established and advanced projects.
The outcomes of the incentive based For these reasons, SSEN believes competition framework within which SSEN operates are Providing leading customer service should not be implemented before the increasingly dependent on customer opinion and engaging with stakeholders beginning of the next Price Control in order and feedback, providing opportunities for Since beginning of the RIIO-ED1 price control, that these material factors be adequately additional earnings through a range of SSEN has implemented significant changes to addressed in an open and transparent incentive schemes.
The additional incentive its customer services operations to improve manner and SSEN will continue to engage based performance is measured against: the journey for its customers and respond to constructively with Ofgem and other The Interruption Incentive Scheme: Ofgem the incentive based framework.
stakeholders as part of this process.
Customer Satisfaction Measures: Complaints Performance: Stakeholder Engagement and SSENs continued focus on its customers and Planning for the RIIO-ET2 price control Customer Vulnerability: and Incentive in doing the right thing has resulted in a total Preparations are well under way to gather Connections Engagement.
A requirement incentive reward of 2.7m for 2017 18 against evidence to support the development of for continual improvement is built into the Customer Satisfaction or Broad Measure SSENs next transmission business plan.
the incentives framework, this means if Incentive which is slightly lower than in the performance measures do not demonstrate previous year 2.8m.
SSENs main focus during 2017 18 has been improvement year on year, incentive income on future energy scenarios across the north falls.
To benchmark its performance against leading of Scotland, with extensive consultation and customer service providers SSEN has become engagement with key stakeholders helping By making a concerted effort to focus on a member of the Institute of Customer Service SSEN identify the likely network requirements its people and its processes, SSEN has made and continues to look across a range of for the next Price Control.
This has ranged significant changes to ensure it is meeting its sectors to help it achieve its ambition to be from future energy trends: the future outlook customers needs and delivering against the recognised for providing leading customer for electricity generation, including repowering measures as set by the RIIO-ED1 price control.
of ageing onshore wind farms: as well as the This has ensured it is able to deliver outputs likely speed and scale of the electrification aligned to the expectations of its customers, SSEN remains fully committed to supporting and decarbonisation of heat and transport.
stakeholders and the regulator while its customers who require extra help and delivering a fair financial return to investors.
ensuring suitable support is provided to its SSEN will undertake further engagement and Priority Services Register PSR Customers consultation with key stakeholders in the year Keeping the lights on for customers during network outages.
Supporting vulnerable ahead, including its Stakeholder Advisory A fundamental responsibility of SSEN is to keep customers is also a key component of the Panel and the soon to be established User the lights on for its customers.
Through the Stakeholder Engagement and Consumer Group and Industry Panels, which will form RIIO-ED1 price control, SSEN is incentivised on Vulnerability SECV Incentive and contributes a key component of the RIIO2 framework.
its performance against the loss of electricity to 25% of the total award available.
In respect This research and engagement will help SSEN supply through the recording of Customer of performance in FY17, SSEN was awarded build a credible and evidence-based business Interruptions CI and Customers Minutes 0.8m under the SECV incentive against a total plan for submission to Ofgem in 2019.
Lost CML, which include both planned and available reward of 3.1m.
This is part of the Interruption Incentive Scheme IIS.
SSE plc Annual Report 2018 57 Strategic Report Financial and operational performance NETWORKS CONTINUED The outcome of the SECV incentive for SSEN is targeting operational improvements Leading on networks innovation 2017 18 will not be known until the second across its business to drive performance, Innovation continues to play a key role in the half of 2018 but it is currently estimated to including the increased use of automation, development and improvement of the service be 1.15m.
the monitoring of multiple interruptions and provided to SSENs customers and, at the at risk circuits, and a consistent approach for same time, help inform the wider industry A key challenge continues to be identifying design and quotation in connections.
A new as it prepares for fundamental changes to customers who are eligible for support Customer Relationship Management system the electricity system.
SSEN continues to look at will be introduced in 2019, which will provide innovative ways of reaching these customers, a platform for effective management of SSEN has a clear track record in progressing from its vulnerability mapping tool, to customer-related issues.
innovation through Ofgem funded structures, working with external partners and trusted securing over 95m in regulatory funding intermediaries building on existing partnerships SSEN is confident these incremental for innovation projects since 2010.
This and forging new relationships with a broad and improvements in reliability, customer record was strengthened in July 2017, when diverse range of organisations, such as the service and connections, plus stakeholder SSEN was awarded an additional 2m as a London Sustainability Exchange and NHS engagement, will move it closer to maximising discretionary award from Ofgem for its Tier 1 Highland, helping broaden the reach of its incentive income as it progresses through innovation projects, the highest amount SSENs support.
awarded to any Distribution Network Operator DNO group.
Continuing improvements Delivering a major programme in connections of capital investment SSEN has also been successful in progressing Over recent years, SSEN has made SSEN continues to undertake a major capital new initiatives outside of funding mechanisms, significant changes and improvements to its investment delivery programme across both where benefits to the efficiency of operations connections process, informed by the needs its distribution licenced networks which or delivery for customers are proven.
This and expectations of customers, which was will deliver significant improvements for its includes investment in aerial scanning of its reflected by an award of 1.8m under the customers and provide the infrastructure overhead network using LiDAR technology, Average Time to Connect Incentive for required to support economic development, which is now 90% complete.
This initiative, 2017 18 against a total reward available of as well as contributing to sustained and fair which will give measurements accurate to 2.4m, up from 1.7m the previous year.
2cm, will bring significant benefits in ensuring safety and asset compliance, efficient This commitment to place its connections In 2017 18 SSEN invested a total of 326.1m vegetation management and, ultimately, customers at the heart of its processes was in its distribution networks, bringing the total improved fault performance.
SSEN is the first also reflected by SSEN avoiding a penalty invested in the first three years of the ED1 network operator to bring this technology for the second consecutive year under Price Control to 869.1m which is part of into business-as-usual operation.
the penalty-only Incentive in Connections a forecast investment of 2.4bn throughout Engagement ICE for the 2016 17.
In 2017 18, many of SSENs innovation outcome of ICE for 2017 18 will not be projects, such as a trial of Constraint Managed known until the second half of 2018.
Good progress is being made to deliver Zones, were designed to inform the wider SSENs Bicester to East Claydon project which, industry on the move to a new, smart, flexible Targeting frontier incentive at 24m, is the largest single project being system and the transition of DNOs to a new performance delivered by SSEN under the RIIO-ED1 Price Distribution System Operator DSO role.
Performance in relation to interruptions, Control and is one of the largest electricity customer service and connections, plus distribution investments ever undertaken in Supporting the transition to a smart, stakeholder engagement, are the subject south east England.
flexible electricity system of an incentives framework which rewards One of the biggest changes in the energy companies for good performance but also In the north of Scotland, SSEN is taking system is the flexibility revolution.
Distributed penalises them where performance does forward a major rolling programme of generation, electric vehicles, demand-side not meet required standards.
In summary, investment to replace the existing subsea response and energy storage are transforming this provides an opportunity for network cables which have successfully and safely the energy system and giving customers operators to share in the rewards from served the Scottish islands for many decades.
access to new products and services from delivering improvements for its customers.
With a forecast investment of 100m across a new range of providers.
Improved performance against these ED1, subject to regulatory approval, the metrics remains a key objective for SSEN.
responsible and evidenced based approach DNOs will play a pivotal role in this revolution SSEN has adopted to inform its subsea cable which will increase the investment needed Looking collectively at RIIO-ED1 incentive replacement programme will deliver RAV across networks, creating new opportunities performance during 2017 18, SSEN earned growth, whilst minimising the cost impact in managing this demand.
12.5m from a maximum available award to its customers.
It also avoided penalty-only In November 2017, SSEN published its DSO awards totalling 9.7m.
Whilst this represents SSENs disciplined and efficient approach, strategy, Supporting a Smarter Electricity progress in incentive performance since underpinning the delivery of its capital and System, setting out the five key principles it the start of RIIO-ED1, significant headroom strategic investment programme, will ensure believes should underpin the transition to a remains across each area.
it continues to deliver value for energy smart, flexible electricity system.
These are: consumers and provide a fair return on working for all customers: ensuring cost investment for shareholders.
efficiency: market neutrality: removing barriers to local solutions: and adopting an approach of learning by doing.
58 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 SSEN continues to play a leading role in the As the current RIIO-GD1 eight-year price SSEs capex and investment programme for influential Open Networks project, led by control moves closer to its 2021 conclusion, electricity networks in the five years to 2023 the Energy Networks Association, and will SGN remains focused on the delivery of all its is forecast to be around 2.8bn, forming a continue to engage with industry, policyoutputs under this RIIO framework as well as significant part of the SSE Group capital and makers and the regulator in support of a ensuring it maximises its regulatory incentives.
investment expenditure plans of 6bn over phased approach to the DSO transition In November 2017 SGN committed to Ofgem the same period.
This will support future whereby impacts can be carefully reviewed a voluntary contribution of 145m in price earnings and growth with the RAV Regulatory and the best interests of customers maintained.
control allowance terms to customers, which Asset Value on course to reach 10bn was welcomed by Ofgem.
by 2023, across SSEs electricity and gas Preparing for the electrification networks interests, delivering value for money of transport The primary focus of the SGN management for customers and a fair return for investors.
A key aspect of the transition to a smart, team is to ensure all its operations are run Additional contingent projects totalling flexible electricity system is the electrification safely for the public at large, its customers, 700m as well as potential island links with and decarbonisation of transport.
SGN continues a total value of around 1.5bn provide further continues to respond to the growth in electric to invest in both its network and people, opportunities for growth in the 2020s.
vehicles EV which is forecast to accelerate in while ensuring: it minimises its impact the coming years in response to ambitious on the environment: engages with and SSE will work, in 2018 19 and beyond, to targets set by both the UK and Scottish communicates with its customers and ensure it continues to meet the needs of its Governments to phase out petrol and diesel stakeholders: and delivers new initiatives customers and stakeholders, and earn fair vehicles by 2040 and 2032 respectively.
to help reduce fuel poverty and increase returns for shareholders through focusing on awareness of Carbon Monoxide dangers.
the current and future needs of customers, To prepare for the likely growth in uptake disciplined investment and innovation and of EV and Low Emissions Vehicles, SSEN SGN had a good year in all its operations excellence in delivery, creating a stable continues to support the industry in activities, including emergency repair and platform for future growth.
identifying the challenges and solution to gas mains replacement.
At the year-end, it ensure the transition is a smooth as possible.
exceeded its 97% emergency response target Networks priorities for 2018 19 This includes a consultation SSEN published and dealt with a number of multiple no gas and beyond in March on Managed Electric Vehicle incidents, many caused by broken water SSEs Networks businesses priorities in Charging, which seeks views on proposed mains and third-party damage.
SGN also 2018 19 and beyond are to: solutions to help avoid potential overloads achieved its gas mains replacement year-end operate safely and meet all compliance on local electricity networks caused by sharp targets in both networks with 269km requirements while providing leading increases in the use of electric vehicles.
achieved in Scotland and 731km in its customer service, delivering required southern network area.
outputs and maintaining tight controls The consultation forms part of SSENs Smart over expenditure: EV project, undertaken alongside technology Initiated in 2015, SGNs three-year customer maintain good progress in the safe delivery partners EA Technology and supported by GB experience transformation programme of new assets and opportunities for future distribution network operators.
The project, is continuing to deliver much improved growth: funded by Ofgems Network Innovation customer experience, by leveraging digital progress innovations that will improve Allowance, sets out to review and research technology and adding value by reducing network reliability, efficiency and customer charging solutions that will allow the cost to serve.
Through the commitment and service and inform industry-wide transition to electric vehicles to take place hard work of its operations and field teams, improvements to support the transition with minimum disruption to customers and for the second year running SGN is the UK to a smart, flexible energy system: avoiding unnecessary network reinforcement.
number one gas network for customer adapt and prepare for the evolution of service.
It is also the UKs number one gas the regulatory framework for future Price SGN network company for complaint handling, Control, RIIO-2, including maintaining Covering Scotland and the south of England, reducing customer complaints on average effective stakeholder relationships.
SGN is the gas network company distributing by 18% each year and overall by 66% since natural and green gas to 5.9 million homes and 2012 13. businesses through a network of 74,000km of mains and services.
Good progress is also Networks conclusion being made building a third distribution and priorities network in the west of Northern Ireland SSEs  Networks comprising some 700km of new gas pipelines businesses will continue to play a pivotal which will allow up to 40,000 customers to role in the transition to a low-carbon connect for the first time to mains natural economy, providing the critical national gas.
SGN now has 36 biomethane plants infrastructure required to support the connected to its GB networks, supplying ongoing shift to a decarbonised energy enough green gas for the needs of almost system and electrification of transport.
This is good progress to achieving its 2021 ambition of supplying 250,000 customers with green gas.
