OUR BUSINESS Continued The websites for each of our core fascias in the UK, including SportsDirect.
com, have undergone significant enhancements in order to facilitate optimum appeal to consumers.
Our product offering across these core fascias - both in store and online - aims to create a compelling shopping experience in key categories that include, among others, Football, Womens, Kids, Running, Lifestyle, Fashion and Luxury.
We offer product across a range of price points, including good, better and best.
This enables us to offer more premium product, which is net-new to the business.
For example, prior to the commencement of our elevation strategy, the Company typically offered football boots from adidas and Nike at price-points ranging from 39.99 to 59.99.
We have since broadened our offering to also include adidas and Nike football boots typically priced between 199.99 and 249.99 or above.
This gives consumers a greater range of choice for those who wish to shop for premium products, whilst still retaining our original entry-level and standard product offerings.
FY18 has also seen considerable enhancements to our mobile apps for customers.
This activity, combined with innovative marketing initiatives, recently resulted in the mobile app for SportsDirect.
com trending at No1 in the Apple app store shopping category during the closing stages of the World Cup, ahead of tech companies such as Amazon and eBay.
A NEW GENERATION OF STORES Our elevated stores typically include exceptional visual merchandising and are led by third party branded areas.
This new generation of stores includes regional flagship megastores, which are typically larger format stores in strategic retail locations.
These can be situated on the high street in prime retail shopping areas, or in out of town shopping destinations.
Flagship megastores typically include an extensive sports-category offering, and may have more than one fascia on the same site, including adjacent Premium Lifestyle stores and or a branded fitness gym.
The creation of these retail destinations enhances appeal to customers and generates operating synergies.
In order to increase the Groups ability to secure strategic retail locations that are commercially viable, our Property Division alongside senior management has the flexibility to invest in freehold properties and development projects, which can span vacant buildings, development land or re-development projects and multi-tenanted schemes or properties.
To ensure an efficient transition and reduce non-trading space, the Group seeks to align store openings with existing lease expiries where possible.
This wide-ranging but controlled brief ensures the Group is able to roll out our plans while efficiently transitioning the store portfolio.
An example of our latest concept of a new generation store is our newly opened 100,000 sq.
ft. flagship megastore at Thurrock in Essex.
COM store, a new-look USC store and a Flannels store.
The customer experience will be further enhanced via the potential inclusion of an eSports Belong Arena in association with Game Digital and an Everlast-branded fitness gym.
Further details of our property strategies and our current property portfolio are included within the Chief Executives Report and Business Review.
OUR PEOPLE It is the Group's policy to treat all our people with dignity and respect.
The Sports Direct family consists of approx.
26,500 staff, who work together across all areas of the business.
We are proud that Sports Direct International plc is one of the first public companies in the UK to introduce an elected Workers' Representative who attends meetings of the Board see details below.
Remuneration & Rewards Our policy is to foster a reward-based culture that enables our staff to share in the success of the Group.
During FY18, our share bonus scheme vested approx.
45.5 million, which were shared by approx.
2,000 eligible participating employees as the final tranche of a scheme that was launched in 2011.
The Company also completed a wage review in the UK to ensure that all staff continue to be fairly rewarded across all salary bands.
56 The wage review was part of a wider organisational development review, which also resulted in an improved system for staff appraisals and new measures to ensure staff have greater visibility over career opportunities throughout the Group.
It is Company policy to pay above the statutory National Minimum Wage, including rates that are above the statutory National Living Wage for those over 25 years of age in the UK.
In addition to this, the Company pays awards and incentives of approx.
20 million annually, from which both permanent and casual staff can benefit.
The Board continues to work towards developing long-term incentive schemes that align the interests of our people and shareholders.
The Companys approach to remuneration and its Remuneration Policy is discussed further in our Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
Workers' Representative The Sports Direct Workers Representative is Alex Balacki, a Store Manager who originally joined the Company 14 years ago as a Casual Sales Assistant.
Alex was elected in April 2017 by staff and will serve for a two-year period, following which a replacement representative will take up the role.
The Workers' Representative is free to speak on behalf of the Group's workforce at all scheduled meetings of the Board in order to facilitate a healthy and constructive dialogue.
Alex also attends regular meetings with senior management, and he is involved in a number of important projects.
These have included contributing to the Company's wage review and organisational development programme, and providing assistance with monitoring the Company's arrangements for casual staff.
Staff engagement In addition to the Workers Representative, the Company also routinely has a rolling dialogue with staff via an initiative called Your Company, Your Voice. '
This is a system whereby staff are able to raise any issues of their choosing via a number of different routes, both physical and digital.
This feedback is passed to senior management and is also available to the Workers' Representative.
We have a Listening Group that consists of staff drawn from the warehouse in Shirebrook.
Management attend periodic meetings, during which there is an open forum including for matters raised by agency workers.
This aims to ensure early visibility of problems and facilitate solutions.
Staff from the Listening Group also sit on the staff Health & Safety Committee which is attended by the Group Head of Health and Safety.
We are pleased to report that our people have embraced a pro-active culture in this area, which has resulted in 100 extra staff achieving first aid certification after volunteering for training from our new Warehouse Training Officer.
The Company is also registered with the British Safety Council.
Casual workers We continue to strive to ensure our arrangements for casual staff are fair and equitable.
We have taken steps to promote stability for this group by ensuring changes to scheduled hours by the Company are kept to a minimum.
In accordance with relevant regulatory requirements, our casual workers are entitled to accrued holiday leave and statutory sick pay.
Our research found that in common with surveys by other companies, the vast majority of our casual workers wish to remain on flexible arrangements.
Retail Trust The Company is an active member of the Retail Trust, which enjoys the patronage of Her Majesty the Queen.
The Retail Trust is the leading wellbeing charity for the retail industry and it offers a friendly ear to staff across the business who wish to seek advice about welfare issues from independent experts.
Wellbeing Service During FY18, the Company appointed a Wellbeing Co-ordinator and launched a health and wellbeing service for staff in conjunction with the Public Health Team from Derbyshire County Council and the Retail Trust.
Staff are able to raise any health concerns with the Wellbeing Co-ordinator and obtain free advice on health matters such as cessation of smoking, weight loss and improved sleep.
We also have plans to offer staff free health 'MOT' checks.
For those that choose to take part, these will include checks in conjunction with local health services for BMI, blood pressure and cholesterol levels.
We also host a Chaplaincy Service in Shirebrook that offers confidential help and advice.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 57 OUR BUSINESS Continued Training and development We strive to offer staff the tools to achieve their personal development goals through training and other means.
It should be noted that the majority of Store Managers are promoted from within, and over a third of them started as Casual Sales Assistants.
We have an existing purpose-built training centre at our campus in Shirebrook, which is dedicated to ensuring our people have appropriate opportunities to develop their skills and progress their careers within the Group.
During FY18, we have continued to strengthen the product training that we provide in conjunction with third party brands.
Further details of our staff training programmes are contained in our Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
OUR THIRD PARTY BRAND PARTNERS We work with our leading third party global brand partners and provide significant prominence for these specialists with our customers across all our platforms.
Our third party and Group brands are managed by central brand and marketing teams.
This centralised structure significantly benefits the Group by enabling the individual brands to participate in Group buying and sourcing: aggregated supplier relationships and enhanced supply chain disciplines: Group stock monitoring and replenishment: and more inspired and harmonious visual merchandising in-store.
