DIRECTORS' REPORT Continued As at 29 April 2018, the Company had been advised that the following parties had an interest in 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company pursuant to Rule 5 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR : Percentage of issued Number of shares held Ordinary share capital with Nature of holding voting rights held 1 Mike Ashley 330,000,000 61.0% Indirect 2 Odey Asset Management LLP 28,001,702 4.98% Direct Phoenix Asset Management Partners 18,119,748 3.03% Direct 3 Limited 1 Mike Ashley holds the shares through two companies, namely MASH Beta Limited and MASH Holdings Limited, which hold 303,507,460 ordinary shares 56.11% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company and 26,492,540 ordinary shares 4.9% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company respectively.
2 These figures are as at 6 April 2017, being the last date on which the Company was notified of a change in the percentage of shares.
3 These figures are as at 11 July 2016 being the last date on which the Company was notified of a change in the percentage of shares.
Between 29 April 2018 and 18 July 2018 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this report, the Company has not been advised of any further interests in 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company pursuant to Rule 5 of the DTRs.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Subject to applicable law and the Companys Articles of Association, the Directors may exercise all powers of the Company.
TAKEOVERS The Directors do not believe that there are any significant contracts that may change in the event of a successful takeover of the Company.
Details of the impact of any successful takeover of the Group on the Directors bonus and share schemes are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 115 to 128.
SHARE SCHEMES Details of the Executive Share Scheme is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 115 to 128 and details of the Share Scheme for participating employees on page 78 of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
STAFF INVOLVEMENT The Group currently has approx.
26,500 strong workforce in its stores, offices and warehouses.
The workforce is notified of announcements and major changes in the business via Company news emails and our intranet, as well as information being transmitted through line managers.
The Company has elected a Workers Representative who attends all Board meetings and provides feedback from employees to the Board.
The Company also has the Your Company, Your Voice scheme which enables staff to raise issues of concern via suggestion boxes.
The contributions are read by senior management and the Workers Representative who provides the Board with an overview and replies to staff if appropriate.
A selection of questions received and answers given by management are displayed in communal areas for staff.
The Company also operates a Listening group where representatives from the warehouse meet with members of senior management to provide feedback on the operation of the warehouse.
Training programmes and induction courses provide the workforce with opportunities to keep up to date with the latest developments of the Group.
Our employee conferences offer attendees an opportunity to mix with teams with which they wouldnt ordinarily mix, to learn about the Groups aspirations, and to keep up to date with the latest changes in the Group.
These conferences are full day events and also have a range of activities tailored to the specific area in which each individual works.
