Strategic Report About SSE OUR STORY Preparing SSE for the challenges of the future SSE has a rich heritage to draw on as it plays its part in reshaping the energy sector for a low-carbon future.
Over the course of a history spanning more than 70 years, change has been the one constant for SSE, and a proven ability to adapt stands it in good stead as it enters its next chapter.
4 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 5 Strategic Report About SSE OUR STORY CONTINUED SSE has a proud past and is focused on a strong future A proud past A strong future This year, 2018, marks the 75th anniversary Each of the anniversaries occurring in 2018 of the Hydro Electric Development Scotland is the result of past decisions to embrace Act, which paved the way for the North of change and to adapt to the economic, Scotland Hydro Electric Board to construct social and technological requirements of hydro electric schemes across the north of energy customers and of society as a whole.
Scotland and to connect homes, crofts and The extent of change now taking place in farms to the electricity network for the first the energy sector is unprecedented: and time.
This Board later became Scottish the needs of customers and society are Hydro Electric.
It also marks the 70th anniversary of the It was SSEs continuing commitment to formation of the Southern Electricity Board, embrace change and adapt to the needs which combined almost 50 companies of customers that led to its decision in and local authority undertakings to create November 2017 to enter into an agreement a regional electricity distribution and supply with innogy SE in respect of a proposed company, providing electricity sometimes demerger of SSEs household energy and for the first time to people across central services business in Great Britain now southern England.
This Board later became named SSE Energy Services and immediate Southern Electric.
combination of that business with innogy SEs subsidiary npower to form a new In addition, 2018 marks the 20th anniversary independent UK-based group.
of Scottish Hydro Electric and Southern Electric coming together to create SSE This transaction is subject to necessary previously Scottish and Southern Energy, shareholder and regulatory approvals, but it is which became and remains one of the designed to renew SSE in a way that will bring leading energy companies in the UK.
benefits to SSE and to energy customers, enabling SSE to draw on its past and build And it marks the 10th anniversary of Airtricity, for the future.
the Irish electricity generator and supplier, becoming part of the SSE Group, since when SSE has operated throughout the UK and Ireland.
SSE is proud of what it has achieved over many years and has always sought to draw on experience to build a strong future.
This means it has been, and remains committed to, taking the right decisions in each of its businesses to secure the right outcomes for energy customers and other stakeholders who have an interest in SSE and in the wider energy sector.
6 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 This is what embracing change and adapting to the requirements of energy customers and society as a whole means.
SSE is helping to create a new market model The planned SSE Energy Services transaction This is what embracing change and adapting will create an efficient new independent to the requirements of energy customers and energy supply and services business and help society as a whole means.
create a new market model by combining the resources and experience of two established A Shareholder Circular in respect of the players with the focus and agility of an proposed demerger of SSE Energy Services independent supplier.
and its combination with npower, plus Notice of General Meeting, will be published on A standalone retail business will be able to 27 June 2018. benefit from its own dedicated board of directors and specialist management team, supported by skilled employees.
It will be focused entirely on strategic and operational developments in the GB retail sector, including the competitive and regulatory environments.
It will also have the ability to access and allocate its own capital, allowing day-to-day decision-making to be more closely aligned with strategy, and thereby facilitating the delivery of greater benefits to all stakeholders, including customers and employees.
SSE plc Annual Report 2018 7 Strategic Report About SSE OUR STORY CONTINUED SSE is going to focus on energy and related infrastructure and services Following the planned SSE Energy Services For SSE this means being focused on earning transaction, SSEs strategy will focus on returns for shareholders and making a positive creating value for shareholders and society economic and social contribution to the from developing, owning and operating countries in which it operates: being efficient energy and related infrastructure and in developing, owning and operating services in a sustainable way.
infrastructure and related services and being agile in creating and securing value from Delivery of this strategy is dependent on them: maintaining a range of complementary the shared talent, skills and values of people business activities with a depth of insight into throughout SSE.
a core sector and doing things responsibly.
8 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 Efficiency Service Sustainability Safety Excellence Teamwork SSE is changing, but staying the same For 75 years, SSE and its predecessor So as SSE changes over the next year, companies and boards have kept at their core it will remain the same: focused on a fundamental belief that energy provision improving energy infrastructure for the is an essential part of modern life, on which future: committed to being a transparent, people, organisations and businesses depend.
responsible company that makes good decisions for the long term: and guided by the This means that as a public listed company, SSE SET of values Safety, Service, Efficiency, SSE must act in the public interest.
It has a Sustainability, Excellence and Teamwork.
It social contract that it adheres to by being will also remain committed to remunerating transparent in the way it does business, shareholders investment through the responsible in the way it works with payment of dividends.
stakeholders and sustainable in the way it makes decisions.
SSE invests in modern infrastructure, supports and creates sustainable jobs and pays its fair share of tax.
In return, SSE benefits from public services, SSE invests in modern is able to borrow human capital and has the infrastructure, supports right to pay dividends to shareholders.
and creates sustainable jobs and pays its fair share of tax.
