Strategic Report Our role in society CULTURE Nurturing a healthy business culture SSE plc Annual Report 2018 83 Strategic Report Our role in society CULTURE CONTINUED For SSE, a healthy business culture goes beyond complying with legal requirements it is about doing the right thing.
Whether it is paying a fair share of tax, doing more to increase inclusion and diversity, having zero tolerance to bribery and corruption, or respecting the human rights of employees and those in its supply chain, SSE seeks to operate with transparency and integrity.
Performance summary Unit 2017 18 2016 17 1 Speak Up contacts made Number 105 92 Formal grievances raised Number 143 153 Rate per 100 employees 0.69 0.72 Formal disciplinary procedures instigated Number 234 254 Rate per 100 employees 1.13 1.20 1 Number of contacts made both through internal mechanisms and through SSEs externally hosted whistleblowing phone line.
Figures are for calendar year.
Regular training is provided for SSE employees SSE includes anti-slavery clauses in all Unethical behaviour is across a series of subject matters and in standard forms for new contracts and its a risk tobusinesses 2017 18 a new Ethics and Compliance Responsible Procurement Charter details With increasing focus and scrutiny on Awareness Review Group was established to the expectations SSE has of its suppliers corporate conduct, stakeholders rightly oversee the roll out and implementation of a and standards it expects them to meet.
The expect companies like SSE to demonstrate programme of targeted training interventions.
Charter contains information on a number how they are embedding a responsible of social issues, such as modern slavery, business culture within their organisations.
To support that programme of training, health and safety, and the Living Wage.
SSE deployed an extensive internal Unethical behaviour can result in significant communications campaign in 2017 18 Concerns around human rights violations loss in value to the business in terms of with a spotlight on encouraging employees can be reported by SSE employees through revenue but also reputational, legal and to Speak Up when they suspect wrongdoing.
both internal and independent mechanisms regulatory costs.
However, the converse is also This included awareness around business detailed in this section, and suppliers and true: a healthy business culture can support ethics, and the launch of an internal Bad contractors can report incidents through a value creation over the long-term.
SSE made Things Happen in Good Companies dedicated email address.
No human rights significant progress in 2017 18 to advance its mini-documentary which includes violations were reported in 2017 18. approach to reinforcing an ethical business commentary from senior managers and culture.
An inability to maintain a healthy the Chief Executive.
The film promotes Anti-bribery and anti-corruption business culture is identified within the People SSEs externally-hosted whistleblowing Bribery and corruption have no place in a and Culture SSE Group Principal Risk.
SSE phone line and email service, SafeCall.
SSE has zero seeks to ensure the right culture is nurtured tolerance of corruption, fraud and criminality within the company to mitigate this risk.
United Nations Global Compact including financial crime, or the giving or In 2018, SSE took the decision to become receiving of bribes for any purpose.
Reinforcing a healthy culture a signatory to the United Nations Global SSE has a robust governance structure in Compact UNGC, the worlds largest SSE has tailor-made online training for place to support business ethics and a series corporate sustainability initiative.
The UNGC anti-bribery, which all employees are required of policies which detail its commitments supports companies to take a sustainable to complete on an annual basis.
Detailed and standards in this area.
SSEs Speak Up approach to business and align their strategies guidance is also provided to employees Whistleblowing Policy outlines the procedures and operations with ten universal principles through SSEs Doing the right thing guide to and processes for when and how to speak up on human rights, labour, environment and ethical business conduct which was launched about wrongdoing.
SSE recognises that rules anti-corruption.
Becoming a signatory to in 2016 17 following guidance and feedback alone are not sufficient to ensure wrongdoing the Compact reinforces SSEs sustainability from the Institute of Business Ethics.
SSEs is avoided a combination of rules and values and demonstrates its commitment to a Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy details values is needed to help embed a healthy responsible business approach to stakeholders.
definitions of corruption and bribery as business culture.
well as how to report any cases of suspected Respecting human rights wrongdoing.
The standards around bribery SSEs approach is to set the tone of an SSEs Human Rights Policy is based on that SSE expects its suppliers to meet are ethical business culture from the top.
the guiding principles of the UNGC and detailed in its Responsible Procurement Demonstrating commitment to the right outlines the standards SSE commits to Charter, along with how to report any values and behaviours at this level reinforces for direct and supply chain employees to cases of suspected violations.
the beliefs and behaviours of all employees.
ensure human rights are respected and This is reinforced by a values-led approach to protected, and that any suspected cases communications intended to build a sense of are reported immediately.
collective responsibility for doing the right thing.
84 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 Speaking Up at SSE LISTEN ACT PROTECT Creating a culture Responding when Supporting employees who for employees to speak up wrongdoing is reported speakup SSEs employees can report incidents When incidents are reported, whether When SSEs employees do the right of wrongdoing through both internal through internal or external mechanisms, thing by speaking up against instances and external mechanisms.
SSE has an they are passed to SSEs Group Security of wrongdoing, it is crucial that the independent Speak Up phone line and and Investigations team for investigation.
company also does the right thing and email service, hosted externally by SafeCall, SSE recognises that its whistleblowing ensures that there are no repercussions through which incidents can be reported.
channels have the potential to be abused, for their actions.
In 2017 18 SSE became Employees can choose to remain however all reports are treated in good one of the few companies to introduce anonymous when using the service.
an aftercare programme for employees who speak up.
The programme consists In calendar year 2017, 16 Speak Up Investigations are undertaken in a sensitive of a questionnaire sent to individuals to contacts were made internally and 89 and discrete manner, to understand understand if they were satisfied with how were made through SafeCall, compared whether the reports can be substantiated their complaint was dealt with and how to 45 and 47 respectively in 2016.
During these investigations they were treated, as well as questions a quarter of the contacts made last year interviews are undertaken and evidence is around what areas of the process SSE were in relation to dishonest behaviour.
Final reports of the investigations can improve.
Doing this helps SSE ensure These figures represent a significant are submitted either internally for its employees are treated fairly throughout increase in the number of Speak Up consideration of disciplinary action, the Speak Up process and provides contacts made since the SafeCall service or externally to law enforcement.
feedback which is used to improve how was introduced in 2015 when 45 contacts it responds to reports of wrongdoing.
SSE believes that the In calendar year 2017, there were four rise in the number of Speak Up contacts dismissals and six warnings issued More detail of Speak Up contacts therefore represents an increase in as a result of investigations into made and outcomes can be found employees having the confidence to do reported incidents.
in SSEs Sustainability Report 2018. the right thing and report incidents, rather than an increase in unethical behaviour.
To ensure that modern slavery does not exist Addressing modern slavery within its direct workforce, a right to work SSE has zero tolerance of modern slavery.
To checklist outlines the documented right meet the requirements of the Modern Slavery Additional information to work evidence that can be accepted Act 2015, SSE produces an annual Modern available on when SSE employs a recruit and in what Slavery Statement which sets out steps sse.
In terms of managing the risk taken to ensure modern slavery and human Sustainability Report of modern slavery existing within its supply trafficking do not exist within its business or chain, there are a series of due diligence steps supply chain.
SSEs 2018 Modern Slavery Half-year Sustainability Statement undertaken both at an industry level and Statement can be found on sse.
Doing the right thing: A guide to within SSEs own contracts with its suppliers.
ethical business conduct for SSE To mitigate potential risk in SSEs supply chain, In 2017 18, SSE strengthened the governance employees SSEs quality audit framework will include of its efforts to ensure modern slavery does modern slavery, with this implemented in not exist within its business or supply chain.
The membership of its Human Rights Steering Responsible Procurement Charter Group was expanded to include quality and The development of focused, face-to-face human resource professionals, in addition to Human Rights Policy training for key personnel was a priority in procurement and sustainability professionals.
Whistleblowing Speak Up Policy 2017 18 and by the end of March 2018, 99% The Steering Group is accountable to the of current procurement professionals had Group Governance, Culture and Controls Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy received focused training to raise awareness Committee, which is a subcommittee of Group Compliance Policy of the Modern Slavery Act and highlight the the SSE Executive Committee.
Once a year, obligations that procurement professionals the SSE Board reviews and agrees the must meet.
Whilst SSEs direct operations have a limited SSEs exposure to modern slavery risk was geographic focus on the UK and Ireland, there reviewed through analysis of its first-tier remains potential risk of modern slavery or supply chain expenditure, which found that human trafficking violations either directly less than 1% of SSE supply chain expenditure or in its supply chain and ongoing vigilance was in a combination of high risk industries is necessary.
Where risk is identified, it is managed through a combination of processes.
SSE plc Annual Report 2018 85 Directors Report Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In this section: Chairmans Corporate Governance Statement 88 Board of Directors 90 Leadership 90 Effectiveness 102 Accountability 109 Stakeholder engagement and responsible stewardship 116 Remuneration 120 Other statutory information 138 Statement of Directors responsibilities 140 86 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 87
