Strategic Report About SSE OUR STRATEGY CREATING value in energy and related infrastructure and services SSE is clear about the core purpose of the business, about its overall scope and direction, about how it fulfils its purpose and achieves its goals, and about its primary financial objective.
12 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 13 Strategic Report About SSE OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED SSEs purpose is to responsibly provide the energy and related services needed now and in the future.
It aims to be a leading provider of energy and related services in a low-carbon world.
Its strategy is to create value for shareholders and society from developing, owning and operating energy and related infrastructure and services in a sustainable way.
These are the four pillars of the SSE strategy.
Delivery of this strategy is dependent on the shared talent, skills and values of people throughout SSE.
Creating value Creating value means focusing on earning returns for shareholders, sustaining skilled jobs and making a positive economic and social contribution to the countries in which SSE operates.
SSE believes there are significant opportunities to do this as a responsible provider of energy and relatedservices.
SSEs focus is not on maximising shortterm profits but on creating value for shareholders, customers and society, including earning returns for shareholders investment through the payment of dividends.
SSE believes that dividend payments should be at a level that is sustainable, and that dividend targets should reflect the quality and nature of its assets and operations, the earnings derived from them and the longer-term financialoutlook.
SSE also believes it should be a wellfinanced company that maintains a strong balance sheet, illustrated by its commitment to robust ratios for retained cash flow and funds from operations debt.
Such financial strength enables SSE to secure funding from debt investors at competitive and efficient rates and take decisions that are focused on the long term all of which supports the dividend.
SSE seeks to deliver on this strategy through making the most of the opportunities presented by the transformation in the sector driven by electrification, decarbonisation and the upgrade of critical infrastructure.
14 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 Developing, Being sustainable SSE aims to create value for shareholders owning and and society in a sustainable way.
That means that to be successful over the long term, SSE must operate responsibly.
For operating this reason, SSE operates under a set of Developing, owning and operating core values known as the SSE SET.
means being efficient in the provision of infrastructure and services and being agile The definitions for each of the SSE SET of in creating and securing value from them.
values were renewed in 2017 18, following consultation with employees across SSE.
Subject to the completion of the planned SSE Energy Services transaction, Focusing on Safety SSE will have an ownership interest in five If its not safe, we dont do it.
economically regulated energy networks, energy and four classes of renewable energy capacity, Service three types of thermal electricity We are a company customers can generation, two B2B businesses and a related rely on.
Efficiency infrastructure SSE seeks to be an efficient operator We focus on what matters.
of assets, putting safety first and being a company that energy customers and and services Sustainability users can rely on.
It is also committed We do things responsibly to add Focusing on energy and related to disciplined investment in assets that long-termvalue.
infrastructure and services means complement its business and secure maintaining a range of complementary returns which are clearly greater than Excellence business activities with a depth of the cost of capital and enhance adjusted We continually improve the way insight into a core sector and related earnings per share.
In developing, owning and operating Teamwork The SSE Group of businesses is evolving, assets, SSE retains the option of realising We work together, respect each so there is a greater focus on infrastructure value from those assets where it is in other and make a difference.
and related services that are more aligned the interests of shareholders and other to SSEs core competences.
SSEs core stakeholders, and where it presents SSE is a responsible employer that businesses will be economically regulated opportunities to support future investment.
recognises that its strategy is dependent energy networks and renewable sources on the shared talent, skills and values of of energy, complemented by other flexible the people within the organisation.
employees are given opportunities for development and progression within SSE will also have a range of other a flexible, family-friendly working complementary businesses, which benefit environment.
Difference, inclusion and from direct and indirect synergies and in diversity are actively encouraged and so doing have options for the future.
In a everyone at SSE is given a voice on fast-changing energy and infrastructure workplace issues.
sector, optionality will remain key and it is for this reason that SSE believes it makes sense to retain core and complementary businesses and in so doing maintain a view of other long-term considerations and options.
