80 GOVERNANCE CHAIRS REPORT Our business model remains adaptable and robust.
IAIN CORNISH, Chair 2018 was a year of robust performance The business model has remained chair@sjp.
co. uk during which St. JamessPlace built adaptable and robust for over 26 years but further on its strong momentum of recent that is only because we have consistently years.
The fact that this was achieved invested in it and continue to do so.
During during a year of mounting political and 2018, good progress was made in the economic uncertainty for the UK, coupled longer term development of the business, pence with volatile global investment markets, is with further growth in the Academy, Rowan 48.22 per share further testament to the resilience of the Dartington and our ventures in Hong Kong, St. JamessPlace business model.
Singapore and Shanghai, and we achieved FULL YEAR DIVIDEND some important milestones in the migration 2017: 42.86 pence per share An ageing population, an increasing need to a new back-office administration for individuals to take responsibility for their platform.
We also invested significantly in own pension, care and protection planning, adviser and staff training and development and the complexity of the choices which and in wider technology supporting the face them in doing so, continue to underpin Partnership in the delivery of client service.
the growth in demand for trusted face-toface financial advice.
Based on this strong business performance, 10.0m continued high levels of client retention St. JamessPlace has continued to focus and our confidence in the Groups future RAISED FOR THE ST. JAMESS on supporting the Partnership in building prospects, the Board is pleased to propose PLACE CLIENT FOUNDATION BY THE trusted and durable relationships with clients a final dividend of 29.73 pence per share, ST. JAMESS PLACE COMMUNITY, to help them achieve their financial goals.
This makes a full year INCLUDING MATCHING is during uncertain and changing times that dividend of 48.22 pence per share, an 2017: 16.8 million guidance, assurance and advice become increase of 12.5%, representing 82.6% even more important.
Client value is about oftheUnderlying cash result.
Our clients recognise this and we must continue to demonstrate the value that we are delivering to them.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 81 Towards the end of the year we undertook Succession Corporate Governance an externally facilitated Board effectiveness There were a number of significant changes and our wider corporate review.
This highlighted some helpful to the composition of the Board last year.
recommendations that we intend to responsibilities implement in full, while confirming the In January 2018, Andrew Croft took over as The Board has long recognised the Groups strong overall performance of the Board.
CEO from David Bellamy who retired from responsibilities to all its stakeholders, the Board, and Craig Gentle succeeded including shareholders, clients, the I report more fully on Corporate Governance Andrew as CFO.
The business has Partnership, colleagues, third-party on pages 82 to 93. adapted seamlessly to this long-planned suppliers, the environment and of course management transition.
We have always viewed the Concluding remarks St. JamessPlace Charitable Foundation In October, my predecessor Sarah Bates I believe we have continued to perform well as a core component of our strategy and also stood down after 14 years on the Board, and deliver for stakeholders in what has a key vehicle through which we make the last four of which were as Chair.
been a more volatile and uncertain external a contribution to wider communities.
Whilst we are not complacent We also announced last year that Members of the St. JamessPlace and recognise that we will face periods DavidLamb would be retiring from the community raised 10.0 million in 2018, of uncertainty from time to time, we have Board and from his executive responsibilities including Group matching.
We have also confidence that ours is a business that will in February 2019, although I am pleased continued to broaden our corporate continue to thrive and make the most of the to report his continuing involvement as responsibility activities and these are long-term structural opportunities that are Non-executive Chair of the Investment reported on pages 56 to 69. available to us, and continue to adapt and Committee.
I am also delighted to report evolve to meet the challenges of the future, I am also pleased that we have further that Robert Gardner has joined the business much as we have done in the past.
advanced our environmental, social and as Director of Investment Management and governance credentials, with a particular a member of the Executive Board.
Robert is I would like to finish by offering on behalf highlight being the work we have undertaken well known to the business, joining us from of the Board, my sincere thanks and around Responsible Investment where we Redington where he was a co-founder and appreciation to the whole St. JamessPlace became signatories to the United Nations remains a non-executive director.
Principles for Responsible Investment I welcome Robert to the business and on and the Financial Reporting Councils UK behalf of the shareholders, the Board and Stewardship Code.
We also joined the IAIN CORNISH other colleagues, thank Sarah and David for Investment Associations Sustainability and Chair their immense contributions to the success Responsible Investing Committee.
26 February 2019 of St. JamessPlace over many years.
We made some positive progress on If you would like to discuss any aspect of Continuity and the maintenance of a strong increasing the diversity of our workforce myreport or the Corporate Governance and distinctive culture are key elements last year as a number of the programmes Report please feel free to email me on: of our strategy, and long-term succession we have put in place begin to bear fruit.
co. uk planning for both the Executive and NonFocusing initially on gender diversity, in 2018 executive members of the Board and senior we became signatories to the Women in management team will remain a key priority.
Finance Charter and we joined the 30% Club, while almost half of external appointments to senior roles last year were female.
This is not a box-ticking exercise, and we appreciate fully the importance of attracting and developing a diverse range of talent if we are to continue to thrive in the long term.
There is still a lot more to do, particularly at senior level, and this remains a priority for the Board.
