22 STRATEGIC REPORT F U N D S risk profiles and meet specific investment needs or preferences, thereby enriching We are increasing funds theproposition available to our clients.
Research, analysis and monitoring The St. JamessPlace Investment The data below illustrates the breadth Our core Investment Committee manages the fund managers of the research, analysis and monitoring Management Approach on behalf of our clients.
The Committee conducted during 2018 by the various comprises three senior members of the functions that support the Investment Successful investment is critical to the St. JamessPlace Investment Division and Committee, which includes the teams future financial wellbeing of our clients, but four independent members, who bring a atStamford Associates, Redington it is a field which presents a unique problem: broad range of knowledge and experience.
Clearly, The Committee is further supported the best investment talent is not confined to by specialist investment consultancy one firm or location.
We want the freedom firms including Stamford Associates 2018 2017 and flexibility to access the skills of the best and Redington each contracted for their Fund manager investment managers around the globe to expertise in particular investment markets.
monitoring meetings help our clients achieve their financial goals.
conducted in the For that reason, we do not employ in-house Complementary Rowan UKand overseas 492 363 investment managers.
Instead, we carefully select and contract a number of external Investment Committee Dartington offering managers to manage our range of funds.
meetings held during In addition to our core Investment 2018 21 20 Management Approach, a range of In doing so, we are able to provide our clients Investment complementary investment planning with unique access to fund management professionals working solutions is available through Rowan expertise that is often only available to large exclusively on behalf Dartington, the discretionary fund institutional investors or overseas retail of St. JamessPlace management and stockbroking arm investors.
These exclusive relationships clients 59 54 ofSt.
Working together arewhat help sets our approach apart, Years of industry with St. JamessPlace advisers, Rowan providing clients with diversification and experience Dartington can create and manage bespoke expertise on a global scale that is beyond share portfolios designed to match client ofInvestment many wealth managers.
Committeemembers 240 240 2018 development Our focus for 2019 How we engage After identifying an opportunity to Refine our IMA including our select, Core to our Investment Management provide clients with exposure to private monitor and change processes, to Approach is the ongoing monitoring assets, a key addition to our fund achieve better client outcomes.
of our fund managers to ensure they range in 2018 was the launch of our continue to meet our expectations, Explore opportunities to broaden the Diversified Assets FAIF managed by especially on risk and performance.
investment proposition and increase KKR in New York.
We also improved our We interact with our managers fund capacity.
Environmental, Social and Governance primarily through a programme of Further enhance our Responsible ESG proposition by relaunching our regular, scheduled engagement Investing capabilities and credentials.
Ethical fund as the Sustainable and meetings with key investment Continue to grow Rowan Dartington, Responsible Equity fund, now managed management personnel.
These both organically and through by Impax Asset Management in meetings, which are conducted consideration of small, bolt-on London.
This fund replaces a traditional across the world, involve experts acquisitions.
negative screening process with an from our Investment Committee, the ESG for alpha process in the belief that St. JamessPlace investment analyst ESG factors are additive to potential team, and our external investment investment returns.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 23 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Launch of the Diversified Objective: Increase Funds Assets FAIF For many years, investment solutions available to retail Under Management FUM investors have focused on traditional equity and bond asset classes.
Broadening our investment proposition to provide PROGRESS DURING 2018 clients with exposure to private assets was the vision behind In another successful year, new business from clients, our Diversified Assets FAIF.
combined with the impact of investment market returns, resulted in an increase in total FUM of 4.8 billion, growth of This project began in June 2016 with the team at Redington 5% over the year.
This growth feeds directly through to the conducting a global search to identify managers with financial performance in the year.
four characteristics: expertise across infrastructure, real estate, private equity, private credit and high-yield credit: The graphs below set out St. JamessPlace fund-related a corporate structure facilitating effective management KPIs.
Further information about why these KPIs are across these asset classes: the desire to adopt a partnership important can be found in the Glossary of Key Performance approach with St. JamessPlace to ensure alignment Indicators on page 226. and transparency: and an ability to offer a competitive fee.
The initial research saw Redington engage with ten Gross inflows Billion managers before presenting four potential candidates to 8% St. JamessPlace.
8% 29% 15.7 Further extensive investment and operational due diligence 14.6 INCREASE IN GROSS 23% was then undertaken on the shortlisted managers by both INFLOWS IN 2018 17% 11.4 St. JamessPlace and Redington, finally resulting in KKR 16% being formally appointed as the manager of the fund, which 9.2 7.9 was successfully launched in October.
