20 STRATEGIC REPORT THE PARTNERSHIP Finally, we have our Academy and Next Generation Academy initiatives where we We are growing and provide an opportunity for second-careerists or younger potential advisers, respectively, to developing the Partnership.
develop as wealth professionals and join the Partnership with us.
Currently we have four UK centres for our Academies: in Edinburgh, when recommending any of the wealth London, Manchester and Solihull.
Our Partnership approach management products and services We have chosen to promote our services provided by companies in the Group.
Developing the Partnership exclusively through the Partnership, Today, the St. JamessPlace Partnership reflecting the confidence we have in our Reflecting our shared objectives, we commit comprises 3,954 advisers across 2,489 advisers ability to build and maintain longto providing ongoing support so that Partner practices, reflecting growth in term working relationships with their clients, advisers and Partner practices can grow multi-adviser practices, and our traditional and so be able to provide sound financial and develop over time.
At its simplest, this strength in the UK is now complemented advice.
The exclusive arrangement also can include providing online, workplace, or by a growing capability in Asia.
Importantly, provides clients with clarity of responsibility classroom-based professional development the Partnership is becoming more diverse, in relation to their financial dealings.
and coaching opportunities to ensure our better reflecting the communities in which it St. JamessPlace works hard to support advisers remain appropriately qualified, operates.
these client-adviser relationships, placing technically able and equipped to deliver a them at the heart of all we do.
We also encourage and Growing the Partnership provide support for advisers who choose We give Partner practices the freedom to to pursue further qualifications, with many Increasing the number of advisers within organise their businesses in a way that having already progressed to Chartered the St. JamessPlace Partnership is core suits them, but we provide support to status, while others have gained an MSc to our growth plans and we have three them in areas such as advice and technical degree in Wealth Management as part of principal routes to achieving this.
We have guidance, marketing and client literature, our collaboration with the University of a dedicated central recruitment team that professional development, investment and Loughborough Business School.
seeks to identify experienced financial product solutions, business processing, advisers across the UK with the right skills, risk, and technology.
In addition, Partner experience and cultural fit to complement practices benefit from our distinctive the Partnership.
In recent years we have also Investment Management Approach seen applications increase from individuals and their association with a strong referred from Partner practices that are and recognised brand that guarantees seeking to grow their own businesses.
the suitability of the advice they give 2018 development Our focus for 2019 How we engage In 2018 we welcomed a net 293 new Continue to attract high-quality, Our communication and advisers to St. JamessPlace.
Around experienced advisers to join the engagementapproach with the 170 were as a result of experienced Partnership.
Partnership has two dimensions: adviser recruitment, while 142 in total information that is delivered Expand our Academy programme to graduated from our St. JamessPlace directly to them via our electronic 14 annual intakes and graduate 170 Academy and Next Generation Academy weekly bulletin, special bulletins advisers including Next Generation programmes during the year.
In addition, on key topics, and our intranet advisers.
50 Partner support staff became site: and face-to-face engagement Improve adviser retention, particularly fully diploma-qualified having passed activity ledby St. JamessPlace new joiners to thePartnership.
The latter can Expand our regional hubs, bringing range from individual meetings We enrolled 230 new students into together specialist support from to regional conferences and our our Academy and Next Generation ourhead office in Cirencester Annual Company Meeting.
We also Academy in 2018, helping to underpin and our field management team host regular Partner Consultation our future growth ambitions.
to deliver enhanced support for Meetings where we seek the views Partnerpractices.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 21 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Building a multi-adviser Objective: Continue to Partner practice Based in Wrexham, Hadlow Edwards was formed in 2006 grow and develop the when Warren Hadlow and Medwyn Edwards merged their single Partner practices.
Since then, Hadlow Edwards has Partnership expanded rapidly with the support of St. JamessPlace.
The original directors have been joined by James Parry, who is PROGRESS DURING 2018 also a shareholder having acquired an equity stake using Our proposition continued to be attractive to advisers in the bank funding facilitated by St. JamessPlace.
The Partnership also welcomed graduates from our team has grown significantly too, with a further six advisers Academy initiatives and new recruits in Asia.
Three of these advisers graduated from our Next Generation Academy and another is a former The graphs below set out St. JamessPlace PartnershipPartner who, with our help, was able to sell his business to related KPIs.
Further information about why these KPIs are Hadlow Edwards and focus his efforts on advising clients.
important can be found in the Glossary of Key Performance Indicators on page 226.
This nine-strong adviser team is now also supported by nine paraplanners, a further nine operational staff, and an Number of advisers Operations Director.
8% In just 12 years, Hadlow Edwards has built a business 8% 7 % 10% 3,954 delivering trusted, personal advice and high standards of 10% 3,661 INCREASE IN ADVISER service to some 2,900 clients with c. 370 million of funds 10% 3,415 NUMBERS FOR 2018 3,113 under management.
