71 ST. JAMESS PLACE CHARITABLE FOUNDATION 5,546 81.0m HOURS OF TIME DONATED BY TOTAL AMOUNT RAISED AND DISTRIBUTED EMPLOYEES IN WORK TIME TO GOOD CAUSES SINCE INCEPTION 2017: 6,000 2017: 71.0m 80% 10.0m 26 PERCENTAGE OF AMOUNT RAISED IN 2018 1 ADVISERS AND 2017: 16.8m YEARS OF EMPLOYEES WHO GIVING DONATE EACH MONTH 2017: 25 2017: 79% 1,011 TOTAL GRANTS MADEDURING2018 2017: 962 The Charitable Foundation makes individual grants to carefully chosen charities and organisations committed to making a real difference to the lives of children and young people in the UK and abroad.
Hereare just some of the recipients of grants made during the year: 780,000 LIVES DIRECTLY BENEFITED SINCEINCEPTION 2017: 500,000 1 In 2017, the amount raised benefitted from the Group double matching all funds raised by the St. JamessPlace community, to mark the Groups 25th anniversary year.
co. uk 72 ST. JAMESS PLACE CHARITABLE FOUNDATION ST JAMESS PLACE CHAR ITABLE FOUNDATION C ON T I N U E D A grant-making charity with a difference.
Some key events in 2018 were a cycle Some of our grants also extend overseas, The Charitable Foundation ride from London to Amsterdam which saw including Asia, Eastern Europe, Africa is a fundamental part of over 100 of the St. JamessPlace community and Central America, supporting projects take part: our annual Big Walk in the Peak under the same core themes as in our UK the Groups culture.
District, where over 200 people took part: a grant making programmes.
successful charity Golf Day in Hong Kong and The Charitable Foundations funds Our grants support charities in a number a Harvest Moon Charity Ball in the South East.
are raised and donated by the of different ways.
For example, they can The monies raised from these activities are St. JamessPlace community.
There provide funding for: then matched by St. JamessPlace Group, arethree primary sources of funding: 1. individuals working directly with resulting in 10.0million being raised in 2018 1. regular monthly donations from beneficiaries, such as by covering to support the grant making programmes.
St. JamessPlace advisers and the salary costs for a particular The Group also support the day to day employees: role.
This is how we have supported running costs ofthe Charitable Foundation.
2. fundraising events or challenges run Jamies Farm and Maggies Firmly established as one of the most by the St. JamessPlace community: Merseyside, charities aimed at helping successful corporate charities in the UK, the and disadvantaged young people and Charitable Foundation is now in the Top 10 those affected by cancer respectively.
3. pound-for-pound matching by 2 of Corporate Foundations.
Over the last 26 Further details are provided on the theGroup.
years the Charitable Foundation has been following pages: Since 1992, the Charitable Foundation committed to fostering a culture of giving has raised over 80 million in support 2. specific development projects back to those who need it most, by donating of thousands of charities.
Some80% aimed at increasing the quality of to small grass-root charities operating of advisers and employees of life of beneficiaries in the future.
For across four core themes: St. JamessPlace now give to the example, during 2018 we made grants 1. supporting children and young people Charitable Foundation through their to projects aimed at helping family who are disadvantaged economically, payor earnings.
carers via the Hospice UK network.
socially, or through disability: Further details areprovided on the In addition, many advisers and employees 2. supporting people affected by cancer: following pages: and become involved in a diverse range of 3. supporting the hospice movement: and 3. the purchase of capital items which fundraising activities, whether thats a 4. s upporting those affected by poor provide immediate benefit.
charity golf day or cake bake, to cycling, mentalhealth.
running or trekking or the annual triathlon 2 Association of Charitable Foundations Foundation Giving Trends 2018 report.
The impact we make Our focus for 2019 Research carried out during 2018 has shown the enormous Looking ahead to 2019 we will: impact our grant-giving has had on the lives of hundreds of Continue to support charities operating across our four core thousands of people over the last 26 years.
Over 780,000 themes both in the UK and overseas who can deliver real lives have been changed for the better and the ripple impact and a transformational difference to the people they effect is even bigger, with an estimated 2.6 million indirect support.
Continue to grow and develop our fundraising activities Our focus on small grass-roots charities means that we across the St. JamessPlace community, providing new and have made a transformational difference to so many exciting ways for them to get involved.
organisations, offering support where it is needed most by Add value and help to make a lasting difference to the strengthening grantees organisational confidence, security, thousands of charitable organisations by building strong innovation and growth.
partnerships through our donations and volunteering support, helping them toreach their goals.
3 Bean Research Impact Evaluation of 2016 Grants made by the CharitableFoundation received in August 2018.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC 73 We are supporting children and young people.
We work with charities which support disadvantaged and disabled young people under the age of 25 in a number of areas, including those with physical or mental health difficulties, life threatening or degenerative conditions, young carers, and those who are socially or economically disadvantaged.
Jamies Farm Empowering disadvantaged young people The Charitable Foundation first started supporting Jamies Farm in 2012 with a grant of 10,000.
Since then a strong relationship has built between the two organisations, and recently we awarded a further 150,000 to this unique and inspiring charity.
Jamies Farm acts as a catalyst for change by enabling disadvantaged young people aged 1016 who are at risk of social and academic exclusion to engage with education.
They achieve this through a unique one-week residential experience and follow-up programme which combines Farming, Family and Therapy.
Jamies Farm had three farms across the south of England and, to meet increasing demand for their services, in 2017 they acquired a fourth farm in Monmouthshire which opened its doors in January 2018.
The grant awarded by the Charitable Foundation Education Managers are vital to the success of funded an Education Manager to lead the team and programme each of our farms.
They set the culture, manage at this new farm over the next three years.
a team of around six full time staff who ensure Education Managers at each of the farms play a crucial role in the safety and progression of all visiting staff upholding high standards of practice and ensuring outcomes and children, and oversee all the visits.
It is a forchildren remain high.
Education Managers are rigorously held to account over a number of KPIs which include the impact we achieve with young people, school retention rates and meeting budgets.
We are so grateful to the St. Jamess Place Charitable Foundation for supporting this post and allowing 10,000 transformational opportunities for around INITIAL GRANT IN 2012 450 disadvantaged young people per year at Jamies Farm Monmouth.
JAMIE FEILDEN CEO, Jamies Farm 150,000 GRANT PROVIDED IN 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 www.
co. uk 74 ST. JAMESS PLACE CHARITABLE FOUNDATION ST JAMESS PLACE CHAR ITABLE FOUNDATION C ON T I N U E D We are working to support The generosity of the people affected by cancer.
St. Jamess Place community The Charitable Foundation supports local charities which provide goes from strength to strength help and support to those living with or affected by cancer.
and as such we continue to make a transformational difference to thousands of peoples lives across the UK and overseas.
CATHERINE IND Head of the St. JamessPlace Charitable Foundation Maggies Merseyside Supporting people with cancer Every year, over 300,000 people are diagnosed with cancer in the UK.
They face tough questions, exhausting treatment and difficult emotions.
These challenges affect not only those with cancer, but their family and friends too.
Built in the grounds of NHS cancer hospitals, Maggies Centres are places with professional staff onhand to offer the support people need.
One of the additional stresses for anyone suffering from cancer is the impact it has on their finances.
Patients often face a dramatically reduced income coupled with an increase in bills asadirect result of their illness.
The Charitable Foundation provided a grant of 80,495 to fund the position of a Benefits Adviser for a three-year period commencing in 2018.
The Benefit Adviser will guide patients, their friends and families on all aspects of their financial wellbeing, including accessing and helping to apply for benefits they may be entitled to, support with managing billsand many other financial demands that they have to deal with as a result of their illness.
This bespoke service allows some of the pressure of having cancer to be lifted from the individual, as well as from family and friends.
The practical support to help with the financial issues from not being able to work is a lifeline.
You are really not equipped to deal with this when you are going through the overall upheaval and treatment of life with cancer.
Beneficiary ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC 75 We are helping hospices.
We are supporting people We are proud to support hospices through Hospice UK affected by mental health formerly known as Help for Hospices, the umbrella organisation supporting independent hospices in the UK, issues.
which distributes funds to hospices on our behalf.
The Charitable Foundation is proud to support mental health Hospice UK Supporting and charities across the UK.
We are working with selected charities transforming care for children tohelp people of all ages affected by mental health issues.
and adults In 2018 the St. JamessPlace Charitable Foundation The Charitable Foundation is proud to have been working committed 1.1 million to charities working in this field.
The inpartnership with Hospice UK for over ten years.
projects the Charitable Foundation will be supporting include: BEAT which will provide training and ongoing support to first For the last five years the Foundation has committed responder professionals in Yorkshire and Humber, helping 500,000 a year to support development projects within the them tobuild their knowledge of eating disorders: hospice network.
Each year representatives from the Hospice UK team and the Charitable Foundation discuss and agree a Young Minds which will be developing a new programme theme for the funding.
For 2018 the chosen funding theme using innovative technology to better reach parents and was family carers to recognise the often-hidden support and carers, and give them greater understanding and guidance responsibility of the thousands of family carers supporting a insupporting a child with mental health issues: person through their illness.
The Anna Freud National Centre for Children and Families which will be developing a new National Trauma Centre to The development projects under this theme were chosen build an effective response to mental health and emotional because they demonstrated the strongest impact in terms of issues in children and young people connected to a innovation in their field, and were wide-reaching in terms of the largescale traumatic event, such as a terror related atrocity: numbers of people that would benefit.
The Mix, which provides free counselling services to children and young people presenting all mental health conditions nationally.
The services are developing to use trusted technology to help those in need reach relevant information, and to enable counselling sessions to be booked online: and CALM Campaign Against Living Miserably which will be expanding its direct engagement team by recruiting an Outreach Manager to reach young men at high risk of suicide, offering targeted and timely support and helping toreduce the growing incidence of suicide in the UK.
co. uk 76 GOVERNANCE 02 GOVERNANCE Board of Directors 78 Chairs Report....... 80 Corporate Governance Report...... 82 Report of the Audit Committee..... 94 Report of the Risk Committee..... 106 Report of the Nomination Committee................ 111 Remuneration at a Glance........... 116 Report of the Remuneration Committee........... 117 Directors Report 142 Statement of Directors Responsibilities.. 145 ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 77 W E PROV I fide SUPPORT Effective and sustainable governance underpins our business model and ongoing review and refinement of our governance framework ensures we are best placed as a Board to oversee the delivery of our strategy.
