18 STRATEGIC REPORT C L I EN TS Delivering value for clients We are delivering positive In recent times there has been much attention on costs and charges across the UK wealth management industry, and we outcomes to clients.
remain confident that our charges are below our peer average when assessed on a true Tocomplement our own range of solutions, like-for-like basis.
With new disclosures Our approach clients also have access to carefully selected required as a result of the Markets in Putting clients at the heart of everything we external providers for other services such as Financial Instruments Directive MiFID II do is core to our culture and enables us to protection, general insurance or investment and the Insurance Distribution Directive work together to run a genuinely clientinto venture capital trusts.
IDD, we will need to remain focused on focused business.
We focus on building continuing to deliver, and indeed articulate, Clients benefit from the security of investing long-term relationships anchored in trust the value that we deliver for clients of with a business of St. JamessPlaces scale.
and mutual respect, where advice is tailored St. JamessPlace.
We have the capacity to perform in-depth to our clients individual circumstances.
That means that as a minimum we need due diligence as part of our Investment If we and our advisers do this well, not only to continue to deliver good, longManagement Approach as well as undertake our clients will not only remain with term investment performance, but we rigorous quality assurance on the advice St. JamessPlace, but they will typically must deliver exceptional client service, delivered by the Partnership.
This gives us become advocates.
Indeed, our clients help clients maximise their outcomes the confidence to guarantee the suitability of frequently continue their relationship with through effective financial planning, and advice delivered by the Partnership, thereby their adviser over many years, appreciating ensure thatclients experience the benefits providing clients with additional peace of a source of trusted advice as their financial of having a personal relationship with an mind.
adviser that they can trust.
Our focus on high-quality, advice-led wealth Through the Partnership, clients of management, means that St. JamessPlace St. JamessPlace have access to a wealth now has more than 682,000 clients, based of financial solutions, including the provision in all corners of the UK as well as in Hong of funds and investment portfolios, and Kong, Shanghai and Singapore.
There is no expert advice around retirement planning, such thing as a typical St. JamessPlace intergenerational wealth and protection.
Yet common to them all is the desire to have a trusted, skilled and experienced professional adviser to look after them and their families.
2018 development Our focus for 2019 How we engage In 2018, we launched our Diversified Employ technology to enhance our It is imperative that we continue to Assets Fund of Alternative Investment Online Wealth Account, including achieve positive client outcomes Funds FAIF, managed by KKR, toenrich facilities such as online payments and deliver client experiences our IMA.
We also added several providers anddocument sharing.
To do to our protection panel including so we monitor all areas of the Optimise our back-office Guardian and The Exeter, aswell as business that can affect the client administration systems to achieve Medicash to our healthcare panel.
experience, including the suitability service excellence.
of advice, administration, investment We have also improved our client Expand the services provided by experience, client feedback and administration and service standards, third-party providers for our clients, client complaints.
We also conduct not least through further progress in supporting the provision of holistic a client Wealth Account survey, our transition onto Bluedoor, our new financial advice.
commission independent client back-office administration system, as Explore the development of research, and monitor our Net well as enhanced the functionality of our complementary products and tools to Promoter Score.
digital wealth portal the Online Wealth support advice on asset decumulation.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 19 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Enhancing the Online Objective: Deliver positive Wealth Account It is important that we are flexible in the way we service outcomes to an increasing clients of St. JamessPlace, providing them with the ability toreceive and analyse information about their investments population of clients ina format that suits them.
PROGRESS DURING 2018 Complementing our paper-based reporting, we have 2018 was another successful year as the business continued focused in recent years on upgrading our digital client-facing to grow.
Client numbers grew by 8% contributing to the reporting via our Online Wealth Account OLWA.
A secure increase in investment of new funds.
The quality of client online portal, the OLWA enables clients to monitor all of outcomes, as reflected in client retention and feedback, their St. JamessPlace investments: providing information continued to be very strong.
on, among other things, plan details, investment allocation by fund and asset class, and client-specific investment The graphs below set out St. JamessPlace SJP client performance.
It also provides functionality for multi-currency related KPIs.
Further information about why these KPIs are reporting and serves as a digital document library.
important can be found in the Glossary of Key Performance We have plans to develop the OLWA further, with innovation Indicators on page 226. focused on enhancing client communication, and facilitating electronic payments online.
Client numbers thousands 8% 8% 11% 9% 682.0 633.0 9% INCREASE IN CLIENT 9% 571.8 NUMBERS FOR 2018 525.8 484.8 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Client retention percentage 96% 96.3 96.2 96.4 96.3 96.4 CLIENT RETENTION FOR2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 1 Client advocacy % that would recommend SJP 94% tosomeone else OF CLIENTS WOULD 97.0 97.0 95.0 N A 94.0 RECOMMEND ST. JAMESSPLACE 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 1 Client advocacy data is unavailable for 2017 as, from 2017 onwards, the Wealth Account survey is undertaken biennially.
