78 GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Experience Iain Cornish Iain brings experience from both the financial and regulatory environments.
Chair He was a senior consultant at KPMG, specialising in the banking and finance sector, and then served as Chief Executive of the Yorkshire Building Society.
Date of appointment Inrecent years he has been chair of Shawbrook Group plc and an independent Chair director of the Prudential Regulation Authority.
Non-executive Director External appointments October 2011.
Non-executive director of Leeds Building Society and Arrow Global Group plc and Treasurer of Macmillan Cancer Support.
RK NC Experience Andrew Croft Andrew joined the Company in 1993 and was Chief Financial Officer from Chief Executive 2004 to 2017.
Having trained as an Accountant with Deloitte Haskins and Sells now part of  he then worked in the financial Date of appointment services sector.
Since joining St. JamessPlace he has held a number of roles Chief Executive within the Finance department, assuming the role of Finance Director in 2002 January 2018. and being appointed as the Chief Executive in January 2018.
He is a Trustee Joined St. Jamess ofthe St. JamessPlace Charitable Foundation.
Place 1993 and appointed to the Board External appointments September 2004.
Lay member of the Audit and Risk Committee and Finance and Investment Committee of the Royal College of Surgeons of England.
Experience Ian Gascoigne Ian is Managing Director responsible for the management and development Managing Director of the Partnership.
He has worked in the financial services industry since 1986 and has considerable experience in the financial advisory space.
Ian Date of appointment isaTrustee of the St. JamessPlace Charitable Foundation.
External appointments Joined St. Jamess Member of the Strategic Advisory Board of Loughborough University School Place 1991 and of Business and Economics.
appointed to the Board January 2003.
Experience Craig Gentle Craig joined the Company in 2016 as the Chief Risk Officer.
Prior to this, Chief Financial Officer Craigspent 22 years at , 12 of which were as a Partner.
During his time at , Craig held a number Date of appointment ofroles, including as a senior audit partner.
Craig qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1993.
Joined St. Jamess External appointments Place 2016 and Member of the Board, Trustee and Honorary Treasurer for the Bristol Music appointed to the Board Trust.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 79 Committee key: AC NC Member of Audit Committee Member of Nomination Committee RK RM Member of Risk Committee Member of Remuneration Committee Denotes Chair of Committee Experience Simon Jeffreys Simon brings experience of the auditing world and financial services.
He was Independent a senior audit partner with  LLP from 1986 to 2006 Non-executive Director where he also led their Global Investment Management practice.
Between 2006 and 2014, Simon was CFO and Chief Administrative Officer at Fidelity Date of appointment International and then CFO and Chief Operating Officer at the Wellcome Trust.
External appointments Chair of Aon UK Limited and Henderson International Income Trust plc and AC RK NC RM a non-executive director and chair of the Audit Committees of Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc and SimCorp A S, a listed Danish financial services software company.
Simon is also a non-executive director and chair of the Audit and Risk Committee of the Crown Prosecution Service.
Experience Baroness Baroness Wheatcroft brings experience of the media and also the legislature.
Wheatcroft Her career has included editorial roles at both the Sunday Telegraph and The Independent Times, as well as being Editor-in-Chief at the Wall Street Journal, Europe.
She Non-executive Director is a member of the House of Lords.
Her financial services experience includes previous appointments as a non-executive director of Barclays Group plc and Date of appointment Shaftesbury plc.
Non-executive Director External appointments April 2012.
Non-executive director of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles.
Chair of the Financial AC RK NC RM Times Appointments and Oversight Committee.
Member of the House of Lords.
Experience Roger Yates Roger brings over 30 years of investment management experience.
He started Senior Independent his career with GT Management Limited in 1981 and has subsequently held Non-executive Director positions at Morgan Grenfell, Invesco and Henderson Group plc, where he SID wasChief Executive Officer.
Most recently, he was chair of Electra Private Equity plc and a non-executive director of IG Holdings plc.
Date of appointment Senior Independent External appointments Non-executive Director Senior Independent non-executive director SID of Mitie Group plc and nonOctober 2018. executive director of Jupiter Fund Management PLC and J. P. Morgan Elect plc.
AC RK NC RM Full biographical details of each Director can be found on the corporate website at www.
co. uk ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 www.
