4 OVERVIEW WE ARE A SOUND INVESTMENT We are a leading wealth 1.
2. manager We are We are focused on strong.
delivering We are a financially strong, We are a vertically value for all FTSE 100 Group driving integrated wealth growth underpinned by a management business, stakeholders.
offering clients an end-toend wealth management Already established as a leading wealth We are an advice-led wealth management proposition.
manager in our chosen markets, the business that strives to deliver positive strength of our adviser-led approach outcomes for clients.
Achieving this to wealth management and our proven contributes to strong client retention We offer clients access to our full range investment management proposition, and helps attract new client assets.
Our of wealth management products and means we are well positioned to benefit principal source of income is the receipt of services exclusively via the Partnership, our from favourable long-term demographic fees on client funds under management.
own 3,954-strong force of self-employed and market opportunities in wealth This results in a cash generative advisers.
Client funds are managed using management.
financial model with relatively low capital our distinctive Investment Management requirements.
This means we are able to Approach IMA whereby we use our scale deploy capital to invest in the future growth and expertise to carefully select a number of the business and the development of of external managers from across the our client proposition, while also providing globe to manage our range of funds.
stable and growing returns to shareholders.
See page 22 for further information See page 24 for further information ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 5 WE ARE A SOUND INVESTMENT 3.
We are We are We are growing.
We have a clear growth We continue to invest We are a business built on strategy to enable us to in our capacity and trust.
That means we invest capitalise on the longinfrastructure so we are and behave in a responsible term market opportunity well placed to capitalise manner with a focus on in advice-led UK wealth on growth opportunities doing the right thing management and drive ahead.
growth in funds under We have a programme of investment that We protect our reputation by ensuring all management.
is supporting our ambition to double our our people and the Partnership embrace funds under management over the next the core culture and values that underpin We aim to grow gross client inflows by five years.
This includes our investment our business.
This means putting client 15-20% per annum over the medium term into the St. JamessPlace Academy and interests first, and emphasising quality, through a focus on growing the size of the Next Generation Academy programmes: service and relationships above everything Partnership, improving adviser efficiency, widening our geographic presence via else.
We also aspire to be a good corporate and broadening and enriching our client St. JamessPlace Asia: our expansion of citizen through enhancing our stewardship proposition.
In addition, we focus on Rowan Dartington, our discretionary fund of client funds and making clear our ensuring strong client retention through management business, across the UK and commitment to our communities and delivering a high-quality service to advisers into Asia: and Bluedoor, our new backgood causes through our Corporate and clients, driving good investment office administration system.
Responsibility programme and the performance, and ensuring we remain a St. JamessPlace Charitable Foundation.
robust and resilient business that clients See page 28 for further information trust and recommend.
See page 56 for further information See page 16 for further information ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 www.
co. uk 6 STRATEGIC REPORT 01 STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executives Report.................. 8 Market Overview 12 Our Business Model 14 Our Strategy....... 16 Clients.............. 18 The Partnership.... 20 Funds............... 22 Financials........ 24 People.............. 26 Chief Financial Officers Report.... 28 Financial Review 30 Risk and Risk Management........... 47 Corporate Responsibility Report.... 56 Approval of the Strategic Report.... 70 ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 7 W E SEE T H I NGS DIFFER E N T LY Already established as a leading wealth manager in our chosen markets, the strength of our adviser-led approach to wealth management and our proven investment management proposition, means we are well positioned to benefit from favourable long-term demographic and market opportunities in wealth management.
682,000 3,954 95.6bn CLIENTS TOTAL ST. JAMESSPLACE FUNDS UNDER MANAGEMENT ADVISERS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 A 5% INCREASE ON 2017 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 www.
