OUR APPROACH CONTINUED Stakeholder voices We have a positive relationship with St. Modwen and are pleased to be working with them, unlocking this areas potential by bringing this development forward.
O nce the construction has been completed, this site will not only boost the local economy but will also enable jobs to be created, something we are keen to encourage and support.
Councillor Richard Wright Leader, North Kesteven District Council PARTNERS St. Modwen has numerous partnering agreements with private and public sector organisations, as well as landowners, across the UK.
These key partnerships have enabled us to create new communities and develop hundreds of acres of land into residential, employment, leisure and education uses alongside green infrastructure and community facilities.
We work collaboratively and transparently and know the importance of understanding our partners needs and objectives.
We want to take their interests appropriately into account when making decisions and we listen to and communicate with our partners about their respective concerns and contributions.
Our experience and expertise enable us to cover all aspects of the development process on projects of scale.
We are one of very few developers who operate directly in the residential and commercial sectors and the direct delivery of infrastructure.
Network 46, Lincoln Network 46 Steelwork going up for phase one at Network 46, one of the regions main St. Modwen has a long history of development in Lincoln, having strategic employment locations.
bought the Alstom portfolio in 2002.
We own more than 30 acres of industrial land in the area, including Firth Road and Ruston Works.
In 2012, we worked closely with Siemens, North Kesteven District Council NKDC and Lincolnshire County Council to deliver the 135,000 sq ft state-of-the-art facility for Siemens at Teal Park.
The long-standing relationship with NKDC was further cemented when, in 2016, the opportunity arose to acquire land at Network 46, and breathe new life into what was the old RAF Swinderby airbase.
We are now speculatively building more than 95,000 sq ft of warehouse and manufacturing accommodation in one of the regions main strategic employment locations, in line with our strategy to increase our industrial development programme.
We have seen very encouraging levels of interest in Network 46 and we are on track to complete phase one in March 2019.
CSR This is one of our CSR objectives.
For more information visit www.
co. uk csr St. Modwen Properties PLC 34 Annual report and financial statements 2018
