The College, Swansea Bay Campus During the year, we delivered a new state-of-the-art educational facility at Swansea Universitys 450m Bay Campus.
A collaboration between Swansea University and Navitas, The College offers academic pathways aimed primarily at international students, transforming them into Swansea University graduates and lifelong learners.
The new purposebuilt academic building at the Bay Campus provides 18 teaching rooms, computer labs and breakout areas for individual and small group studies as well as space for social and cultural activity, which will be used by all staff and students of the university.
Richard Powell, Group Construction Director, said: D elivered by St. Modwen and lead contractor VINCI Construction UK, the building was completed five weeks ahead of schedule: a result attributed to the close collaboration between St. Modwen, Swansea University, third-party consultants and a skilled local workforce.
The College joins the 1.0m sq ft of academic and recreational space already delivered at the Bay Campus, cementing both our regeneration reputation and remediation expertise.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 26 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information STRATEGY IN ACTION REGENERATION EXPERTISE BREATHING NEW LIFE INTO PLACES Through our regeneration projects, we are changing the norm, unlocking potential through our expertise and our different approach.
This is not only demonstrated by our major projects such as Swansea Bay Campus, Longbridge and New Covent Garden Market, but also underpins the two other elements of our business, as many of the sites in our residential and industrial and logistics pipeline have been brought forward via our regeneration activities.
We have made positive progress on our existing large regeneration projects, taking forward the next phases of development with significant opportunities remaining at all the sites.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 27 Image to come STRATEGY IN ACTION ASSET MANAGEMENT CREATING SAFE AND SUSTAINABLE SITES Our central asset management team ensures we proactively manage our incomeproducing portfolio to drive rental and capital growth: as at the end of the year, the annualised passing rent on our portfolio stood at 39.4m.
Like-for-like rents increased 1.9% compared to the same period last year, with rental growth in industrial up by 9.1%.
Industrial and logistics represents 46% of our overall passing rent, up from 21% a year ago.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 26 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Moorgate Point, Knowsley Following a 2.3m refurbishment at Moorgate Point Industrial Estate in Knowsley, we successfully let 200,000 sq ft of space in a significant deal to independent freight forwarding business Burhill DCR Logistics, which provides professional logistics services globally for the forestry, food and retail sectors.
The Liverpool-based firms move into the unit will see it positioned as one of the largest independent warehouse companies in the UK, creating up to 30 new jobs and joining its other facilities in Liverpool and Felixstowe.
Rupert Wood, Property Director Asset Management, said: The capital investment by St. Modwen into Moorgate Point was in response to a buoyant industrial market around Merseyside, with continuing demand for good-value, effective accommodation to complement new space being delivered in the regional market.
The 10-year lease taken by Burhill DCR Logistics, soon after the buildings refurbishment, demonstrates the continued strong demand for well-located, good-quality industrial buildings.
The positive publicity and market awareness generated by this letting attracted Allied Energy Services to the development, who have agreed terms on a 28,000 sq ft unit.
These two lettings have seen the void level reduce at Moorgate Point from 50% to 13% over the course of the year, demonstrating our proactive approach to managing our portfolio to drive and deliver asset performance improvement.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 27 STAKEHOLDER VALUE CREATION We have an ability to see and realise potential and the expertise in delivering the WHAT WE DO infrastructure to make it happen, crafting a built environment that reflects our purpose: MAKES A BIG Changing places.
We create employment, opportunity and IMPACT ON places for people to live, work and enjoy.
Be it brownfield, greenfield or green belt, we recognise that land is a finite resource.
So we use it wisely and treat it with care.
COMMUNITIES We look beyond the bricks and mortar to how we can contribute to the local area creating jobs, investing in community spaces and protecting the environment.
We have a strong track record of working with stakeholders to achieve this.
We are experts in the regeneration and renewal of spaces.
Because we think differently, we can tackle challenging sites that have the clear potential to benefit from our specialist skills, turning them into inspirational and thriving new residential and business communities.
Acres prepared for Acres of oven-ready development across residential land sold the country to third parties 385 49 Tonnes of material recycled Acres of public green spaces in accordance with the created, including parks and Specification for Highway wildlife areas, across our sites Works, to avoid the use of natural quarried materials 80 170,000 St. Modwen Properties PLC 28 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Llanwern steelworks, Newport The first phases of housing were launched onto the market ready One such example is our transformation of the old Llanwern for occupancy in November 2011 and the first resident moved in steelworks near Newport, south Wales.
The steel works opened during April 2012. in 1962 but steel-making at the sites ceased in 2001, resulting In September 2013, together with the Welsh Government, we in the loss of 1,300 jobs.
In 2004 the heavy end of the steelworks, delivered Queensway, a three-mile public highway between the then owned by Corus, was demolished and we acquired the land.
A48 Newport Southern Distributor Road and the M4 at Junction Following our purchase of the site, an active reclamation and 23A at Magor, to significantly improve access to Glan Llyn and remediation programme began in May 2008. east Newport.
The vision was to transform the old steelworks into Glan Llyn, The construction of the first primary school completed in the a residential development supporting mixed-use and employment autumn of 2018. land uses.
The redeveloped site will provide 4,500 homes for around 12,500 people and will include two schools, community The first 50,000 sq ft speculative warehouse industrial unit and facilities, retail areas including a supermarket, public open space associated site works on Celtic Business Park was let to Amazon and a 42-hectare business park providing 6,000 permanent jobs in 2017. for the local community.
A 165,000 sq ft rail-connected train assembly facility completed onsite in 2018 for Spanish rail company CAF.
Plans for further speculative and bespoke development on behalf of occupiers are progressing with the 100-acre site capable of accommodating approximately 1.3m sq ft. Construction contracts New homes delivered Industrial and logistics space awarded by St. Modwen Homes delivered, creating thousands of jobs nationally 200m 848 0.9m sq ft Biodiversity New waterbodies were created following remediation of land at Coed Darcy with additional ponds providing a newt corridor with both breeding sites and resting places.
The translocated population of over 9,500 great crested newts is one of the largest Land and infrastructure Apprentices employed and translocations of this species delivered to support the work placements offered recorded in Britain.
construction of over 3,300 new homes 126 3,300 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 29 OUR APPROACH WE THINK LONG-TERM TO DELIVER SUSTAINABLE SUCCESS FOR ALL Introduction O ur aim is to always deliver sustainable We have a long-term approach to everything we do, we consider solutions to ensure that what is created and actively communicate and engage with all our stakeholders at every turn.
is appropriate locally and lasting.
Corporate social responsibility CSR is an integral part of our We think long-term and deliver: inspiring business.
Our approach to CSR recognises the effect the Company and building success for our people, has on society and promotes activity that will contribute to shareholders, occupiers, partners, supply improving the economic, social and environmental impact for all stakeholders, now and in the future.
chain, the environment and communities.
Our CSR Committee meets every six weeks and is chaired by Rupert Wood Rupert Wood, Property Director Asset Management.
Members Property Director Asset Management include representatives from each of our business disciplines.
Chair of the CSR Committee The Committee sets the strategy and helps to integrate sustainable working practices and initiatives within our business.
It reviews progress against our CSR objectives, ensures we maintain a best practice approach and that our CSR strategy evolves as the business grows.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 30 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information OUR STRATEGY OUR OUR OUR OUR BUSINESS AND KEY OUR OUR OUR PURPOSE VALUES MARKETS MODEL PERFORMANCE APPROACH RISKS GOVERNANCE INDICATORS ENGAGING WITH ALL OUR PEOPLE TO BE THE BEST WE CAN O ur strong employee engagement OUR PEOPLE results demonstrate the real pride and commitment our people have for the Being the best employer we can Our people are the cornerstone for everything we do: they are organisation.
There is still much to do pivotal to the delivery of our strategy.
Ensuring we create the right and we remain committed to investing working environment, which is enabling and empowering, is critical in our people to ensure we become to our success.
We therefore take every care to ensure we are communicating and engaging with all our people at every turn.
the very best employer we can.
Our ultimate aim is to become an Employer of Choice and Jane Saint we have developed a clear people strategy and plan with our Group HR Director employees to achieve this.
Key elements of our people strategy 1.
Alignment with our strategy and culture Our purpose, vision and values were launched to all employees at the beginning of the financial year at an all-Company event.
Together with the communication of our strategic goals, we outlined our desired employee experience and expected commitments.
We also made a number of tangible commitments, our people pledges, which form part of our people strategy.
We want to create an inspiring place to work, where our people can contribute and be recognised, and where everyone can be themselves and grow.
We want to enable our people to promote our strategy, our shared purpose and our values St. Modwen employees should embody our brand: everyone should understand what is expected of them and the commitment from the organisation to support them.
Our annual internal awards ceremony, The Mods, is an important time for us to recognise employees who demonstrate our values and thank them for their hard work and commitment.
Its important that the voice of our employees is prominent: they are the experts in their respective fields and we want to listen to and take on board their views, suggestions and ideas.
Over the year we have been improving two-way communications.
We have engaged focus groups to inform our purpose and values and involve employees in many other working groups and projects.
In 2018, we launched our new People Matters Group, with representative members from across the Company to inform our people strategy.
In 2019, one of our non-executive directors, Simon Clarke, will become a member of the People Matters Group as a representative from the Board.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 31 OUR APPROACH CONTINUED The years employee engagement survey was well received with an The Board Employees 84% response rate 2017: 84%.
Our results are moving in a positive Male 67% Male 62% Female 33% Female 38% direction and show that our workforce is 76% engaged and 72% enabled 2017: 73% engaged, 69% enabled.
Creating diversity and inclusion We are striving to create a culture that is inspiring and inclusive, one where difference is valued, enabling us all to perform at our 3 best and realise our potential.
We are ambitious, for ourselves and 219 for our employees.
We are committed to attracting and retaining the best, diverse talent.
We recognise the importance of creating a safe and inclusive environment where our people can bring their 354 whole selves to work.
6 We are also clear that we should reflect the communities in which we live, work and serve and we are taking action to ensure that equality, diversity and inclusion are integral to all that we do.
We know that reflecting our communities will give us a stronger understanding and help us to build shared values and deep, sustainable relationships.
We are also mindful of our gender 1 SLE Total 2 pay gap and are taking steps to reduce this.
Following a series Male 89% Male 62% Female 11% Female 38% of interviews, workshops and focus groups with employees from across the Company we have developed a diversity and inclusion business case that sets a clear strategy and an action plan for delivery.
1 To deliver this, we have also set up a Diversity and Inclusion working group which will support the delivery of the strategy, chaired by 223 CSR our CFO, Rob Hudson.
In addition, we are committed to raising awareness and creating an open culture to support and discuss mental health.
We have 367 provided mental health first aider training through the charity MIND to 47 employees to become champions of mental health CSR awareness within our offices.
8 The accompanying charts set out the number of men and women employed fulland part-time as at 30 November 2018, across our business and split between the Board, our Senior Leadership 1 For the purposes of the charts above Mark Allan and Rob Hudson are only Executive team and our employees.
included in the Board figures.
2 To view our latest gender pay gap results please visit www.
CSR This is one of our CSR objectives.
For more information visit www.
co. uk csr St. Modwen Properties PLC 32 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 2.
Strengthening our leadership and people management 3.
Building capability The St. Modwen Academy Our ultimate aim is to become a learning organisation skilled We are committed to developing leaders who can provide strong at creating, acquiring and transferring knowledge with the ability collaborative leadership and strategic direction to the business.
to modify our approach to reflect new knowledge and insights.
Developing people managers who can manage performance Following the organisational design work carried out in the previous effectively through their teams is equally critical.
Our leaders financial year, it was important for us to ensure we utilised our and people managers need to act as role models in the business.
resources in the most effective way to deliver our strategy, built In the year, we invested in the development of a high-quality on existing strengths and acquiring new capabilities where required.
leadership development programme and people management A recruitment campaign internally, followed by an external CSR programme to build these capabilities.
These 12-month campaign secured a number of high-quality candidates to support programmes are accredited with the Institute of Leadership our strategy.
These included a Head of Leasing, Head of Major and Management.
We are pleased that 42 St. Modwen managers Projects, Head of Commercial and a Customer Experience Director graduated from the people management programme and 25 in St. Modwen Homes.
graduated from the leadership development programme in the year.
These programmes form the foundation of The St. Modwen During the year, we invested in skills, learning and development Academy which will encompass training for all disciplines in opportunities for our workforce.
This included providing goodour business.
quality training for GDPR, anti-bribery and corruption, health and safety and IT skills training.
We also recognise the importance of developing talent in the business building a strong pipeline of successors at all levels with a commitment to internal progression.
In the year, we provided opportunities for 42 FTE trainees, graduates and apprentices across the Group and offered work placements to 82 students aged between 16 and 18 across our CSR St. Modwen Homes business.
We have a commitment to continue to increase apprenticeships across the business and to launch a graduate scheme in 2020.
Modernising our working environment We are committed to ensuring our people policies, ways of working and working environment support everyone to deliver the strategy.
This year we have been working towards modernising our working environment and have refurbished both our London and Longbridge offices.
The layouts now facilitate collaborative working and more flexible work practices including shared breakout spaces and investment in new IT which supports remote working and shared experiences.
Working collaboratively By modernising our working environments we are supporting our employees to be more joined up and to embrace modern technology and efficient working practices.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 33
