OUR BUSINESS MODEL St. Modwen has a strong track record of creating and capturing We are, by the very nature of our activities, a total return business.
value by managing schemes through the planning process, Our ambition is to deliver a sustainable, low double-digit total return remediation, infrastructure and active asset management and over time, with a significant component of this comprising income.
Our 30-year heritage and expertise are in the We expect our improved portfolio quality and focus on sectors with regeneration and renewal of spaces, taking on the challenges that the best structural growth prospects to underpin longer-term growth.
others cannot and breathing life into places to create new and better opportunities, for our business and for all our stakeholders.
The depth, breadth and quality of our pipeline is substantial, offering good visibility.
We seek to build success for our people, our shareholders, our partners, our customers and our communities.
WHAT WE NEED TO WHAT WE DO TO CREATE VALUE CREATE VALUE Key resources and relationships: People We have unparalleled skills in planning, infrastructure, development, delivery and asset management.
Our experience Accelerate our development and expertise give us an unmatched ability to bring complex, pipeline and retain most of the strategic sites forward to create value.
high-quality assets we build, growing income through higher Strategic insight yields on capex and margins.
We have the strategic insight and local market knowledge Bring forward residential land to exploit market demands and pursue those opportunities for development to grow that generate the greatest value at any one time.
volumes in our own housebuilding business and Financial strength monetise land through sales A strong balance sheet, strong cash flow, a flexible debt to third-party housebuilders.
structure and low gearing provide us with a robust financial platform for business growth.
Land Invest in new assets Our focus remains on accelerating the pace at which we work and opportunities that through our land bank of 6,000 developable acres to further complement our strategic grow our return on capital.
objectives and where our specialist skills can Assets unlock potential.
Our retained asset portfolio currently has a value of 1.4bn.
Like-for-like rents increased 1.9% compared to the same period last year.
We are focused on the high-quality industrial and logistics sector where we see long-term structural growth and this sector represents 46% of our passing rent, up from 21% a year ago.
Partners We develop strong, sustained relationships with our business Apply our considerable partners and work collaboratively to deliver lasting, successful development and asset outcomes and a positive legacy.
management expertise to generate opportunities Communities for growth, investment We invest and are invested in the communities we help and momentum, creating to build and consider carefully the economic, social and employment in modern environmental impact of our work to ensure that we are environments and locally appropriate.
inspirational and thriving new residential communities.
Inputs St. Modwen Properties PLC 14 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information OUR STRATEGY OUR OUR OUR OUR BUSINESS AND KEY OUR OUR OUR PURPOSE VALUES MARKETS MODEL PERFORMANCE APPROACH RISKS GOVERNANCE INDICATORS Our core business purpose is: Changing places.
We lead the way in delivering quality places to live and work that enhance communities and create opportunities for growth and shared returns.
Working together with our partners, we deliver shared value, aim to build a lasting legacy and contribute to better futures for all.
WHAT WE DO TO CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATE VALUE FOR ALL STAKEHOLDERS We create vibrant new places where people can live, work and thrive.
In doing so, we are helping to satisfy housing demand, create new jobs, improve the environment and provide a boost We aim to improve returns on capital by to the immediate regional and national economy.
focusing our business on three clearlydefined activities and sectors, each of Shareholders which benefits from long-term structural Consistent delivery against our strategy has generated growth characteristics: industrial and attractive financial returns for investors.
Our total accounting logistics: residential and housebuilding: return NAV growth plus dividends paid averaged 12.3% over and regeneration.
the past five years and our see-through LTV is at a historically low level.
We have a strong asset and capital base from which We are also enhancing our operational to grow.
flexibility through tightly controlling leverage and reducing the proportion Communities of our portfolio invested in land.
We are committed to the care and stewardship of the We have a strong development pipeline, communities and environments we regenerate and build.
which we expect to grow further, and the Our strong regional teams are embedded in their local areas scale of opportunities in our existing and we work hard to build and maintain positive relationships portfolio is significant.
with our partners, customers and local authorities.
We deliver new employment and training opportunities, working with local experts and suppliers.
We provide the catalyst for further economic growth and inward investment.
People Our people are skilled, responsive and passionate and they take great pride in what they do.
Our teams across the Group collaborate, sharing expertise and ideas, to ensure that were delivering the best possible outcomes, for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
Customer focus We are committed to the continuous professional St. Modwen Homes Bramshall Meadows offers idyllic development of our people and have comprehensive training semi-rural living.
and apprenticeship programmes to equip them with the right skills and expertise.
We are making significant investment in growing our talent for the future as well as in our workplace systems and environments.
Meeting occupier demand 114,000 sq ft of bespoke accommodation let to Grupo Antolin.
Outputs St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 15
