OUR PURPOSE IS THE HEART OF EVERYTHING OUR OUR OUR OUR BUSINESS PURPOSE VALUES MARKETS MODEL Its important we Our values guide us, Understanding, We have a clear understand why as individuals and anticipating and strategy with we exist, what we teams, in how we responding to market focused objectives are here to do and approach our work, drivers allows us to to ensure we the value we want enabling us to live create a sustainable capture growth to create our purpose and business model for opportunities deliver our strategy long-term value effectively For more on this topic For more on this topic For more on this topic For more on this topic See below See page 4 See pages 12 and 13 See pages 14 to 17 CHANGING PLACES CREATING BETTER FUTURES We are leading the way in delivering quality places to live and work that enhance communities and create opportunities for growth and shared returns.
We transform, optimise and improve and our purpose is to give new meaning to those communities we live in and serve, and to the environments we develop.
This is our core purpose and the reason we exist as a business.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 2 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information OUR STRATEGY AND KEY OUR OUR OUR PERFORMANCE APPROACH RISKS GOVERNANCE INDICATORS Our strategy is We know that We assess the risks The stewardship of underpinned with engaging with, to our business and our Board ensures three key objectives and understanding strategy, taking our business is and our KPIs ensure the interests of, action to mitigate managed effectively we measure our all our stakeholders any impact and appropriately progress and is critical to the successful delivery sustainability of our business For more on this topic For more on this topic For more on this topic For more on this topic See pages 18 to 21 See pages 30 to 39 See pages 54 to 64 See page 66 to 113 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 3 ST. MODWEN AT A GLANCE WHO WE ARE WHAT WE DO Over thirty years experience as an expert developer and Today, we continue to unlock value and deliver quality regeneration specialist, dealing with complex and challenging outcomes across a wide range of activities, from regeneration sites, has taught us to look at things differently, challenge to the long-term planning and development of industrial the norm and create new and sustainable solutions to benefit and logistics and residential assets, as well as active all those involved.
We target strategic development sites that have the clear We combine end-to-end expertise through our network potential to benefit from our specialist skills.
We turn these of regional offices, our residential business, our central asset sites into inspirational and thriving new residential and management team and through joint ventures with public business communities.
We create places where communities sector and industry leading partners to deliver lasting grow, businesses flourish and people can feel and be at home.
We have an outstanding 30-year track record of adding value to schemes that we either own or partner on, managing projects through the planning process, delivery of infrastructure, direct development and packaging up and selling serviced land parcels.
KEY FACTS WHERE WE OPERATE Track record Income-producing portfolio MIDLANDS 30 years 598m & NORTH UK-wide portfolio Committed development pipeline 1.4bn 1.5m sq ft WEST & Residential portfolio SOUTH WALES Long-term industrial and logistics pipeline EAST 596m Total residential plots with 15m sq ft planning recognition People employed 15,500 599 OUR VALUES WE UNLOCK WE BUILD WE DO THE WERE WE DO WHAT POTENTIAL QUALITY RIGHT THING JOINED UP WE SAY OUTCOMES St. Modwen Properties PLC 4 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information OUR STRATEGY OUR OUR OUR OUR BUSINESS AND KEY OUR OUR OUR PURPOSE VALUES MARKETS MODEL PERFORMANCE APPROACH RISKS GOVERNANCE INDICATORS OUR STRATEGIC FOCUS Build a high quality industrial Industrial logistics space Burton Gateway and logistics business delivered in 2018 We see long-term structural growth in the industrial and logistics sector, which will significantly improve the returns 0.9m sq ft we generate for the business.
We are developing high-quality industrial Committed industrial and logistics sites, offering occupiers logistics pipeline well-located, premium specification units with excellent ease of access to transport links.
Our speculative build 1.5m sq ft programme continues, responding to robust occupier demand, and we have agreed terms on 5.6m of development Long-term development lettings since the start of 2018, pipeline representing 0.8m sq ft of space.
For more on this topic 15m sq ft See pages 19 and 22 to 23 Grow our residential and Units delivered by St. Modwen Homes housebuilding business St. Modwen Homes Trentham Manor The market for new-build housing in the UK regions remains resilient and we continue to see good demand for the 848 new homes built by our housebuilding up 22.2% business, St. Modwen Homes.
We also continue to see good demand from third-party housebuilders for Operating profit for oven-ready development land.
St. Modwen Homes We have sold 53m of residential land this year and increased St. Modwen Homes volumes from 485 units in 2016 31.3m to 848 units in 2018, which has already driven a clear improvement in returns.
up 34.3% For more on this topic Sales to housebuilders See pages 20 and 24 to 25 49 acres for 53m Leverage our regeneration Capital released out of first reputation phases of development at We believe in a different kind of Longbridge and Swansea Bay regeneration, which creates places and experiences that deliver shared value, builds a lasting legacy and contributes 141m to better futures for all.
Regeneration sits at the heart of our purpose: Academic building for Changing places.
Over the past three decades we Swansea University delivered have built up a strong track record and expertise in bringing complex sites back to life and creating places that matter.
40k sq ft Places that offer employment, quality homes for families, and open spaces that make life better.
For more on this topic See pages 21 and 26 to 27 The College Swansea University St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 5 Bill Shannon Chairman St. Modwen Properties PLC 6 Annual report and financial statements 2018
