STRATEGIC REPORT Our strategy Our strategy what we have achieved since 2015 Update on our progress Since our last strategy review in 2015, we have focused on securing a strong foundation, building a lean and focused business, and investing and innovating to capture growth opportunities across our footprint.
Secure the Get lean and Invest and foundations focused innovate Why we have focused on this Why we have focused on this Why we have focused on this To ensure that we have a strong To shift towards sustainable and To deliver better client experience capital position, with a balanced client profitable growth in returns-accretive and drive growth and cross-bank and product portfolio, as well as a businesses and improve productivity collaboration sustainable approach to risk within our risk appetite Progress in 2018 Progress in 2018 Progress in 2018 CET1 ratio Risk-weighted assets Cash investment 14.2% $258bn $1.6bn 2015: 12.6% 2015: $303bn 2015: $0.9bn Loan loss rate Cost savings since 2015 Retail Banking digital adoption 21bps $3.2bn 49.4% 2015: 178bps 2015: 35.8% Target: $2.9bn Standard Chartered 16 Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Directors report Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Our strategy the next three years Taking Standard Chartered to the next level The strategic objectives we committed to in 2015 have stabilised the Group.
We have learned a lot about where we are differentiated, what our clients want from us, and what we need to do to become a simpler, faster and better bank with sustainable growth and returns.
While we have made significant progress against the objectives we set out in 2015, we know that we are capable of much more.
We remain focused on delivering our strategy by improving our service, delivering a differentiated proposition to our clients and stakeholders, and becoming a future-ready bank.
Building on our purpose of driving commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity, we will have a particular focus on the following areas for the next three years to improve our growth and financial returns.
OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES HOW WE MEASURE PROGRESS Financial KPIs Our refreshed strategic priorities build on our purpose and earlier areas of focus, but mark a sharp change in the way Operating income we operate as we go from turnaround to transformation.
Operating profit Bill Winters Group Chief Executive profit before tax Return on tangible equity Common Equity Tier 1 ratio Deliver Read more on pages 5 and 31 our network Non-financial KPIs Transform Digital adoption rate among Grow Retail Banking clients and disrupt our afuent Proportion of low returning with digital business Purpose client risk-weighted assets and People in Corporate & Institutional Banking Proportion of Sustainability Aspirations met or on track Read more on pages 21, 22 and 47 Optimise Improve low-returning productivity markets Read more on pages 18 and 19 17 STRATEGIC REPORT Our strategy Our strategic priorities Deliver Grow Purpose our our afuent and People network business Understand our responsibilities Leverage our unique footprint Meet the wealth needs of the We will increasingly collaborate with afuent and emerging afuent Our unique network is a long-term clients and suppliers to improve social By continuously enhancing our offering source of growth and sustainably and environmental standards.
We for afuent and emerging afuent clients higher returns.
We will continue to continue to partner with regulators and in markets where we have a Retail deepen relationships with our clients other stakeholders to ght financial Banking presence, we aspire to be to fully realise the revenue potential of crime, and aim to make our risk and increasingly relevant for our clients our network.
control approach a competitive and drive growth in these segments.
We are sharpening our client focus to advantage for us.
To that end, we are investing in drive growth momentum and improve digitally-delivered wealth propositions returns.
We will place a particular focus that excite our clients.
Lead sustainable nancing across on multinational corporates operating emerging markets extensively in Asia, Africa and the Middle Enhance client experience We are maintaining our focus on East.
We will also increase our focus on with data and technology supporting sustainable economic investors and financial institutions that We will increase our investment in growth, expanding renewables are seeking emerging market solutions.
data and analytics capabilities to nancing and investing in sustainable generate a unique understanding of infrastructure where it matters most.
We Build on our strength in China our clients and their needs, and in will continue to facilitate the movement We will continue connecting our clients turn improve our offerings, deliver a of capital to drive positive social and both within and beyond China, with personalised experience and increase economic impact in our markets.
the aim of doubling our China-related client engagement.
income contribution as we benefit from Chinas opening.
We will increasingly Support the communities where Scale the non-afuent segment in capture growth opportunities arising we live and work a targeted manner from capital market opening, RMB We promote economic inclusion in The rise of the middle class is an internationalisation, Belt & Road our markets through community important growth opportunity for our corporate clients, offshore Mainland programmes aimed at tackling Retail Banking business across our Chinese wealth and the Greater inequality.
To profitably capture this Bay Area.
young people with opportunities to learn opportunity, we will implement new new skills, get job-ready and start their business models, harness technology Grow with Africa own business.
We will continue to and work with non-bank partners We will continue to grow with our support the visually impaired through to acquire and serve non-afuent clients in Africa, focusing on capturing our community programmes.
clients with our target prole in a inbound ows of financial institutions, cost-efficient manner.
multinational corporations and Belt & Maximise return from investment Road clients.
In a number of our markets, in our people we will look to combine the coverage of We want to deliver a client-centric Corporate & Institutional Banking and environment with an inclusive culture Commercial Banking.
By rolling out our that capitalises on the experience and cost-efficient digital bank, developed in unique diversity of our people.
We are Cte dIvoire, we aim to double our building a future-ready workforce, Retail Banking clients in Africa in the embedding digital, agile and people medium term.
We aim to amplify the impact of our people by deploying them in markets that t their capabilities and career aspirations.
Read more on pages 21-29 Read more on pages 22-24 Standard Chartered 18 Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Directors report Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Optimise Transform Improve low-returning and disrupt productivity markets with digital Rene our market participation Continue investing in productivity Transform our Retail Banking business with digital To accelerate improvements in our Our investment in digitisation will We have made significant progress in financial returns, we will rene the size continue to support productivity digitising our Retail Banking business.
and focus of our business in each improvements and enhance client For example, we have rolled out a market based on our local position experience, building on the progress full-service, cost-efficient digital bank and network advantages.
For example, in Cte dIvoire, and we have applied we refreshed our client digital platform Improve returns in markets where for a virtual bank licence in Hong Kong.
with unied trade and foreign exchange we are an international bank with Going forward, we aim to adapt and capabilities in Corporate & Institutional trusted local capabilities replicate these capabilities as Banking.
In Retail Banking we launched appropriate across our footprint to In markets where we can utilise our real-time client onboarding on digital enhance client experience, improve local and international capabilities, we channels and refreshed wealth and efficiency, gain market share, disrupt will aim to improve returns through our foreign exchange platforms with full and build a future-proof retail bank.
sharpened participation in Corporate mobile access.
& Institutional Banking and selectively Organise around customer Consolidate strong position with in Commercial Banking and or corporate clients journeys Retail Banking.
We are shaping our organisation around We have been leading disruptive In particular, we will focus on optimising the journeys of our clients, to better align innovations in corporate banking.
the performance of four high potential our processes and way of working with In 2018 we launched cross-border markets, namely India, Indonesia, the needs of our clients and partners.
remittance services with Ant Financial, Korea and the UAE, with targeted action This will enable us to drive operational and started the first blockchain-based plans and strong execution discipline.
improvements to scale revenue growth smart guarantees service in the trade through improved client acquisition, finance industry.
Accelerate growth in our largest conversion and retention while also and most profitable markets We will continue to invest in cutting delivering enhanced efficiency.
This In markets where we are a top local edge digital tools and new corporate will be guided by our principles of universal bank and have attractive banking models, with a particular focus positioning ourselves as a digital returns, we will participate in all of our on blockchain and distributed ledger solutions partner, focusing on end-tobusiness segments and invest to grow technology, platforms and ecosystems, end digital client experience, transparent our market share.
as well as articial intelligence and and real time service delivery, and machine learning.
effective and efficient decision making.
Focus on Corporate & Institutional Banking in other markets Unlock capital and liquidity In markets where our capabilities are efficiency geared towards international business, Subject to relevant regulatory approvals, we will reinforce our primary focus we are establishing a Hong Kong hub on originating and facilitating crossentity structure to further enhance border business.
In line with this capital and liquidity utilisation across approach, our Corporate & Institutional the Group.
Banking presence will continue to be expanded with a focus on serving multinational clients.
See case study on page 25 19 GREEN LENDING Supporting green lending in the Middle East As part of our commitment to sustainable finance, were creating products and services that enable clients to improve their own sustainability performance.
In 2018, we acted as green loan coordinator on a transaction that repriced and extended a $2 billion conventional and Murabaha Islamic revolving credit facility to DP World.
One of our major clients in the Middle East, DP World is a leading enabler of global trade through its ports and terminals, maritime services, and industrial parks, logistics and economic zones.
The transaction team drew on global expertise from across the Standard Chartered network to develop a product that put the clients needs at the centre of the process Recognising DP Worlds ambition to be a pioneer in the regions capital markets and a leader in sustainability, we proposed the Middle Easts first green loan to link pricing to the companys carbon emissions and the first with this linkage in an Islamic format.
The loan provides DP World with a financial incentive to improve its environmental performance.
Aligned to our new Sustainability Philosophy, the deal demonstrates our commitment to nding innovative ways to mobilise capital to have a positive environmental and social impact in our markets.
