Standard Chartered is a leading international banking group.
Our heritage and values are expressed in our brand promise, Here for good.
Our operations re ect Our Purpose, which is to drive commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity.
We are present in 60 markets and serve clients in a further 85.
Our businesses serve four client segments in four regions, supported by our global functions.
Europe & Africa & ASEAN & Greater China Americas Middle East South Asia & North Asia Read more Read more Read more Read more on page 29 on page 28 on page 27 on page 26 Unless another currency is speci ed, the word dollar or About this report Further information is available symbol $ in this document means US dollar and the word where you see these icons: Sustainability reporting is embedded cent or symbol c means one-hundredth of one US dollar.
across our Annual Report and Accounts Those disclosures marked unaudited are not within the scope Additional information can be of KPMG LLPs audit.
and is also available in consolidated found within the report Unless the context requires, within this document, China refers form in our Sustainability Summary at to the Peoples Republic of China and, for the purposes of this sc.
com  document only, excludes Hong Kong Special Administrative More information is available online Region Hong Kong, Macau Special Administrative Region The Group uses a number of alternative Macau and Taiwan.
Korea or South Korea refers to the Republic of Korea.
Greater China & North Asia GCNA includes performance measures in the discussion of @StanChart China, Hong Kong, Japan, Korea, Macau and Taiwan: ASEAN its performance.
These measures exclude & South Asia ASA includes Australia, Bangladesh, Brunei, linkedin.
com company  certain items which management believe are Cambodia, India, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Nepal, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Thailand and Vietnam: and not representative of the underlying performance facebook.
com standardchartered Africa & Middle East AME includes Bahrain, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, of the business and which distort period-onLebanon, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United period comparison.
They provide the reader Arab Emirates UAE.
Within the tables in this report, blank spaces indicate that the with insight into how management measures Photo competition number is not disclosed, dashes indicate that the number is the performance of the business.
zero and nm stands for not meaningful.
In 2018 we ran our Annual Report staff photo For more information please visit sc.
com Standard Chartered PLC is headquartered in London.
competition again, this time showcasing our The Groups head of ce provides guidance on governance three valued behaviours.
The top three entrants and regulatory standards.
Standard Chartered PLC stock codes can be found on the front and back cover, and are: HKSE 02888: LSE STAN.
there is further information on pages 134, 224 and 356.
