Strategic report 1.1 Introduction Stagecoach Group plc the Company is the ultimate parent company of a group of companies the Group principally involved in the sale and operation of passenger transport.
The directors of Stagecoach Group plc the Directors are pleased to present their report on the Group for the year ended 28 April 2018.
This section contains the Strategic report, which includes the information that the Group is required to produce to meet the need for a strategic report in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Biographies of each director are contained in section 2 of this Annual Report and the Directors report is set out in section 3.
This Strategic report is a consolidated report relating to the Group as a whole.
It includes matters relating to the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
1.2 Cautionary statement The Strategic report has been prepared for the shareholders of the Company, as a body, and for no other persons.
Its purpose is to inform shareholders of the Company and to help them assess how the Directors have performed their duty to promote the success of the Company.
This Strategic report contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risk factors associated with, amongst other things, the economic and business circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries, sectors and markets in which the Group operates.
It is believed that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results to differ materially from those currently anticipated.
No assurances can be given that the forward-looking statements in this Strategic report will be realised.
The forward-looking statements reflect the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation.
1.3 Overview of the year ended 28 April 2018 We are pleased with the Groups underlying financial performance for the year ended 28 April 2018, when compared to our start of year expectations.
We were however, surprised and disappointed by the Secretary of State for Transports decision to appoint an Operator of Last Resort to take over the operation of InterCity East Coast train services from our Virgin Trains East Coast business.
We are also disappointed to report significant exceptional costs in relation to that business.
Revenue for the year was 3,226.8m 2017: 3,941.2m, with the decline reflecting the end of our South West Trains franchise in August 2017.
Total operating profit before non-software intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items was 179.9m 2017 restated: 185.1m.
Unadjusted operating profit for the year was 132.1m 2017: 47.3m.
Earnings per share before non-software intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items adjusted earnings per share were 22.3p 2017 restated: 23.3p, with the year-on-year decrease mostly due to lower operating profit from our bus divisions.
The adjusted earnings per share of 22.3p is above our recent expectation, principally due to a lower than anticipated tax charge reflecting positive progress with the Groups tax affairs during the year.
Basic, unadjusted earnings per share increased to 12.3p 2017: 5.5p, and included exceptional charges relating to Virgin Trains East Coast that are explained below.
Although the consolidated net debt at 28 April 2018 is less than we expected, that largely reflects variations in the timing of UK rail cash flows and the balance at 28 April 2018 includes 84.5m of Virgin Trains East Coast cash.
We expect cash outflows in the year to 27 April 2019 in respect of the transfer of the East Coast rail business, further cash outflows in respect of the unwind of the expired South West Trains rail franchise and the reversal of cash flow timing benefits at East Midlands Trains.
However, we do expect non-rail net debt to reduce further.
We are proposing a final dividend of 3.9p 2017: 8.1p, which will result in a full year dividend of 7.7p 2017: 11.9p per share for the year ended 28 April 2018.
While our growth ambitions have not changed, we have taken the decision to rebase the dividend to what we view as a sustainable level and which is covered by the normalised, annual free cash flows from our non-rail operations.
We will look to at least maintain the rate of annual dividends at that rebased level of 7.7p per share.
The proposed final dividend of 3.9p per share is payable to shareholders on the register at 24 August 2018 and, if approved, will be paid on 3 October 2018.
Shareholders who wish to participate in the dividend re-investment plan should elect to do so by sending their requests to the Companys registrars to arrive by 12 September 2018.
Our absolute focus remains on safety and operational excellence, which underpin our delivery of high quality public transport services.
Providing good value travel and investing in our people, vehicle fleet and new technology is central to enhancing our customers experience.
We also continue to take steps to improve the efficiency of our operations and maintain close control of costs.
We have again delivered high levels of customer satisfaction.
Our UK Bus business has achieved 90% satisfaction, according to the latest independent research published by consumer watchdog, Transport Focus, the biggest improvement in overall passenger satisfaction of any major UK operator.
In the UK rail sector, our train companies are also amongst the highest performing franchised operators, while our tram operations recorded their second highest customer satisfaction level on record at 95%.
In our core regional UK bus market, our pricing and network changes have delivered improved revenue trends.
We are pursuing a package of commercial and technology-led initiatives to drive growth and meet the evolving demand for transport linked to changes in working, social and retail patterns.
We have been successful in winning new business with Transport for London in the contracted London bus market.
Performance in our North America Division has been satisfactory and we have made further progress in delivering new contract wins.
Our actions in consolidating our megabus.
com network and developing the brands digital presence and wider product offer have helped us protect our market share in a competitive environment.
As previously announced, we have reported further, significant exceptional costs in the year ended 28 April 2018 in respect of our Virgin Trains East Coast franchise.
Further details of these are provided in section 1.5.
We regret the losses the Group has experienced on the East Coast franchise, notwithstanding that these were significantly influenced by factors outside of our control.
We nevertheless continue to see good opportunities in UK rail.
The introduction by the Department for Transport of a new Forecast Revenue Mechanism FRM will result in the Department taking a greater share in revenue risk on new franchises and this reduction in revenue risk for train operators has been important in our decision to continue bidding for new UK rail franchises.
While we were surprised and disappointed by the decision of the Secretary of State for Transport to transfer responsibility for operating the East Coast train services from Virgin Trains East Coast to a publically owned company, we welcome the clarity that the decision brings.
Elsewhere in our rail portfolio, we have made significant progress over the last year.
A new contract has been agreed with the Department for Transport on Virgin Trains West Coast and we have secured the extension of our East Midlands Trains franchise.
We are pleased to have submitted our bid for the new South Eastern franchise and we are well advanced in developing our proposals for the West Coast Partnership franchise with input from key stakeholders.
We are also working on a further direct award franchise at East Midlands Trains as well as our shortlisted bid for the next competitively tendered East Midlands franchise.
Notwithstanding the contractual issues at Virgin Trains East Coast, we have continued to focus on providing a good, safe, reliable and value for money service to our customers as well as continuing to grow the business.
Reflecting the hard work of the Virgin Trains East Coast team and the continuing support of the Stagecoach and Virgin shareholders, we have started to see improving revenue trends.
Year-on-year revenue growth in the second half of the year ended 28 April 2018 of 4.3% compared to 3.0% in the first half and in the twelve weeks to 26 May 2018, revenue grew 5.6% from the equivalent prior year period.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 1 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 2 Strategic report 1.3 Overview of the year ended 28 April 2018 continued Julie Southern, a non-executive director who joined the Board in October 2016, has indicated her intention to resign from the Board with effect from 31 August 2018 to enable her to take up a new position at another company.
The Board extends its thanks to Julie for the contribution she has made to the Group.
During 2016 17, we undertook our biggest employee engagement programme to date covering the entire Group and this year, we launched a major initiative to strengthen further and embed our strong safety culture across our bus and rail businesses.
As a responsible forward-looking business, we want to foster an inclusive environment, supporting a diverse workforce where everyone has access to the resources and the opportunity to help them contribute to the success of our business.
Action plans are being progressed within our businesses to capitalise on what we have learned and introduce improvements, with planning already underway for our 2018 employee survey.
The Board extends its appreciation to all of our people across the Group for their commitment and contribution to making every customer journey better.
Looking ahead, there is no change to our expectation of 2018 19 earnings per share.
We recognise the importance of continuing to invest in our business and in the three years to 29 April 2017, our bus and coach divisions invested 490.0m in property, plant, equipment and software representing 1.34 times the related depreciation and amortisation expense.
In the year to 28 April 2018, the ratio fell to 0.89, times partly reflecting lower bus and coach mileage but also recognising that the businesses are already well invested following several years of relatively high capital expenditure.
For those divisions, we expect a similar expenditure ratio in the year to 27 April 2019 and, in the medium-term, we are planning for capital expenditure at a normalised level of around 1.2 times the related depreciation and amortisation expense.
Our investment will be targeted where it will deliver the biggest impact in meeting the business challenges of today and securing future emerging opportunities.
We believe there is growing recognition in government that action is needed to address road congestion and poor air quality in urban environments and that the public transport we offer is central to the solution to that.
This provides a significant opportunity to deliver better outcomes for our customers and local communities, as well as continued longterm value to our investors.
Revenue by division is summarised below: REVENUE 2018 2017 Functional 2018 2017 Growth m m currency Functional currency m % Continuing Group operations UK Bus regional operations 1,012.5 1,015.7 1,012.5 1,015.7 0.3 % megabus Europe 20.2 20.2 100.0 % UK Bus London 251.8 263.4 251.8 263.4 4.4 % North America 470.9 488.8 US$ 630.0 632.3 0.4 % UK Rail 1,495.2 2,160.7 1,495.2 2,160.7 30.8 % Intra-Group revenue 3.6 7.6 3.6 7.6 Group revenue 3,226.8 3,941.2 Operating profit by division is summarised below: OPERATING PROFIT 2017 2017 2018 restated Functional 2018 restated m % margin m % margin currency Functional currency m Continuing Group operations UK Bus regional operations 112.9 11.2% 117.0 11.5% 112.9 117.0 megabus Europe 4.3 21.3 % 4.3 UK Bus London 13.3 5.3% 18.4 7.0% 13.3 18.4 North America 21.0 4.5% 18.2 3.7% US$ 28.1 23.5 UK Rail 24.9 1.7% 28.5 1.3% 24.9 28.5 Group overheads 15.3 14.1 Restructuring costs 4.0 4.8 Operating profit before joint ventures, non-software 152.8 158.9 intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items Joint ventures share of profit after tax Virgin Rail Group 25.9 24.8 Citylink 1.2 1.4 Total operating profit before non-software intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items 179.9 185.1 Non-software intangible asset amortisation 9.1 Exceptional items 47.8 128.7 Total operating profit: Group operating profit and share of joint ventures profit after taxation 132.1 47.3 More details on the financial results for the year are provided in sections 1.5 and 1.6 of this Annual Report.
page 2 | Stagecoach Group plc 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 3 1.4 The Stagecoach Group 1.4.
1 Overview of the Stagecoach Group and its business model Stagecoach Group is a leading international public transportation group, with extensive operations in the UK, the United States and Canada.
Following the recent end of the Virgin Trains East Coast franchise, the Group employs around 31,500 people and operates bus, coach, train and tram services.
The Group has four main divisions UK Bus regional operations, UK Bus London, North America and UK Rail.
We offer greener, smarter travel in the UK and North America.
Our principal business is providing passenger transport services, primarily by transporting people by bus, coach, train or tram.
Our This is Stagecoach Group infographic provides more information and can be found on our website at: http: www.
com  This section summarises the Groups business model.
The remaining parts of this section 1.4 are also important to an understanding of our business model and we cross-reference them where appropriate.
Stagecoach Group plc is a public limited company that is incorporated, domiciled and has its registered office in Scotland.
Its ordinary shares are publically traded and it is not under the control of any single shareholder.
Throughout this Annual Report, Stagecoach Group plc is referred to as the Company and the group headed by it is referred to as Stagecoach and or the Group.
2 summarises our strategy and section 1.4.
3 explains what we do and provides a description of each of our key business segments, markets and where appropriate, market share.
Business culture We are committed to conducting business in a socially responsible way and we believe this to be consistent with our business objectives and strategy.
Indeed, by taking a responsible approach towards the environment and the wider community, we believe we will enhance our objective to deliver organic growth.
The Group began life as a family business in 1980 and the entrepreneurism and expertise of the founding family has played a significant part in its growth.
The founding family continues to play a part in the management of the Group.
Although we have been publically listed on the London Stock Exchange since 1993, we aim to maintain an entrepreneurial culture, reflecting our family heritage.
That involves encouraging sensible risk taking while managing risks appropriately and responding to risks that do crystallise.
It is inevitable and appropriate for a group of its size that the Group has a number of policies and procedures to ensure appropriate behaviours but these are designed to avoid stifling entrepreneurism.
More information on the Groups core values and policies is provided in section 1.8 of this Annual Report.
We operate a relatively devolved management structure.
That reflects our view that in operating local transport services, day-to-day decision making should be made by local managers who understand the dynamics of their particular markets.
We aim to have relatively short chains of command that facilitate the effective exchange of information and enable timely decision making.
Delegated authorities and other policies and procedures are in place to achieve an appropriate balance between the benefits we perceive of devolved management and the need for proportionate management of overall risk.
Sources of revenue We have a number of revenue streams, principally arising from: Amounts we receive from individuals or groups of individuals to travel on our transport services: Amounts we receive from government bodies in respect of travel by individuals on our transport services for example, in the UK, older people and people with disabilities are legally entitled to travel on our bus services at certain times free of charge but we receive revenue from government bodies in respect of that travel: Amounts we receive from government bodies as payment to us for operating transport services under contract for example, a US Transit Authority may pay us to run specified bus services.
Any amount payable by individual passengers would flow to the US Transit Authority and our revenue would be from that authority: Amounts we receive from corporations or others for operating transport services under contract for example, a university might pay us to operate a bus service to shuttle students around its campus: Subsidy we receive from government bodies to financially support the operation of transport services they consider to be socially desirable.
We also earn other income, which may include income from: commissions for selling travel on other operators transport services: undertaking maintenance work on other operators vehicles: selling advertising space on vehicles and premises we operate: access income for others to use railway stations and depots that we operate: selling fuel to other transport operators: property rental: Network Rail in respect of UK railway operating performance regimes: The UK Department for Transport under UK rail revenue risk sharing arrangements.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 3 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 4 Strategic report 1.4.
1 Overview of the Stagecoach Group and its business model continued Key costs and inputs Our main tangible fixed assets are property, buses, coaches and technology.
Our trains, as well as some of our property, buses and coaches, are operated under operating leases.
Our people are key to providing our services.
Notwithstanding developments in technology, our business remains relatively labour intensive.
Over a third of our consolidated operating costs are staff costs and in our bus divisions, the proportion is higher.
Relationships with our people and their trade unions are important to the success of the business.
Our other major operating costs are: amounts payable to the UK Department for Transport under rail franchise agreements for the right to operate the relevant franchises: amounts payable to Network Rail by our UK train operating companies for use of the railway infrastructure tracks, stations etc.
: diesel and electricity to fuel or power our buses, coaches, trains and trams: insurance costs and claims costs: materials and consumables, including replacement parts for vehicles: depreciation and lease charges for the vehicles, properties and technology that we operate.
4 of this Annual Report sets out more information on the key relationships and resources that underpin what we do.
Cash conversion For the most part, our revenues and operating costs excluding depreciation are converted to cash within a short timescale.
Indeed, payment for travel by individuals tends to occur prior to or at the time of travel whereas costs tend to be settled in arrears.
The exceptions to this are most significant in the UK Rail Division where the complex, contractual arrangements can result in greater timing differences between the recognition of items in income and the effect of those items on cash.
Competitive advantages We see our key sources of competitive advantage as being: Our operational excellence providing safe, reliable, good quality, value-for-money, customer-focused transport services: Innovation we have a long record of innovation, including being the first private company to secure a rail franchise in the UK in the 1990s and also, in disrupting the market for inter-city coach travel by introducing megabus.
com in the 2000s as a low-cost, internet-only coach travel retailer: Our commercial expertise in designing transport networks, pricing our services and marketing our services: Our brands our operational excellence and commercial expertise is reflected in our generally high customer satisfaction scores meaning that our key brands are well regarded in their respective markets: Our relationships we view our relationships with employees, trade unions and government bodies, in particular, as key advantages to our business: Our expertise in bidding and managing complex contracts, particularly in the UK rail market where we see success as being predicated on a combination of bidding and winning new contracts on acceptable commercial terms, actively managing those contracts during their term and effective management of the day-to-day train operations: The economies of scale of being a relatively large transport provider.
Value for other stakeholders As well as the financial value we generate for our investors, lenders and people, we provide value to a wider group of stakeholders, including: Public transport offers environmental benefits versus wide-scale car usage and can contribute to efforts to reduce pollution and improve air quality, benefiting the public in general: Our business generates significant tax contributions to public finances across employee, sales, corporation, property and other taxes: We contribute each year to charities as well as providing non-financial support to charities and the communities in which we operate.
Risks We do face a number of risks.
5 sets out the principal risks to the achievement of our strategy and objectives which include political, regulatory, technological and macroeconomic risks.
Changes in regulation and technology in particular are likely to drive an evolution of our business model.
6 describes how we measure and monitor progress against our objectives and strategy, and how we are performing.
2 What we look to achieve business objectives and long-term strategy Strategic report Group strategy The key elements of the Groups business strategy to deliver long-term shareholder value are: To deliver organic growth across all of the Groups operations by providing safe, reliable, good quality, customer-focused transport services that deliver a positive customer experience at a reasonable price: To acquire businesses that are complementary to the Groups existing operations, in areas where the Groups management has proven expertise and which offer prospective returns on capital in excess of the Groups weighted average cost of capital: In addition to organic and acquisition growth, to maintain and grow the business by bidding for selected rail franchises and bus contracts to seek to secure new franchises and contracts where the risk return trade-off is acceptable.
3 What we do description and strategy of each business segment UK Bus regional operations Description The UK Bus regional operations Division connects communities in more than 100 towns and cities across the UK on bus networks stretching from the Highlands of Scotland to south west England.
These include major city bus operations in Liverpool, Newcastle, Hull, Manchester, Oxford, Sheffield, Cambridge and Exeter.
The UK Bus regional operations Division operates a fleet of around 6,900 buses and coaches across a number of regional operating units.
Each regional operating unit is managed independently and is led by a managing director.
In addition to local bus services in towns and cities, Stagecoach operates inter-urban services linking major towns within its regional operating company areas.
The Group also runs the budget inter-city coach service megabus.
com, and the UK Bus regional operations Division includes megabus.
com coach services within the UK.
In Scotland, Stagecoach has a joint venture Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited with international transport group ComfortDelGro.
The joint venture is responsible for the Scottish Citylink express coach network and megabus.
com branded services to, from and within Scotland.
Stagecoach owns 35% of the share capital of Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited and ComfortDelGro owns the remaining 65%.
The joint venture is the leading retailer of scheduled, inter-city coach services in Scotland.
Stagecoach is responsible for the day-to-day operational management of the business, which is overseen by a joint board.
Regulatory environment The current structure of the bus market in Great Britain outside London was established by the Transport Act 1985.
This is essentially a deregulated structure: any holder of a Public Service Vehicle operators licence may operate bus services, having first registered various details with the relevant traffic commissioner.
The traffic commissioners are responsible for enforcing compliance with these registered details, including standards of maintenance, reliability and punctuality.
The UK Bus regional operations Division bus and coach services are operated on a commercial basis in a largely deregulated market.
Most of the Divisions revenue is from customers paying for their own travel by bus.
The Division also operates tendered services, including schools contracts, on behalf of local authorities.
Around 10% of the UK Bus regional operations revenue is receivable from local authorities in respect of such tendered and school services.
For some services, the Group receives revenue from passengers as well as tendered revenue from a local authority.
Around 24% of the UK Bus regional operations revenue is earned from statutory concessionary fare schemes, whereby the Group is reimbursed by public authorities for carrying older people and people with disabilities, at no charge to the passenger, on the same bus services that are also available to the wider public.
The Group would typically receive both revenue from passengers and also, concessionary revenue from a local authority in respect of a single bus service and in some cases, may also receive tendered revenue for the same service.
Strategy The strategy of the UK Bus regional operations Division is to deliver value over time driven by organic growth in revenue and passenger volumes as a result of providing safe, reliable, good quality, customer-focused bus services at a reasonable price to customers.
This may be supplemented by winning new tendered or contract work and or acquiring businesses where appropriate opportunities arise.
Market opportunity The Group has around 25% of the UK bus market excluding London.
The UK Department for Transports National Travel Survey NTS is a household survey of personal travel within Great Britain by residents of England.
The NTS found that bus is mainly used for trips of between 1 and 25 miles, and that in 2016, there was an average of 774 trips per person per year, excluding short walks.
Trips by car or van accounted for 78% of distance travelled, bus trips accounted for 4%, rail trips accounted for 10% and walking, cycling and other modes accounted for 8%.
There therefore remains significant market opportunity to stimulate modal shift from car to bus.
According to the NTS, around 27% of bus journeys are for shopping, 22% for leisure, 20% for education, 19% for commuting and business, 12% are for personal business e. g. visits to services such as banks, medical consultations etc.
Macroeconomic factors Although the UK Bus regional operations Division revenue is not immune to macroeconomic changes, it is less exposed than in many other types of business.
In addition, the Group can adjust the pricing and frequency of the majority of its services and is therefore well placed to respond to any changes in demand for particular services.
We estimate that around 70% of the costs vary with operating miles.
Competition The UK Bus regional operations Division faces competition for customers not only from other operators of buses and coaches but also from other modes of transport.
The Group regards its primary competitor as the private car and aims to encourage modal shift from car to public transport.
The other major groups that operate buses in the UK outside of London are three other groups publically quoted on the London Stock Exchange FirstGroup, National Express Group, and Go-Ahead Group and Arriva, which is owned by Deutsche Bahn.
New, potential, sources of competition are emerging, often enabled by digital developments.
Newer competitors include ride-sharing websites, digitally-driven taxi services and aggregators of travel services.
Future market The level of Government investment in the UK bus industry has come under pressure in recent years with reductions in developments Bus Service Operators Grant a rebate of fuel tax and constraints on the payments made by Government to bus operators for carrying older people and people with disabilities at no charge to the passenger.
Funding of tendered services by local government has also reduced.
The Division does continue to face risks related to regulatory changes and availability of public funding as noted in section 1.4.
Technological developments present both opportunities and threats to growing passenger volumes.
There are positive long-term conditions for further growth in demand for UK bus services created by population growth, increasing urbanisation, rising road congestion, supportive government policy and public concerns for the environment, which augur well for the future of the Division.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 5 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 6 Strategic report 1.4.
3 What we do description and strategy of each business segment continued UK Bus London Description The Group is the fourth largest operator in the London bus market, operating from 10 depots with a fleet of around 1,300 buses serving routes in and around east and south-east London.
Regulatory environment The UK Bus London Division operates bus services under contract to Transport for London, receiving a fixed fee subject to adjustment for certain inflation indices and generally taking the cost and capital risk.
Bus operators tender to win contracts and each contract is typically for a five-year period with the potential for it to be extended by two years.
The UK Bus London Division currently has over 80 separate contracts to provide bus services on behalf of Transport for London this spreads the Divisions risk of financial performance being adversely affected when a contract expires and the business is unsuccessful in winning the replacement contract.
Strategy Our strategic focus in the London bus market is on maintaining good operational performance and tight control of costs while seeking to bid competitively for new contracts.
Market opportunity The Group operates approximately 14% of the bus operating mileage contracted by Transport for London.
The Group does not seek to gain market share for its own sake and remains disciplined in ensuring that its bids for new contracts offer an acceptable trade-off of risk and reward.
Macroeconomic factors The UK Bus London operations are not especially exposed to short-term changes in macroeconomic conditions because the business receives a fee from Transport for London for operating services irrespective of the passenger volumes on those services.
Its costs and in particular, labour costs, can vary due to macroeconomic changes and also, in the longer term, the level of services that Transport for London offers for tender might be affected by the macroeconomy.
Competition UK Bus London faces competition to win Transport for London contracts from other bus operators, the largest of which are Go-Ahead Group, Arriva, Metroline, RATP, Transit Systems and Abellio.
Future market In the short-term, revenue growth could come from inflationary price increases, retaining work on tender but at higher developments rates and or winning contracts from other operators.
While planned bus mileage reductions by Transport for London present a risk to the Division, continuing population growth in London and positive government policy on public transport can contribute to a positive long-term outlook for the business.
North America Description The North America Division provides bus and coach transport services in the United States and Canada.
Our businesses include the operation of bus services under contract to transit authorities and others: commuter bus services: inter-city coach services: bus tours: charter operations: and sightseeing bus services.
com North America, a low cost inter-city coach business, which sells inter-city coach journeys within North America and operates or sub-contracts the coach services.
The North America business is headed by a chief operating officer.
Stagecoach currently operates approximately 2,100 vehicles in the United States and Canada.
Regulatory environment The North America business operates on a commercial basis in a largely deregulated market.
It also operates some tendered services for local authorities and services contracted by corporations.
Strategy The strategy of the North America Division is to deliver organic growth in revenue and passenger volumes as a result of providing safe, reliable, good quality, customer-focused services at a reasonable price to customers.
This may be supplemented by winning new contract work and or acquiring businesses where appropriate opportunities arise.
Market opportunity The Group estimates that it has less than 4% of the bus and coach market in North America.
The latest US Department of Transportations Bureau of Transportation Statistics, published in 2018, show that in 2016 some 85% of transportation to work was by car, compared with only 5% by public transport.
The opportunity to stimulate modal shift from car to bus and coach is substantial.
Macroeconomic factors The North American operations are arguably more exposed to macroeconomic factors than the UK Bus operations as a greater proportion of their revenue is derived from customers using its services for leisure purposes, including its charter, tour and sightseeing services.
Demand for its services, particularly megabus.
com, is also affected by movements in oil prices.
It nevertheless has some flexibility over pricing and supply, enabling it to respond to changes in macroeconomic conditions.
Competition The business faces competition for customers not only from other operators of coaches and buses but also from other modes of transport.
com faces competition from the car but also from other coach operators, airlines and train operators.
FirstGroup and National Express Group are also major operators of coach and bus services in North America.
Future market The Group has taken a leading role in the development of bus and coach travel in North America through its megabus.
com revenue declined as oil prices fell, we expect the inter-city coach market to continue to present significant long-term opportunities to the Group.
We are also exploring new contract opportunities in North America and have added new contract work to our portfolio of businesses.
3 What we do description and strategy of each business segment continued UKRail Description Stagecoach Group has major rail operations in the UK.
Our principal rail subsidiary is East Midlands Trains.
Until August 2017, the Group also operated South West Trains, which ran train services in south west England out of London Waterloo railway station, and operated Island Line services on the Isle of Wight.
Until June 2018, the Group ran Virgin Trains East Coast, which operated inter-city train services between London and a number of locations including Edinburgh, Newcastle, Leeds and York.
Since 11 November 2007, we have operated the East Midlands Trains business.
The business comprises main line train services running to London St Pancras, regional rail services in the East Midlands area and inter-regional services between Norwich and Liverpool.
The East Midlands Trains franchise was extended by the UK Department for Transport during the year to run until at least March 2019, with plans for a further Direct Award franchise beyond that time until at least August 2019.
We also operate Supertram, a 28km light rail network incorporating three routes in the city of Sheffield, on a concession running until 2024.
Stagecoach Group has a 49% shareholding in a joint venture, Virgin Rail Group, which operates the West Coast Trains rail franchise.
The current West Coast Trains rail franchise runs until March 2019, with the option for a one-year extension at the discretion of the UK Department for Transport.
The other shareholder in Virgin Rail Group is the Virgin Group of Companies.
East Midlands Trains and Supertram each have a managing director, who reports to the Managing Director of the UK Rail Division, who in turn reports to the Chief Executive.
Virgin Rail Group has a managing director, who reports to the Virgin Rail Group board, which includes Stagecoach Group and Virgin Group representatives.
Regulatory environment The UK rail operating market is split into a number of separate franchises, which are awarded by the Government for set time periods to a specification set by the Department for Transport on the basis of competitive bids.
Train operating companies operate passenger trains on the UK rail network.
The UK railway infrastructure is owned and operated by Network Rail, a not for dividend company that invests any profits into improving the railway.
Network Rail runs, maintains and develops tracks, signalling systems, bridges, tunnels, level crossings and key stations.
Strategy In rail, we seek to deliver organic growth across all of our existing operations and to maintain and grow the business by bidding for selected new franchises where the risk return trade-off is acceptable.
Market opportunity The market opportunity in rail arises from the potential to retain existing and or win new franchises, and also, from the potential to attract increased use of the Groups rail services.
With a number of franchises expected to be tendered within the next few years, there is scope to win new franchises.
Macroeconomic factors The rail operations are exposed to macroeconomic factors with passenger revenue correlated to Gross Domestic Product GDP and employment levels.
The exposure is further increased by the relatively fixed cost base of the business which restricts the scope to reduce costs in response to reduced demand.
Revenue growth in the UK rail sector has, in recent years, been below the levels typically seen since privatisation in the 1990s.
From the Groups perspective, our financial returns are driven less by the outlook for rail revenue growth in general and more by how actual revenue growth compares to that assumed in our relevant franchise bid.
At this time, we have limited further exposure to long-term rail revenue growth, reflecting the existing good levels of profitability and risk sharing arrangements on our East Midlands Trains franchise and Virgin Rail Groups West Coast franchise.
On bids for new franchises, the Groups evaluation of macroeconomic risks is a key component of the bid process.
We can take account of recent revenue trends, assess revenue risk sharing arrangements and form a view on longer term revenue expectations as part of agreeing any new contracts.
Competition The business faces competition for customers not only from other train operators but also from other modes of transport.
The main competitors that bid against the Group for UK rail franchises are FirstGroup, Go Ahead Group, Arriva, MTR, Keolis, Trenitalia, SNCF, Eurostar, Serco, Abellio, East Japan Railway Company and Mitsui.
Future market The Labour Party, the main opposition political party in the UK, currently has an official policy to bring UK train operations developments into public hands as current rail franchises expire.
While this is not the policy of the current UK Government, to the extent this policy were implemented either by a future Labour Government or otherwise then the Group would be unable to subsequently win new UK rail franchises.
The two major franchises where the Group has a continuing involvement, at East Midlands Trains and Virgin Rail Groups West Coast Trains, could both end as early as 2019.
There is therefore no certainty of the Group having a material, continuing involvement in UK Rail beyond 2019.
However, notwithstanding that and the early termination of the Virgin Trains East Coast franchise, we are working on a number of opportunities for new business in the UK rail franchising market that we consider to provide an appropriate balance of risk and reward for our shareholders.
Further details on the early termination of the Virgin Trains East Coast franchise and the rail opportunities we see are provided in section 1.5.
The UK Department for Transport has a clear schedule in place for re-tendering rail franchises.
The Group will assess each opportunity to bid for a new rail franchise on a case-by-case basis.
The UK continues to see growth in demand for rail services presenting opportunities for the Groups existing rail interests and also in its bids for new franchises.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 7 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 8 Strategi Strategic c re report port 1.4.
4 What we need, to do what we do resources and relationships Stagecoach Group has a range of resources and relationships, including contractual relationships that underpin its business and support its strategy.
These assist in giving the Group a competitive advantage in the markets in which it operates.
Customers Our relationship with our customers is important to us.
To deliver organic growth, a key element of our strategy, we need to provide services that people want to use.
We conduct customer research to monitor our performance and to determine how we can improve the quality, delivery and accessibility of our services.
We are passionate about providing good customer service and our businesses have regular and ongoing discussions with bus and rail user groups.
This includes presentations from managers on aspects of our service as well as consultation and information sharing on particular issues.
An important element of the Groups success in growing its customer base lies in its record of product innovation and new ideas on developing effective public transport systems.
Employees Human resources are key to the Groups business and the Groups relationship with its employees is therefore fundamental to achieving its objectives.
We aim to recruit and retain the best employees in our sector, offering an excellent package of benefits, which allows us to deliver good customer service.
The Groups individual divisions invest significantly in the training and development of our people and we operate a successful graduate training scheme which provides one source of training for the managers of the future.
We have established strong working relationships with trade unions and work in partnership with them on a range of issues, including training and development, occupational health matters, pensions and other employee benefits.
We also communicate with our people face to face and through a number of internal publications.
The financial community Our shareholders and lenders are critical to our business success.
We have a regular programme of meetings with investors and provide frequent updates to the markets and financial community on our performance.
We have contractual arrangements with banks and other finance providers for the provision of funds and financial products to the Group.
Government and regulatory bodies Our managers have ongoing relationships with national and local government in our main countries of operation to ensure the effective delivery of government transport policy and to assist in meeting wider objectives.
We work with local authorities, including passenger transport executives, regional transport committees and transit authorities, in the delivery and planning of bus and rail services.
Many of our businesses have partnership agreements in place to improve the delivery of public transport in their areas.
In the UK, we work closely with the Department for Transport, the Scottish Government, Transport Scotland, the Welsh Government and Transport for London.
We contract with local authorities, government bodies and other parties for the supply of bus services on a contracted or tendered basis.
We have franchise agreements with the Department for Transport governing the supply of franchised rail services in the UK.
We have constructive dialogue with organisations such as the Commission for Integrated Transport, which provides advice to the UK Government, and lobbying groups such as the Campaign for Better Transport.
Suppliers We rely on a range of suppliers to provide goods and services linked to our bus and rail operations.
Our businesses have contractual relationships with suppliers, including purchase contracts with fuel suppliers, vehicle suppliers, IT companies and spare part suppliers.
The operation of our rail franchises depends upon a number of contractual relationships with suppliers, including contracts with Network Rail governing station and track access arrangements, leases with rolling stock companies for the lease of trains and maintenance contracts for the maintenance of trains.
Information technology is increasingly important to effectively operate our services and to meet our customers expectations.
Significant investment, internal management resource and external supplier input support the development and operation of IT systems.
Corporate reputation, brand strength and market position Stagecoach is one of the best known public transport operators in the UK and is consistently rated highly for the quality of its services in research by independent organisations.
We value our reputation, both as a public transport provider and as a key part of the communities in which we operate.
The Group has a strong set of brands that support our strategy of organic growth in our business and that help maintain our leading market position.
The challenges faced by our Virgin Trains East Coast business over recent years and the early termination of its franchise have attracted intense media and political scrutiny.
The challenges were financial rather than operational.
Operational performance has remained strong over that time and indeed, Virgin Trains East Coast has delivered strong customer satisfaction.
We, however, recognise that the media and political focus on Virgin Trains East Coast has had some adverse effect on the reputation of the Group.
Now that we have clarity on the Virgin Trains East Coast franchise, we have commenced a programme to enhance the Groups reputation, emphasising its strong record of operational delivery, its history of honouring its financial commitments including in respect of Virgin Trains East Coast and its record of being a reliable partner of government.
That programme will include proactive engagement with politicians, officials, the media and others.
We have separately ensured that our investors and lenders have been kept up to date on developments at Virgin Trains East Coast and the actions the Group is taking.
Natural resources and manufacturing technology Operating our bus and rail services requires considerable use of natural resources, including diesel and electricity.
We have arrangements in place to ensure that these resources are sourced efficiently and that our supplies are maintained to ensure the smooth functioning of our business.
A number of experienced manufacturers supply our buses, coaches, trains and trams, which are produced to detailed specifications relevant to the individual markets in which they are required.
Licences Various licences are held by Stagecoach giving authority to operate our public transport services and these are maintained up to date as required.
Transport and industry representation groups We are active members of industry groups, such as the Confederation of Passenger Transport UK which covers buses and light rail, the Rail Delivery Group and the American Bus Association.
5 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties Like most businesses, there is a range of risks and uncertainties facing the Group and the matters described below are not intended to be an exhaustive list of all possible risks and uncertainties.
Generally, the Group is subject to risk factors both internal and external to its businesses.
External risks include global political and economic conditions, competitive developments, supply interruption, regulatory changes, foreign exchange, materials and consumables including fuel prices, pensions funding, environmental risks, industrial action, litigation and the risk of terrorism.
Internal risks include risks related to capital expenditure, acquisitions of businesses, regulatory compliance and failure of internal controls.
The Board of Directors determines the nature and extent of the principal risks that it is willing for the Group to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
Information on the risk management process is provided in section 4.12.
The focus below is on those specific risks and uncertainties that the Directors believe are the most significant to the Group, taking account of the likelihood of occurrence of each risk and the potential effect on the Group.
Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 28 April 2018 and since Annual Report Catastrophic events There is a risk that the Group is While it is not possible to fully The Groups East Midlands Trains involved directly or indirectly in a eliminate these risks, the Group has a business successfully managed a major major operational incident resulting proactive culture that puts health and fire incident which occurred at in significant human injuries or safety at the top of its agenda in order Nottingham railway station during the damage to property.
This could have to mitigate the potential for major year.
The business worked a significant impact on claims against incidents.
In the event that a major collaboratively with fire, ambulance the Group, the reputation of the incident did occur, the Group has and police authorities to protect Group and its chances of winning procedures in place to respond.
The passengers and safely resume services.
and retaining contracts or franchises.
Group periodically rehearses its In extreme cases, services could be response to a hypothetical major suspended or structural changes incident.
The Group has insurance imposed on the Group as a result of arrangements in place to reduce the regulatory or other action.
financial effect on the Group of certain claims against it.
A series of less severe incidents could have similar consequences.
Economy The economic environment in the Management monitors actual and 1.5.
5 Our current East Midlands franchise runs geographic areas in which the Group projected economic trends in order only until March 2019 and there is operates affects the demand for the to match capacity to demand and therefore a limited period in which it can Groups bus and rail services.
In where possible, minimise the impact be affected by economic changes.
particular, the revenue of the of adverse economic trends on the Furthermore, it is subject to a GDP risk Groups UK rail operations is Group.
External forecasts of sharing arrangement with the UK historically correlated with factors economic trends form part of the Department for Transport that reduces such as UK Gross Domestic Product Groups assessment and the train operators exposure to changes and Central London Employment.
In management of economic risk.
We would only enter into a new North America, a greater proportion East Midlands franchise beyond March In bidding for new rail franchises, of the revenue from bus operations 2019 to the extent we were satisfied with the evaluation of macroeconomic is derived from tour, charter and the trade off of risk and reward.
The risks is a key element of the bid sightseeing services than in the UK Department for Transport aims to enter process.
and these services tend to be more into a new Direct Award franchise with Further information on the susceptible to economic changes.
our East Midlands Trains subsidiary, to relevance of macroeconomic factors Other factors, such as movements in run from March 2019 to the expected to each business segment is fuel prices, can also affect revenue, start of the next competitively tendered provided in section 1.4.
The revenue and franchise in August 2019. profit of the Group could therefore The new West Coast franchise is be positively or negatively affected operated by our joint venture, Virgin Rail by changes in the economy.
It has The ongoing negotiation of the terms the potential to run until March 2020. of the UK leaving the European A revenue share arrangement with the Union may lead to continuing UK Department for Transport applies economic, consumer and political whereby the Department bears 90% of uncertainty.
That may in turn affect the risk of any difference in excess of 1% asset values and foreign exchange between the forecast revenue reflected rates, which have a bearing on the in the contract and actual revenue.
The amounts of our pensions, financial Department for Transport expects to instruments and other balances.
UK extend the existing franchise to run until policy following the UK leaving the the expected start of the new West Coast European Union may affect the UK Partnership franchise in September 2019. economy, including the availability and cost of staff.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 9 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 10 Strategic report 1.4.
5 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 28 April 2018 and since Annual Report Terrorism The Group has plans in place 1.5.
5 There have been multiple acts of No significant matters to report.
terrorism on public transport systems designed to reduce the operational and financial impact of a terrorist and other terrorist attacks that, whilst not directly targeting public transport, incident.
It also has checks in place such as vehicle inspections to have discouraged travel.
There is a risk that the demand for the Groups reduce the risk.
services could be adversely affected by a significant terrorist incident.
Such a fall in demand would have a negative effect on the Groups revenue and financial performance.
Rail cost base A substantial element of the cost base The Group looks to achieve sensible 1.5.
4 No significant matters to report.
in the Groups UK Rail Division is risk sharing arrangements in its rail Revenue growth at Virgin Trains East essentially fixed because under its UK franchise agreements.
The Groups Coast has been lower than that rail franchise agreements, the Group is franchise bids are designed to assumed in the original bid, which obliged to provide a minimum level of deliver an acceptable risk-reward has resulted in the franchise utilising train services and is therefore unable to trade-off.
As described above, all of the 165m loan commitment flex supply in response to short-term economic and terrorism risks are from the Stagecoach parent changes in demand.
In addition, the Group has significant part of the cost base is Group remains focused on agreed to fund an amount of 21m comprised of payments to the controlling costs in the UK Rail equivalent to the current infrastructure provider, Network Rail, Division.
performance bond outstanding in and payments under train operating respect of the existing franchise.
The leases which are committed and do not train services previously operated by vary with revenue.
Accordingly, a significant proportion of any change in Virgin Trains East Coast have now revenue for example, arising as a result transferred to a publically owned of the risks described above in respect company.
of terrorism and the economy will impact profit from the UK Rail Division.
Sustainability of rail profit A significant element of the Groups In order to manage the risks, the The two major franchises where the 1.5.
4 and revenue and profit is generated by Group has devoted significant 1.5.
5 Group has a continuing involvement, at UK rail franchises, which have a management resource and financial East Midlands Trains and Virgin Rail finite duration.
There is a risk that investment to bidding for new rail Groups West Coast Trains, could both the Groups revenue and profit franchises.
There is therefore could be significantly affected no certainty of the Group having a Appropriately experienced either positively or negatively as a material, continuing involvement in UK personnel are retained to work on result of the Group winning new Rail beyond 2019.
However, rail bids and third party consultants franchises or failing to retain its notwithstanding that and the early are engaged to provide additional existing franchises.
Included within termination of the Virgin Trains East expertise.
The Board approves the that overall risk, is the risk that the Coast franchise, we are working on a overall rail bidding strategy and the Group wins a franchise on terms number of opportunities for new key parameters for each bid.
that are unrealistic whether due to business in the UK rail franchising Significant work involving external error or overly optimistic market and we are optimistic about the advisors has been undertaken to assumptions and which as a result, new franchise opportunities.
Further review our rail bid governance to adversely affects the Groups details on the early termination of the learn lessons from previous financial performance and or Virgin Trains East Coast franchise and franchise bids and, in particular, to financial position.
the rail opportunities we see are learn lessons from the bid for the provided in section 1.5.
4 of this Annual operation of the previously lossReport.
making Virgin Trains East Coast rail Virgin Rail Groups previous West Coast franchise.
franchise ended in March 2018 and a new Direct Award franchise was agreed with the Department for Transport during the year.
The new franchise commenced on 1 April 2018 and runs until March 2019, with the option of a one-year extension at the discretion of the Department for Transport.
The East Midlands Trains franchise was extended by the Department for Transport during the year until at least March 2019, with plans for a further Direct Award franchise beyond that time until at least August 2019.
The Group has submitted its bid for the new South Eastern rail franchise.
The Group is progressing work on our shortlisted bid for the next East Midlands Trains franchise and on our shortlisted bid with SNCF and Virgin for the West Coast Partnership franchise.
5 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 28 April 2018 and since Annual Report Breach of franchise The Group is required to comply with Our UK Rail businesses are subject to Revenue growth at Virgin Trains East 1.5.
4 certain conditions as part of its rail complex contractual arrangements.
Coast has been lower than that franchise agreements.
If it fails to Contractual management is an assumed in the original bid, which comply with these conditions, it may important part of our rail activities has resulted in the franchise utilising be liable to penalties including the because the way in which contracts are all of the 165m loan commitment potential termination of one or more managed can be a significant from the Stagecoach parent of the rail franchise agreements.
This determinant of financial performance.
In addition, the Group has 2.5.
4 would result in the Group losing the agreed to fund an amount of 21m Compliance with franchise conditions is right to continue operating the equivalent to the current closely managed and monitored and affected operations and consequently, performance bond outstanding in procedures are in place to minimise the the related revenues and cash flows.
respect of the now terminated 2.5.
The train services The Group may also lose some or all The Group maintains an overview of previously operated by Virgin Trains of the amounts committed for the Virgin Rail Groups business risk East Coast have transferred to a shareholder loan facilities, the management process through publically owned company.
performance bonds and the season representation on its board and audit ticket bonds.
The Group can do more committee.
to prevent breaches of franchise where it has control than where it has joint control.
As the holder of a 49% joint venture interest in Virgin Rail Group, the Group has less control over the joint ventures operations and that means the Groups management may be less able to prevent a breach of the Virgin Rail Group franchise agreement.
Changing customer habits There are opportunities for the Group The Group monitors trends in revenue Lower rates of growth seen recently to shape its services and its interaction and passenger numbers across its in the UK rail sector are partly a result with its customers in response to businesses.
In forecasting future of changes in working patterns.
On changes in customer habits such as revenue and passenger numbers, London commuter rail services, we their working patterns and shopping.
including in respect of bids for new rail have seen evidence of changing franchises, the Group considers working patterns resulting in People travel on the Groups bus, train research and evidence on changing variations in demand by weekday.
and tram services for a variety of customer behaviour.
reasons, including in some cases, to get We continue to adjust the timetables to and from work and or to get to and The Group will, from time to time, vary for certain of our bus services to from shopping locations.
its timetables, pricing, range of ticket adapt to changes in working patterns.
types and transport networks in Changes in peoples working patterns, response to actual or anticipated shopping habits and or other changes in demand.
preferences could affect demand for the Groups transport services, which could in turn affect the Groups financial performance and or financial position.
For example, increases in the proportion of working time that people spend at home, or in the level of shopping undertaken online, could affect demand for travel.
Pension scheme funding The Group participates in a number of Decisions on bus and rail pension Pension scheme liabilities have 1.6.
There scheme funding, asset allocation and reduced during the year, reflecting is a risk that the reported net pension benefit promises are taken by good investment returns on pension management and or pension scheme asset liability and or the cash scheme assets, higher interest rates, contributions required to these trustees in consultation with trade changes in inflation assumptions and unions and suitably qualified advisors.
schemes increases or decreases due to experience gains on the Stagecoach changes in factors such as investment A Pensions Oversight Committee Group Pension Scheme comprising the Finance Director, a performance, the rates used to discount liabilities and life expectancies.
Non-Executive Director and other senior executives, oversees the Intervention by regulators could also affect the contributions required.
Any Groups overall pensions strategy.
The Board participates in major decisions increase in contributions will reduce the Groups cash flows.
Any significant on the funding and design of pension schemes.
increase in pension liabilities could affect the Groups credit ratings.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 11 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 12 Strategic report 1.4.
5 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 28 April 2018 and since Annual Report Insurance and claims environment The Group receives claims in respect The Group has a proactive culture The Group continues to invest in of traffic incidents and employee that puts health and safety at the leading edge safety technology, such claims.
The Group protects itself top of its agenda and this helps as the advanced in-cab driver sensors, against the cost of such claims mitigate the potential for claims Seeing Machines, which are being through third party insurance policies.
Where claims do arise, they piloted at our megabus North America An element of the claims is not are managed by dedicated insurance operations.
insured as a result of the excess on and claims specialists in order to insurance policies.
minimise the cost to the Group.
Where appropriate, legal advice is There is a risk that the number or magnitude of claims are not as obtained from appropriately qualified advisors.
The balance expected and that the cost to the Group of settling these claims is between insured and retained risks is re-evaluated at least once a year significantly higher or lower than expected.
In the US, in particular, and insurance and claims activity is monitored closely.
there is a risk that given the size of the excess, that a small number of largevalue claims could adversely impact the Groups financial performance and or financial position.
Regulatory changes and availability of public funding Public transport is subject to varying Management closely monitors The Bus Services Act 2017 could see the 1.5.
1 and degrees of regulation across the relevant proposals for changes in the introduction of franchised bus networks 1.5.
4 locations in which the Group operates.
regulatory environment and in some areas of England, which could There is a risk that changes to the communicates the Groups views to affect our commercialised bus regulatory environment could impact key decision makers and bodies.
Since the introduction of the Groups prospects.
We see the Group actively participates in various the Bus Services Act 2017, Transport for greatest risk in this respect as being the trade bodies and government forums.
Greater Manchester is investigating risk that some bus services in the UK franchising options for parts of The Group seeks to maintain good, outside London become subject to Manchester.
cooperative relationships with all franchising whereby a government levels of government, by developing In April 2018, the UK Government body specifies the bus services and puts and promoting ideas that offer cost confirmed that disabled and older them out to tender compared to the effective ways of improving public people in England will continue to current model where commercial bus transport.
benefit from free off-peak bus travel for operators are free to design and the foreseeable future, following Where regulatory changes are known operate their own services.
amendments to legislation to protect or reasonably likely, the Group The Labour Party, the main opposition the English National Concessionary develops plans to seek to mitigate any political party in the UK, currently has Travel Scheme under its current format.
an official policy to bring all UK In April 2018, the UK Labour Party The Group uses internal and or passenger train operations into public announced a new policy to fund free external experts to advise it on hands as current rail franchises expire.
bus travel for under 25 year olds across compliance and management in While this is not the policy of the the UK.
Under the policy, a Labour specialist areas such as tax and current UK Government, to the extent government would provide funds for transport law.
this policy were implemented either by free travel for under 25s to local a future Labour Government or authorities who introduce bus otherwise then the Group would be franchising or move to public unable to subsequently win new UK rail ownership of their local bus services.
Current Labour Party policy That increases the risk of bus also favours greater franchising and or franchising or public ownership of UK public ownership of UK local bus bus services under any future Labour services.
Similarly, many of the Groups Although the UK Government decided businesses benefit from Government to appoint a publically-owned Operator investment in bus and train services, of Last Resort to take over the including tax rebates, the provision of operation of InterCity East Coast train equipment, contracted services and services from our Virgin Trains East concessionary travel schemes for Coast business, it is not the policy of passengers.
There is a risk that the the current government to bring all availability of government finances passenger rail services into public changes due to political, regulatory or ownership.
The decision on East Coast other reasons.
is a transitional measure to address the There is also a risk that the Group financial challenges faced by the Virgin suffers financial or reputational damage Trains East Coast franchise.
The current as a result of non-compliance with laws media and political scrutiny on UK rail, or regulations or as a result of the however, could lead to changes in Group having a different interpretation current Government policy.
of laws or regulations from others.
In addition, in the case of tax, there is a risk the Group suffers reputational damage because of how others perceive the Groups approach to a tax matter even where the Group has complied with the applicable laws and regulations.
5 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 28 April 2018 and since Annual Report Management and Board succession The Group values the continued Succession planning for the Directors No significant matters to report.
and senior management is an services of its senior employees, including its directors and important issue and as such is considered by the Nomination management who have skills that are important to the operation of Committee as described in section 6.5 and the Board.
The appropriate level of the Groups business.
The success of the Group could be adversely management deals with recruitment and retention of other staff.
affected if effective succession planning is not in place.
Disease There is a risk that demand for the The Group has plans in place to No significant matters to report.
Groups services could be adversely respond to any significant outbreak affected by a significant outbreak of of disease.
Such a fall in demand would have a negative impact on the Groups revenue and financial performance.
Information security There is a risk that confidential and or An Information Security Board The Board has monitored the Groups commercially sensitive information oversees the management of preparations for the implementation relating to and or held by the Group information security risks, and takes of the General Data Protection is subject to unauthorised access, use, appropriate advice from suitably Regulation GDPR, which was disclosure, modification, perusal, experienced third party consultants effective from 25 May 2018. and recording or destruction.
3 There is also a risk that the Groups Investment is made in appropriate information and or systems are policies, people and technology to subject to disruption, corruption or reduce the severity and likelihood of failure due to security breaches.
Information technology The Group is reliant on information The Group is continually investing in Following the establishment of a technology for sales, operations and its information technology systems, Digital and Technology Committee back office functions.
Information people and suppliers to ensure the in the prior year, the Groups digital technology failures or interruptions robustness of its information strategy has continued to mature could adversely affect the Group.
It is developing new with enhanced Key Performance digital platforms and continues to look An increasing proportion of the Groups Indicators being introduced to to ensure that it secures reliable sales are made digitally.
There is a risk monitor the effectiveness of digital service provision.
that the Groups capability to make initiatives.
sales digitally either fails or cannot meet levels of demand and the time taken to implement restorative actions is unacceptably long due to insufficient resource being available and or over reliance on a small number of service providers.
This risk could result in significant levels of lost revenue.
Competition Loss of business to existing competitors We monitor competitive developments No significant matters to report.
or new entrants to the markets in which in each of our markets and respond as we operate could have a significant appropriate.
That includes monitoring impact on our business.
We face developments in technology and competition for customers not only from business models that could affect the other operators of trains, trams, coaches competitive landscape.
Multi-modal and buses but also from other modes of travel portals, taxi hailing technology transport.
The Group regards its primary and businesses, ride-sharing competitor as the private car and aims technology and businesses, and to encourage modal shift from car to autonomous vehicles are amongst the public transport.
developments we are monitoring and assessing.
Developments in new technology and or new business models could affect the We work with local authorities, competitive environment in which the including passenger transport Group operates.
3 developments could enable new committees and transit authorities, in competitors and or business models to the delivery and planning of bus and be developed that disrupt or compete rail services.
3 of this Annual Report includes comments on competition in the context of each of the Groups key divisions.
Details of the Groups treasury risks are discussed in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements, and include the risk to operating costs arising from movements in fuel prices.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 13 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 14 Strategic report 1.4.
6 How we measure our performance key performance indicators The Group uses a wide range of key performance indicators KPIs across its various businesses and at a Group level to measure the Groups progress in achieving its objectives.
The most important of these KPIs at a Group level focus on four key areas: Profitability Organic growth Safety Service delivery KPI 1 profitability The overall strategy of the Group is intended to promote the success of the Group and create long-term value to shareholders.
In the shorter term, we measure progress towards this overall aspiration by monitoring growth in adjusted earnings per share.
KPI 2 organic growth To create long-term value, we aim to deliver organic growth in revenue.
We measure progress on this by division, looking at like-for-like growth in passenger volumes and or revenue as we consider most appropriate for the particular division.
KPIs 3 and 4 safety and service delivery To deliver organic growth in revenue, we aim to provide safe and reliable transport services that people want to use.
We measure safety and service delivery by division using a range of measures appropriate for each business.
Further details on how we calculate these key performance indicators, our targets and our recent performance is summarised below.
Profitability Adjusted earnings per share is earnings per share before exceptional items and non-software intangible asset amortisation Adjusted EPS.
Adjusted EPS is calculated based on the profit attributable to equity shareholders adjusted to exclude exceptional items and non-software intangible asset amortisation divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares ranking for dividend during the relevant period.
As explained in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements, we have revised our definition of adjusted earnings per share to include the amortisation of capitalised software expenditure.
The figures reported below are presented for all years using the revised definition.
Adjusted EPS was as follows: Year ended 28 April 2018 29 April 2017 30 April 2016 Target pence pence restated pence restated Adjusted EPS To increase in excess of the UK Consumer Prices Index 22.3p 23.3p 27.0p Organic growth The following measures of organic growth are monitored: UK Bus regional operations and megabus Europe growth in passenger journeys measured as the percentage increase in the number of passenger journeys relative to the equivalent period in the previous year.
UK Rail growth in passenger miles measured as the percentage increase in the number of miles travelled by passengers relative to the equivalent period in the previous year.
UK Bus London and North America growth in constant currency revenue from continuing operations measured as the percentage increase in revenue relative to the equivalent period in the previous year.
The measures vary by division reflecting differences in the underlying businesses for example, a significant proportion of the revenue in North America and almost all of the revenue in UK Bus London is not determined on a per passenger basis.
Throughout this Annual Report, references to passenger volume growth for UK Bus or UK Rail businesses mean growth determined on the basis set out here.
Certain of these growth KPIs involve a degree of estimation in respect of passenger volumes.
All of the organic growth KPIs are normalised to exclude businesses that have not been held by the Group for the whole of the relevant year and the preceding year.
The growth figures are also normalised for differences in the number of days in each year.
Year ended Year ended Year ended 28 April 2018 29 April 2017 30 April 2016 Target Growth % Growth % Growth % UK Bus regional operations passenger journeys 2.8 % 1.5 % 0.8 % megabus Europe passenger journeys n a n a 235.0% UK Bus London revenue 4.4 % 0.8 % 2.5% UK Rail passenger miles Positive growth South West Trains n a 0.8 % 2.7% each year East Midlands Trains 0.7% 2.1% 1.2% Virgin Trains East Coast 3.2% 2.1% 1.7% Virgin Rail Group West Coast Trains 1.3% 5.9% 2.6% North America revenue 0.3 % 2.1 % 3.5 % The reduction in passenger journeys at UK Bus regional operations in the year ended 28 April 2018 largely reflects the actions we took in early 2017 to adjust our pricing and services to respond to changes in customer demand.
Vehicle miles operated for the year were 2.7% lower than in the prior year.
The reduction in revenue at UK Bus London in the year ended 28 April 2018 reflects the impact of contracts lost in the prior year.
We are satisfied by our performance on current year tenders for Transport for London contracts.
The lower revenue in North America during the year ended 28 April 2018 reflects the impact of mileage reductions at our megabus.
com inter-city coach business, offset by contract wins secured in the first half of the year.
6 How we measure our performance key performance indicators continued Safety Safety is monitored in various ways, including through a range of KPIs.
Businesses acquired or disposed of in the year are excluded from the safety KPIs.
Eight of the more important safety KPIs are reported below: Year ended Year ended Year ended Target 28 April 2018 29 April 2017 30 April 2016 UK Bus regional operations number of blameworthy 19.5 18.6 20.4 accidents per 1 million miles travelled megabus Europe number of blameworthy n a n a 11.9 accidents per 1 million miles travelled UK Bus London number of blameworthy 45.4 45.8 35.6 accidents per 1 million miles travelled US number of blameworthy accidents per 7.2 6.9 6.2 1 million miles travelled To decrease each year ultimate target South West Trains workforce lost time injuries is zero n a 1.4 1.4 per 1,000 staff East Midlands Trains workforce lost time injuries 1.0 0.9 1.3 per 1,000 staff Virgin Trains East Coast workforce lost time injuries 1.3 1.1 1.5 per 1,000 staff Virgin Rail Group West Coast workforce lost time 1.3 1.0 1.3 injuries per 1,000 staff Although there has been a small increase in the rate of blameworthy accidents at North America during the year ended 28 April 2018, the rate of increase has moderated compared to the previous two years, reflecting the benefits of our safety programmes.
Health and safety remains our top priority and we continue to invest in leading edge safety technology, such as advanced in-cab driver sensors, which we are piloting in North America, and expect to improve our safety performance.
Service delivery Our measures of service delivery include: UK Bus regional operations, megabus Europe and UK Bus London reliability measured as the percentage of planned miles to be operated that were operated.
UKRail punctuality measured on the basis of the Department for Transports Public Performance Measure moving annual average being the percentage of trains that arrive at their final destination within 5 minutes or 10 minutes for inter-city services of their scheduled arrival time having called at all scheduled stations.
References to rail punctuality throughout this Annual Report refer to punctuality calculated on this basis.
Due to the nature of the North American business, there is no single measure of service delivery for the North American Division as a whole.
Service delivery KPIs are not reported for businesses acquired or disposed of in the year.
The service delivery KPIs were as follows: Year ended 28 April 2018 29 April 2017 30 April 2016 Target % % % UK Bus regional operations reliability 99.0% 99.3% 99.5% 99.4% megabus Europe reliability 99.0% n a n a 99.7% UK Bus London reliability 99.0% 98.5% 97.9% 97.4% UK Rail punctuality South West Trains 90.0% n a 87.0% 90.0% East Midlands Trains 85.0% 91.6% 92.1% 92.8% Virgin Trains East Coast 85.0% 80.7% 83.1% 85.0% Virgin Rail Group West Coast Trains 85.0% 83.6% 89.4% 86.2% The adverse trends in punctuality during the year ended 28 April 2018 across our rail franchises reflect a deterioration in Network Rail operational performance across the network, in addition to adverse weather, particularly increased snowstorms, compared to the prior year.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 15 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 16 Strategic report The decline in concessionary revenue includes the effects of the adverse 1.5 Divisional Performance weather and the continuing effects of government changes in the age of 1.5.
1 UK Bus regional operations eligibility for free bus travel by older people, as we have previously reported.
We have also seen a reduction in the concessionary reimbursement rate Summary paid to bus operators in several regions, including Manchester, and lower Revenue per vehicle mile up 2.7% financial support in Wales for bus travel by young people.
Investment in fleet, technology and enhancing customer experience We continue to work with local authorities to maximise the value for local Strong customer satisfaction communities from the financial support councils can provide for socially desirable transport services.
The decline in tender revenue mainly reflects Financial performance further reductions by local authorities for tendered bus services and we anticipate some further cuts over the next year.
The financial performance of the UK Bus regional operations Division for the year ended 28 April 2018 is summarised below: The reduction in contract and other revenue include the effects of lower rail replacement contract revenues, in addition to year-on-year changes in 2017 the amount and timing of one-off contract and events work.
2018 restated The movement in operating margin was built up as follows: m m Change Operating margin 2016 17 restated 11.5% Revenue 1,012.5 1,015.7 0.3 % Change in: Like-for-like revenue 1,012.3 1,013.8 0.1 % Operating profit 112.9 117.0 3.5 % Insurance and claims costs 0.8% Staff costs 0.8 % Operating margin 11.2% 11.5% 30 bp Fuel costs 0.7% Depreciation and amortisation 0.4 % Actions we took in early 2017 to adjust our pricing and network of services Gain on disposal of land and buildings 0.3 % to respond to changes in customer demand have helped reduce pressure Other 0.3 % on the profitability of the business and ensure we can continue to invest in Operating margin 2017 18 11.2% customer improvements.
We have worked closely with our local authority partners as part of our focus on operating sustainable networks and The main changes in the operating margin shown above are: maximising the value of our combined resources.
Like-for-like vehicle miles operated were 2.7% lower than in the previous year.
The vehicle miles we We have seen positive progress on claims costs with the costs for the operate on a commercial basis were reduced by 1.7% with greater year being below last year and less than we expected.
reductions in the mileage tendered by local authorities and operated under Staff costs, as expected, have continued to rise, and not all headcount contract.
Reflecting the management actions taken, like-for-like revenue varies with vehicle miles.
Staff costs include provisions for additional per vehicle mile grew 2.7% and like-for-like revenue per journey also holiday pay costs and the full year impact of the new Apprenticeship increased 2.7%.
Levy applied by the UK Government from April 2017 to fund new Like-for-like revenue was built up as follows: apprenticeships.
However, wage awards in the year are in line with our forecast assumptions, staff retention rates remain stable and staff costs 2018 2017 remain under control.
m m Change Fuel costs have reduced, reflecting market fuel prices and our fuel Commercial on and off bus revenue hedging programme.
com 24.1 22.0 9.5% Gains on the disposal of land and buildings reduced year-on-year.
other 612.0 602.1 1.6% Other costs have increased, including higher depreciation and Concessionary revenue 242.5 247.9 2.2 % amortisation as a result of our continued investment.
Commercial & concessionary revenue 878.6 872.0 0.8% Tendered and school revenue 97.9 100.4 2.5 % Enhanced products and customer experience Contract and other revenue 35.8 41.4 13.5 % We are continuing to invest in our fleet, technology and customer service to Like-for-like revenue 1,012.3 1,013.8 0.1 % attract people to the benefits of bus travel.
Following several years of substantial capital investment in our regional bus operations, our The growth in commercial revenue reflects the actions we have taken to expenditure on new vehicles has moderated to reflect the changes we have improve yield per journey, partly offset by the impact of more severe made in a number of our local bus networks.
We have placed orders for weather in the second half of the year which restricted our ability to run around 170 new buses for 2018 19, representing an investment of around some services and suppressed demand.
In particular, the reported like- 40m.
for-like revenue growth for our four-week reporting period ended 3 We are now well advanced with our roll-out of contactless ticketing across March 2018 was suppressed by the widespread snowstorms throughout our bus and coach operations in the UK as part of our multi-million pound the UK.
During that period, the Divisions like-for-like revenue declined digital strategy.
The technology is now available at many of our regional bus by 2.5% from the equivalent prior year period, illustrating the scale of operations in Scotland and England, as well as at our Scottish Citylink interthe impact of these extreme weather conditions.
We estimate the city coach joint venture, with contactless payments expected to be in place operating profit would have been c. 2m higher but for the adverse on all vehicles by the end of 2018.
Stagecoach Group won the award for weather conditions relative to last year.
Our strategy for growth and Best Smart Ticketing Project at the 2018 Transport Ticketing Global Awards customer satisfaction is centred on low-fares, operational excellence and for the contactless project, which is one of Visas fastest growing transit continued investment.
schemes in Europe and is also compatible with Apple Pay and Android Pay.
com business in the UK performed well in the second half In July 2017, we launched a blueprint to help ensure bus services can of the year, following weakness in the inter-city coach market in the first effectively serve new housing developments being planned across the half of the year.
We are encouraged by the impact of the measures we country.
Failure to integrate public transport to new developments results have taken to improve yield management and modify the network.
In in a greater cost to the economy in lost productivity, poorer air quality, addition, we have refreshed our marketing to maximise the value of the longer working days because of extra commuting time and a less safe living brand.
environment with more cars on the road.
See definitions in note 33 to the consolidated financial statements page 16 | Stagecoach Group plc 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 17 Providing value travel is a central element of our growth strategy.
In our Outlook annual national travel mode comparison, our research found that people Consistent with 2017 18, we have implemented further vehicle mileage who use the bus to commute are on average 1,200 per year better off reductions for 2018 19 and applied some price increases where than those travelling to work by car who pay for fuel and parking.
We continue to expect modest revenue growth from our local Satisfaction with Stagecoach bus services has risen to 90%, according to bus services in the short-term.
Our costs remain well controlled, with higher independent research published by consumer watchdog, Transport Focus, pay and pension costs for staff being partially mitigated by expected lower in March 2018.
Stagecoach achieved the biggest improvement in overall fuel costs.
passenger satisfaction of any major UK operator.
Customers rated We have not significantly changed our expectation of the Divisions Stagecoach as the best value of the major UK bus operators, for the fifth operating profit for the year ending 27 April 2019 since our last update on year in a row.
Recent years have seen a reduction in peoples propensity to travel in the Commercial growth initiatives UK.
There are factors outside of the control of bus operators that are With declining propensity to travel in the UK presenting challenges, our UK influencing travel choices including the growth in online services and home Bus commercial team is progressing a package of initiatives to respond to delivery, changes in working patterns, road congestion and changes in car changing demand for travel driven by evolving work and social patterns, as costs from improved vehicle efficiency and changes in fuel prices.
While well as capitalising on opportunities for growth through technology, more there are undoubtedly challenges to growing bus patronage in the longer effective marketing and product development.
Specific actions underway, to term, we still see cause for optimism.
Forecast further population growth, support this and our continued focus on safety, punctuality and reliability include: particularly in urban areas presents opportunities for growing bus patronage.
Mass transit, including buses, can help mitigate the risk of Revised Stagecoach brand strategy to leverage its strength as a trusted population growth in urban areas contributing to worsening road travel provider.
congestion and air quality challenges.
Indeed, we would welcome more Improved online presence for our main megabus.
com and Oxford Tube proactive policy interventions to encourage mass transit use and reduce car inter-city travel products and further development of interuse to address these increasing problems.
Technological advances may urban express coach services.
support new entrants to the transport space but they also allow greater Simpler pricing and ticketing.
personalisation of bus travel, improved customer relationship management Enhanced functionality of the Stagecoach bus app and better delivery and further operating cost efficiencies, thus making services more attractive of real time journey information.
Younger people are learning to drive later, are buying cars Evaluation of opportunities for more demand responsive services in a later and are more comfortable in the sharing economy, in which buses number of locations, as well as the UKs first pilot of autonomous have a role.
In some areas, younger people are also benefiting from policy vehicle technology on a standard bus.
initiatives that make bus travel more attractive.
Against that background, Driving a more agile and entrepreneurial culture at local operating we continue to adjust our regional UK Bus networks to provide additional companies, supported by a complementary recruitment strategy.
capacity where demand is growing and reduce capacity to remain cost Fostering joint working to maximise the opportunities from closer competitive in areas of reducing demand.
We continue to invest in integration of bus and rail.
technology and to pilot new ways of working.
We see an exciting future for our regional UK bus operations as we navigate the challenges and build on Using improved understanding of the segmentation of our existing and potential customer base to identify the profile and triggers to travel for the opportunities we already see.
Implementing a new customer relationship management CRM 1.5.
2 UK Bus London system to engage and improve customer loyalty and yield.
Summary Increasing the volume of work we undertake to support events, festivals and other businesses, where new technology can support an Positive tender results increased capability to grow revenue in these areas.
Maintaining sustainable contract pricing Stakeholder engagement New depot facility added in South East London Along with other bus industry groups and other industry stakeholders, we are continuing to make the case for the role of the bus in tackling Financial performance congestion and air quality.
"We are pleased that a number of local The financial performance of the UK Bus London Division for the year authorities have started to recognise the important role of Euro VI buses in ended 28 April 2018 is summarised below: their draft plans to tackle pollution in their areas, with many exempting retrofit buses from charging Clean Air Zones ""CAZs""."
The UK 2018 2017 Governments new 48m Ultra-Low Emission Bus Scheme, available for m m Change local authorities and operators in England and Wales to support the next Revenue and like-for-like revenue 251.8 263.4 4.4 % generation ultra-low emission bus technologies, is also welcome.
However, Operating profit 13.3 18.4 27.7 % we believe further action is needed by local authorities to prioritise meaningful action to tackle the biggest polluter, the diesel car, which a Operating margin 5.3% 7.0% 170 bp 2017 Greener Journeys report notes is currently responsible for 41% of all During the year, we have won several new contracts from other operators nitrogen oxides emissions compared to just 6% for buses.
In addition, we which we will run on behalf of Transport for London.
We have made a net have called for clearer Government guidance for councils on CAZs to gain of four routes with a peak vehicle requirement of 50 buses and a encourage a shift towards buses and other cleaner modes of transport total contract value of close to 13m.
That should benefit our revenue in with 38 of Englands 43 air quality zones currently breaching EU legal limits for nitrogen oxides emissions.
We are also engaging with the Scottish the next financial year, 2018 19.
The revenue impact of contracts lost in Government and authorities in Glasgow, Edinburgh, Aberdeen and Dundee the prior year is reflected in this years financial performance and related over planned low emission zones in those cities.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 17 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 18 Strategic report The movement in operating margin was built up as follows: Like-for like revenue for the year is broadly in line with our expectations.
Revenue trends in the second half of the year were lower than growth Operating margin 2016 17 7.0% seen in the first half, reflecting the timing of contract work during the year Change in: and more severe weather than our forecasts anticipated over the winter Staff costs 0.6 % months.
Operating lease costs 0.6 % Impairment of vehicles 0.6 % Like-for-like revenue was built up as follows: Fuel costs 0.5% 2018 2017 Other 0.4 % US$m US$m Change Operating margin 2017 18 5.3% megabus.
com 185.8 192.4 3.4 % Scheduled service Consistent with the UK Bus regional operations, the new Apprenticeship Levy has added to the UK Bus London Divisions staff costs in the year.
Commercial revenue 156.2 157.7 1.0 % The current year staff costs also reflect pay awards and the implementation Support from local authorities 20.2 20.5 1.5 % of previously disclosed plans to increase starting rates of pay for bus drivers.
Charter 111.2 118.5 6.2 % Operating lease costs have moved as a percentage of revenue, principally Contract services 134.7 117.8 14.3% due to year-on-year changes in end of lease vehicle return costs.
Sightseeing and tour 20.6 23.7 13.1 % The increased impairment expense arises from the impairment of the Like-for-like revenue 628.7 630.6 0.3 % carrying value of older, owned vehicles that became surplus to requirements during the year.
The like-for-like revenue decline of 0.3% for the Division includes a 3.4% Fuel costs have reduced, reflecting market fuel prices and our fuel hedging decline for megabus.
com North America, reflecting previously programme.
implemented mileage changes in the network to better match our services to customer demand.
com revenue per mile for the We see significant differences in the level of bus depot capacity versus the year was up 1.0%.
The other businesses in North America reported likedemand from Transport for London for bus services across the different for-like revenue growth of 1.1% for the year.
We are exploring the extent to which that presents us with opportunities for growth and or possible re-deployment of capital.
In The movement in the operating margin was built up as follows: March 2018, we opened a new depot at Lower Sydenham in South East Operating margin 2016 17 restated 3.7% London.
This additional facility will increase our bid capability by providing Change in: extra capacity and a modest geographical extension.
Fuel costs 1.2% We are continuing to innovate and recently launched a new low-cost Staff costs 0.5 % sightseeing product in London, megasightseeing.
Leveraging the Other 0.1% profile of our megabus.
com brand, the service offers a pre-booked twohour non-stop double-decker bus tour of 50 famous tourist sights with Operating margin 2017 18 4.5% GPS commentary.
Around 19 million tourists visit London every year and we believe our significantly lower fares will provide an opportunity to gain The main changes in the operating margin shown above are: a profitable share of the current market as well as to expand it.
Fuel costs have reduced reflecting market fuel prices and our fuel hedging programme.
Outlook Staff costs have continued to rise as a proportion of our revenue base.
We currently expect our UK Bus London operating margin to remain That includes increased overtime levels at some locations, where we below our long-term aspiration of 7% in the year ending 27 April 2019.
Staff are working to recruit new drivers to reduce the need for overtime cost inflation in excess of what was assumed in previous successful bids for working.
In addition, the improved financial performance of the contracts is affecting profit but our revised expectation of staff and other Division is reflected in higher staff incentive costs.
costs is reflected in our bids for new contracts.
We continue to monitor Transport for Londons plans to reduce contracted bus mileage in London Business developments and will seek to maintain our contract pricing at a sustainable level, where We continue to be encouraged by further additional revenue generated service quality can be maintained and the financial returns reflect the from our focus on contract opportunities.
In the first half of the year, we capital invested.
benefitted from rail replacement contracts linked to train disruptions on New Jersey Transit and Long Island Rail Road as a result of track repair 1.5.
3 North America work at Pennsylvania Station in New York.
This contributed to a Summary reduction in charter revenue as we deployed some vehicles on the rail contract work that would otherwise have been available for charter.
We Profit and revenue in line with our expectations have since benefitted from further smaller rail replacement projects in Continued focus on new contract wins New York and Maryland.
Given the pressure on rail infrastructure we New megabus.
com website performing well are hopeful of more opportunities in the short-term.
A contract with Bechtel secured in early 2017, moved from start up to full operation in Financial performance the 2017 18 financial year.
The financial performance of the North America Division for the year We have launched Virginia Breeze, created with part financial support ended 28 April 2018 is summarised below: from the States transportation department, with tickets sold on megabus.
com and linking into its wider network.
It connects Virginia 2018 2017 with Washington DC and has several stops including Dulles International restated Airport.
US$m US$m Change We are delighted with the successful start of our Airport Express service Revenue 630.0 632.3 0.4 % offering fast, convenient transfers between Stewart International Like-for-like revenue 628.7 630.6 0.3 % Airport and New York City.
40% of all of the Norwegian airlines Operating profit 28.1 23.5 19.6% passengers flying into the airport are taking our bus service.
Operating margin 4.5% 3.7% 80bp page 18 | Stagecoach Group plc 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 19 As previously reported, we took steps last year to consolidate the The South West Trains franchise expired in August 2017.
com network to reflect demand in an environment of low fuel during the year was strong and included the resolution of a number of prices.
We are encouraged by the impact of these management actions contractual matters as part of the transition of the train operations to a and also our ability to retain market share in the highly competitive new operator.
However, we are continuing to develop our product The UK Rail Divisions reported profit reflects the utilisation of the offering and marketing to promote the benefits of low-cost inter-city onerous contract provision recorded at April 2017 in respect of the coach travel.
original contractual arrangements at Virgin Trains East Coast.
As The investment we have made in our new megabus.
com website has forecasted, Virgin Trains East Coast continued to incur trading losses improved our customers experience and is supporting our growth.
The under that contract, which have been applied against the onerous new website provides a much improved mobile experience and we have contract provision.
seen clear evidence of this translating through into seat sales.
The Virgin Trains East Coast websites new functionality has allowed us to improve our search engine rankings and we have developed online route and destination content to While we were surprised and disappointed by the decision announced drive traffic to the website.
During the year, we launched Megabus RIDE, by the Secretary of State for Transport on 16 May 2018 to transfer our new smartphone and tablet app which allows customers to choose responsibility for operating the East Coast train services from Virgin from dozens of movies and TV shows on their journey via our free on Trains East Coast to a publically owned company, we welcome the clarity board Wi-Fi.
We are also continuing to refine our yield management that decision brings.
The transfer occurred on 24 June 2018.
com to maintain our reputation for good value for subsidiary company, East Coast Main Line Company Limited, which money while improving yield based on patterns of demand.
traded as Virgin Trains East Coast, remains part of the Group and there are a number of matters to unwind over the coming months.
Elsewhere in our portfolio, weak sightseeing markets have impacted some of our services and we have restructured our sightseeing operations as we The decision is consistent with the Secretary of State for Transports seek to improve profitability.
statement in the House of Commons on 5 February 2018, where he intimated that he was considering two options for the continued Outlook operation of the InterCity East Coast services.
The financial consequences During 2018 19, we are looking to build on the benefits of the of that for Virgin Trains East Coast are 90% attributable to the equity management actions taken during 2017 18 to match services with holders of the Company and 10% attributable to Virgin's non-controlling customer demand at our megabus.
Rising interest in Virgin Trains East Coast.
In our announcement that day, we fuel prices should help support demand for our services.
indicated that the Secretary of States position on Virgin Trains East Coast We also continue to see growth opportunities from the Division in new could result in Stagecoach Group plc funding up to a further 19m in contract wins but will remain disciplined in ensuring that we bid for cash 21.0m being payable by the Company to the Department for contract opportunities at prices consistent with delivering appropriate Transport, with 2.1m of that being attributable to the non-controlling rates of return.
interest and incurring a further consolidated expense of up to 94m, after taking account of tax and deducting the 10% Virgin non-controlling 1.5.
We noted that could result in the Groups consolidated non-rail net debt being up to around 19m higher than previously forecast but Summary that the other elements of any expense should not affect non-rail net debt.
The net cash outflow of 19m is expected to occur in June 2018.
Good profits from East Midlands Trains and South West Trains The net exceptional expense after tax for the year ended 28 April 2018 Greater clarity on Virgin Trains East Coast franchise terminated in was 93.9m, of which 85.6m was attributable to the equity holders of June 2018 Company and is within the previously reported range of up to 94m.
The net expense is analysed below, with the effects of tax and the amounts East Midlands Trains franchise extended to March 2019, with plan for further Direct Award attributable to the non-controlling interest separately shown: Bids for new franchises Exceptional Exceptional Total income other recognised UK rail franchises moving to a more balanced risk profile statement recognised exceptional expense expense expense Financial performance m m m The financial performance of the UK Rail Division for the year ended Liability re performance bond 21.0 21.0 28 April 2018 is summarised below: Increase in onerous contract 2017 provision and adjustments to 2018 restated carrying value of m m Change assets and liabilities 28.0 28.0 Pension actuarial loss 32.9 32.9 Revenue 1,495.2 2,160.7 30.8 % Like-for-like revenue 1,183.7 1,142.6 3.6% Loss before tax 49.0 32.9 81.9 Operating profit 24.9 28.5 12.6 % Tax 14.5 2.5 12.0 Operating margin 1.7% 1.3% 40bp Loss after tax 63.5 30.4 93.9 Non-controlling interest 5.6 2.7 8.3 Our UK Rail business continues to see growth in revenue, with like-forLoss attributable to equity like revenue up 3.6% year-on-year.
holders of the parent 57.9 27.7 85.6 Stagecoach Group plc | page 19 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 20 Strategic report We regret the losses the Group has experienced on the East Coast Franchising update franchise, notwithstanding that these were significantly influenced by We are working on new opportunities in the UK franchised rail market factors outside of our control.
We have examined our bid for and and are pleased at the steps taken by the Department for Transport to operation of the franchise closely and have also looked more broadly at deliver an improved risk-reward balance in new franchise competitions.
We involved external advisors in that and we We are also encouraged to see signs of moderation in the level of have made changes to our processes to strengthen our approach to capital put at risk on individual franchises, which we believe should be bidding and contract management in UK rail.
The lessons learnt have commensurate with the potential financial returns.
been reflected in our subsequent bids.
Earlier this year, we submitted our bid for the South Eastern franchise, which serves passengers in south-east London and parts of Kent and East Midlands Trains East Sussex.
Stagecoach is one of three bidders shortlisted for the new Like-for-like revenue at East Midlands Trains grew by 3.5% for the year.
We were pleased to confirm in February our While growth in the first half of the year was adversely affected by the intention to form a relationship with Alstom Transport UK Limited part terrorist events in London and Manchester, performance in the second of the Alstom SA Group for that rail franchise, subject to Department half of the year has been stronger.
The business continues to deliver for Transport consent.
It is intended that Alstom will hold 20% of the good levels of profitability.
share capital of the train operating company if our bid for the franchise During the year, the Department for Transport exercised its preis successful.
Around a third of all rail journeys in the UK are made on contracted option to extend the East Midlands Trains franchise to March Alstom trains, including the flagship Pendolinos that run on the West 2019, with plans for a further Direct Award franchise beyond that time.
The Department for Transport currently expects the Direct Award We are also bidding for the West Coast Partnership franchise jointly franchise to run from March 2019 to the anticipated start of the next with SNCF and Virgin Group.
The invitation to tender for the new West competitively tendered franchise in August 2019.
The current franchise Coast Partnership was issued in March.
Stagecoach has a 50% share in is subject to a GDP risk sharing arrangement with the Department for the bid vehicle, with SNCF holding 30% and Virgin 20%.
Our objective is Transport that reduces the train operators exposure to significant to work with stakeholders to create a new service that offers a world changes in GDP.
We are progressing work on our bid for the next class customer experience whilst delivering value for local communities competitively tendered East Midlands franchise.
East Midlands Trains has had the highest punctuality of any of the UK Stagecoach has also started work on its bid for the next competitively franchised long distance train operators for the last eight years.
tendered East Midlands franchise, where it is one of three shortlisted We have worked in partnership with Network Rail to support work on bidders.
The Department for Transport issued the invitation to tender in the biggest upgrade of the Midland Main Line since it was completed in June and the new franchise is expected to begin in August 2019.
1870, alongside the Government-sponsored 7bn Thameslink We have delivered good investor returns from UK Rail over more than programme.
A new timetable was introduced in May 2018, one of the 20 years and some of the biggest returns for taxpayers.
We are focused biggest changes in recent railway history.
It includes some changes to on ensuring that any bid for a new franchise is designed to achieve an East Midlands Trains services to accommodate extra peak-time seats, acceptable balance of risk and expected reward and based on the improved journey times and better connections on the Thameslink emerging re-balancing of risk in UK rail franchises, we are optimistic that network.
The Midland Main Line upgrade programme is due for we can deliver satisfactory financial returns from UK Rail.
We have also been working in close partnership with Network Rail, CrossCountry and Transport Focus on operational planning Outlook and customer communications around the major Derby resignalling Our UK Rail operating profit for 2018 19 is expected to decline, with programme taking place from this summer.
The 200m project will anticipated profit from the East Midlands Trains franchise being partly improve journeys to and through Derby railway station and will also offset by the costs of bidding for new opportunities.
provide a new platform and new track.
Most recent independent Revenue growth across the UKrail sector has strengthened in recent research shows that 87% of East Midlands Trains customers are satisfied months, albeit remaining below levels typically seen since privatisation with its services.
In any event, our current major franchise at East Midlands Trains, has limited exposure to revenue risk because it has only around South West Trains nine months to run and benefits from a GDP sharing arrangement with In August, we completed the operational delivery of our South Western the Department for Transport.
In our proposals for new franchises, we rail franchise, working collaboratively with the new operator and will assess revenue trends, revenue risk sharing arrangements and industry partners to ensure a smooth operational transition.
There longer term revenue expectations to ensure we do not take remain a number of assets and liabilities of South West Trains as at 28 unacceptable rail revenue risk.
April 2018, where the amounts due will be confirmed and settled with We are positive on new franchise opportunities.
We welcome the the counterparties in the months ahead.
introduction of the Forecast Revenue Mechanism FRM by the Sheffield Supertram Department for Transport, where the Department for Transport shares Passenger satisfaction with Sheffield Supertram has risen to the second in variances in revenue versus forecast, which should significantly highest level on record at 95%.
reduce the likelihood of a future rail franchise experiencing the extent The first passenger service of the new vehicles to be used for the of the financial challenges that we encountered at Virgin Trains East innovative Tram Train project took place at Sheffield Supertram in Coast.
The new FRM mechanism is an important factor in our decision September.
The project, which will improve journeys between Sheffield to continue bidding for UK rail franchises.
Taking account of that, the and Rotherham, is the first of its kind in the country.
Testing of trains moderation of the levels of risk capital required for a franchise, the work with new infrastructure is being undertaken to allow driver training to we have undertaken to learn lessons from our experience at Virgin Trains begin this summer, with full services due to start towards the end of East Coast, our expertise in rail bidding and operations and the relatively 2018.
We have also made the first changes to the Supertram timetable few bidders in each recent franchise competition, we believe we can earn in 15 years to improve reliability and peak capacity following a good financial returns from UK rail in the coming years as well as continue significant increase in road traffic.
to deliver improvements for customers and value for taxpayers.
5 Joint Ventures 1.6 Other financial matters 1.5.
1 Pre-exceptional EBITDA, depreciation and intangible asset amortisation Summary Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation, intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items pre-exceptional EBITDA amounted Continuing good financial performance to 334.4m 2017: 345.4m.
Pre-exceptional EBITDA can be reconciled High customer satisfaction to the consolidated financial statements as follows: New Direct Award franchise 2018 2017 m m Financial performance The financial performance of the Groups Virgin Rail Group joint venture Total operating profit 132.1 47.3 Exceptional items 47.8 128.7 for the year ended 28 April 2018 is summarised below: Intangible asset amortisation 12.7 16.8 2018 2017 Depreciation 132.9 145.5 49% share m m Impairment 4.5 Revenue 574.0 556.8 Add back joint venture finance income & tax 4.4 7.1 Operating profit 30.0 31.5 Net finance income 0.4 0.5 Pre-exceptional EBITDA 334.4 345.4 Taxation 4.5 7.2 Intangible asset amortisation reduced from 16.8m to 12.7m, reflecting Profit after tax 25.9 24.8 the write-down in intangible assets at Virgin Trains East Coast in the Operating margin 5.2% 5.7% previous year.
Depreciation reduced from the previous year reflecting the cessation of Virgin Rail Groups West Coast rail franchise delivered like-for-like our South Western rail franchise.
revenue growth of 3.1% for the year ended 28 April 2018 and a good profit margin.
The lower effective tax rate in the year reflects an 1.6.
2 Exceptional items adjustment to prior years tax following the tax authority closing its The following exceptional items were recognised in the year ended enquiry into a previous tax return.
28 April 2018: In February 2018, Virgin Rail Group agreed a new Direct Award franchise on West Coast which runs through to at least 31 March 2019, with the As explained in section 1.5.
4, an exceptional pre-tax expense of 81.9m option for up to a further one-year extension at the Department for has been recorded in respect of the Virgin Trains East Coast franchise.
The contract bridges the gap between the Of the total expense, 49.0m has been recognised in the consolidated existing franchise, which ended in March 2018, and the new West Coast income statement, with the remaining 32.9m recognised in the Partnership, now due to start in September 2019.
Under the new consolidated statement of comprehensive income, as it represents the franchise, a revenue share arrangement with the Department for actuarial loss in relation to the re-measurement of the pension asset Transport applies whereby the Department for Transport bears 90% of arising from the termination of the franchise.
the risk of any difference in excess of 1% between the forecast revenue A pre-tax exceptional loss of 1.7m was recognised in respect of the reflected in the contract and actual revenue.
This provides Virgin Rail closure of our Norfolk Green business within the UK Bus regional Group with significant protection against movements in forecast rail operations Division.
Due to the non-recurring nature of business revenue and enables the Department to share in revenue outdisposals, we present any such gains or losses as exceptional items to performance.
allow a proper understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Under the Direct Award contract, Virgin Trains customers will see a A pre-tax exceptional gain of 1.2m was recognised in respect of a significant improvement in on-board Wi-Fi on all 56 Pendolino trains reassessment of liabilities for North America legal claims.
and free Wi-Fi will be extended to all customers on these trains as part of a 7.5m investment.
All station ticket machines are being upgraded The net effect of exceptional items was a pre-tax loss of 49.5m 2017: to accept contactless payment as part of the new contract.
3m is being invested to improve station and on-train environments, including additional seating at stations and improved toilets, lighting 1.6.
3 Net finance costs and carpets on trains.
Additional staff will be based at stations during Net finance costs for the year ended 28 April 2018 were 35.1m 2017: busy times to improve accessibility and better customer information will 34.1m and can be further analysed as follows: be available during disruption, through an improved customer contact 2018 2017 system.
Virgin Trains is also creating new apprenticeship opportunities, m m including for train driver roles.
The new contract will allow Virgin Trains Finance costs to build on 20 years of success on the West Coast route where it has Interest payable and other facility costs on bank almost tripled journey numbers from 14m a year to more than 38m and loans, loan notes, overdrafts and trade finance 3.8 4.7 has consistently topped the long distance franchised sector for Hire purchase and finance lease interest payable 1.5 1.7 passenger satisfaction.
Interest payable and other finance costs on bonds 21.8 22.0 Outlook Unwinding of discount on provisions 3.5 3.5 Interest charge on defined benefit pension schemes 6.0 3.7 Virgin Rail Groups operating profit in 2018 19 is anticipated to reduce, reflecting the full year effect of the contractual terms on the new Direct 36.6 35.6 Award West Coast franchise.
Finance income Interest receivable on cash 0.7 1.2 Effect of interest rate swaps 0.8 0.3 1.5 1.5 Net finance costs 35.1 34.1 Stagecoach Group plc | page 21 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 22 Strategic report The modest increase in net finance costs is principally due to higher 1.6.
6 Cash flows and net debt interest expense on defined benefit pension schemes arising from Consolidated net debt as analysed in note 28 c to the consolidated changes in market-driven assumptions used to determine pension financial statements has reduced in the year, notwithstanding operating amounts.
cash outflows at Virgin Trains East Coast and the transfer of cash following the August 2017 expiry of the South West Trains franchise.
4 Taxation Consolidated net debt at 28 April 2018 was 395.8m 2017: 409.4m and Our share of profit from joint ventures is reported after tax in arriving at non-rail net debt was 567.0m 2017: 628.8m.
Although the the profit before tax in the consolidated income statement.
To better consolidated net debt at 28 April 2018 is less than we expected, that understand the Groups effective tax rate, we show below the Groups largely reflects variations in the timing of UK Rail cash flows.
The balance tax charge including our share of joint ventures tax relative to the at 28 April 2018 includes 84.5m of Virgin Trains East Coast cash, which Groups profit before tax excluding joint ventures tax.
On that basis, the we expect will reduce to Nil in the year to 27 April 2019 and we also effective tax rate for the year ended 28 April 2018, excluding exceptional expect further net cash outflows in respect of South West Trains as we items, was 15.2% 2017: 17.5%.
conclude open matters relating to the expired franchise.
However, we do The tax charge can be analysed as follows: expect non-rail net debt to reduce in the year to 27 April 2019.
Net cash from operating activities before tax for the year ended 28 April Year to 28 April 2018 Pre-tax profit Tax Rate 2018 was 208.8m 2017: 253.7m and can be further analysed as m m % follows: Excluding exceptional items 149.6 22.7 15.2% 2018 2017 m m Exceptional items 49.5 13.6 27.5 % EBITDA of Group companies before With joint venture taxation gross 100.1 36.3 36.3% exceptional items 302.9 312.1 Reclassify joint venture taxation for Cash effect of exceptional items 3.7 reporting purposes 4.8 4.8 Gain on disposal of property, Reported in income statement 95.3 31.5 33.1% plant and equipment 3.2 4.3 Equity-settled share based payment expense 1.2 1.9 The effective tax rate, excluding exceptional items, of 15.2% is lower than Working capital movements 93.0 53.7 the 19.0% rate of UK corporation tax for the year.
The difference is Net interest paid 26.3 26.7 principally due to the utilisation of previously unrecognised losses and the Dividends from joint ventures 27.2 28.1 release of liabilities for uncertain tax positions following the conclusion of Net cash flows from operating activities before taxation 208.8 253.7 a state tax audit in the US, the reclassification of the Group by Her Majestys Revenue and Customs HMRC to low risk and HMRC The movement in net debt, showing train operating companies closing its enquiries into tax returns in respect of previous years.
separately, was: Assuming the composition of the Group remains broadly unchanged and Year to 28 April 2018 Train operating that there are no significant changes to expected corporate tax rates or companies Other Total laws in the UK, the US and Canada, we expect the Groups future effective m m m tax rate excluding exceptional items to be between 17% and 20%.
EBITDA of Group companies The cash tax paid in the year of 16.3m 2017: 21.6m compares to the before exceptional items 41.0 261.9 302.9 tax charge for Group companies of 31.5m 2017: credit of 0.2m Gain on disposal of property, shown above.
The largest difference relates to the 13.6m tax charge plant and equipment 1.0 2.2 3.2 recognised on exceptional items that has yet to affect cash tax.
Equity-settled share based The areas where the Group sees uncertainty around the amount of tax payment expense 0.5 0.7 1.2 that is payable relate to losses incurred by Virgin Trains East Coast, the Working capital movements 129.2 36.2 93.0 financing of and transactions with overseas operations and losses Net interest paid 2.8 23.5 26.3 incurred by overseas operations in the ordinary course of business.
Dividends from joint ventures 27.2 27.2 Net cash flows from operating activities 1.6.
5 Fuel costs before taxation 91.5 300.3 208.8 The Groups operations as at 28 April 2018 consume approximately Inter-company movements 48.9 48.9 385m litres of diesel fuel per annum.
As a result, the Groups profit is Tax paid 7.8 8.5 16.3 exposed to movements in the underlying price of fuel.
The Groups fuel Investing activities 2.2 118.2 116.0 costs include the costs of delivery and duty as well as the costs of the Financing activities 69.6 69.6 underlying product.
Accordingly, not all of the cost varies with Foreign exchange other 6.7 6.7 movements in oil prices.
The proportion of the Groups projected fuel usage that is now hedged Movement in net debt 48.2 61.8 13.6 using fuel swaps is as follows: Opening net debt 219.4 628.8 409.4 Year ending April: 2019 2020 2021 Closing net debt 171.2 567.0 395.8 Total Group 79% 69% 43% The cash held by the train operating companies at any point in time is affected by the timing of rail industry cash flows, which can be The Group has no fuel hedges in place for periods beyond April 2021. individually substantial.
The working capital cash outflow shown above principally arises due to the expiry of the South West Trains franchise and the previously provided for cash losses at Virgin Trains East Coast.
The expiry of the South West Trains franchise has increased our net debt in the year by around 30m.
We would anticipate a further net cash outflow in this respect as we conclude open matters.
The closing balance of 171.2m for train operating companies shown in the table above excludes South West Trains.
page 22 | Stagecoach Group plc 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 23 The net impact of purchases and sales of property, plant and equipment 1.6.
8.3 Capital for the year on net debt net capital expenditure was 100.4m 2017: The Group regards its capital as comprising its equity, cash, gross debt 157.3m.
This primarily related to expenditure on passenger service and any similar items.
As at 28 April 2018, the Groups capital comprised: vehicles, and comprised cash outflows of 111.7m 2017: 155.5m and new hire purchase and finance lease debt of 27.2m 2017: 47.8m.
In 2018 2017 addition, 38.5m 2017: 46.0m cash was received from disposals of m m property, plant and equipment.
Market value of ordinary shares in issue Net capital expenditure, split by division, was: excluding shares held in treasury 907.6 1,167.3 Cash 238.2 313.3 2018 2017 Gross debt 634.0 722.7 m m Net debt see section 1.6.
6 395.8 409.4 UK Bus regional operations 73.8 97.4 UK Bus London 2.1 1.6 The Group manages its capital centrally.
Its objective in managing capital North America 36.0 37.4 is to optimise the returns to its shareholders whilst safeguarding the UK Rail 11.5 20.9 Groups ability to continue as a going concern and as such its ability to 100.4 157.3 continue to generate returns for its shareholders.
The Group takes account of the interests of other stakeholders when making decisions on In addition to the amounts shown in the table above, a further net its capital structure.
18.7m 2017: 17.8m was invested in software and a technology The capital structure of the Group is kept under regular review and will business.
be adjusted from time to time to take account of changes in the size or structure of the Group, economic developments and other changes in 1.6.
7 Financial position and liquidity the Groups risk profile.
The Group will adjust its capital structure from The Group has maintained investment grade credit ratings and time to time by any of the following: issue of new shares, dividends, appropriate headroom under its debt facilities.
return of value to shareholders and borrowing repayment of debt.
There The Group continues to have an appropriate mix of long-term debt are a number of factors that the Group considers in evaluating capital enabling it to plan and invest with some certainty.
The Directors principal focus is on maintaining an investment The Groups financial position remains strong and is evidenced by: grade credit rating.
As well as considering the measures applied by credit rating agencies, the other principal ratios that the Directors consider are The ratio of net debt at 28 April 2018 to pre-exceptional EBITDA for 1 Net Debt to EBITDA, 2 EBITDA to interest and 3 Net Debt to market the year ended 28 April 2018 was 1.2 times 2017: 1.2 times.
It is a matter of judgement as to what the optimal levels Pre-exceptional EBITDA for the year ended 28 April 2018 was 9.6 times are for these ratios.
2017: 10.3 times net finance charges including joint venture net It is the Groups objective to maintain an investment grade credit rating.
The Group is currently rated investment grade by three major, Undrawn, committed bank facilities of 433.4m at 28 April 2018 independent credit rating agencies.
That enhances our ability to access 2017: 333.8m were available to be drawn as bank loans with cost-effective funding on a timely basis and enables us to demonstrate further amounts available only for non-cash utilisation.
In addition, the financial strength when bidding for UK rail franchises and other contracts.
Group has available asset finance lines.
The financial standing of interested parties is considered by government The three main credit rating agencies continue to assign investment in determining the short list of bidders for a UK rail franchise.
grade credit ratings to the Group.
The Group will continue to regularly review its financial strategy and capital structure.
8 Year end financial position of the Group 1.6.
9 Dividend policy Net assets at 28 April 2018 were 181.7m 2017: 68.5m.
9.1 Proposed dividend The increase in the net assets reflects the profit for the year, actuarial The Board has proposed a final dividend of 3.9p, which will result in a gains on defined benefit pension schemes and fair value gains on cash full year dividend of 7.7p per share for the year ended 28 April 2018. flow hedges, partly offset by dividends paid.
The Board has taken the decision to rebase the dividend to what it views as a sustainable level and which is covered by the normalised, 1.6.
8.2 Retirement benefits annual free cash flows from the non-rail operations.
The Group will look We are pleased that our net retirement benefit obligations have reduced to at least maintain the rate of annual dividends at that rebased level of in the year, reflecting good investment returns on pension scheme 7.7p per share.
assets, higher interest rates, changes in inflation assumptions and experience gains on the Stagecoach Group Pension Scheme.
9.2 Approach to dividend policy The reported net assets of 181.7m 2017: 68.5m that are shown on The Group takes account of its performance, financial position and the consolidated balance sheet are after taking account of net pre-tax prospects when setting dividends.
It does not have a prescribed formula retirement benefit liabilities of 142.2m 2017: 232.5m, and associated for determining each years dividends and has not set specific targets for deferred tax assets of 24.9m 2017: 44.4m.
dividend growth or dividend cover ratios for the following reasons: The Group does not wish such targets to be viewed as a commitment The Group recognised net pre-tax actuarial gains of 106.7m in the year or promise by the Board which, in turn, could act as pressure to pay ended 28 April 2018 2017: losses of 127.6m on Group defined benefit certain levels of dividend in the future even when at that future point pension schemes.
in time, that might not be in the best interests of the Company and its The Pensions Regulator takes an active interest in the main pension stakeholders.
schemes in which we participate and the relevant trustees continue to The appropriate payout ratio may vary based on many factors discuss the appropriateness of scheme valuations and contribution rates including the mix of bus versus rail in the Groups portfolio and factors with the Regulator.
affecting the outlook that are not reflected in the historically reported figures.
