STRATEGIC REPORT Directors report Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Our strategy the next three years Taking Standard Chartered to the next level The strategic objectives we committed to in 2015 have stabilised the Group.
We have learned a lot about where we are differentiated, what our clients want from us, and what we need to do to become a simpler, faster and better bank with sustainable growth and returns.
While we have made signi cant progress against the objectives we set out in 2015, we know that we are capable of much more.
We remain focused on delivering our strategy by improving our service, delivering a differentiated proposition to our clients and stakeholders, and becoming a future-ready bank.
Building on our purpose of driving commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity, we will have a particular focus on the following areas for the next three years to improve our growth and financial returns.
OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES HOW WE MEASURE PROGRESS Financial KPIs Our refreshed strategic priorities build on our purpose and earlier areas of focus, but mark a sharp change in the way Operating income we operate as we go from turnaround to transformation.
Operating pro t Bill Winters Group Chief Executive Pro t before tax Return on tangible equity Common Equity Tier 1 ratio Deliver Read more on pages 5 and 31 our network Nonfinancial KPIs Transform Digital adoption rate among Grow Retail Banking clients and disrupt our af uent Proportion of low returning with digital business Purpose client risk-weighted assets in Corporate & Institutional and People Banking Proportion of Sustainability Aspirations met or on track Read more on pages 21, 22 and 47 Optimise Improve low-returning productivity markets Read more on pages 18 and 19 17 STRATEGIC REPORT Our strategy Our strategic priorities Deliver Grow Purpose our our af uent and People network business Understand our responsibilities Leverage our unique footprint Meet the wealth needs of the We will increasingly collaborate with af uent and emerging af uent Our unique network is a long-term clients and suppliers to improve social source of growth and sustainably By continuously enhancing our offering and environmental standards.
We will continue to for af uent and emerging af uent clients continue to partner with regulators and deepen relationships with our clients in markets where we have a Retail other stakeholders to ght financial to fully realise the revenue potential of Banking presence, we aspire to be crime, and aim to make our risk and our network.
increasingly relevant for our clients control approach a competitive and drive growth in these segments.
We are sharpening our client focus to advantage for us.
To that end, we are investing in drive growth momentum and improve digitally-delivered wealth propositions returns.
We will place a particular focus that excite our clients.
Lead sustainable nancing across on multinational corporates operating emerging markets extensively in Asia, Africa and the Middle Enhance client experience We are maintaining our focus on East.
We will also increase our focus on with data and technology supporting sustainable economic investors and financial institutions that We will increase our investment in growth, expanding renewables are seeking emerging market solutions.
data and analytics capabilities to nancing and investing in sustainable generate a unique understanding of infrastructure where it matters most.
We Build on our strength in China our clients and their needs, and in will continue to facilitate the movement We will continue connecting our clients turn improve our offerings, deliver a of capital to drive positive social and both within and beyond China, with personalised experience and increase economic impact in our markets.
the aim of doubling our China-related client engagement.
income contribution as we bene t from Chinas opening.
We will increasingly Support the communities where Scale the non-af uent segment in capture growth opportunities arising we live and work a targeted manner from capital market opening, RMB We promote economic inclusion in The rise of the middle class is an internationalisation, Belt & Road our markets through community important growth opportunity for our corporate clients, offshore Mainland programmes aimed at tackling Retail Banking business across our Chinese wealth and the Greater inequality.
To pro tably capture this Bay Area.
young people with opportunities to learn opportunity, we will implement new new skills, get job-ready and start their business models, harness technology Grow with Africa own business.
We will continue to and work with non-bank partners We will continue to grow with our support the visually impaired through to acquire and serve non-af uent clients in Africa, focusing on capturing our community programmes.
clients with our target pro le in a inbound ows of financial institutions, cost-ef cient manner.
multinational corporations and Belt & Maximise return from investment Road clients.
In a number of our markets, in our people we will look to combine the coverage of We want to deliver a client-centric Corporate & Institutional Banking and environment with an inclusive culture Commercial Banking.
By rolling out our that capitalises on the experience and cost-ef cient digital bank, developed in unique diversity of our people.
We are Cte dIvoire, we aim to double our building a future-ready workforce, Retail Banking clients in Africa in the embedding digital, agile and people medium term.
We aim to amplify the impact of our people by deploying them in markets that t their capabilities and career aspirations.
See more on pages 21-29 Read more on pages 22-24 Standard Chartered 18 Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Directors report Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Optimise Transform Improve low-returning and disrupt productivity markets with digital Re ne our market participation Continue investing in productivity Transform our Retail Banking business with digital To accelerate improvements in our Our investment in digitisation will financial returns, we will re ne the size continue to support productivity We have made signi cant progress in and focus of our business in each improvements and enhance client digitising our Retail Banking business.
market based on our local position experience, building on the progress For example, we have rolled out a and network advantages.
For example, full-service, cost-ef cient digital bank we refreshed our client digital platform in Cte dIvoire, and we have applied Improve returns in markets where with uni ed trade and foreign exchange for a virtual bank licence in Hong Kong.
we are an international bank with capabilities in Corporate & Institutional Going forward, we aim to adapt and trusted local capabilities Banking.
In Retail Banking we launched replicate these capabilities as In markets where we can utilise our real-time client onboarding on digital appropriate across our footprint to local and international capabilities, we channels and refreshed wealth and enhance client experience, improve will aim to improve returns through our foreign exchange platforms with full ef ciency, gain market share, disrupt sharpened participation in Corporate mobile access.
and build a future-proof retail bank.
& Institutional Banking and selectively Consolidate strong position with in Commercial Banking and or Organise around customer journeys corporate clients Retail Banking.
We have been leading disruptive We are shaping our organisation around In particular, we will focus on optimising innovations in corporate banking.
the journeys of our clients, to better align the performance of four high potential In 2018 we launched cross-border our processes and way of working with markets, namely India, Indonesia, remittance services with Ant Financial, the needs of our clients and partners.
Korea and the UAE, with targeted action and started the first blockchain-based This will enable us to drive operational plans and strong execution discipline.
smart guarantees service in the trade improvements to scale revenue growth finance industry.
through improved client acquisition, Accelerate growth in our largest conversion and retention while also and most pro table markets We will continue to invest in cutting delivering enhanced ef ciency.
This edge digital tools and new corporate In markets where we are a top local will be guided by our principles of banking models, with a particular focus universal bank and have attractive positioning ourselves as a digital on blockchain and distributed ledger returns, we will participate in all of our solutions partner, focusing on end-totechnology, platforms and ecosystems, business segments and invest to grow end digital client experience, transparent as well as arti cial intelligence and our market share.
and real time service delivery, and machine learning.
effective and ef cient decision making.
Focus on Corporate & Institutional Banking in other markets Unlock capital and liquidity In markets where our capabilities are ef ciency geared towards international business, Subject to relevant regulatory approvals, we will reinforce our primary focus we are establishing a Hong Kong hub on originating and facilitating crossentity structure to further enhance border business.
In line with this capital and liquidity utilisation across approach, our Corporate & Institutional the Group.
Banking presence will continue to be expanded with a focus on serving multinational clients.
See case study on page 25 19 GREEN LENDING Supporting green lending in the Middle East As part of our commitment to sustainable finance, were creating products and services that enable clients to improve their own sustainability performance.
In 2018, we acted as green loan coordinator on a transaction that repriced and extended a $2 billion conventional and Murabaha Islamic revolving credit facility to DP World.
One of our major clients in the Middle East, DP World is a leading enabler of global trade through its ports and terminals, maritime services, and industrial parks, logistics and economic zones.
The transaction team drew on global expertise from across the Standard Chartered network to develop a product that put the clients needs at the centre of the process.
Recognising DP Worlds ambition to be a pioneer in the regions capital markets and a leader in sustainability, we proposed the Middle Easts first green loan to link pricing to the companys carbon emissions and the first with this linkage in an Islamic format.
The loan provides DP World with a financial incentive to improve its environmental performance.
Aligned to our new Sustainability Philosophy, the deal demonstrates our commitment to nding innovative ways to mobilise capital to have a positive environmental and social impact in our markets.
