STRATEGIC REPORT Client segment reviews Retail Banking Pro t before taxation Segment overview Retail Banking serves over nine million individuals and small businesses, with a focus on af uent and emerging af uent in many of the worlds fastest-growing cities.
We provide digital $1,033m 18% banking services with a human touch to our clients with services spanning across deposits, payments, nancing products and wealth management, as well as supporting their business underlying basis banking needs.
Retail Banking generates approximately one-third of the Groups operating income and one-quarter of its operating pro t. We are closely integrated with the Groups other client $965m 13% segments: for example, offering employee banking services to Corporate & Institutional Banking clients, and Retail Banking provides a high-quality liquidity source for the Group.
statutory basis Increasing levels of wealth across Asia, Africa and the Middle East support our opportunity to The difference of $68 million between statutory and grow the business sustainably.
We aim to improve productivity and client experience through underlying pro t represents restructuring.
driving digitisation, cost ef ciencies and simplifying processes.
Risk-weighted assets Strategic priorities Launched Premium Banking in eight markets A further improvement in digital adoption, with Continue to focus on af uent and emerging -3% $43bn 49 per cent of clients now actively using online af uent clients and their wealth needs and or mobile banking compared to 45 per cent capture the signi cant rise of the middle class in 2017 in our markets Return on equity Return on tangible Continue to build on our client ecosystem and RoE equity RoTE Performance highlights alliances initiatives Underlying pro t before taxation of $1,033 million Improve our clients experience through an 163bps 149bps was up 18 per cent year-on-year as income 10.
8% enhanced end-to-end digital offering, with growth and lower credit impairment more than underlying basis underlying basis intuitive platforms, best-in-class products and offset increased expenses service responding to the change in digital Underlying income of $5,041 million was habits of clients in our markets up 4 per cent year-on-year with growth of KPIs 8 per cent in Greater China & North Asia, Progress and 4 per cent in ASEAN & South Asia, Increased the share of income from Priority partially offsetting a 6 per cent decline in clients from 45 per cent in 2017 to 47 per cent Digital adoption Africa & Middle East as a result of strong Wealth Management Aim: Align the Groups services to how clients and Deposit income growth and increasing Strong income momentum from Deposits want to interact and increase ef ciency by client numbers with improved margins and balance growth reducing the amount of manual processing.
together with growth in Wealth Management, Launched the first digital-only bank in Cte Analysis: Online applications have continued particularly in the first half of the year.
Together, dIvoire with a plan to roll out across other to grow year-on-year with the proportion of Deposits and Wealth Management income, markets in the Africa & Middle East region Retail Banking clients that are digital-active up representing 61 per cent of Retail Banking and develop stand-alone digital banking from 44.7 per cent in 2017 to 49.4 per cent at income, grew 15 per cent year on year propositions in key markets in Asia the end of 2018.
RoE improved from 9.2 to 10.8 per cent and Launched real time on-boarding in India, RoTE improved from 10.3 to 11.8 per cent enabling straight-through current and savings number of clients account opening and more ef cient Credit 49.4% Cards and Personal Loan applications with signi cantly improved customer experience 2016 39.6% 2017 44.7% 2018 49.4% UNDERSTANDING CLIENTS BANKING NEEDS Priority client focus Aim: Increase the proportion of income from Building relationships through technology Priority clients, re ecting the strategic shift in client mix towards af uent and emerging af uent clients.
We are thoughtfully and consistently Analysis: The share of Retail Banking investing in digital capabilities to enhance income from Priority clients increased from our products and services, drive end-to-end 44.8 per cent in 2017 to 47 per cent in 2018, process improvements and increase the supported by more than 100,000 new-to-bank ability of our clients to self-serve their needs.
Priority clients in the year.
This investment has resulted in our new voice recognition platforms and crossshare of income border payment options on mobile and 47.0% tablet devices for clients who need to bank anytime, anywhere.
Every innovation is 2016 39.0% based on insights: we spend time getting 2017 44.8% to know our clients and understanding their banking needs and financial goals.
2018 47.0% Standard Chartered 22 Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Directors report Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Commercial Banking Pro t before taxation Segment overview Commercial Banking serves over 45,000 local corporations and medium-sized enterprises in 26 markets across Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
We aim to be our clients main international $224m -21% bank, providing a full range of international financial solutions in areas such as Trade Finance, Cash Management, Financial Markets and Corporate Finance.
underlying basis Through our close linkages with Retail Banking and Private Banking, our clients can access additional services they value including employee banking services and personal wealth solutions.
We also collaborate with Corporate & Institutional Banking to service their clients $212m -21% end-to-end supply chains.
statutory basis Our clients represent a large and important portion of the economies we serve and are potential future multinational corporates.
Commercial Banking is at the heart of the Groups The difference of $12 million between statutory and purpose to drive commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity.
Strategic priorities Increased Straight2Bank utilisation by Risk-weighted assets Commercial Banking active clients from Drive quality sustainable growth by deepening 52 per cent in 2017 to 58 per cent in 2018 relationships with existing clients and on- -8% $30bn Rolled out new digital platform to empower boarding new clients, focusing on rapidly frontline staff with client analytics and growing and internationalising companies data-driven insights into our clients needs Improve balance sheet and income mix, Return on equity Return on tangible accelerating cash and FX growth RoE equity RoTE Performance highlights Continue to enhance capital allocation discipline Underlying pro t before taxation of $224 million and credit risk management was down 21 per cent year-on-year due to -79bps -98bps 3.
4 % Improve client experience, leveraging higher credit impairments in Africa & Middle East underlying basis underlying basis technology and investing in frontline training, Underlying income of $1,391 million was up tools and analytics 4 per cent year-on-year mainly driven by growth from Cash.
Income was up 11 per cent in Progress KPIs Greater China & North Asia and up 4 per cent On-boarded over 6,400 new clients in 2018, in ASEAN & South Asia, partially offsetting a of which 19 per cent came from our clients 6 per cent decline in Africa & Middle East international and domestic networks of buyers New-to-bank clients RoE declined from 3.9 to 3.1 per cent and RoTE and suppliers Aim: Build scale by on-boarding new clients declined from 4.4 to 3.4 per cent Increased share of income from cash and FX and bank our clients networks of suppliers products to 44 per cent up from 39 per cent and buyers.
in 2017 Analysis: We have on-boarded over Strengthened foundations in credit risk 6,400 new clients in 2018, a 17 per cent management and improved asset quality, with increase year-on-year.
New-to-Bank clients 1 RWA ef ciency improving from 78 per cent in onboarded in 2018 generated $64m of 2017 to 74 per cent in 2018.
However, gross income, primarily cash and FX, and $2bn credit impairments remain elevated, partially additional cash liabilities.
offset by recoveries of clients 6,428 2016 4,116 2017 5,505 2018 6,428 IMPROVING CLIENT EXPERIENCE Reshaping income mix Reducing client on-boarding turnaround time Aim: Reshape the income mix towards 2 capital-lite products.
Analysis: Share of cash and FX income We have seen signi cant improvements in increased from 37 per cent of total income in our clients satisfaction, as measured by our 2016 to 44 per cent in 2018.
We have set up intelligence surveys.
Our clients tell us these dedicated liabilities teams in key markets and improvements were driven by faster and continue to focus on cash rich sectors, cashsimpler documentation and account opening, only non-borrowing clients and FX cross-sell more localised and faster decision-making opportunities.
and digitisation of our platforms.
We remain of income focused on improving client experience, 43.7% simplifying, automating and digitising our processes.
We have reduced client on- 2016 37.0% boarding turnaround time by 67 percent and 2017 39.3% signi cantly improved credit turnaround time by 20 per cent from 2016 to 2018 respectively.
2018 43.7% Note 1: Includes contingent liabilities Note 2: Comprises of income from products with low RWA consumption or products which are non-funding in nature 23 STRATEGIC REPORT Client segment reviews Private Banking Pro t before taxation Segment overview Private Banking offers a full suite of investment, credit and wealth planning solutions to grow and protect the wealth of high-net-worth individuals across our footprint.
$ 14 m nm Our investment advisory capabilities and product platform are independent from research underlying basis houses and product providers, allowing us to put client interests at the centre of our business.
This is coupled with an extensive network across Asia, Africa and the Middle East which provides clients with relevant market insights and cross-border investment and nancing opportunities.
$ 38 m nm As part of our universal banking proposition, clients can also leverage our global Commercial statutory basis Banking and Corporate & Institutional Banking capabilities to support their business needs.
Private Banking services can be accessed from six leading financial centres: Hong Kong, The difference of $24 million between statutory and Singapore, London, Jersey, Dubai and Mumbai.
Strategic priorities Strengthened our client position through the Risk-weighted assets referrals programme to and from Commercial Leverage the signi cant wealth creation and and Corporate & Institutional Banking wealth transfers taking place in our markets to -1% $6bn achieve greater scale in the business Performance highlights Make it easier for clients to access products Private Banking generated an underlying income and services across the Group Return on equity Return on tangible of $516 million which was up 3 per cent Improve clients experience and grow the RoE equity RoTE year-on-year, making a second consecutive share of our clients assets under management year of top line growth in our third year of by enhancing our advisory proposition transformation.
The income growth was mainly -90bps -97bps 1.
0 % and reducing the turnaround time of the driven by improved product margins across investment process underlying basis underlying basis Retail Deposits and Wealth Lending and Implement a rigorous controls enhancement higher Managed Investment income.
Wealth plan to balance growth and controls Management and Retail Products income KPIs were up 2 per cent and 5 per cent respectively Progress There was an underlying loss before taxation Targeted marketing of our investment of $14 million however, compared with a loss philosophy and advisory capabilities which are Net new money of $1 million in the prior period, due to both focused on mitigating biases in clients Aim: Grow and deepen client relationships, non-recurrence of cost provision release in investment decisions, in order to continue our improve investment penetration and attract the prior year $10 million and an increase in shift towards clients with more than $5 million new clients.
largely one-off costs including a regulatory ne in assets under management $5 million Analysis: We added $0.7bn of net new money Leveraged our new open architecture platforms Assets under management decreased $5 billion in 2018, delivering positive in ows for the for Equity Structured Products, Fixed Income or 8 per cent from 31 December 2017, mainly second consecutive year.
and FX FX Derivatives to signi cantly enhance impacted by negative market movements, trading activity and simpli ed critical processes offsetting net new money growth of $0.7 billion of net new money to reduce client transaction time during the year $0.7bn Continued investments in building a senior RoE and RoTE declined from 0.1 to team of frontline relationship managers across 1.0 per cent 2016 -$2.0bn our markets 2017 $2.2bn 2018 $0.7bn Net client score for ease of doing business DELIVERING DIFFERENTIATED ADVANTAGE Aim: Holistically improve the Private Banking client experience through all touch points with Offering leading edge platforms to our clients the Group.
Analysis: Launched in 2016, the annual Private At Standard Chartered we consistently strive Banking client satisfaction survey reviews multiple dimensions of client sentiment and to enhance client experience.
In 2018, we measures our progress in putting client needs launched FXDConnect FX Derivatives at the heart of everything we do.
In 2018, Pricing and Execution System for private 28 per cent of clients rated us very easy to do bank, which completes our Connect Suite business which was consistent with 2017. covering all major asset classes.
This further streamlines processes, provides market pricing across a range of counterparties and more clients 28.0% increases speed of delivery to clients.
Our Connect Suite is market-leading in terms of 2016 17.4% open architecture price discovery and order management capabilities, allowing our clients 2017 27.7% to capture more trading opportunities.
2018 28.0% Standard Chartered 24 Annual Report 2018 ST STR RA AT TE EGIC GIC RE REPORT PORT D Diir re ect ctor ors s r re epor port t R Risk isk r re evie view w a and nd C Capital apital r re evie view w F Fin ina an nc ciia al l sta stat te em me en nt ts s Su S Sup p ppl plle em m me en ent tar ary y i y in nfo nfo orm rma mat ti tio o on n DIGITAL AND INNOVATION Our first digital-only bank in Africa Increased prosperity has made Sub-Saharan Africas population more nancially savvy, with many looking for new and easy ways to handle their money.
This is why, in March 2018, we launched our first digital-only bank in Cte dIvoire.
Cte dIvoire has led the way in the adoption of digital financial transactions in West Africa This is a re ection of its ongoing economic transformation.
Mobile money account usage stands at 34 per cent of all adults among the highest in West Africa demonstrating that the population is opting to use mobile money accounts as opposed to traditional financial institutions.
As part of our offering in Cte dIvoire, we have digitised over 70 of the most popular banking services, including account openings.
Customers can open a new account entirely through our app anytime, anywhere from the comfort of their own home or while on the road.
We expect Cte dIvoire bank account take-up led by digital to rise rapidly over the next five years, with the country poised to act as a digital banking catalyst for the wider region, just as Kenya sparked East Africas mobile money revolution a decade ago.
