STRATEGIC REPORT Our business Who we are and what we do Here for good At Standard Chartered our purpose is to drive commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity.
We offer banking Using our unique diversity services that help people and companies We make the most of our deep roots in rapidly to succeed, creating wealth and growth developing Asian, African and Middle Eastern markets.
What sets us apart is our diversity of across our markets.
Our heritage and people, cultures and networks.
We use this to give values are expressed in our brand promise, customers the best possible experience, from an Here for good.
individual looking for easy, fast and convenient banking services, to a multinational corporation with highly complex nancing needs.
How we are organised OUR CLIENT SEGMENTS GLOBAL: LOCAL: Retail Banking Corporate & Institutional Banking Serving over nine million individuals and small businesses.
Serving over 5,000 large corporations, governments, banks and investors.
Operating income Operating income Total operating $5,041m $5,041m $6,860m $6,606m income Statutory basis Underlying basis Underlying basis Statutory basis $14,968m Underlying basis Private Banking Commercial Banking Helping over 8,000 clients grow and Supporting over 45,000 local $14,789m protect their wealth.
corporations and medium-sized Statutory basis enterprises across Asia, Africa Operating income and the Middle East.
Operating income $516m $518m Statutory basis Underlying basis $1,391m $1,390m Underlying basis Statutory basis Operating income Central & other items $1,160m $1,234m Underlying basis Statutory basis GLOBAL FUNCTIONS Our client-facing businesses are supported Human Resources Risk Enables business performance through recruiting, Responsible for the sustainability of our business by our global functions, which work together developing and engaging colleagues.
through good management of risk across the to ensure the Groups operations run Group and ensuring that business is conducted smoothly and consistently with our legal and Legal in line with regulatory expectations.
regulatory obligations, our purpose and our Enables sustainable business and protects risk appetite.
the Group from legal-related risk.
Operations Responsible for all client operations, end-to-end, Technology & Innovation and ensures the needs of our clients are at the Responsible for the Groups operations, systems centre of our operational framework.
The functions development and technology infrastructure.
Standard Chartered 02 Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Directors report Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Supporting good growth As the economies in our core markets grow, Promoting an so does the need for sophisticated financial services.
We believe its crucial to adhere to global inclusive culture standards of conduct and compliance, and that by doing so we offer the best service to our Were committed to promoting equality clients.
Wherever we operate, we aim to support in the workplace and creating an inclusive sustainable economic and social development.
and exible culture one where everyone can realise their full potential and make a positive contribution to our organisation.
This in turn helps us to provide better support to our broad client base.
OUR REGIONS Greater China & North Asia ASEAN & South Asia Serving clients in China, Hong Kong, Our largest markets by income are Korea, Japan, Taiwan and Macau.
We are active The Groups largest region by income.
Operating income Operating income $3,971m $3,992m $6,157m $6,150m Underlying basis Statutory basis Total operating Underlying basis Statutory basis income $14,968m Africa & Middle East Underlying basis Europe & Americas Present in 25 markets, of which the Centred in London and New York with most sizeable by income are the UAE, $14,789m a presence across both continents.
Statutory basis A key income originator for the Group.
Operating income Operating income $2,604m $2,605m $1,670m $1,679m Underlying basis Statutory basis Underlying basis Statutory basis Operating income Central & other items $363m $566m Underlying basis Statutory basis strategy is supported by consistent performance protect the assets, reputation and sustainability of Corporate Affairs & Brand metrics, standards and practices that are aligned the Group.
and Marketing to client outcomes.
Manages the Groups communications and Conduct, Financial Crime and engagement with stakeholders in order to Group CFO Compliance protect and promote the Groups reputation, Comprises seven support functions: Finance, Enables sustainable business by delivering the right brand and services.
Treasury, Strategy, Investor Relations, Corporate outcomes for our clients and our markets by driving Development, Supply Chain and Property.
the highest standards in conduct, ghting financial Group Internal Audit The leaders of these functions report directly to crime and compliance.
An independent function whose primary role is to Andy Halford, Group Chief Financial Of cer.
help the Board and Executive Management to 03
