STRATEGIC REPORT Our business Who we are and what we do Here for good At Standard Chartered our purpose is to drive commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity.
We offer banking Using our unique diversity services that help people and companies We make the most of our deep roots in rapidly to succeed, creating wealth and growth developing Asian, African and Middle Eastern markets.
What sets us apart is our diversity of across our markets.
Our heritage and people, cultures and networks.
We use this to give values are expressed in our brand promise, customers the best possible experience, from an Here for good.
individual looking for easy, fast and convenient banking services, to a multinational corporation with highly complex nancing needs.
How we are organised OUR CLIENT SEGMENTS GLOBAL: LOCAL: Retail Banking Corporate & Institutional Banking Serving over nine million individuals and small businesses.
Serving over 5,000 large corporations, governments, banks and investors.
Operating income Operating income Total operating $5,041m $5,041m $6,860m $6,606m income Statutory basis Underlying basis Underlying basis Statutory basis $14,968m Underlying basis Private Banking Commercial Banking Helping over 8,000 clients grow and Supporting over 45,000 local $14,789m protect their wealth.
corporations and medium-sized Statutory basis enterprises across Asia, Africa Operating income and the Middle East.
Operating income $516m $518m Statutory basis Underlying basis $1,391m $1,390m Underlying basis Statutory basis Operating income Central & other items $1,160m $1,234m Underlying basis Statutory basis GLOBAL FUNCTIONS Our client-facing businesses are supported Human Resources Risk Enables business performance through recruiting, Responsible for the sustainability of our business by our global functions, which work together developing and engaging colleagues.
through good management of risk across the to ensure the Groups operations run Group and ensuring that business is conducted smoothly and consistently with our legal and Legal in line with regulatory expectations.
regulatory obligations, our purpose and our Enables sustainable business and protects risk appetite.
the Group from legal-related risk.
Operations Responsible for all client operations, end-to-end, Technology & Innovation and ensures the needs of our clients are at the Responsible for the Groups operations, systems centre of our operational framework.
The functions development and technology infrastructure.
