DIRECTORS REPORT Other disclosures Other disclosures The Directors report for the year ended Fair, balanced and Viability 31 December 2018 comprises pages 56 understandable The directors viability statement in respect to 132 of this report together with the to the Group can be found in the Strategic On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee sections of the Annual Report and Accounts report on page 53. has reviewed the Annual Report and incorporated by reference.
Both the Strategic Accounts and the process by which the report and the Directors report have been Group believes that the Annual Report and Sufciency of public oat drawn up and presented in accordance with Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced English company law, and the liabilities of the As at the date of this report, the Company and understandable and provides the directors in connection with that report shall has maintained the prescribed public oat information necessary for shareholders be subject to the limitations and restrictions under the rules governing the listing of to assess the position and performance, provided by such law.
Other information to be securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong strategy and business model of the Group.
disclosed in the Directors report is given in Kong Limited the HK Listing Rules, based Following its review, the Audit Committee has this section.
In addition to the requirements on the information publicly available to the advised the Board that such a statement can set out in the Disclosure Guidance and Company and within the knowledge of be made in the Annual Report and Accounts.
Transparency Rules relating to the Annual the directors.
Report and Accounts, information required Code for Financial by Listing Rule 9.8.
4 to be included in the Research and development Annual Report and Accounts where Reporting Disclosure During the year, the Group invested applicable, is set out in the table below The Groups 2018 financial statements $1.56 billion 2017: $1.47 billion in research and cross-referenced.
have been prepared in accordance with and development, primarily relating to the the principles of the UK Finance Disclosure planning, analysis, design, development, Information to be included in the Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure.
testing, integration, deployment and initial Annual Report and Accounts support of technology systems.
4 Disclosure of information Relevant Listing Rule Page to auditor Political donations LR 9.8.
4 1 2 5-14 A B N A As far as the directors are aware, there is The Group has a policy in place which no relevant audit information of which the LR 9.8.
4 4 119 to 120 prohibits donations being made that would: i Group statutory auditor, KPMG is unaware.
improperly influence legislation or regulation, The directors have taken all reasonable steps ii promote political views or ideologies, and Principal activities to ascertain any relevant audit information iii fund political causes.
In alignment to this, and ensure that the Group statutory auditors Standard Chartered is a leading international no political donations were made in the are aware of such information.
banking group, with more than 160-years of year ended 31 December 2018. history in some of the worlds most dynamic markets.
Our purpose is driving commerce Going concern Directors and their interests and prosperity through our unique diversity.
Having made appropriate enquiries, the The membership of the Board, together with The Groups roots in trade finance and Board is satisfied that the Company and the their biographical details, are given on pages commercial banking have been at the core Group as a whole have adequate resources 57 to 59.
Details of the directors beneficial of its success throughout its history, but the to continue operational businesses for a and non-beneficial interests in the ordinary Group is now more broadly based across period of at least 12 months from the date of shares of the Company are shown in the Retail Banking in its footprint markets in Asia, this report and therefore continue to adopt Directors remuneration report on pages Africa and the Middle East.
The Group the going concern basis in preparing the 91 to 125.
The Group operates a number of comprises a network of more than 944 financial statements.
share-based arrangements for its directors branches and outlets in 60 markets.
Further details on our business can be found within Details of these arrangements are included in the the Strategic report on pages 1 to 53 Directors remuneration report and in Note 31 to the financial statements on page 316 Standard Chartered 126 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information The Company has received from each of There are no specic restrictions on the size significant agreements the independent non-executive directors of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, The Company is not party to any significant an annual conrmation of independence which are both governed by the general agreements that would take effect, alter or pursuant to Rule 3.13 of the HK Listing Rules provisions of the Articles of Association and terminate following a change of control of the and still considers all of the non-executive prevailing legislation.
There are no specic Company.
The Company does not have directors to be independent.
restrictions on voting rights and the directors agreements with any director or employee are not aware of any agreements between At no time during the year did any director that would provide compensation for loss holders of the Companys shares that hold a material interest in any contracts of of ofce or employment resulting from a may result in restrictions on the transfer of signicance with the Company or any of its takeover, except that provisions of the securities or on voting rights.
Companys share schemes and plans may has any special rights of control over the cause options and awards granted to In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Companys share capital and all issued employees under such schemes and we have established a process requiring shares are fully paid.
plans to vest on a takeover.
directors to disclose proposed outside business interests before any are entered Articles of Association Future developments in the into.
This enables prior assessment of any The Articles of Association may be amended business of the Group conict or potential conict of interest and any by special resolution of the shareholders: impact on time commitment.
On behalf of An indication of likely future developments in no changes to the Companys Articles of the Board, the Governance and Nomination the business of the Group is provided in the Association were made during the year.
Committee reviews actual or potential Strategic report.
conicts of interest annually to consider if they Authority to purchase continue to be appropriate, and also to revisit Results and dividends own shares the terms upon which they were provided.
2018: paid interim dividend The Board is satisfied that our processes in At the AGM held on 9 May 2018, our of 6 cents per ordinary share this respect continue to operate effectively.
shareholders renewed the Companys 2017: nil interim dividend paid authority to make market purchases of up Subject to company law, the Articles of 2018: proposed final dividend to 660,126,858 US$330,063,429 ordinary Association and the authority granted to of 15 cents per ordinary share shares, equivalent to approximately directors in general meeting, the directors 2017: paid 11cents per ordinary share 10 per cent of issued ordinary shares as at may exercise all the powers of the Company 15 March 2018, and up to all of the issued 2018: total dividend of 21 cents and may delegate authorities to committees.
These authorities per ordinary share 2017: total dividend, The Articles of Association contain provisions were not used during the year and remained 11cents per ordinary share relating to the appointment, re-election and in force at 31 December 2018. removal of directors.
Newly appointed directors retire at the AGM following In accordance with the terms of a waiver Share capital appointment and are eligible for election.
granted by The Stock Exchange of Hong The issued ordinary share capital of the All directors are nominated for annual Kong Limited HKSE as subsequently Company was increased by 12,239,341 re-election by shareholders subject to modied, the Company will comply with the shares during the year.
10,008,515 ordinary continued satisfactory performance based applicable law and regulation in the UK in shares were issued under the Companys upon their annual assessment.
relation to holding of any shares in treasury employee share plans at prices between nil and with the conditions of granting the waiver Non-executive directors are appointed for and 620 pence.
The Company has one class by the HKSE.
No treasury shares were held an initial period of one year and, subject to of ordinary shares, which carries no rights to during the year.
re-election by shareholders at AGMs.
On a show of hands, each with the UK Corporate Governance Code, Further details can be found in Note 28 to the member present has the right to one vote all directors will stand for annual re election financial statements on page 308 at our general meetings.
member is entitled to one vote for every $2 nominal value of share capital held.
The Company has granted indemnities Authority to issue shares The issued nominal value of the ordinary to all of its directors on terms consistent The Company is granted authority to issue shares represents 87 per cent of the total with the applicable statutory provisions.
shares by the shareholders at its AGM.
issued nominal value of all share capital.
Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions The size of the authorities granted depends The remaining 13 per cent comprises for the purposes of section 234 of the on the purposes for which shares are to be preference shares, which have preferential Companies Act 2006 were accordingly issued and is within applicable legal and rights to income and capital but which, in force during the course of the financial regulatory requirements.
in general, do not confer a right to attend year ended 31 December 2018, and and vote at our general meetings.
remain in force at the date of this report.
Further details of the Groups share capital can be found in Note 28 to the financial statements on page 308 127 DIRECTORS REPORT Other disclosures are entitled to require the Company to than 10 per cent in the Companys issued Shareholder rights circulate a resolution intended to be moved ordinary share capital carrying a right to Under the Companies Act 2006, at the Companys next AGM.
Such a request vote at any general meeting.
shareholders holding 5 per cent or more of must be made not later than six weeks before the paid-up share capital of the Company Information provided to the Company the AGM to which the request relates or, if carrying the right of voting at general pursuant to the Financial Conduct later, the time notice is given of the AGM.
meetings of the Company are able to require Authoritys FCA Disclosure and The request may be in hard copy or the directors to hold a general meeting.
Transparency Rules DTRs is published electronic form, must identify the resolution A request may be in hard copy or electronic on a Regulatory Information Service and of which notice is to be given and must be form and must be authenticated by the on the Companys website.
authenticated by the shareholders making it.
Where such a As at 21 February 2019, the Company has request has been duly lodged with the Shareholders are able to put forward proposals to been notied of the following information, shareholder meetings and enquiries to the Board Company, the directors are obliged to call a in accordance with DTR 5, from holders of and or the Senior Independent Director by using the general meeting within 21 days of becoming contact us information on the Companys website notiable interests in the Companys issued subject to the request and must set a date for sc.
com or by emailing the Group Corporate share capital.
The information provided the meeting not more than 28 days from the Secretariat at group-corporate.
com below was correct at the date of notication: date of the issue of the notice convening the however, the date received may not have meeting.
Under the Companies Act 2006, been within 2018.
It should be noted that Major interests in shares and shareholders holding 5 per cent or more these holdings are likely to have changed of the total voting rights at an AGM of the voting rights since the Company was notied.
However, Company, or 100 shareholders entitled to As at 31 December 2018, Temasek Holdings notication of any change is not required vote at the AGM with an average of at least Private Limited Temasek is the only until the next notiable threshold is crossed.
100 paid-up share capital per shareholder, shareholder that has an interest of more Percentage of Nature of holding Notiable interests Ordinary shares capital disclosed as per disclosure Temasek Holdings Private Limited 517,051,383 15.77 Indirect BlackRock Inc. 183,640,172 5.55 Indirect 5.01% Securities Lending 0.39% Contracts for Difference 0.14% Norges Bank 99,314,269 3.002 Direct to enter into a written agreement and set an The revenues generated from revenue Related-party transactions annual cap and the reporting including banking transactions were insignicant.
Details of transactions with directors and annual review requirements under Chapter Without a waiver from the HKSE or an ofcers and other related parties are set out 14A for the three-year period ending applicable exemption, these transactions in Note 36 on page 328.
31 December 2018 on the conditions that: would be subject to various percentage ratio tests which cater for different types a The Company will disclose details of Connected continuing of connected transactions and as such the 2015 Waiver including nature of connected transactions may produce anomalous results the revenue banking transactions with By virtue of its shareholding of over Temasek and reasons for the 2015 Waiver For the year ended 31 December 2018, the 10 per cent in the Company, Temasek and its in subsequent annual reports Group provided Temasek with money market associates are related parties and connected placement products and services that were b The Company will continue to monitor persons of the Company for the purposes of revenue transactions in nature.
the revenue banking transactions with the UK Listing Rules and the Listing Rules of Temasek during the three years ending As a result of the Passive Investor Exemption The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited 31 December 2018 to ensure that the and the 2015 Waiver, the vast majority of the the HK Listing Rules respectively together 5 per cent threshold for the revenue ratio Companys transactions with Temasek and the Rules.
will not be exceeded its associates fall outside of the connected The Rules are intended to ensure that there transactions regime.
However, non-revenue The main reasons for seeking the 2015 is no favourable treatment to Temasek or transactions with Temasek or any of its Waiver were: its associates to the detriment of other associates continue to be subject to shareholders in the Company.
Unless The nature and terms of revenue banking monitoring for connected transaction issues.
transactions between the Group and transactions may vary and evolve over The Company confirms that: Temasek or its associates are specifically time: having xed-term written agreements exempt under the Rules or are subject would not be suitable to accommodate the The revenue banking transactions entered to a specic waiver, they may require a various banking needs of the Companys into with Temasek in 2018 were below the combination of announcements, reporting customers including Temasek and would 5 per cent threshold for the revenue ratio and independent shareholders approval.
be impractical and unduly burdensome test under the HK Listing Rules On 19 October 2015, the HKSE extended It would be impracticable to estimate and The Company therefore satisfied the a waiver the 2015 Waiver it previously determine an annual cap on the revenue conditions of the 2015 Waiver.
granted to the Company for the revenue banking transactions with Temasek as On 27 December 2018, the HKSE extended banking transactions with Temasek which do the volume and aggregate value of each the 2015 Waiver for another three years not fall under the passive investor exemption transaction are uncertain and unknown ending 31 December 2021 the 2018 the Passive Investor Exemption under to the Company as a banking group Waiver.
Further details of the 2018 Waiver Rules 14A.
Under the 2015 due to multiple factors including market will be disclosed in subsequent annual Waiver, the HKSE agreed to waive the driven factors reports.
The Company will continue to announcement requirement, the requirement monitor the revenue banking transactions Standard Chartered 128 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information with Temasek during the three years ending of internal control structures across the Employee policies and 31 December 2021 to ensure that the Group through its programme of audits.
engagement 5 per cent threshold for the revenue ratio The work of Group Internal Audit is focused We work hard to ensure that our colleagues will not be exceeded.
on the areas of greatest risk as determined are kept informed about matters affecting by a risk-based assessment methodology.
or of interest to them, but more importantly The Board considers the internal control Fixed assets to provide opportunities for feedback systems of the Company to be effective Details of additions to xed assets are and dialogue.
We have a clear set of and adequate.
Group Internal Audit reports presented in Note 18 on page 299. communications mechanisms that are used regularly to the Audit Committee, the to inform colleagues of key business activity Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
Loan capital at a global, regional, business and function The findings of all adverse audits are reported level.
We continue to evolve and develop our to the Audit Committee, the Chairman and Details of the loan capital of the Company internal communications following feedback the Group Chief Executive where immediate and its subsidiaries are set out in Note 27 from colleagues.
We continue to listen to corrective action is required.
The Board on page 307. ensure internal communications remain Risk Committee has responsibility for impactful, meaningful and support the Debenture issues and overseeing the management of the Groups strategy and transformation.
equity-linked agreements Companys fundamental risks as well as reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys The primary channel for communicating During the financial year ended 31 December Enterprise Risk Management Framework.
with our colleagues continues to be the 2018, the Company made no issuance of The Audit Committee monitors the integrity Bridge our business collaboration platform.
debentures or equity linked agreements.
of the Companys financial reporting, The Bridge provides global, local, business compliance and internal control environment.
and function communications and allows Risk management our people to collaborate, exchange ideas, The risk management approach on page 196 The Board is responsible for maintaining and describes the Groups risk management oversight feedback, comment, innovate, communicate, reviewing the effectiveness of the risk committee structure and nd experts all through one space, management system.
An ongoing process wherever they are located.
Our business is conducted within a for identifying, evaluating and managing The Bridge is supported by Group, local and developed control framework, underpinned the significant risks that we face is in place.
business newsletters, targeted audio calls, by policy statements, written procedures and The Board is satisfied that this process videos, success story bulletins, town halls control manuals.
There are written policies constitutes a robust assessment of all of and engagement events including brown and procedures designed to ensure the the principal risks and uncertainties facing bag lunches, leadership events, regional identication and management of risk, the Group, including those that would meetings, and focus groups.
Business or including credit risk, country risk, traded risk, threaten its business model, future time-critical information is sent directly to capital and liquidity risk, operational risk, performance, solvency or liquidity.
our peoples inboxes through a measurable reputational risk, compliance risk, conduct The Risk review and Capital review on pages 136 email platform.
risk, information and cyber security risk to 223 sets out the principal risks and uncertainties, and financial crime risk.
The Board has our approach to risk management, including our Our senior leaders and People Leaders risk management principles, an overview of our established a management structure that continue to have a critical role to play in Enterprise Risk Management Framework and the clearly defines roles, responsibilities and engaging our people, ensuring that they are policies and practices for each principal risk type.
Delegated authorities are The Board-approved Risk Appetite Statement kept up to date on key business information, documented and communicated.
Executive can be found on page 193 our performance and strategy, their role in risk committees regularly review the Groups executing the strategy and ensuring that In accordance with Article 435 e of the risk prole.
The performance of the Groups they consult and listen to their teams Capital Requirements Regulation, the Board businesses is reported regularly to senior views, feedback and concerns.
Across the Risk Committee, on behalf of the Board, management and the Board.
Performance organisation, team meetings with People has considered the adequacy of the risk trends and forecasts, as well as actual Leaders, one-to-one discussions, and management arrangements of the Group performance against budgets and prior management meetings enable our people to and has sought and received assurance that periods, are monitored closely.
Financial discuss and clarify anything they have heard the risk management systems in place are information is prepared using appropriate or read and address any questions they may adequate with regard to the Groups prole accounting policies, which are applied have.
The individual performance reviews and strategy.
Operational procedures and also provide the opportunity to discuss how controls have been established to facilitate individuals, the team and the business area complete, accurate and timely processing Internal control contributed to our overall performance and of transactions and the safeguarding of how any compensation awards relate to this.
The Board is responsible for maintaining and assets.
These controls include appropriate reviewing the effectiveness of the internal This mix of channels ensures that all our segregation of duties, the regular control system.
The effectiveness of our colleagues receive relevant information reconciliation of accounts and the valuation of internal control system is reviewed regularly promptly regardless of how they prefer to assets and positions.
In respect of handling by the Board, its committees, the be communicated with and regardless of inside information, we have applied relevant Management Team and Group Internal Audit.
where they sit in the organisation.
controls on employees who are subject to The Audit Committee has reviewed the handling inside information, including controls Colleagues, past, present and future are effectiveness of the Groups system of over the dissemination of such information able to follow our progress through social internal control during the year ended and their dealings in the Companys shares.
networks including the Groups LinkedIn 31 December 2018.
The Committees review Such systems are designed to manage rather network, Facebook page and Twitter stream.
was supported by an annual business than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve As well as capturing our peoples feedback self-certication process, which was business objectives, and can only provide and views through team meetings, two-way managed by Group Internal Audit.
Group reasonable and not absolute assurance communications and day-to-day dialogue, Internal Audit monitors compliance with against material misstatement or loss.
our employee engagement survey has been policies and standards and the effectiveness 129 DIRECTORS REPORT Other disclosures Recruitment, employment, training, an important way for us to gather feedback Compliance rates are reported quarterly to development and promotion decisions are on how our colleagues feel about the each countrys management team.
Based based on existing skills, knowledge and organisation, the challenges we are facing on our risk prole, our H&S standards define behaviour required to perform the role to the and how we can make the Group a better our requirements for H&S governance and Groups standards.
Implied in all terms is the place to work.
More information on the assurance, workstation ergonomics, re commitment to equal pay for equal work.
engagement survey and its results can be safety, first aid, indoor air quality and the Employees are rewarded in a way that is free found within the Colleagues section of the work environment, vehicle and driving safety, from discrimination.
Their potential, conduct Strategic Report.
incident reporting and investigation, and and valued behaviours should be considered accessible design.
We seek to build productive and enduring as set out in the Fair Pay Charter.
partnerships with various employee Major customers The Group aims to be a disability confident representative bodies including unions organisation with a focus on removing and work councils.
In our recognition and Our five-largest customers together barriers and increasing accessibility.
The interactions, we are heavily influenced by accounted for 1.8 per cent of our total Group shall make reasonable workplace 1948 United Nations Universal Declaration operating income in the year ended adjustments, including for disabilities and of Human Rights UDHR, and several 31 December 2018. religious practices.
If colleagues become International Labour Organisation ILO disabled, efforts are made to ensure their conventions including the Right to Organise Major Suppliers employment continues, with appropriate and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 Our five largest suppliers together accounted training and workplace adjustments where No.
98 and the Freedom of Association for less than 15 per cent of purchases in the necessary.
This is supported by the Global and Protection of the Right to Organise year ended 31 December 2018.
Guideline and Process for Workplace Convention, 1948 No.
Additionally, Adjustment that was re-launched in 2016 we abide by all local country labour laws Supply chain management to support colleagues with disabilities.
and acts that protect employees rights to organise.
For information about how the Group The Groups approach to misconduct issues engages with suppliers on environmental including dismissals is guided by the Fair In June 2018, we integrated the components and social matters, please see our Supplier Accountability principles which endorse of our Group Equal Opportunities, Diversity, Charter.
As set out under the UK Modern thoughtful judgement, proportionality, Inclusion and Dignity at Work Policy into our Slavery Act 2015, the Group is required to procedural appropriateness and fairness of Group Code of Conduct.
Everyone who publish a Modern Slavery Statement annually.
Dismissals because misconduct works at Standard Chartered is bound The Groups 2018 Modern Slavery Statement issues and performance where required by the Code, whether they are full-time, will be issued in line with the Annual Report by law to follow a disciplinary process are xed term, a director, a contractor, a and Accounts.
This document will give further governed by the Group Disciplinary Policy subcontractor, a secondee, a temporary detail on how the Group has managed social and Procedure with clear standards.
employee or a voluntary worker, working in risks in its supply chain during 2018.
Where local law or regulation requires a any subcontracted company and in any different process with regards to dismissals capacity.
The Group Code of Conduct is well Our Supplier Charter can be viewed at and other disciplinary actions, country understood throughout the Group, supported sc.
com suppliercharter procedures vary accordingly to account by significant Group communication, and this for local law and regulation.
is evident through our last My Voice Survey Product responsibility results where 96 per cent of colleagues The Group has a Flexible Working Practices responded saying that they understood We design and offer products and services Policy which was rolled out in 2017, allowing what the Group Code of Conduct meant based on an understanding of our client colleagues a range of exible working for them in their role.
needs and best interests: we aim to treat options this includes exible time, working our clients fairly at all times: we protect client from home or part-time working.
Our global Holistically, the Group Code of Conduct privacy: we manage potential conicts of Parental Leave Benets were also revised in reinforces our commitment to providing interest, and we seek and use client feedback 2017, to support working parents no matter equality of opportunity and fair treatment in and complaints to improve our products.
where they are across the Group.
We do not accept unlawful The Group has in place policies and provide a minimum of 20 calendar weeks discrimination in our recruitment and procedures to ensure products and services fully paid maternity leave, a minimum of employment practices, terms, procedures, are sold to suitable target markets, deliver fair leave of two calendar weeks for spouses processes and decisions on any grounds outcomes to clients, and comply with relevant or partners, and two calendar weeks for including but not limited to: sex, gender, laws and regulations.
Combined, this places nationality, ethnicity, race, colour, native or the Group above the International Labour indigenous origin, disability, age, marital Organisation minimum standards.
or civil partner status, pregnancy and Group Code of Conduct maternity, sexual orientation, gender identity, The Board has adopted a Group Code of expression or reassignment, HIV or AIDS Health and safety Conduct the Code relating to the lawful status, parental status, employment status, and ethical conduct of business and this Our Health and Safety H&S programme military and veteran status exibility of is supported by the Groups core values.
covers both mental and physical wellbeing.
working arrangements, religion, or belief.
It has been communicated to all directors The Group complies with both external and employees, all of whom are expected to The Group will strive for recruitment, regulatory requirements and internal policy observe high standards of integrity and fair employment, redundancy and redeployment and standards for H&S in all markets.
It is training, development, succession planning dealing in relation to customers, employees Group policy to ensure that the more and promotion practices that are free of and regulators in the communities in stringent of the two requirements is always barriers, both systemic and deliberate, and which the Group operates.
Directors and met, ensuring our H&S practices meet do not directly or indirectly discriminate.
employees are asked to recommit to the or exceed the regulatory minimum.
Code annually, and this was done during September 2018.
Standard Chartered 130 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Environmental impact of our operations We aim to minimise the environmental impact of our operations as part of our commitment to being a responsible company.
We report on energy, water, paper and non-hazardous waste data that are the basis of our Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions management, as well as the targets we have set to reduce energy, water and paper use.
Total scope 1, 2 and 3 Greenhouse Gas emissions for 2017 and 2018 Indicator 2018 2017 Units Full-time employees FTE covered by reporting 85,402 86,021 FTE 2 Net internal area of occupied property covered by reporting 1,185,929 1,194,363 m Annual operating income 1 October to 30 September 14,958 14,614 $million Greenhouse Gas emissions Scope 1 emissions combustion of fuels 8,584 7,922 tonnes CO eq year 2 Scope 2 emissions purchased electricity 139,366 180,014 tonnes CO eq year 2 Total Scope 1 & 2 emissions 147,950 187,936 tonnes CO eq year 2 Scope 3 emissions without distance uplift air travel 62,113 59,179 tonnes CO eq year 2 Scope 3 emissions with distance uplift air travel 67,704 64,505 tonnes CO eq year 2 Scope 3 emissions outsourced data centre 21,523 23,904 tonnes CO eq year 2 Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions 210,063 247,115 tonnes CO eq year 2 Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions FTE 2.46 2.87 tonnes CO eq FTE year 2 2 2 Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions m 177 207 kg CO eq m year 2 Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions operating income 14.04 16.91 tonnes CO eq $m year 2 Our reporting criteria document sets out the emission factors where they are available to framework is in place.
This encompasses risk principles and methodology used to calculate us based on our reservations concerning the associated with clients operations and their the GHG emissions of the Group.
attribution of reduced electricity emissions potential impact on the environment and and the potential for double-counting in local communities.
The Board recognises For more information, review the reporting criteria at sc.
We will continue to monitor its responsibility to manage these risks and the development of Scope 2 Quality Criteria, that failure to manage them adequately could Our reporting methodology is based as well as the development of residual mixes have adverse impact.
upon the World Resources Institute by national agencies.
The Board receives information to identify World Business Council for Sustainable The Group does not use any form of offset and assess significant risks and opportunities Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol such as carbon credits to offset Scope 1 arising from environmental and social Corporate Accounting and Reporting or Scope 2 emissions.
issues are overseen by the Brand, Values Scope 3 We report on all emission sources required and Conduct Committee.
The Committee under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic reviews sustainability priorities, and oversees Scope 3 emissions are dened as occurring Report and Directors Reports Regulations.
the development of, and delivery against, as a consequence of the Groups activities, Using conversion factors from the public commitments regarding the activities but arising from sources not controlled by us.
International Energy Agency 2018 Emissions and or businesses that the Group will or will The Group currently reports on Scope 3 Factors and the UK Governments 2018 GHG not accept in alignment with our Here for emissions arising from air travel and our Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, good brand promise.
At a management level, outsourced data centres globally.
emissions are reported in metric tonnes of the CEO, Corporate & Institutional Banking carbon dioxide equivalent CO e, is responsible for sustainable finance, Reporting period 2 encompassing the six Kyoto gases.
The reporting period of our environmental In addition, the Group Head, Corporate Our denition of different emission sources is data is from 1 October 2017 to 30 September Affairs, Brand and Marketing, Conduct, provided below.
This allows sufficient time for Financial Crime and Compliance leads a independent assurance to be gained prior cross-business Sustainability Forum to Scope 1 to the publication of results.
Accordingly, develop and deliver the Groups broader Scope 1 emissions are dened as arising the operating income used in this inventory sustainability strategy.
from the consumption of energy from direct corresponds to the same time period The Board welcomed the 2017 sources, such as by burning diesel within rather than the calendar year used in recommendations of the Taskforce on generators, during the use of property financial reporting.
Climate-related Financial Disclosures occupied by the Group.
In 2018, the Group set out how Assurance climate change considerations are being Scope 2 Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions are assured incorporated into its governance, strategy, Scope 2 emissions are dened as arising by an independent body, The Carbon Trust, risk management and target-setting from the consumption of indirect sources of against the requirements of ISO14064.
activities in its first stand-alone Climate energy, such as consumption of purchased Change Disclosure, aligned to the TCFD electricity and heat, during the use of Managing environmental recommendations.
This was provided to property occupied by the Group.
and social risk the Board before publication and is available Despite the amendment issued to the at sc.
com tcfd The Board is responsible for ensuring that GHG Protocol in 2015, we report Scope 2 high standards of responsible business are emissions under location-based methods maintained and that an effective control and have decided not to use market-based 131 DIRECTORS REPORT Other disclosures is no alternative in terms of quality and there management as opposed to providing Community engagement is no conict with their duties as auditor.
or validating information, which We collaborate with local partners to support KPMG can be used where the statutory management then utilises in the social and economic development in auditor is required to be used due to operation of the business communities across our markets.
For more regulatory or legal requirements.
on how we engage with communities go to The policy is not a prescribed list of the Stakeholders and responsibilities section The policy clearly sets out the criteria for non-audit services that KPMG is permitted when the Audit Committees prior written to provide.
Rather, each request for on page 42. approval is required.
The policy requires a KPMG to provide non-audit services will ESG Reporting Guide conservative approach to be taken to the be assessed on its own merits.
The Audit assessment of requests for KPMG to provide Committee believes that such a case-byWe comply with the requirements for non-audit services.
Subject to the overriding case approach best accommodates i environmental, social and governance principle, the Audit Committees view is that the need for the appropriate rigour and reporting under Appendix 27 of the Hong KPMG can be of value in a range of non-audit challenge to be applied to each request Kong Listing Rules with the exception of service activities and should be allowed to for KPMG to provide non-audit services A1.3 and A.
16 on production and handling of tender subject to the terms of the policy.
while ii preserving sufficient exibility for hazardous waste and A2.5 on packaging.
The Group is required to take a conservative the Group to engage KPMG to provide As an ofce-based financial services provider, approach to interpreting the potential threats non-audit services where they are able we generate minimal hazardous waste or to auditor independence and requires to deliver particular value to the Group packaging material.
As such, these issues commensurately robust safeguards and where the proposed services can be are not material and we do not report them.
provided without compromising KPMGs objectivity and independence.
Electronic communication EU legislation and guidance from the Financial Reporting Council FRC sets out There is a cap on non-audit services The Board recognises the importance of threats to audit independence including provided by KPMG and such fees cannot good communications with all shareholders.
self-interest, self-review, familiarity, taking exceed 70 per cent of the average Group Directors are in regular contact with our of a management role or conducting audit fee from the previous three consecutive institutional shareholders and general advocacy.
In particular, maintaining KPMGs financial years, excluding audit related presentations are made when we announce independence from the Group requires non-audit services and services carried out our financial results.
The AGM presents an KPMG to avoid taking decisions on the pursuant to legislation.
For 2018 the ratio opportunity to communicate with all Groups behalf.
It is also recognised as was 2 per cent.
Details relating to KPMGs shareholders.
Our shareholders are essential that management retains the remuneration as the Group statutory auditor encouraged to receive our corporate decision-making capability as to whether to and a description of the broad categories of documents electronically.
The annual and act on advice given by KPMG as part of a the types of non-audit services provided by interim financial statements and Notice of non-audit service.
This means not just the KPMG are given in Note 38 on page 329.
If you do not ability to action the advice given, but to have already receive your corporate documents sufficient knowledge of the subject matter to Auditor electronically and would like to do so in future, be able to make a reasoned and independent please contact our registrars at the address The Audit Committee reviews the judgement as to its validity.
All of this is on page 384. appointment of the Group statutory auditor, contained within the policy.
Shareholders are also able to vote electronically its effectiveness and its relationship with the on the resolutions being put to the AGM through By way of non-exhaustive illustration of the Group, which includes monitoring our use of our registrars website at investorcentre.
co. uk application of the principles set out in the the auditors for non-audit services and the policy, the following types of non-audit balance of audit and non-audit fees paid.
services are likely to be permissible under Annual General Meeting Following a review of the independence and the policy: Our 2019 AGM will be held at 11:00am effectiveness of our Group statutory auditor UK time 6:00pm Hong Kong time on Audit-related services the Group details of which can be found on page 74, 8 May 2019 at etc.
venues, 200 Aldersgate, would also extend this to work on resolutions to appoint KPMG and to St Pauls, London EC1A 4HD.
Detail of the investor circulars in most foreseeable determine its remuneration will be proposed business to be conducted at the meeting circumstances at the 2019 Annual General Meeting.
is contained in the 2019 Notice of AGM.
An objective view as to whether the Each director believes that there is no Our 2018 AGM was held on 9 May 2018 at Group has applied external laws and relevant information of which our Group 11:00am London time 6:00pm Hong Kong regulations appropriately, such as statutory auditor is unaware.
Each has taken time at etc.
venues, 200 Aldersgate, St Pauls, checks over regulatory compliance all steps necessary as a director to be aware London EC1A 4HD.
Special business at the of any relevant audit information and to Internal control review services meeting included the approval of the power establish that KPMG is made aware of any to allot ECAT1 Securities for cash without Due diligence over potential purchases pertinent information.
All resolutions were or sales By order of the Board passed at the meeting, the details of which Not permissible under the policy: can be viewed on our website.
Any services that are prohibited or to the extent they are restricted by the published Non-audit services guidance from time to time The Groups non-audit services policy the Liz Lloyd Tax or regulatory structuring proposals policy was reviewed and approved by the Group Company Secretary Audit Committee on 28 November 2018.
Services where fees are paid on a 26 February 2019 The policy is based on an overriding principle contingent basis in whole or in part that, to avoid any actual or perceived conicts Standard Chartered PLC Consulting services that actively assist in of interest, the Groups auditor should only be Registered No.
966425 running the business in place of used when either there is evidence that there Standard Chartered 132 Annual Report 2018
