STRATEGIC REPORT Business model Business model A business model built on long-term relationships We have a sustainable approach to business and strive to achieve the highest standards of conduct.
Our business model and strategy are built to capture the opportunities inherent in our unique footprint through deep relationships with clients across our network and in local markets.
Developing these relationships means using our tangible and intangible resources in a sustainable and responsible manner, deploying them to achieve pro t and returns.
OUR RESOURCES WHAT MAKES US DIFFERENT We aim to use resources in a Our Purpose to drive commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity sustainable way, to achieve our is underpinned by our brand promise, Here for good.
long-term strategic objectives Human capital Our diverse colleagues are our greatest Client focus asset.
Being part of the local fabric of our markets means we understand Our clients are our business.
We our clients needs and aspirations, build long-term client relationships and how these can be achieved.
through trusted advice, expertise and best-in-class capabilities.
85,000 employees non-employed 1 1 workers 2,000 Robust risk management 46% female We are here for the long term.
Effective risk management allows Strong brand us to grow a sustainable business.
We are a leading international banking group with more than 160 years of history.
In many of our markets we are a household name.
International network Distinct proposition We have an unparalleled international network, connecting companies, institutions Our unique understanding of the markets and individuals to and in some ofthe worlds we operate in and our extensive international fastest-growing and most dynamic regions.
network allow us to offer a truly tailored Local expertise proposition to our clients, combining global expertise and local knowledge.
We have a deep knowledge of our markets and a privileged understanding ofthe drivers of the real economy, offeringus insights that can help our clients achieve their ambitions.
Financial strength Sustainable approach With over $650 billion in assets on our to business balance sheet, we are a strong, trusted partner for our clients.
We promote social and economic development by contributing to Technology sustainable economic growth through We possess leading technological capabilities our core business of banking, by to enable best-in-class customer experience, being a responsible company and operations and risk management.
by investing in our communities.
1 A non-employed worker NEW is an individual that is assigned or deployed to provide a service to the Bank but is not employed by the Bank.
A NEW may be an For more details on how we deliver our business model, agency worker, independent consultant, management see our Strategy section on pages 16-19 consultant or outsourced worker Standard Chartered 14 Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Directors report Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information WHAT WE DELIVER THE VALUE WE CREATE We deliver an extensive set of solutions, products and We aim to create long-term value services adapted to the needs of our clients.
for a broad range of stakeholders in a sustainable manner.
Clients Global Local We enable individuals to grow Clients in our global businesses are Country-level relationship managers support and protect their wealth.
We help supported by relationship managers clients in our local businesses.
To ensure businesses to trade, transact, with a global reach.
ef ciency and consistency and to enable invest and expand.
We also help greater investment, we have global a variety of financial institutions, oversight of our systems and products.
public sector clients and Corporate & development organisations with their banking needs.
Institutional Banking Retail Banking Colleagues Private Banking Commercial Banking We believe that great client experience is driven by great colleague experience.
We want all our people to pursue their See our client segment reviews on pages 21 to 24 ambitions, deliver with purpose and have a rewarding career enabled by great leaders.
Products and services Investors We aim to deliver robust returns Retail Products Wealth Management Corporate Finance and long-term sustainable value Deposits Investments Structured and project for our investors.
nancing Savings Portfolio management Regulators and governments Strategic advice Mortgages Insurance and advice We engage with relevant Mergers and acquisitions Credit cards Planning services authorities to support effective Personal loans Financial Markets functioning of the financial system Transaction Banking Investment and the broader economy.
Cash management Risk management Payments and transactions Society Debt capital markets Securities services We strive to operate as a Trade finance products sustainable and responsible company, driving prosperity through our core business, and collaborating with local partners Financial performance to promote social and economic development.
Income Pro ts Return on tangible equity Suppliers Net interest income Income gained from Pro t generated relative providing our products and Fee income We work with local and global to tangible equity invested services minus expenses Trading income suppliers to ensure they can and impairments provide the right goods and services for our business ef ciently and sustainably.
More detail can be found in our stakeholders and responsibilities section on pages 42 to 51 15
