Directors report The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Standard ordinary shares of 12 2 9 pence held at 5pm on 19 October 2018.
The Life Aberdeen group of companies the Group, together with the total number of shares in issue at 6pm on Friday 19 October 2018 was audited International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 2,941,738,848 ordinary shares of 12 2 9 pence each.
The total consolidated financial statements for the Group, financial information number of shares in issue at the opening of markets on Monday 22 for the Group and financial statements for Standard Life Aberdeen plc October 2018 was 2,574,021,492 new ordinary shares of 13 61 63 the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018. pence each.
Reporting for the year ended 31 December 2018 As a result, 2,941,738,848 B shares of 33.99 pence each were allotted and issued on 22 October 2018.
No application was made to the UK The Company is the holding company of the Group.
You can find out Listing Authority or to the London Stock Exchange respectively, for any about the relevant activities of the Companys principal subsidiary of the B Shares to be admitted to the Official List or to trading on the undertakings and their overseas branches in the Strategic report.
London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities, nor were During 2018, the Companys principal undertakings operated the B Shares listed or admitted to trading on any other recognised branches in Europe, together with Hong Kong and India.
The B Shares were redeemed on 24 October The main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, 2018 for 33.99 pence per B Share.
All B Shares were redeemed and performance and position of the Group are outlined in the Co-Chief cancelled.
Executives overview section of the Strategic report.
Reviews of the On 9 August 2018 the Company announced the commencement of an operating and financial performance of the Group for the year ended initial share repurchase programme of the Companys ordinary shares 31 December 2018 are given in the Strategic report.
up to a maximum aggregate consideration of 175m.
This was The Chairmans statement, the Directors responsibility statement and followed by an announcement on 20 November 2018 of a further the Corporate governance statement form part of the Directors report.
share repurchase programme up to a maximum aggregate The Corporate governance statement is submitted by the Board.
The purpose of this programme is to reduce the share capital of the Company.
All shares purchased have been Using the IFRS basis, the results of the Group are presented in the cancelled.
A detailed description of the basis of preparation of the IFRS results including adjusted profit is set out in As at 31 December 2018, there were 2,529,412,224 ordinary shares in the Group financial statements section.
More information about the issue held by 101,181 registered members.
The Standard Life Groups use of derivative financial instruments and related financial Aberdeen Share Account the Company-sponsored nominee held risk management matters can be found in Note 21 and Note 39 to the 648,081,141 of those shares on behalf of 1,022,001 participants.
person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
This report was prepared by the executive team together with the Board and forms part of the management report.
During the year, and until the date this report was signed, the Company received the following notifications in respect of major Dividends shareholdings and major proportions of voting rights in accordance The Board recommends paying a final dividend for 2018 of 14.30p per with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of the Financial ordinary share.
This will be paid on 21 May 2019 to shareholders Conduct Authority FCA.
The companies detailed below notified their whose names are on the Register of members the Register at the positions.
close of business on 12 April 2019.
Percentage The total payment is estimated at 345m for the final dividend and of voting together with the interim dividend of 7.30p per share totalling 214m rights Number of paid on 25 September 2018, the total dividend for 2018 will be 21.60p voting rights following Date of Type of following the the per share 2017: 21.30p totalling 559m 2017: 627m.
Shareholder transaction transaction transaction transaction Share capital Lloyds 8 June 2018 You can find full details of the Companys share capital, including Banking pre share movements in the Companys issued ordinary share capital during the Group plc consolidation Disposal Below 3% year, in Note 26 to the Group financial statements.
You can also find Decrease of an analysis of registered shareholdings by size, as at 31 December common shares Mitsubishi 2018, in the Shareholder information section.
8 February outstanding by UFJ Trust In May 2018 a Circular was published, giving details of the proposed 2019 the issuer 150,500,406 6.002% and Banking sale of Standard Life Assurance Limited to Phoenix Group.
The Corporation 15 February Circular also gave details of a proposed return of capital to 2019 Disposal Below 3% shareholders via a B Share Scheme, and a share buyback programme.
Following completion, approval was given to return up to In accordance with the terms of the Standard Life Employee Trust 1.75 billion in aggregate to shareholders, with the first 1.0 billion to Deed, the trustees waived all entitlements to current or future dividend be returned by way of the B Share Scheme and the remaining up to payments for shares they hold.
750 million to be returned by way of the share buyback programme.
Authority for the Company to purchase its own shares had previously Similarly, in accordance with the terms of The Aberdeen Asset Management Employee Benefit Trust 2003, the trustees waived all been granted at the Annual General Meeting AGM but was superseded by the authority granted at the general meeting.
entitlements to current or future dividend payments for shares they hold other than dividends payable on any shares held by the trustee On 25 June 2018, shareholders voted at a general meeting to approve as nominee for any other person.
a return of capital of 33.99 pence per share via a B Share Scheme, The trustees of the Standard Life Aberdeen Employee Share Plan along with an associated share capital consolidation.
Shareholders received 7 new ordinary shares of 13 61 63 pence for every 8 existing voted the appropriate shares in accordance with any instructions received from participants in the plan.
Directors report continued Restrictions on the transfer of shares and securities payable by them for that share remains unpaid or if they have been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after failing Except where listed below, there are no specific restrictions on the size to provide the Company with information about interests in those of a holding or on the transfer of shares.
Both are governed by the shares required to be provided under the Companies Act 2006. general provisions of the Companys articles of association the Articles and current legislation and regulation.
The Company may, by ordinary resolution, declare dividends up to the amount recommended by the Board.
Subject to the Companies Act You can also obtain a copy from Companies House or by writing to the 2006, the Board may also pay an interim dividend, and any fixed rate Company Secretary at our registered address details of which can be dividend, whenever the financial position of the Company, in the found in the Contact us section.
The Articles may only be amended opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
If the Board acts in good by a special resolution passed by the shareholders.
faith, it is not liable to holders of shares with preferred or pari passu rights for losses that arise from paying interim or fixed dividends on You can read the Articles on our website other shares.
com annualreport The Board may withhold payment of all or part of any dividends or The Board may decline to register the transfer of: other monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from a A share that is not fully paid person with a 0.25 per cent interest as defined in the Articles if that A certificated share, unless the instrument of transfer is duly person has been served with a restriction notice as defined in the stamped or duly certified and accompanied by the relevant share Articles after failure to provide the Company with information about certificate or other evidence of the right to transfer, is in respect of interests in those shares, which is required under the Companies Act only one class of share and is in favour of a sole transferee or no 2006. more than four joint transferees Subject to the Companies Act 2006, rights attached to any class of An uncertificated share, in the circumstances set out in the shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not uncertificated securities rules as defined in the Articles and, in the less than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that case of a transfer to joint holders, where the number of joint holders class excluding any shares held as treasury shares.
These rights can to whom the share is to be transferred does not exceed four also be varied with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a A certificated share by a person with a 0.25 per cent interest as separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every defined in the Articles in the Company, if that person has been separate general meeting except an adjourned meeting the quorum served with a restriction notice under the Articles, after failing to shall be two persons holding, or representing by proxy, not less than provide the Company with information about interests in those one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class calculated shares as set out in the Companies Act 2006 unless the transfer is excluding any shares held as treasury shares.
shown to the Board to be pursuant to an arms length sale under the A shareholders rights will not change if additional shares ranking pari Articles passu with their shares are created or issued unless this is These restrictions are in line with the standards set out in the FCAs expressly provided in the rights attaching to their shares.
Listing Rules and are considered to be standard for a listed company.
Power to purchase the Companys own shares The Directors are not aware of any other agreements between holders At the 2018 Annual General Meeting AGM, shareholders granted the of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer Directors limited powers to: of securities or on voting rights.
Allot ordinary shares in the Company up to a maximum aggregate Rights attached to shares amount of 121,370,072 Subject to applicable statutes, any resolution passed by the Company Disapply, up to a maximum total nominal amount of 18,205,510 of under the Companies Act 2006 and other shareholders rights, shares its issued ordinary share capital, shareholders pre-emption rights in may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may respect of new ordinary shares issued for cash decide by ordinary resolution, or if there is no such resolution or if it Make market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares up to a does not make specific provision as the Board may decide.
Subject to maximum of 297,908,360 of its issued ordinary shares the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and other shareholders rights, unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board.
As noted earlier in this share capital section, this authority was subsequently superseded by the authority granted at the general Every member and duly appointed proxy present at a general meeting meeting held on 25 June 2018.
Under the buyback programme, the or class meeting has one vote on a show of hands, provided that Company purchased 37,983,529 of its ordinary shares of 12 2 9 pence where a proxy is appointed by more than one shareholder entitled to each, paying an aggregate amount of 119,860,054.
As at the time of vote on a resolution and is instructed by one shareholder to vote for the share capital consolidation in October, the percentage of share the resolution and by another shareholder to vote against the capital represented by the purchased shares was approximately resolution, then the proxy will be allowed two votes on a show of 1.29%.
Following the share consolidation, the Company purchased hands one vote for and one vote against.
On a poll, every member present in person or by proxy has one vote for every share they hold.
44,609,556 of its ordinary shares of 13 61 63 pence, paying an For joint shareholders, the vote of the senior joint shareholder who aggregate amount of 115,040,275.
As at 31 December 2018, the tenders a vote, in person or by proxy, will be accepted and will exclude percentage of share capital represented by the purchased shares was the votes of the other joint shareholders.
For this purpose, seniority is approximately 1.8%.
determined by the order that the names appear on the Register for joint shareholders.
A member will not be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any share they hold if any call or other sum then 76 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 GOVERNANCE Significant agreements Directors and their interests The Directors who served during the year were: Certain significant agreements to which the Company, or one of its subsidiaries, is party entitle the counterparties to exercise termination 1 2 Sir Douglas Flint Chairman Gerhard Fusenig or other rights in the event of a change of control of the Company.
2 These agreements are noted in the paragraphs below.
Sir Gerry Grimstone Melanie Gee Keith Skeoch Richard Mully Credit Facility under a 400m revolving credit facility between the 3 Company and the banks and financial institutions named therein as Martin Gilbert Lynne Peacock lenders Lender dated 22 May 2015 the Facility, in the event that i Bill Rattray Martin Pike any persons or group of persons acting in concert, gain control of the 4 Rod Paris Cathleen Raffaeli Company, then any Lender may elect within a prescribed time frame 2 to cancel its outstanding commitment under the Facility and declare its Kevin Parry Jutta af Rosenborg 3 3 participation in all outstanding loans, together with accrued interest Julie Chakraverty Akira Suzuki and all amounts accrued immediately due and payable, whereupon John Devine Simon Troughton the commitment of that Lender under the Facility will be cancelled and 1 all such outstanding amounts will become immediately due and Appointed 1 November 2018.
China under a joint venture agreement dated 12 October 2009 as 4 Appointed 1 August 2018. amended between the Company and Tianjin TEDA International Holding Group Co. Limited TEDA, pursuant to which the Company Biographies of the current Directors can be found on pages 52 to holds its interest in Heng An Standard Life Insurance Company 53.
Limited Heng An Standard Life, upon a change of control of the Company, TEDA has the right to terminate the venture and to Details of the Directors interests in the Companys ordinary shares, purchase, or nominate a third party to purchase, the Companys the Standard Life Employee Share Plan, the Standard Life shares in Heng An Standard Life for a price determined in accordance Sharesave Plan and the share-based discretionary plans are set out in with the agreement.
the Directors remuneration report together with details of the executive Directors service contracts and non-executive Directors A number of other agreements contain provisions that entitle the appointment letters.
counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of control of the Company.
However, these agreements are No Director has any interest in the Companys listed debt securities or not considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the in any shares, debentures or loan stock of the Companys business of the Group as a whole.
No Director has any material interest in any contract with the Company or a subsidiary undertaking which was significant in The Directors are not aware of any agreements with any employee relation to the Companys business, except for the following: that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover.
The Company also has no agreement with The benefit of a continuing third party indemnity provided by the any Director to provide compensation for loss of office or employment Company in accordance with company law and the Articles resulting from a takeover.
Service contracts between each executive Director and subsidiary Appointment and retirement of Directors undertakings Standard Life Employee Services Limited and Aberdeen Asset Management PLC The appointment and retirement of Directors is governed by the Articles, the Companies Act 2006, the UK Corporate Governance Copies of the following documents can be viewed at the Companys Code and related legislation.
registered office details of which can be found in the Contact us section during normal business hours 9am to 5pm Monday to Friday The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that directors of and will be available for inspection at the Companys AGM: FTSE 350 companies should stand for election every year.
During the year, Julie Chakraverty, Akira Suzuki and Lynne Peacock retired as The Directors service contracts or letters of appointment Directors on 29 May 2018, and on 31 December 2018 Gerhard The Directors deeds of indemnity, entered into in connection with Fusenig and Kevin Parry resigned as Directors and Sir Gerry the indemnification of Directors provisions in the Articles Grimstone resigned as Chairman and Director.
Simon Troughton and The rules of the Standard Life plc Executive Long-Term Incentive Richard Mully will stand down as Directors at the conclusion of the Plan 2019 AGM and Bill Rattray will stand down on 31 May 2019.
The rules of the Standard Life Aberdeen plc Deferred Share Plan Cathleen Raffaeli was appointed to the Board on 1 August 2018.
Sir Douglas Flint was appointed to the Board on 1 November 2018 and The Companys Articles was appointed Chairman with effect from 1 January 2019.
Having Directors liability insurance been appointed since the last AGM, Cathleen Raffaeli and Sir Douglas During 2018, the Company maintained directors and officers liability will stand for election at the 2019 AGM.
It is intended that Stephanie insurance on behalf of its directors and officers to provide cover should Bruce will succeed Bill Rattray as CFO on 1 June 2019.
Whilst any legal action be brought against them.
The Company also Stephanie would not take up her role until then, the Board felt it was maintained pension trustee liability indemnity policies which includes important that shareholders were given the opportunity to vote on her third party indemnity for the boards of trustees of the UK and Irish election at this years AGM.
staff pension schemes where required to do so.
All remaining Directors as at the date of the AGM will retire at the 2019 AGM and, if they wish to continue in office, will stand for re-election.
The powers of the Directors can also be found in the Articles.
Directors report continued improve our gender pay gap, which is heavily influenced by the Our people significant number of men in senior and most highly remunerated Our people have always been central to delivering our strategy, and roles, and by the larger number of women in more junior roles.
Our we remain focused on bringing out the best in them.
actions are making a difference and our strong gender pool balanced pipeline continues to grow, particularly at CEO-2 level: however we You can read more on our people strategy, including diversity know that we have more to do at Board and Executive team level.
and inclusion, in the Strategic report section of this report.
This year we were delighted to be one of the inaugural signatories to Diversity and Inclusion the Race at Work Charter launched by Business in the Community in At Standard Life Aberdeen our Vision for an Inclusive Future aims to partnership with the government.
This commits organisations to create a workplace where everyone feels they can be themselves and tackling barriers that ethnic minority people face in recruitment and are valued for what they bring.
We believe that inclusion is core to progression.
As part of delivering on our commitments, we published delivering our company values and developing an environment which our first ethnicity action plan and provided diverse employment enables everyone to perform and progress.
By building and sustaining opportunities to ethnic minority and socially mobile young people a diverse talent pipeline and enabling people to reach their potential, through the Taylor Bennett Foundation, The Princes Trust and our we will provide our global customers with the diversity of thought and inclusive employment strategy.
creativity required to bring long-term value.
You can read our gender pay gap report and our gender and ethnicity We have a published inclusion strategy, which was co-created with our action plans on our website people, and which defines our priorities over the next three to five www.
Progress against this is reviewed by the Nomination and Talent Governance Committee at every meeting.
The strategy aims to embed Attracting, retaining and developing talent is a key strategic objective inclusion in everything we do, and this year we have worked with our for the organisation.
We remain committed to investing in the Executive team to make sure there are actions in place relevant to recruitment and development of early careers talent.
Over the past their business areas, which build more inclusive workplaces.
Our 12 months, we have hired a total of 146 individuals on to early careers strategy is also about improving transparency in how we talk about programmes across Standard Life Aberdeen.
This consists of our and report on diversity in our business.
Our transparency was Graduate, Intern programme, and Edinburgh Guarantee populations recognised this year by Equileap who ranked us in their Top 200 across the UK, Europe, Asia and America.
Global companies for gender equality and also by Bloomberg who included us for the first time in their Gender Equality Index.
We continued our strategic partnership with Career Ready throughout 2018, aligning 34 students with internal mentors as well as providing a We empower people to take an active and collective approach as we four week internship in Edinburgh, London or Aberdeen, paid at the all have a role to play in creating an inclusive environment.
Standard Life Aberdeen is also one of six Scottish-based example our seven employee network groups support members of the Financial Services firms piloting an approach to increase school diverse groups and communities they represent, and raise awareness students awareness, and understanding, of the diversity of careers in of issues that affect them.
With over 1,200 members, our networks our industry.
continue to expand their global reach, and focus on gender, LGBT, ethnicity, mental health, young people, carers and armed forces.
We are proud to be recognised for our commitment to early career talent.
Feedback from our 2018 intern cohort saw us feature in the Top We consider diversity in the broadest sense in our backgrounds, 100 Undergraduate Employers for 2018.
Our 2019 ranking will be experiences, strengths and thinking.
To begin extending our areas of confirmed in Q1.
In May, our early careers and employer brand team focus, we have recently run focus groups to understand how we can won Bronze at the Employer Brand Management Awards for Best better support our ageing workforce and disabled employees.
We treat Employer Brand Management Programme following a merger or those with disabilities fairly in relation to job applications, training, acquisition.
Reasonable adjustments are made to train and enable employees who become disabled while We are committed to talent progressing at every career stage.
We working at Standard Life Aberdeen to allow them to continue and promote a philosophy of individual-driven development linked to progress in their career.
business need: learning in real-life and real-time backed by a range of open-access learning opportunities available to all colleagues.
Our Achieving a better gender balance at all levels is a priority for us.
Last Board and Executive Committee are highly engaged in our talent and year we published our year one gender pay gap figures, refreshed our succession agenda and in mentoring future talent.
Succession BenchWomen in Finance Charter targets following the merger, and strength Reviews, including Talent Reviews and profiling of individual published our first gender action plan.
Following this, our Co-Chief talent, are executed regularly within the organisation to ensure that a Executives undertook a series of conversations to better understand strong pipeline of expertise talent as well as leadership talent is being the experiences of our people across all levels, locations and divisions developed both to fuel our growth agenda and to assure our clients of of our business.
This included focus groups on gender diversity to seamless transitions in the event of natural individual movement.
partner on creating our refreshed gender action plan, which was Where gaps in our pipeline are identified, we are proactive in published in October.
identifying external talent who are additive to our organisation and We know we have more to do to improve representation of women at culture.
our Board and Executive levels.
At Board level, we remain committed Engagement to our 33% target by June 2020, in line with our pledge to the 30% Club.
We welcome the progress reported against our targets, with an In our mood and sentiment survey carried out post-merger in 2017, improvement at our CEO-1 and CEO-2 levels from 27% at the same our employee insights partner Karian and Box believed our results point last year to 34% as at 31 December 2018.
The actions we have showed a high level of positivity towards the merger in comparison to in place to improve representation of women at all levels in our others in a merger acquisition situation.
In Q4 2018 we ran a global organisation are stretching, benchmarked and sponsored by our Codeep dive engagement survey Viewpoints based on a number of key Chief Executives.
Increasing women in our senior roles will also organisational themes.
This has given us further organisational insight 78 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 GOVERNANCE and has created a baseline to build on.
In addition, there are employee to promote regular and ongoing learning and development in the representation arrangements across the organisation aimed at workplace to all employees.
During our recent digital learning providing ongoing insights from our people to help the Company campaign, The Leading Edge Challenge Series, over 50,000 learning understand the employee perspective.
resources were accessed by employees and the campaign has been shortlisted for two industry awards.
The main themes that emerged from the most recent survey included the need to build, through better communication with our employees, a As outlined above, developing world-class early careers talent is a priority.
Our new Graduate Development framework enables clearer and more consistent understanding of our strategic direction, and how we can speed elimination of factors that can prevent people graduates to develop key skills and capabilities that we have identified as critical to their personal and professional development, ranging from doing their jobs as effectively as possible.
Positive feedback centred on how our managers lead through change, colleagues feeling from resilience to commercial awareness.
able to be themselves at work and our continued focus on all aspects In 2018, 59 students participated in our Intern Development of inclusion.
Programme supporting their transition into the workplace.
In addition to Over the year ahead we plan actions based on the themes that developing a range of skills, the programme also showcased our emerged, and we will continue to measure engagement, mood and support for social causes, raising money in aid of a high profile charity culture across the Group.
Chest, Heart and Stroke Scotland.
We are enthusiastic in deploying a broader range of Apprenticeships Results: Participation: 69% 4,274 colleagues to support individuals to combine work and study.
This year, we enrolled our first graduate apprentices in study for in-demand industry Engagement score: 56% skills such as cyber security and software development, as well as Workforce Engagement continuing the focus on working towards qualifications in subjects Recognising the 2018 Corporate Governance Code provision on including Providing Financial Services and Management.
workforce engagement, the Nomination and Governance Committee In 2018 we have ensured that employees have been able to continue discussed the three possible options and agreed that it would be using intranet services throughout the period of organisational change.
appropriate to propose a designated non-executive director to support As part of the separation programme we created an additional version this.
After discussion with the Committee, Melanie Gee has accepted of the intranet in order that both Standard Life Aberdeen employees, this proposal and the following parameters have been identified for her and employees transferring to Phoenix group, were able to access the engagement role: intranet without disruption.
Additionally, we have created a new global Meet regularly with the employee representative forums communications hub to support Standard Life Aberdeen employees Meet collectively with the representatives of the employee networks through the transition period.
Work is now underway to initiate a digital Meet with the Regional Heads to discuss local initiatives on workplace programme which will see delivery of a new global internet employee engagement in the regions for our transformed Group.
Meet with the Transformation team to discuss how workforce Reward engagement is built into the various work streams We believe that when our employees own shares in the Company Meet with the Talent and Leadership team to discuss how they are they understand better the interests of the Companys shareholders.
taking forward employee engagement matters, including those The Company invited over 99% of UK and Ireland based employees arising from the Viewpoint survey to participate in the Standard Life Aberdeen Sharesave plan in 2018 Consider how employee engagement can be built into the regular and 1,799 employees accepted the invitation.
These employees will Board reporting templates have the opportunity to acquire Standard Life Aberdeen plc shares for Attend an innovation Panel meeting 2.571 UK and 2.857 Ireland with their accumulated savings when Attend several senior talent NED engagement dinners their savings contracts end in three or five years time.
At 31 December 2018, 2,522 UK employees in UK and Ireland were saving Report back to the Board on a regular basis on the output from her towards the purchase of Standard Life Aberdeen plc shares through workforce engagement activities this plan.
Prepare a report for the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts on the impact of her workforce engagement activities As at 31 December 2018, 2,197 of the Group's employees were shareholders through participation in the Standard Life Aberdeen Information about stakeholder engagement, together with the section Employee Share Plan the Plan.
As part of the integration 172 1 statement, is on pages 22 to 23 of the Strategic report.
programme in 2019 participation in this Plan will be extended so that Developing our People over 99% of employees in the UK and Ireland will be eligible to Throughout 2018 we have continued to strengthen our approach to participate.
Participation allows employees to buy ordinary shares in supporting the development of our people.
the Company directly from their earnings up to a market value of 150 per month UK or 175 Ireland per month.
The Company matches Recognising the vital contribution that our people managers make, we the shares purchased by the employees, matching up to 50 per recently launched the People Management Academy, an exciting new month in the UK and 70 per month in Ireland.
global framework and learning curriculum designed to enhance the skills and capabilities of line managers.
Over 300 line managers Sustainability enrolled within days for in-person development sessions and the The commercial aims of our business are linked to our environmental, offering will continue to develop throughout 2019, with the addition of social and governance responsibilities.
You can find out more about new digital and workshop solutions.
how we run our business sustainably throughout the Strategic report.
Our non-financial information statement on page 49 summarises Our drive to be effective is reflected in the launch of a range of where you can find key information on our approach.
For details of our personal effectiveness and business skills courses, to support greenhouse gas emissions, please see page 48. personal career growth.
We make full use of digital learning channels Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 79 4.
Directors report continued appointment of KPMG LLP as auditors of the Company and giving Political donations authority to the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration will We have a long-standing policy of not making political donations.
The be submitted at the 2019 AGM.
Company has limited authorisation from shareholders to make political donations and incur political expenditure Resolution 10, 2018 AGM.
Disclosure of information to the auditors We request this as a precaution against any inadvertent breach of Each Director confirms that he or she has taken all reasonable steps political donations legislation.
While Standard Life Aberdeen has necessary, in his or her role as a Director, to be made aware of any regular interaction with government and elected politicians in the UK relevant audit information and to establish that KPMG LLP is made and other jurisdictions in which we operate, we are strictly apolitical.
Auditors As far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information The Audit Committee is responsible for considering the Groups that KPMG LLP is not aware of as at the date this report was external audit arrangements.
Annual General Meeting Details of the meeting content can be found in our AGM guide 2019.
Currently, AGMs are held in Edinburgh and London in alternate years.
The AGM will be held in Edinburgh in 2019.
The AGM guide and other materials will be published online at www.
com in advance of this years AGM.
Post balance sheet events On 11 March 2019, Standard Life Mauritius Holdings 2006 Limited informed the National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE Limited that it intends to Offer for Sale OFS up to 70,000,000 shares in HDFC Life, with an option to additionally sell up to 29,500,000 shares through the OFS, at a floor price of Rs 357.5 per share.
Collectively this represents 4.93% of the total paid up equity share capital of HDFC Life.
Should the full 4.93% be sold through the OFS and at the floor price, it is estimated that the Group would receive a total consideration net of taxes and expenses of approximately Rs.
Assuming full subscription in the OFS at the floor price, the gain on sale is estimated to be approximately 325m after tax.
Following the sale assuming full subscription, HDFC Life would remain an associate of the Group and the Groups shareholding subsequent to the OFS would be 490,126,265 equity shares or 24.30% of the issued share capital of HDFC Life.
Other information Under Listing Rule 9.8.
CR, a listed company must include all information required by LR 9.8.
4R in a single identifiable location or crossreference table.
4CR, the information required to be disclosed can be found in the following locations.
All the relevant information cross-referenced below is hereby incorporated by reference into this Directors report.
Location Directors None Topic Directors report remuneration report Not applicable Interest capitalised x Publication of unaudited financial information in a class 1 circular or in a prospectus, other than in accordance with Annexes 1 and 2 of the FCAs Prospectus Rules x Details of long-term incentive schemes x Waiver of emoluments by a director x Waiver of future emoluments by a director x Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash x Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash in relation to major subsidiary undertakings x Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary x Contracts of significance x Provision of services by a controlling shareholder x Shareholder waivers of dividends x Shareholder waivers of future dividends x Agreements with controlling shareholders x The Directors report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Kenneth A Gilmour Company Secretary 13 March 2019 80 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018
