Our market Responding to challenging markets 2018 proved to be a challenging year for markets, which shared little resemblance to the year before.
A wide variety of political, economic and financial issues overwhelmed investors across almost all asset classes and regions.
Meanwhile volatility, which was largely absent in 2017, reappeared to the detriment of global investors.
Most asset classes registered negative returns in 2018.
Rod Paris, Chief Investment Officer major currencies in 2018.
Falling unemployment and periodically A year of challenging market conditions higher oil prices gave rise to inflation concerns.
Volatility, meanwhile Across global markets, some of the positive drivers from 2017 reappeared, with two particularly sharp episodes in early February reversed and a number of potential risks we had identified at the start and late December, reaching levels not seen since the financial crisis.
of last year did become reality.
The US equity market outperformed most other developed markets, assisted by above-trend growth in the Barriers to market growth US economy and tax cuts, however December was an exceptionally poor month.
There was rotation within equity markets in terms of Rising US interest rates and a strong dollar, accompanied by rising oil prices and geopolitical factors, were significant barriers to emerging which sectors performed best.
Defensive sectors like healthcare and utilities took the lead, while energy and financials were the hardest hit.
China, a key global driver in recent years, signalled a transition in its growth as it embarked on a deleveraging campaign to Large technology stocks faced a perfect storm of stretched valuations, slower subscriber revenue growth, data breaches and reduce debt.
This, combined with US tariffs, caused negative sentiment in Chinese equity markets which spread to other emerging increased regulatory scrutiny.
Credit markets in the US and Europe in lower-risk investment grade bonds and higher-risk high yield bonds markets.
Despite risk aversion, over the Geopolitical risk, which had been relatively subdued coming into year as a whole only a few sovereign bond markets, such as 2018, became front of mind for investors.
US-China relations, Germany, achieved positive returns.
especially over trade tensions, deteriorated substantially.
Populist gains in Italy, Brazil and parts of Germany, as well as the Democrats success in the US mid-term elections, reshaped governments and played through markets.
Brexit loomed large at various points, translating to increased volatility in UK assets.
Looking ahead As the effects of tax cuts in the US fade and trade tensions continue, market participants are focused on economic data signalling further slowing in 2019.
This has made markets more responsive to bad, relative to good news.
Although a number of economic indicators now suggest slowing growth, it should be emphasised that they are not currently signalling imminent recession: indeed the response from governments and central banks makes us more positive on such a view.
Total market return The backdrop to the market remains complex and we believe this will continue to impact on returns.
That said, we believe our continuous Source: Refinitiv Datastream, Bloomberg, Aberdeen Standard focus on understanding client needs, and on improving and Investments as at 31 December 2018 innovating our investment solutions, will create opportunities to The strength of the US economy allowed the Federal Reserve to manage risk and achieve sustainable goals of growth, income and continue monetary tightening.
Japan and Europe continued capital preservation.
quantitative easing and kept rates on hold, while China first tightened and then relaxed its restrictions on bank lending in response to faster or slower growth.
The US Dollar strengthened against most other 24 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Responding to the changing investment Innovation, technology and digitalisation landscape Successful innovation is a key driver of long-term value for clients and Despite the challenges we faced in 2018, we are a resilient business, shareholders.
The next generation of savers will interact with committed to our purpose.
We remain well-positioned to continue investments in different ways, as technology provides new tools that benefiting from the trends that shape the global savings and allow them to manage their own affairs.
Machine learning is playing a investments landscape.
growing role in how these tools are developed across our industry.
At the same time, cyber security remains a growing issue.
Managing the Keith Skeoch, Co-Chief Executive risks is critical for large companies and their customers.
Our response Democratisation of financial risk Our ability to innovate is crucial to ensuring that we can continue to Changes to the savings landscape have continued to move risk and meet customer and client needs.
Weve put in place a Collective responsibility further towards individuals.
This trend is driving the need Investment Technology Solutions team to support how we deliver for simpler products and services to help clients and customers invest to retail, wholesale and institutional clients globally.
Changes in pension legislation giving more intelligence processes are also helping us to identify sources of choice and more responsibility to savers is also increasing demand for potential returns within our investment portfolios, and to develop financial advice and from financial advisers for platforms that help our digital advice capabilities in the UK.
them to offer the support that their customers expect.
Managing cyber security is about more than having the right IT Our response systems and software in place.
As part of our Cyber Awareness Our focus on active investment management helps us to meet the Week, we highlighted to employees their responsibilities and steps growing demand for outcome-oriented products.
Following the they can take to be more secure, resilient and vigilant in this area.
sale of our UK and European insurance business to Phoenix, we have retained our fast-growing, market-leading adviser platforms, as well as our wholly-owned financial advice business, 1825, to Slow growth, low inflation, compressed return meet the growing demand for financial advice from individuals.
environment These channels will remain important to our retail growth strategy in the UK.
Our shareholding in Phoenix means we also retain a Market volatility and uncertainty will be with us for some time, which significant presence in the UK pensions and savings market.
will result in changing client demands.
Clients are looking for simple and transparent products with clear outcomes that will meet their investment needs, and were seeing a continued demand for active investment solutions particularly new active solutions, which focus Rebuilding trust in financial services on achieving specific outcomes to meet specific client needs.
The global financial crisis damaged trust in financial services organisations.
We believe our industry has a duty to build trust Our response through transparency on fees, clarity on risks and education on New active is likely to play a major role in building long-term investment strategy.
Asset managers also have a role in developing relationships with clients and meeting their growing demands for trust and driving transparency more broadly by challenging the more variety and choice.
We are already one of the leading companies in which they invest to provide evidence, not only of their companies in private markets alternatives globally and we financial returns, but also of their societal and environmental impact.
continue to make significant investment in designing innovative outcome focused funds.
Our response As long-term investors we take our stewardship responsibilities 2022 market revenue opportunity very seriously.
We engage with businesses, governments and c75% new active regulators to improve the efficiency and relevance of capital markets and the sustainability of returns they deliver.
We completed a programme of work to meet the requirements of MiFID II a 2018 EU directive that aims to improve transparency in how financial market participants operate.
The processes put in place are now part of our business as usual operations.
We offer investment strategies that aim to provide a social as well as a capital return, by reflecting societys concerns about issues like fair employment, environment, inequality and sustainability.
A practical example of this is our Global Equity Impact Fund, which Source: BCG, July 2018 invests in companies that aim to generate measurable positive social and environmental impact alongside financial returns.
Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 25 Our strategy Enabling our ambitions Strategic objective Why its important Progress this year Our primary focus is on delivering for our clients Investment performance was mixed in 2018 see the Chief Client and customer and customers.
It means working to understand Financial Officers overview on page 33 for details centricity their evolving needs, and using that knowledge Enhanced offering to advisers through launch of to innovate and improve our products and Professional Portfolio Manager on the Wrap platform services.
We continually look to develop new Refreshed our distribution strategies, bringing more relationships across the globe, to provide trusted consistency and discipline to our relationship and client expertise and build lasting partnerships.
teams globally Ran our institutional and wholesale client survey in our four global regions, to understand factors affecting levels of client satisfaction, engagement, loyalty and advocacy Enhancing our Were helping our people be more productive, by Sale of our UK and European insurance business to simplifying and improving our ways of working Phoenix completed transformation to a fee based, capitaloperations and creating a collaborative, insight-driven light business culture to ensure we deliver a world-class Delivered further annualised cost savings bringing total service.
Through enhanced technology our delivered to 175m with actions including business will be more agile, flexible and scalable.
Integration completed across our client and consultant The systems, processes and external service facing investment and distribution teams providers we use will be efficient and help us New operating model implemented simplifying our manage costs, allowing us to invest for growth.
structure and establishing clear functional and regional responsibilities and accountabilities Over 4,000 of our people co-located as part of our estate optimisation The ways in which people invest and save Accelerated pace of innovation with 32 fund launches in Innovating for the continues to evolve.
Clients and customers want 2018 compared to 22 in 2017 and around 20 funds in the future a diverse range of products that meet their needs later stages of development and generate positive investment outcomes Completed IPO of HDFC Asset Management in August through a modern technology-enabled 2018, generating approximately 180m from the sale of part experience.
Investing in innovative, leading edge of our stake, supporting further reinvestment in our capabilities gives us the potential to attract a business wider range of investors, enhance existing Three bolt-on acquisitions accelerated our US capabilities in relationships and develop smarter, more private markets, closed-ended funds and exchange-traded effective ways of engaging with them.
funds Launched an innovative financing strategy for private market funds, developed in collaboration with Phoenix Valuing our savings Optimising the breadth and depth of our Extended and enhanced strategic partnership with Phoenix, ecosystem investment management, platform and advice providing further opportunity for future growth ecosystem, along with our geographical reach, Joint venture announced with Virgin Money with potential to enables us to meet the savings needs of clients offer investment solutions to the combined retail customer and customers around the world.
We aim to play base of Clydesdale Bank, Yorkshire Bank and Virgin Money a stronger role in helping people save effectively Launched Aberdeen Standard Investments first global and understand the investment solutions which marketing campaign, to show the breadth of expertise and are right for them.
We make the most of our solutions we can offer to high net worth customers strong brands to deliver enhanced value across New advertising campaign for Standard Life in the UK all of the products and services we offer.
targeting improved brand sentiment and product association 26 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Our business has transformed in line with our vision.
Our strategic objectives now reflect the new shape of our business and our priorities for the future.
Performance highlights Key risks Focus for 2019 1 Supporting our teams and improving investment performance through Investment performance 4 9 10 process enhancement plans across all asset classes 1 year: 47% 2017: 70% 2 Continue to develop trusted client relationships at a local level, through 23 3 years : 50% 2017: 63% 5 11 investment centres worldwide 5 years: 62% 2017: 64% In our UK savings business, further invest in our retail platforms to 7 2018 Defaqto Gold rating for service enhance functionality and adviser experience Wrap and Elevate Enhance profile of our flagship brands Aberdeen Standard Investments 2018 Defaqto 5 star rating for and Standard Life and our profile as an ESG leader discretionary portfolio services Aberdeen Standard Capital and Parmenion 2,3 Cost income ratio Maintain progress towards combined merger and simplification efficiencies 1 5 10 of at least 350m including: 68% 2017: 71% 2,3 Migration of assets administered by Aberdeen Asset Management to Adjusted profit before tax 2 6 11 an integrated global investment platform 650m 2017: 660m Develop working practices to enhance productivity by reducing 3 7 12 IFRS profit after tax attributable duplication and delayering of processes to equity shareholders 4 8 Further systems integration including single HR platform 830m 2017: 699m Progress implementation of separation plan to reduce transitional services provided by Phoenix Employee survey Engagement Implement actions to improve employee engagement, based on themes 56% from our company-wide survey 2,3 AUMA Develop our private markets offering by working with clients, delivering 2 9 10 innovative solutions and generating performance through diversified and 551.5bn 2017: 608.1bn connected capabilities 2,3 11 11 Gross inflows Develop our connected, global, proprietary research platform incorporating 75.2bn 2017: 72.4bn insights into macro and micro investment strategies 7 2,3 Adjusted profit before tax Further expand our new active capabilities including our first Active 650m 2017: 660m Macro Systematic fund, applying quantitative principles to multi-asset investing Progress build of digitally-enabled advice offering to serve broader retail market 2,3 Leverage strategic partnership with Phoenix to grow retail business and AUMA 11 9 10 access new customers 551.5bn 2017: 608.1bn Launch of proposed joint venture with Virgin Money, anticipated Q2 2019 12 11 2,3 Gross inflows Pursue our structured programme to seek further opportunities to grow 75.2bn 2017: 72.4bn and diversify our business, including by selective bolt-on acquisitions 7 2,3 Net flows Drive accelerated growth and increase flows through our platform business through our new Professional Portfolio Manager capability, the 40.9bn outflow launch of auto-tailoring Individually Managed Accounts and the 2017: 32.9bn outflow competitive repositioning of Elevate 1 Percentage of AUM ahead of benchmark.
