Our business today Investing for a better future Our focus is on what we do best understanding and meeting the investment needs of our clients and customers, wherever they are in the world.
Transforming our business to drive innovation and efficiencies The sale of our UK and European insurance business to Phoenix in We continue to make good progress and remain on track to deliver August 2018 marked the completion of our transformation to a fee our previously announced targeted annual efficiency savings of over based capital-light investment company.
We have made clear 350m by the end of 2020.
This is comprised of the 250m choices, against a backdrop of challenging industry conditions, to get announced in 2017 at the time of the merger and the additional to this point.
100m announced in 2018 resulting from the sale of our UK and European insurance business.
The pace of delivery in our merger As our business has transformed, our strategy has evolved.
Our integration has accelerated across many areas of the business.
We strategic objectives set out on the following page reflect the new are also making progress on delivering the efficiency savings as we shape of our business and our priorities for the future.
We have implement our simplified operating model.
Delivering change on this simplified our operations, helping to optimise and modernise our scale is challenging and will be a key area of focus during 2019 business structure for future success.
Our business model as set out and 2020. on page 11 remains relevant following these changes.
management solutions, adviser platforms and financial advice.
Who we are The Standard Life brand is owned by us and licensed to Phoenix.
Headquartered in Edinburgh, Standard Life Aberdeen has offices in 54 locations employing 6,000 people.
We manage and administer In addition to providing long-term arrangements in relation to the over 550bn of assets worldwide.
assets we already manage for Phoenix, the enhanced strategic partnership is expected to deliver incremental assets as Phoenix Our global scale, expertise and resources enable us to offer a wide continues to consolidate life and pensions businesses in the UK and range of investment solutions and services.
They are designed to Europe, and expands into the bulk purchase annuity market.
We have meet the changing needs of ourcustomers, who come to us through already started to see the benefits from the enhanced partnership with our direct retail channels or via independent financial advisers, and additional assets secured from Phoenix.
the needs of our clients, the organisations who represent the financial interests of individuals through our wholesale and institutional In the UK savings market we have three leading adviser platform channels.
businesses: Wrap and Elevate which are Standard Life branded, and the Parmenion digital platform.
These platforms give us important Our company is a combination of global asset management, savings access to retail customers.
Following the Phoenix transaction, Wrap and advice services in the UK, and strategic investments.
We have and Elevate remain part of our business and we maintain the two flagship brands, Aberdeen Standard Investments for global asset relationships with advisers, while certain products on these platforms management and Standard Life for savings, as well as market-specific are now provided by Phoenix.
Parmenion provides integrated brands in areas including financial advice and wealth management.
discretionary investment management, platform services and intuitive Aberdeen Standard Investments products and innovative solutions technology to financial advisers.
are offered across a diverse range of asset classes, either directly to 1825, our financial advice business, has continued to build a national institutional clients, or to wholesale clients such as private banks and presence across the UK and offers customers a full financial planning third party investment platforms.
It is a global brand that brings us and personal tax advice service.
We are also developing a digital close to our clients and the markets in which we invest.
As an capability to provide planning and advice in areas of the market where investment house, we are truly diversified and committed to active people do not already have easy access to advice.
Our wealth business, Aberdeen Standard Capital, provides discretionary investment management to high net worth We have important strategic investments in leading companies in two individuals.
Further detail on our investment capabilities and asset of the worlds most dynamic markets: India and China.
These management distribution is included on pages 18 to 19. businesses represent substantial potential and provide valuable insight.
In India, our stakes in HDFC Asset Management and HDFC As part of the sale of our UK and European insurance business, Life represent a foothold in one of the worlds fastest growing markets.
Standard Life Aberdeen entered into an enhanced strategic Our joint venture in China, Heng An Standard Life HASL, gives us relationship with Phoenix.
This relationship is based on the potential access to one of the biggest pools of financial assets globally complementary strengths of each business: Phoenix as an and the possibility of playing a significant role as the pension market administrator of insurance and long-term savings books, and develops.
Standard Life Aberdeen as a leading provider of investment 8 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Our purpose To invest for a better future We do it to make a difference.
To our clients, the lives of our customers, our people and our shareholders.
Our vision To build a world-class investment company A modern, dynamic global business which has the talent, scale and high-performing investment solutions to compete against the leading asset management companies across the world.
Our values Create connections Adapt and excel Deliver what matters We bring together our diverse talents, We dont stand still.
We improve, We relentlessly focus on delivering perspectives and insights and use our challenge, learn and innovate to earn our outcomes that truly matter to our clients and collective intelligence to deliver value.
We are ambitious, our customers.
remain true to our shared purpose, working sights are set on excellence and our minds We do the right thing and are empowered to as one team and with all our external are open to ideas.
partners to build better futures.
Our strategic objectives Client and customer centricity Our primary focus is delivering for our clients and customers this means working to understand and meet their needs while building lasting partnerships.
Enhancing our operations Helping our people be more productive, simplifying our ways of working and managing our costs effectively enables us to invest for growth.
Innovating for the future Investing in leading edge capabilities helps us attract clients and customers, enhance relationships and develop smarter ways of working.
Valuing our savings ecosystem Optimising the breadth and depth of our investment management, platform and advice ecosystem, along with our geographical reach enables us to meet the savings needs of clients and customers around the world.
Read more about our strategic objectives which have been revised to reflect the new shape of our business and our priorities for the future on pages 26 to 27.
Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 9 Our business model Our consistent model for creating value Our resources to create Our value proposition and preserve value Client and customer Investment relationships capabilities We aim to become longWe aim to deliver Global asset management term trusted partners for innovative solutions and our clients and customers, achieve better long-term through our ability to meet investment outcomes for their needs effectively.
We our clients and customers, work to understand what through a combination of they want and put that at local market knowledge the centre of our decision and global oversight.
We invest in our capabilities span a broad brands which are key to range of markets, asset UK savings sustainable value.
Our UK savings business includes our Wrap, Elevate and Parmenion adviser platform Talented Financial businesses, and our financial advice business people strength and 1825. heritage Our ability to deliver for We operate efficiently and Strategic investments clients relies on having effectively actively people with the right skills managing our balance We believe that we can generate attractive and knowledge, drawn sheet to ensure we hold returns for shareholders through the from diverse backgrounds enough capital to allow us development of deeper relationships and the and experiences, and to invest for future growth potential of these businesses.
Through collaborative approach to the actions weve taken to getting results.
As well as reshape our business, ensuring our people are weve created a company engaged and rewarded thats well positioned for appropriately, we offer a the long term.
We will use range of personal our experience to make development opportunities sure we continue to do the to help progress their right thing for all our skills, knowledge and stakeholders.
10 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Our simple model for generating returns Increasing assets Growing revenue Lowering unit costs Driving profit We aim to grow assets by We aim to reduce our costs Revenue is primarily Increasing assets, growing offering investment by controlling expenses and generated from the revenue and lowering unit capabilities, products and investing strategically to management and costs enables us to drive our solutions that meet the improve both the scalability administration fees we profit and cash flow that needs of new and existing and efficiency of our charge based on the value of allow us to further invest in clients.
the assets we look after for growing our business.
Our investment performance As most costs are relatively Cash generation is closely and market movements also fixed and revenue can be aligned with profit.
impact our level of assets.
impacted by market volatility, we aim to control our costs to be efficient throughout the business cycle.
Optimising the balance sheet We ensure that we have the appropriate level of capital to support and protect our operations while continuing to focus on growing our business.
We balance investing for business growth with continuing to pay dividends to shareholders.
Delivering for the benefit of our stakeholders Our simple business model is designed to create value and deliver longterm sustainable benefits to all our stakeholders including our clients, our people and also to wider society.
Preparing for Brexit Due to the actions weve taken, we dont anticipate that Brexit, in whatever form it takes, will have a material impact on our business model.
See page 14 for details of our preparations in our EMEA Europe, the Middle East and Africa business to ensure that we can continue to serve the needs of our clients.
As an asset manager, our revenue is exposed to any market uncertainty that may arise due to Brexit.
Further details of potential risks to our business relating to Brexit are included in the Risk management section of this report.
Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 11 Create connections We bring together our diverse talents, perspectives and insights and use our collective intelligence to deliver value.
We remain true to our shared purpose, working as one team and with all our external partners to build better futures.
A collaborative culture Reflecting our markets Bringing our people together following the Our structure also puts us closer to our merger has helped to create momentum clients and customers.
With teams based in behind our purpose.
Over 4,000 of our 54 locations around the world, we have a people are now co-located in our combined deep understanding of the local markets in offices.
This has helped forge stronger which we operate.
Our clients and customers come from diverse We have improved connectivity across our backgrounds and have different cultural and global team, evolving how our business is societal experiences.
In order to meet their structured to create group-wide functions that needs, we need to reflect this diversity.
That support the four regions in which we operate is why we focus on being an inclusive the UK, EMEA, the Americas and Asia workplace we believe that celebrating the Pacific.
diversity in our business brings us closer to our clients and customers and each other.
One of our priorities in taking the right actions for our business is listening to our peoples By encouraging broader and deeper views particularly in light of the changes collaboration across our locations, we share that weve made to our company since 2017. in a wider range of perspectives, using that We create opportunities for dialogue, both insight to evolve our propositions and to face to face and through the use of stimulate new ideas.
technology, connecting employees across the globe, providing input to a range of strategic and operational initiatives.
Read more about our people and culture onpages 28 to 29.
12 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 13 Our transformed business manages assets for clients and customers in around 80 countries across the globe We have operations in the worlds financial capitals as well as in important regional centres.
This brings us closer to our clients and customers, and provides invaluable knowledge and insight to share with colleagues around the globe.
UK Europe, Middle East and Africa Key locations Key locations Aberdeen Bristol London Abu Dhabi Frankfurt Milan Basingstoke Edinburgh HQ Dublin Luxembourg Zurich Overview Overview Market conditions were challenging and have impacted on net A key focus for 2018 and early 2019 was on completing outflows across our regions, including the UK.
However, we have arrangements to ensure continuity of service for our EU clients, seen strong inflows into strategies such as diversified growth, buy and whatever the final outcome of the Brexit process, including maintain credit, commercial real estate debt, and long-lease property.
anticipating the potential loss of passporting rights.
We addressed this We have increased client engagement over the year with some major risk by establishing an EU MiFID firm in Dublin and expanding the new wins, particularly with local government pension schemes.
We activities of our Luxembourg-based company to provide services to also continued to develop our market-leading adviser platforms an increased number of Irish and Luxembourg domiciled funds.
Wrap, Elevate and Parmenion to address client needs.
We continued to diversify our business including through new opportunities resulting from a wider product suite.
2018 highlights Our Better Beta OEIC range, with assets of approximately 28bn, 2018 highlights passed its third anniversary and six out of its seven funds achieved Secured a regulatory licence in Ireland to operate as an EU MiFID first quartile, positive growth performance over this period investment firm responsible for eight branches in Europe our In direct response to adviser market needs we launched the team in Dublin is responsible for this activity Professional Portfolio Manager, which offers greater digital and The top three mandate wins by the EMEA sales team during the automated portfolio management capabilities year were in Emerging Market Equities, Credit and European Real Executed the sale of SLAL to Phoenix, while sustaining momentum Estate, totalling 1.3bn in our platforms and advice businesses we remain the UK's Consolidated 18 funds and 50bn into our Luxembourg office largest adviser platform Market opportunities Market opportunities EMEA is one of the largest investment markets in the world with The size of the combined retail, wholesale and institutional markets in around 14trn of assets.
Our strategy focuses on capitalising on this the UK is estimated at around 5.1trn.
In the retail market, our longopportunity by launching innovative products to increase our market term strategic partnership provides potential access to the enlarged share.
We will invest in our products and services to meet demand and maximise the potential of such a Germany, Italy and Switzerland are some of our key markets in large market.
We will also focus on offering investors access to lowContinental Europe and we are looking to leverage the global, cost multi-asset solutions, supported by the launch of our MyFolio diversified nature of our company as a differentiator and source of Index range.
14 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Assets under management and administration by geography Office locations 551.5bn 54 Countries 27 People 6,000 Asia Pacific Americas Key locations Key locations Hong Kong Shanghai Sydney Boston Philadelphia Toronto Jakarta Singapore Tokyo New York So Paulo Overview Overview We offer a diverse range of solutions and our Aberdeen Standard We saw continued demand for our investment solutions in this region Investments brand has one of the broadest footprints compared to its during the year.
As a non-domestic brand, this is a positive sign of competitors across the region.
how well the Aberdeen Standard Investments brand is viewed.
As part of our integration work in the region, teams worked across We expanded our teams in Japan and China, which are two of our functions to increase the levels of co-operation and collaboration, target markets.
We promoted our enhanced broader range of skills share best practice and optimise the use of our client management across the territories where we operate.
In early 2019, we announced technology to drive insight and actions.
The first, a minority stake investment in Singapore Life, the first fully digital life insurer in Singapore and, 2018 highlights second, the acquisition of Orion Partners, a real estate manager with New fund launches and bolt-on acquisitions to meet client needs an enviable track record in three of Asias most developed markets.
and accelerate our US presence in specialist areas, including private markets, closed-ended funds and exchange-traded funds 2018 highlights Significant work to reorganise US team to better serve clients First wholly-owned foreign company to gain an onshore asset management licence in China Market opportunities IPO of HDFC Asset Management in India completed in August The Americas market is the largest in the world and predicted to grow 2018.
As part of the IPO we reduced our holding from c38% to to over $29trn of assets in 2019.
We want to capitalise on this c30% for a total net consideration of approximately 180m.
opportunity by differentiating ourselves from the domestic players that New fund launches to market, including a domestic China A-Share currently dominate the market.
Our strategy for driving forward the Americas business is focused on three main components: building a and a Multi-Asset 360 Income fund in Taiwan new active strategies and solutions business, creating scope for Market opportunities reinvestment, and considering bolt-on inorganic options to accelerate The Asia Pacific market has grown steadily in recent years, to around and extend our US presence.
Our strategy targets growth by increasing our footprint and global collaboration, developing partnerships across our key markets: Japan, Australia, India and China, and also carefully managing wider opportunities.
Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 15 Adapt and excel We dont stand still.
We improve, challenge, learn and innovate to earn our place in the future.
We are ambitious, our sights are set on excellence and our minds are open to ideas.
A focus on innovation Adapting effectively, operating We believe that developing innovative new efficiently active solutions that focus on outcomes As well as seeking new, diverse investment instead of benchmarks is key to the future opportunities, we aim to make sure that our growth of the business.
business continues to adapt to make the most of these.
In 2018, we accelerated the pace of innovation with the launch of 32 funds 2017: 22 funds.
In We believe digital advice is key to the future of addition, we currently have around 20 funds retirement planning, especially in the UK, that are in the later stages of development.
For where the percentage of those reaching age 65 example, were developing two new products is expected to continue to rise.
We are for our Liability Aware programme which are developing a dedicated digital advice due to launch in 2019.
This is a continuous proposition to develop new, efficient ways to programme of development between various meet our customers retirement planning asset class and product teams, to provide a needs.
range of options that suit small to mediumIn integrating our businesses and coming sized pension fund clients.
together as one company, we have worked to As we transform our business, were working to evolve our investment and distribution identify and understand opportunities and processes.
We have carried out an extensive trends that may help our company and industry programme to integrate and rationalise our innovate and improve.
Our Artificial Intelligence fund ranges.
In reviewing and refreshing our Global Equity Fund, part of our range of distribution strategies, weve aimed to bring quantitative investment strategies, uses more discipline and consistency to our powerful machine learning techniques to relationship and client teams across the world quickly analyse evolving financial markets data with an emphasis on growing our business in to identify and recall data patterns.
In the UK, with changes to pension policy and We also continue to ensure that we are provision, many more people are choosing to operating efficiently and controlling our costs.
remain invested throughout retirement, leading This includes the delivery of the merger to a greater demand for financial advice.
In synergies and the implementation of a response weve launched the next generation simplified global operating model.
While of model portfolio management technology on change on this scale creates opportunities for the Wrap platform Professional Portfolio our people, cost savings include reductions in Manager.
This innovative offering has greater employee numbers.
We continue to aim to digital and automated capabilities and gives manage much of this through natural employee advisers an efficient, scalable and risk turnover and to do everything possible to controlled operating model.
In less than six minimise compulsory redundancies.
months since launch, businesses advising on c3.5bn of assets have chosen to adopt the new functionality.
16 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 17 Our transformed business actively seeks out new and innovative ways to extend our capabilities Our investment capabilities are truly global, covering a broad range of markets, asset classes and strategies.
Our aim is to drive better investment outcomes for clients and customers.
To achieve this, we draw on our talented people, deep knowledge of local markets and coordinated global oversight combined with a commitment to embedding Environmental, Social and Governance ESG factors across each asset class.
Diagram shows analysis of total assets under management at 31 December 2018 including strategic insurance partners.
1 AUM at 31 December 2018 bn Equities Disciplined, high-conviction, fundamental investment aims to deliver superior outcomes for clients One of worlds largest active asset managers offering wide ranging 140 equity strategies investment professionals Research and insight are used to exploit market inefficiencies and 10 countries identify the best investment opportunities for client portfolios Global team presence Active engagement and effective analysis of ESG issues mitigate risks Two complementary and identify companies most likely to outperform over the longer term investment approaches Fixed income Our approach is based on research-driven, team-based active management One of largest fixed income managers in Europe with a diverse client 140 base investment professionals Capabilities across developed and emerging markets, public and private 11 countries credit, investment-grade and high-yield markets Global team presence Long track record of delivering targeted and local solutions to meet Client driven outcomes specific client goals and objectives Multi-asset We seek to provide better, more predictable outcomes for investors Scale and experience to provide a multi-asset solution to meet a range 150 of client needs and priorities investment professionals Developed range of advanced, flexible solutions that target positive Europe, US & Asia returns while also constraining and controlling risk presence A broad and diverse investment universe through multi-asset investing Industry leading risk can enhance return potential and reduce volatility management Private markets Providing excellent capital growth, income generating or risk adjusted outcomes One of the top 10 largest managers of private markets assets globally 105 includes real estate assets investment professionals Capabilities across private equity, infrastructure, private credit, real 10 countries assets and private market solutions Global team presence Long track record of managing private markets portfolios Top 10 Global private markets ranking 1 Excludes strategic insurance partners.
18 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Our investment approach Our distribution We continue to believe that active investment management delivers Through our global network of offices, the role of our distribution superior outcomes for clients over the long term.
We believe in a team is to access potential investors and develop trusted, longconnected team-based ethos, fundamental research delivering insights to term relationships founded on high-quality client service.
We exploit market inefficiencies, and the embedding of ESG criteria within our have a targeted approach to growth by concentrating on investment approach.
We make deliberate, active decisions at each stage distributing Aberdeen Standard Investments products in the of the investment process and believe that all investment approaches markets where we have a strong track record.
Distribution of our require active decision making at some level, whether that be products is supported by the promotion of the Aberdeen incorporating fundamental discretionary or systematic quantitative Standard Investments brand through a co-ordinated series of techniques.
local and regional brand awareness initiatives and sponsorship opportunities.
We have diverse investment capabilities offering a range of outcomes for our clients, including some 100 strategies, all united by these beliefs.
For In the institutional market, we are a chosen investment partner of example, within Equities we run a number of strategies under two pension funds, insurers, sovereign wealth funds, governments differentiated but complementary investment styles: Long Term Quality and local authorities, charities and financial institutions, providing and Focus on Change.
both pooled and segregated investment management.
The market environment for active asset managers was challenging in In the wholesale investment market, we support wealth 2018.
As one of the largest active managers in the world, we are inevitably managers, private banks and financial advisers, as well as affected by these headwinds, and that is clearly reflected in our investment making our investment products available directly to private performance.
We remain focused on supporting our teams and improving investors.
We also offer investment solutions to private investors performance, while remaining true to our investment approach.
via our wealth management channel.
1 AUM at 31 December 2018 bn Alternatives We create and manage outcome-oriented portfolios of alternative strategies Offer a full range of global hedge fund and diversification strategies 25 across the liquidity spectrum investment professionals Outcome orientated portfolios that use a disciplined and proven London & New York research-driven investment process Global reach hubs Highly experienced team in alternative investing supported by global Award winning innovative research coverage solutions Real estate Our approach to real estate is global, but implemented locally Our status as one of the worlds largest real estate managers helps 270 credibility, deal flow and our ability to provide a one-stop shop for clients investment professionals Global reach allows us to uncover more investment opportunities that 11 countries have potential to enhance investors returns Global team presence Well established and long-term track record with demonstrated ability of Leading global rankings in adapting to ever changing market conditions real estate sustainability benchmark Quantitative Experts in proprietary multifactor investing Experienced team managing assets across a range of strategies: 30 traditional passive indexation, enhanced indexation, smart beta and investment professionals active quant using artificial intelligence Experienced team Provide clients with products and solutions that are customised to their formed in 2005 needs Multifactor investment Open-innovation approach focuses on collaboration with world-class approach to drive improved partners returns Cash liquidity We offer bespoke solutions to meet specific client liquidity and yield objectives Manage assets for a broad range of institutional clients 10 Enhanced size and scale enable us to deliver better outcomes for investment professionals clients Portfolio managers in Offer tailored solutions for capital preservations, daily dealing and Edinburgh, London and Philadelphia enhanced yield objectives Key player in the liquidity 1 Excludes strategic insurance partners.
market Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 19 Deliver what matters We relentlessly focus on delivering outcomes that truly matter to our clients and customers.
We do the right thing and are empowered to make a difference.
We have also focused on maintaining trusted, Improving investment performance long-term relationships with our clients to help Its been a disappointing year for our them understand the causes of weak investment performance, and our long-term investment performance and, importantly, what approach is being tested by the market we are doing to address this.
Our weaker three year with clients in a variety of ways to keep them investment performance reflects negative informed.
This includes white papers, market returns within multi-asset absolute return analysis, and webinars led by our senior strategies, and weakness in most equity leaders.
classes other than Asia Pacific and smaller companies.
Investment performance remains ESG at the heart of everything we do robust across other asset classes.
Investment We believe that positive investment outcomes process evaluation and enhancement is a can be aligned with positive outcomes for continuous practice within investment teams, society and the environment.
We integrate, however formal plans have been developed for review and research ESG considerations absolute return and equities.
We see Our process enhancement plans aim to this as an important way of protecting our improve performance while remaining true to clients investments and believe it really adds to our investment style.
They focus on idea the value we offer to them.
Its about analysing generation, capture and implementation.
the key issues for each asset class and using Actions we have taken include: that analysis to make better-informed investment decisions for our clients.
In 2018, Investment in new talent and enhanced risk we announced our involvement as joint lead analytics tools partner and founder of The Big Exchange, part Creation of a new Performance and of The Big Issue Groups social investment Investment Review Committee to strengthen arm.
The Exchange is a platform providing review processes investors with access to funds that meet ethical Establishment of our research platform with investment criteria.
appointed heads of research, and creation of In addition, five of our real estate funds were a research institute to inform our macro and awarded five star status by the global longer-term thematic house views sustainability benchmark GRESB for reaching Enhanced Board level focus and oversight of significant environmental targets, placing us in actions to improve investment performance the top 20% of our peers.
Three of our funds achieved the highest ESG performance of their We recognise that improving multi-asset absolute return strategies and equity peer group.
performance may take some time and will depend partly on market conditions, but we are encouraged by recent performance improvement seen in emerging market equities.
20 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 21 Working to create value for our stakeholders Clients and customers Understanding our clients How we engage and customers We operate in a way that allows us to stay close to our clients and actively seek feedback to inform We develop relationships with our ongoing improvements.
We create meaningful partnerships to understand how their requirements evolve.
clients and customers based on We have a large global distribution team, and they significantly increased engagement with clients in 2018 mutual trust and our ability to across the full sales process.
We We build up insight from clients and customers which helps to inform future product development and focus on understanding what they innovation.
For example, we conducted an online survey in 2018 of our institutional and wholesale clients want and put that at the centre of with respondents representing 31bn in AUM.
Strengths included brand loyalty, however certain clients our decision making.
were disappointed with the level of investment performance.
We also continue to engage with our adviser platform users and regularly monitor customer satisfaction.
Our Board receives regular updates on both satisfaction and complaints data.
Our people Understanding our people How we engage Having people who bring a diverse In November 2018, we conducted a company-wide employee survey.
69% of our people responded, range of talents and perspectives, giving us their views on our strategic direction, the impact of transformation, and confidence in our leaders.
and who feel engaged in their roles, The survey results are discussed on page 28. is fundamental to the long-term We ran company-wide workshops in 2018 to ask our people to help shape our culture and values.
It is Existing employee representative forums have joined together to form a new single employee forum crucial that we understand their representing employees in the UK.
In Q1 2019, we agreed that one of our non-executive Directors would values and what motivates them take on the role of liaising on employee engagement.
and reflect this in the way we operate.
Wider society Understanding our role in How we engage wider society We are active investors.
During 2018, we engaged regularly with the boards and senior leaders of As a global investment company companies.
We voted at 4,875 shareholder meetings and, in some cases, spoke publicly about areas of we have a responsibility in terms of concern.
the influence we can have on our We actively engage with all material suppliers and take part in regular oversight, monitoring and feedback industry, our supply chain and with them, up to and including at chief executive level.
We aim to ensure all suppliers are paid promptly.
We take these Corporate sustainability is central to our business.
Weve been recognised in high-profile sustainability responsibilities seriously and we indices, including the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, where we were ranked in the top 5% for our sector, are proud to serve the communities and also the FTSE4Good index where we were listed in the top 1% of companies.
We were also awarded in which we operate.
Better Societys 2018 Financial Services Company of the Year award.
Stakeholder interests at the heart of the SLAL sale and our Section 172 1 strategic partnership with Phoenix statement For it to be a success, we knew that the In the long term, we considered that the deal would The Directors are fully aware of their sale and our partnership would need to be good for transferred and retained employees, as responsibilities to promote the work for all our stakeholders.
the partnership offered new and exciting success of the company in opportunities going forward.
However, we recognise accordance with s172 of the Many of Standard Lifes systems, that it has and will create shorter-term uncertainty.
The content on processes and people transferred: which, stakeholder engagement on pages combined with a licence granted to The enhanced partnership with Phoenix and sale of 22 to 23 and business practices on Phoenix to use the Standard Life brand, SLAL facilitated our new operating model and we pages 48 to 49 highlight key actions meant customers would have the same expect this to enable significant cost savings.
experience before and after completion of sale also enabled the delivery of the significant capital the sale.
They will have continued access return to shareholders.
Further details on how the Directors to Aberdeen Standard Investments duties are discharged and the Phoenix now has a significant presence in Edinburgh.
investment capabilities: and the advice oversight of these duties are included This enhances Scotlands reputation as a key and platforms businesses are retained by in the Governance section on pages financial centre, helping attract talented people to the Standard Life Aberdeen.
22 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT for our shareholders Our shareholders Understanding our How we engage shareholders We are in touch with our shareholders at least three times a year with information about shareholder The support and engagement of meetings, dividend payments, and financial results.
our shareholders is imperative to Our annual general meetings alternate between London and Edinburgh to allow more shareholders to the future success of our business.
attend and enable us to gather shareholders views while giving them the opportunity to hear directly from We have a productive ongoing our Chairman and Board.
dialogue with both large investors and retail shareholders.
Our aim is Shareholders can view and manage their holdings using our online share portal, and can also download to provide best-in-class service and the Standard Life Aberdeen investor app for share price information, press releases and regulatory news.
We have a programme of regular meetings with institutional investors and analysts around the world, to We believe that maintaining our understand their views and address any concerns.
reputation for high standards of conduct is not just doing the right Read more in the Governance section on page 60. thing, but something that builds value for our shareholders.
Our investment case A broad and compelling client offering Well positioned to benefit from the trends shaping the global savings and investment landscape Strong track record of reacting and adapting to changes in our Aberdeen Standard Investments is one of the largest active markets asset managers in the world Ability to respond through innovation in key areas of growing Formal plans in place to improve investment performance for client demand absolute return and equities, with recent improvement seen in emerging market equities Scale to meet expected growth in demand for advice and platforms in the UK Track record of product innovation across a broad range of asset classes We own significant shareholdings in savings and investment businesses in the growing economies of India and China Strong pipeline of innovative ideas across region, channel, asset class and outcome Global distribution with close proximity to clients Fast growing UK adviser platforms and financial advice capability Offices in 54 locations around the world Market-leading UK adviser platform business with over 59bn of assets under administration Clients in around 80 countries Scalable through operational leverage, with a clear path to Partners around the world provide local expertise in some of the growing profitability worlds largest economies including Mitsubishi UFJ and Sumitomo Mitsui in Japan, Bosera in China, Manulife and John Expanding national financial planning and advice business Hancock in North America, HDFC in India, and Challenger in 1825, acquiring two IFA firms in 2018 Australia Proposed new strategic joint venture with Virgin Money CYBG Enhanced partnership with Phoenix providing potential access provides potential opportunity to leverage our platform to up to 10 million customers in the UK technology to offer investment solutions to their six million retail customers Enhanced operational efficiency Strong balance sheet and valuable listed investments Targeting annualised cost efficiencies of at least 350m to be 2.6bn of Group cash and liquid resources, providing financial achieved by end of 2020 with 175m already implemented.
strength and supporting investment in innovation, technology 2018 results benefited by c120m with further benefit to come and our people Announced a simplified operating model, providing platform for Track record of reshaping our balance sheet and returning growth and increased efficiency capital to shareholders Targeting a cost income ratio of 60% over the longer term Combined value of our shareholdings in Phoenix, HDFC Asset Management and HDFC Life at 11 March 2019 was c4.5bn Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 23
