STRATEGIC REPORT Non-financial information statement Standard Life Aberdeen aims to comply with the Non-Financial Reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006.
This information is intended to help stakeholders better understand how we address key non-financial matters.
This aligns with the work we already do in support of Carbon Disclosure Project, UN Global Compact and UN Sustainable Development Goals.
Further details of the activities we undertake in supporting these frameworks is available in our Corporate sustainability report.
Details of our principal risks and how we manage those risks are included in the Risk management section.
Reporting requirement Relevant policies and publications Where to find more information 1 Environment Environmental policy Our business practices page 48 1 Single-use plastics policy www.
com annualreport 1 Employees Global code of conduct Our business practices page 48 1 Diversity strategy Our people and culture pages 28 to 29 2 Anti-bribery and corruption policy Our business practices page 48 1 Human rights Human rights policy Our business practices page 48 1 Modern slavery statement Our business practices page 48 Social matters Young people and money report www.
com annualreport Corporate sustainability report www.
com annualreport 1 Supplier code of conduct www.
com annualreport Other matters Business model Our business model pages 10 to 11 Non-financial KPIs Our strategy page 27, Our business practices page 48 1 Group policies are published on our website at www.
com annualreport 2 Certain Group policies are not published externally.
34, management of its risks including market, credit and liquidity risk Basis of preparation Note 39, its contingent liabilities and commitments Notes 43 and Overview 44, and its capital structure and position Note 47.
Our Strategic report for the year to 31 December 2018 has been The Group continues to meet group and individual entity capital prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the requirements and day-to-day liquidity needs.
The Company has a Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR issued by the FCA.
Under revolving credit facility of 400m as part of our contingency funding section 414 of the Companies Act 2006, DTR 4.1.
9, plans and this is due to mature in 2022.
The Group has considerable the Group is required to provide a fair, balanced and understandable financial resources together with a diversified business model, with a review of the business and a description of the principal risks and spread of business and geographical reach.
As a consequence, the uncertainties facing the Group.
Principal risks and uncertainties are Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business detailed in the Risk management section of this Strategic report and risks successfully.
Note 39 in the Group financial statements section.
To provide clear and helpful information, we have also considered the revised After making enquiries and having assessed the principal risks, the voluntary best practice principles of the Guidance on the Strategic Directors are satisfied that the Group has and will maintain sufficient report issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2018.
We resources to enable it to continue operating for at least 12months have also considered the European Securities and Markets Authority from the date of approval of the financial statements and therefore ESMA guidelines on alternative performance measures issued in consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting October 2015. in preparing the financial statements.
In addition, the Directors have assessed the Groups viability over a period of threeyears.
The Groups International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance Forward-looking statements with IFRS, as endorsed by the European Union EU.
However, our Details of forward-looking statements are included in the Glossary on Board believes that alternative performance measures APMs, which page 253. have been used in the Strategic report, are also useful for both management and investors.
All APMs should be read together with the Groups IFRS consolidated income statement, IFRS consolidated statement of financial position and IFRS consolidated statement of cash flows, which are presented in the Group Financial statements section of this report.
Kenneth A Gilmour Going concern Company Secretary, The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to Standard Life Aberdeen plc SC286832 affect its future development, performance and position, are set out in this Strategic report.
This includes details on our liquidity and capital 13 March 2019 management and our viability statement in the Chief Financial Officers overview section and our principal risks in the Risk management section.
In addition, the Group financial statements section includes notes on the Groups subordinated liabilities Note Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 49 Governance 50 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 GOVERNANCE Contents 52 2.
Statement of Directors responsibilities Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 51
