SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Our Strategy Below we detail a description of each element in our four-pillar strategy, together Our four pillar Superdry 5.0 with what we have achieved against each of the components.
The foundation for both strategy is clear, grounded in a current delivery and future development within each pillar reflects continued investment in people, systems and infrastructure, ensuring a strong platform to support the future thorough understanding of our growth of the business.
While investment will continue in the medium-term to underpin brand, consumer, product and long-term sustainable growth, our global distribution infrastructure and processes are now sufficiently developed to allow targeted efficiencies to crystallise.
Description Leveraging the strong link between our brand values and our three product attributes, which are: quality obsession: 360 design and innovation: and value for money.
Global digital brand Embracing the consumer-led shift towards online, particularly mobile, we apply a digital mindset to everything we do.
Building Superdry to a globally recognised brand Further diversified brand footprint across channel, category and geography.
with digital as our core capability Disruptive, multi-channel approach means we are uniquely positioned to take advantage of growth opportunities globally.
Drive product opportunities by constant innovation both within our core mainline offer, particularly in womenswear, premium and denim, but also in adjacent categories including active sportswear, ski and footwear.
Relentless innovation Embrace technology and automation across all areas of the business.
An obsessive focus on quality and innovation ingrained Refine category management and Design to Customer process to offer newness more frequently as we go in our design process through the seasons.
The optimisation of our Design to Customer process including the ongoing investment in our IT systems, including our transactional and internal business systems, and our infrastructure.
Operational excellence Growth by continued investment in our colleagues, systems and infrastructure so that we drive increasing Create an effective and efficient operating model to support efficiency and operating margins as we grow our business.
our global growth and operating margin ambitions The entrepreneurial and innovative culture we inherited from our founders to remain at the heart of our way of working, allowing colleagues to flourish and fulfil their potential through working in a creative environment.
Opportunities to expand Superdrys points of sale globally based upon a disciplined  approach led by capital-light channels, Wholesale and Ecommerce A multi-channel relationship with our consumers that enables them to order anywhere, on any device, using any payment method, and have their order delivered to wherever they choose.
World market opportunity Increasing Ecommerce penetration across the world, including developing our partner programme, where we Optimising growth through our agile, multi-channel approach offer our product for sale on third party retailers.
The growth and development of our Wholesale division.
The considered growth of owned retail space in our key markets and continually reviewing our existing estate to ensure it remains appropriate.
com Strategic Report Achievement Leveraging the strong link between our brand values and our three product attributes, which are: quality obsession: Global Brand revenue increased by 22.1% year-on-year with growth in all key territories.
360 design and innovation: and value for money.
Group revenue increased by 16.0% led by capital light channels.
Embracing the consumer-led shift towards online, particularly mobile, we apply a digital mindset to everything we do.
Unique and iconic product design, driving category leadership in core ranges.
Further diversified brand footprint across channel, category and geography.
Fully integrated digital and social marketing campaigns driving incremental website visits, product sales and customer acquisition.
Social media Disruptive, multi-channel approach means we are uniquely positioned to take advantage of growth marketing campaigns resonating with key customer groups.
Partnership with Invictus Games UK team drives broad brand awareness and enhances technical expertise with Sport.
Customer engagement and loyalty growing significantly.
Drive product opportunities by constant innovation both within our core mainline offer, particularly in womenswear, Continued leadership in heritage ranges such as iconic graphic t-shirts, hoodies and sweats.
premium and denim, but also in adjacent categories including active sportswear, ski and footwear.
Successful introduction of responsibly sourced down jackets, at affordable price point.
Embrace technology and automation across all areas of the business.
iKiosk introduced to stores to enable customers to access entire range.
Refine category management and Design to Customer process to offer newness more frequently as we go Pilot of Radio Frequency Identification RFID technology provides platform for wider roll-out.
The optimisation of our Design to Customer process including the ongoing investment in our IT systems, Significant increase in the level of overlap between Retail and Wholesale ranges, increasing to 66% from 29% in 2015. including our transactional and internal business systems, and our infrastructure.
Single integrated stock pool on track to be delivered in 2018, fully aligning Retail and Wholesale.
Growth by continued investment in our colleagues, systems and infrastructure so that we drive increasing Sterling Order Management System enables introduction of market-leading UK delivery proposition to key European markets.
efficiency and operating margins as we grow our business.
Global logistics infrastructure established via two additional, fully operational distribution centres.
The entrepreneurial and innovative culture we inherited from our founders to remain at the heart of our way of Design to Customer processes implemented, leading towards a single product range across all channels.
working, allowing colleagues to flourish and fulfil their potential through working in a creative environment.
Direct sourcing increased by 33% with Hong Kong sourcing office opened as next phase of development towards 80% goal.
Opportunities to expand Superdrys points of sale globally based upon a disciplined  approach Wholesale revenue growth of 29.6% led by 24% increase in Superdry franchise locations with 75 stores opened across 33 countries.
led by capital-light channels, Wholesale and Ecommerce Market-leading ecommerce proposition established extending brand reach to 157 countries.
Revenue growth of 25.8% year-on-year, with new A multi-channel relationship with our consumers that enables them to order anywhere, on any device, using localised Ecommerce sites introduced in the US and Switzerland.
any payment method, and have their order delivered to wherever they choose.
Owned store re-generation continues with 11 Next Generation conversions and capital light model developed for FY19.
Increasing Ecommerce penetration across the world, including developing our partner programme, where we North America: Wholesale integration accelerated and distribution centre migration on track to facilitate further Wholesale and Ecommerce growth.
offer our product for sale on third party retailers.
China presence established: strong partner in place, brand landed well, franchise roll-out growing at pace.
