SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Our Brand Brand strategy In financial year 2018 we set out a clear vision to build a Global Digital Brand, encompassing all aspects of our product, brand and customer experience.
This strategy will further broaden and strengthen the appeal of the iconic Superdry brand, building Superdry into a brand with longevity that will appeal through all customers life stages and be a part of their lives beyond any individual product.
a Global Digital Brand Our brand strategy has three key elements: Superdry is a Global Digital Brand, Driving brand awareness recognised around the world, with There is a clear opportunity to introduce new consumers to Superdry and to ensure our consistent perceptions and a clear existing customers are aware both of the breadth of our heritage product range and of new products as we continue to innovate relentlessly.
This will allow us to increase consideration brand essence.
This is epitomised and purchase across a broader customer spectrum and with existing customers is particularly relevant for women.
by our brand purpose: we create the clothes our customers create the Delivering a consistent global brand proposition stories.
This clear brand positioning is We will continue to deliver consistency by applying best practice in each market and leveraging our global capability, across channels, in merchandising and range selection centred on creating amazing clothes, together with a clear understanding of how we optimise the proposition in any particular channel, footprint or territory.
through an obsession with design, quality and fit and is underpinned by Building a broad cross-channel relationship relentless innovation and commitment with customers to operational excellence in everything Removing any points of friction, making it easy for our customers to interact with the Superdry brand across all our channels.
We recognise that different customers interact we do.
Our customers are loyal and with Superdry in different ways, with some preferring our Ecommerce offering, others preferring to shop in store and some looking to interact through multiple channels.
global and are defined by attitude, We let our customers determine how they want to interact with us in whichever way suits them best and will always seek to provide them with a market-leading experience not age.
Core to the brand DNA is the combination of market-leading quality and design detail delivered at astonishing value for money.
Superdry has democratic appeal, offering affordable, premium-quality clothing, accessories and footwear complemented by newer lifestyle categories such as Sport and Snow.
com Strategic Report Our brand strategy also categorises each territory by the stage it has reached in developing the brand: Market Strategy Evolve Grow Build Target Brand Status Established Engaged Emerging Expected Territories UK, Belgium Western Europe, Australia US, China, Scandinavia, Eastern Europe, Canada, Middle East, Asia and South America South Africa Brand Development Reaffirm and refresh our current Bring clarity to the brand to enhance Position and build the brand Understand how the brand should brand position growth in the market in new territories be positioned and developed before entry 07 Superdry Front Section.
