SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Board of Directors Good corporate governance is good business.
Our governance framework supports and enables effective execution of our strategy together with high quality and timely decision making.
Rigorous analysis, robust challenge, close monitoring of performance, and an appropriate system of checks and balances are combined with the entrepreneurial and creative culture of the Company.
As Superdry grows and develops we continually evolve and improve our governance framework in line with the maturity of the Company and in light of emerging governance reforms and best practice.
Over the last year we have placed greater emphasis on our brand purpose and values which have given real assurance of the strong culture, beliefs and ways of working at Superdry, developing our Sustainability Programme further and having the leadership and composition on the Board that is appropriate to a Global Digital Brand.
Peter Bamford Chairman 4 July 2018 Peter Bamford Euan Sutherland Nick Wharton Ed Barker Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Chief Financial Officer Designate Appointed: 29 January 2010 Appointed: 1 December 2012 Appointed: 24 June 2015 Appointed: 16 April 2018 Euan was appointed as Chief Executive Officer in Nick was appointed Chief Financial Officer in June Ed was appointed Chief Financial Officer Designate Committee membership: Nomination Chairman October 2014, having previously been an independent 2015.
Previously he was Chief Executive Officer of in April 2018 and will succeed Nick Wharton as Chief Peter is Chairman of the Board and of the Nomination Non-Executive Director.
He is also a Non-Executive Dunelm Group plc between 2010 and 2014 and before Financial Officer on 5 July 2018.
He is also Non-Executive Chairman of Director of Britvic plc.
Euan previously served as Group that he was Chief Financial Officer of Halfords Group Non-Executive Director and Audit Committee Chair of B&M European Value Retail SA and Deputy Chairman Chief Executive Officer of the Co-operative Group, Plc.
In his eight year career at Halfords, he held both Staffline Group plc.
Ed has over 15 years of experience and Senior Independent Director of Spire Healthcare Group Chief Operating Officer at Kingfisher plc and finance and strategy roles.
Prior to this, Nick worked in the retail sector, including ten years at J Sainsbury Group plc.
Previously Peter was Chairman of Six as a Non-Executive Director with the Co-operative in senior finance positions at Boots Opticians, Boots plc Sainsburys, most recently as the Group Finance Degrees Holdings Limited from 2011 to 2015 and Food Board.
Prior to this he was Chief Executive of AS Healthcare International, Do-it-All Limited and Cadbury Director, working across a number of senior financial a Non-Executive Director of Rentokil Initial Plc from Watson UK, the owner of Superdrug.
Nick is a chartered accountant and has and operational functions including: Group Reporting, 2006 until 2016.
He was also a Director of Vodafone 20 years experience within the retail sector having been a Non-Executive Director of Mothercare plc since Financial Planning & Analysis, Tax, Pensions, Group Group Plc from 1998 to 2006 where he held senior held roles with Boots, Dixons, Coca-Cola, Matalan November 2013.
Financial Controller and Retail & Logistics Finance.
executive roles, including Chief Marketing Officer, Chief and Mars.
Before joining Sainsburys Ed worked as Group Nick steps down from the Board and will be Executive of Northern Europe, Middle East and Africa Financial Controller at Burberry Group plc.
Prior to succeeded by Ed Barker as Chief Financial Officer and Chief Executive of Vodafone UK.
Prior to this he working in industry, he achieved his professional ACA on 5 July 2018. held senior positions with WH Smith Plc, Tesco Plc qualification with  in 1998, and Kingfisher plc.
Peter has served on the boards of and was made an FCA in 2013. public companies for over 20 years and has extensive experience in developing and growing businesses and brands internationally.
com Governance Keith Edelman Penny Hughes Dennis Millard Minnow Powell John Smith Simon Callander Independent Independent Senior Independent Director Independent Independent Group General Counsel and Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Company Secretary Appointed: 4 February 2010 Appointed: 1 April 2015 Appointed: 1 February 2018 Appointed: 1 December 2012 Appointed: 1 February 2018 Appointed: 2 May 2017 Simon was appointed Group Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: General Counsel and Company Nomination, Audit, Nomination, Nomination, Audit Chairman, Audit, Secretary in May 2017.
Previously Remuneration Remuneration Chairman Remuneration Remuneration Remuneration he had been General Counsel and Keith is a member of the Nomination Penny is Chairman of the Dennis is a member of the Minnow is Chairman of the Audit John is a member of the Audit and Partnership Secretary at law firms and Remuneration Committees, Remuneration Committee and a Nomination and Remuneration Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committees.
He is a Addleshaw Goddard and Olswang former Senior Independent Nonmember of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
He is the Chairman Remuneration Committee.
He Non-Executive Director of Travelport between 2010 and 2017.
Prior Executive Director and member Committees.
She is also the of Halfords Group Plc and Deputy is a Non-Executive Director of Worldwide Limited, a New York to this Simon had held various of the Audit Committee.
He is Non-Executive Chairman of The Chairman and Senior Independent Computacenter plc where he is Stock Exchange listed company.
positions with Watson Wyatt now also Non-Executive Chairman Gym Group plc.
Pennys previous Director of Pets at Home plc.
Dennis Chairman of the Audit Committee.
John was the Chief Operating Officer Willis Towers Watson including of Revolution Bars Group Plc, Non-Executive Directorships include is also Chairman of the Trustees of Minnow was a Non-Executive of Burberry Group plc and, prior General Counsel, Europe and Head a Non-Executive Director and The Royal Bank of Scotland Group the charity The Holy Cross Childrens Director of TUI Travel Plc from 2011 to that, he was a Non-Executive of Business Services, Europe, and Chairman of Pennpetro Energy Plc plc, Wm Morrison Supermarkets Trust.
He was previously Senior prior to the merger with TUI AG, Director of Burberry Group plc and before that with Ernst & Young.
and a Non-Executive Director of Plc, Home Retail Group Plc, The Independent Director at Debenhams when he became a member of Chief Executive of BBC Worldwide.
Simon is a qualified solicitor and the London Legacy Development Gap Inc. Next Group Plc, The Body plc, Premier Farnell plc and the Supervisory Board and Audit John has been a leader in building originally trained and practised with Corporation.
Keith was previously Shop International Plc, Thomson Xchanging plc and was Chairman Committee of TUI AG until February many global brands and in media and intellectual property law Non-Executive Chairman of Goal Reuters Group Limited, Vodafone of Connect Group plc.
Prior to that Minnow spent 35 developing digital capabilities in the firm Dentons.
Soccer Centres Plc, Non-Executive Group Plc and Trinity Mirror Plc.
broad commercial and financial years with Deloitte.
He is a Chartered TV, fashion and creative industries.
Director of Safestore Holdings Plc, During her executive career Penny experience in the retail, service, Accountant and was a member of Chairman of Beale Plc, Managing spent ten years at The Coca-Cola distribution and manufacturing the UKs Audit Practices Board for Director of Arsenal Holdings Plc Company, initially as Marketing and sectors in the UK and internationally six years.
Minnow has extensive and Chief Executive of Storehouse Commercial Director, before being including at Cookson Group Plc experience in external and internal Plc encompassing BHS and made President of Coca-Cola Great where he was Finance Director.
He audit, risk management, financial Mothercare.
Keith has extensive Britain and Ireland.
is a member of the South African controls and corporate financial retail and international experience Institute of Chartered Accountants reporting in a wide range of sectors.
and has served on the boards of and holds an MBA from the public companies for over 30 years University of Cape Town.
across a wide range of businesses and markets.
Keith will not stand for re-election and will retire at the conclusion of the AGM.
