SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Directors Report We present the Directors Report together with the Groups administration burden.
We will continue to monitor the risks and We have implemented internal controls to provide assurance over audited Financial Statements for financial year 2018.
The uncertainties arising from Brexit within the Groups existing risk the compliance processes and we monitor their effectiveness Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 62 to 66 forms management and control process as outlined on page 59. through periodic internal audit review.
We report on an annual part of this Directors Report.
We are UK domiciled but have a basis to the Audit Committee on how tax risks are managed, number of overseas subsidiaries as well as branches in Austria, monitored and accounted for.
Approach to tax Italy, Norway, Portugal and Switzerland.
Our approach to tax matters is to comply fully with all relevant Related party transactions tax laws and regulations in operation in all countries in which we The Directors Report and Strategic Report comprise the are present, while managing the overall tax burden.
Additionally, Other than in respect of arrangements set out in note 21 to management report for the purposes of the Financial Conduct we will pay the right and fair amount of tax in each territory we the Financial Statements and in relation to the employment Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
R. trade from in accordance with the letter and spirit of local laws of Directors, details of which are provided in the Directors Please refer to pages 60 to 61 for full details of the Directors.
We understand that taxes we pay to governments Remuneration Report on pages 73 to 91, there is no material of those markets in which we operate are an important source indebtedness owed to or by us to any employee or any other Change of name of revenue for them in providing a stable infrastructure and person or entity considered to be a related party.
environment, and we seek to comply in a responsible manner.
On 8 January 2018 the name of the Company changed from Details of related party transactions are set out in note 21 SuperGroup Plc to Superdry Plc.
We seek to operate in the most tax efficient manner, making use of to the Financial Statements.
all relevant exemptions and incentives.
Where they exist, we seek Results and dividends to apply them in the manner intended.
We conduct transactions Share capital, control and Our Financial Statements for financial year 2018 are set out on between Superdry companies on an arms length basis.
restriction on voting rights pages 106 to 154, which should be read in conjunction with the We establish entities in jurisdictions suitable to hold our overseas section entitled Chief Financial Officers Review on pages 44 to Details of our issued share capital, together with details of investments, giving consideration to our business activities and 49. movements in our share capital during the year, are shown the prevailing regulatory environment.
Our tax planning strategy in note 34 to the Financial Statements on page 149 which is is not aggressive and we do not engage in artificial tax An interim ordinary dividend of 9.3p per share was paid on deemed to be part of this Directors Report.
We have one class of ordinary shares, which carries no right to The Directors have proposed a final ordinary dividend of 21.9p Our internal tax manager is supported by external, expert fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at our general per ordinary share being payable on 21 September 2018 to all tax advisers to provide input into our tax affairs, such as the meetings.
The ordinary shares are listed on the Official List and shareholders on the register at the close of business on 13 July management of compliance in the UK and overseas jurisdictions traded on the London Stock Exchange.
As at 28 April 2018, we had 2018, giving a total ordinary dividend in respect of financial year and the impact of changes in tax legislation on us.
The tax 81,630,277 ordinary shares of 5 pence each in nominal value in issue.
manager is supported by a US based financial accountant with relevant US tax experience to ensure the Group meets There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the its compliance obligations, recognising the complex tax regime Company other than: Post balance sheet events in operation there.
There have been no post balance sheet events that either certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed require adjustment to the Financial Statements or are important Details of UK taxes paid during the period are detailed on by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : in the understanding of our current financial position.
pages 127 to 128. and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct UK referendum Brexit Tax governance Authority and Superdrys share dealing code whereby certain Following the outcome of the UK referendum on 23 June 2016 employees of the Group require the approval of the Company Our internal tax policy is determined by the Board as a sub-set to leave the EU there remain a number of uncertainties regarding to deal in its ordinary shares.
of our overall business strategy and is overseen by the Audit how the exit will be achieved.
The Group has established a Brexit Committee.
Operational responsibility for the execution of the We are not aware of any agreements between shareholders working party which meets on a regular basis to discuss the Groups tax policy rests with the Chief Financial Officer, who that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or key impacts of the Brexit decision and reports to the Executive reports the Groups tax position to the Audit Committee voting rights.
We continue to seek ways to mitigate potential risks on a regular basis.
and believe our European distribution centre and multi-channel The rules relating to the appointment and replacement of The Audit Committee considers tax risks that may arise as capability provide a level of security in terms of supply chain Directors are contained in our Articles of Association.
Specific a result of business operations through the Groups risk and customer delivery should the UK leave the EU customs rules regarding the election and re-election of Directors are management framework.
The consideration of such tax union.
Our planning scenarios each anticipate an increase in referred to in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 62 risks includes actions to mitigate the risks or to prevent their delivery lead times, changes to duty regimes and a consequent to 66.
Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved occurrence or recurrence.
requirement to invest in more resources to deal with the extra by our shareholders.
com Governance Powers relating to the issue and buy-back of shares are included Resolutions will be proposed at this years AGM to renew these Directors interests in our Articles of Association and such authorities are renewed authorities.
Further details are set out in the notice of the AGM.
The interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the by shareholders each year at the AGM.
Other relevant disclosure requirements from the Takeover Company are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report Directive are included in the Directors Report, the Corporate on page 89.
Share buy-backs Governance Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and No Director has any other interest in any shares or loan stock In order to maintain maximum flexibility the Company proposes the Notes to the Group and Company Financial Statements.
of any Group company or was or is materially interested in any to renew the authority granted by shareholders at the AGM in There are no agreements in place between us and our employees contract, other than his service contract, which was subsisting 2017 to repurchase up to 10% of its issued share capital.
During or Directors for compensation for loss of office or employment during or existing at the year-end and which was significant in financial year 2018, we did not purchase any of our own shares.
that trigger as a result of a takeover bid.
relation to the Groups business.
Financial risk management UK Corporate Governance Code Share schemes Please refer to note 33 to the Financial Statements.
Our statement on corporate governance and compliance with The Group operates four types of share scheme: PSP, SAYE, the Code can be found in the Corporate Governance Report BAYE and a company share option plan currently not active.
All on pages 62 to 66 and is incorporated into the Directors Report Legal and regulatory compliance shares allotted under these share schemes have the same rights by reference.
The legal team is responsible for identifying and carrying out assessments of those areas of the business where material Under the rules of the BAYE share scheme eligible colleagues are The Takeover Directive legal and regulatory risks may be present.
entitled to acquire shares in the Company.
These shares are held The rights and obligations attached to the issued share capital in trust for participants by Computershare Trustees Limited the We continue to increase our controls on the use of standard are set out in the Articles of Association available on corporate.
Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on receipt agreements to achieve greater consistency and protection where superdry.
If a participant does not submit an we license and franchise our brand.
While the Group is confident instruction to the Trustees no vote is registered.
In addition, the of its compliance with its legal and regulatory compliance, At the AGM in 2017, shareholders approved resolutions Trustees do not vote on any unawarded shares held under the management is preparing a documented framework setting out authorising the Company to: BAYE share scheme as surplus assets.
The Trustees have also the key areas of laws and regulation which it should comply allot shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,356,029 elected to waive dividends on any unawarded shares held under with which will set out more clearly roles and responsibilities.
representing one-third of our issued share capital as at trust relating to dividends payable during the year.
As at 28 April The legal team will work with other departments to agree their 31 July 2017 : 2018 the Trustees held one unawarded shares in trust.
responsibilities in respect of supporting ongoing compliance.
approve the disapplication of pre-emption rights for cash Superdrys Employee Benefit Trust Trust has also waived all We continue to train and advise the organisation with respect issues of shares in respect of ordinary shares with a nominal dividends payable by the Company in respect of the ordinary shares to our obligations under data protection, competition, anti-bribery value of 203,404 representing approximately 5% of our held by it.
As at 28 April 2018 no shares were held by the Trust.
We are also continually reviewing our issued share capital as at 31 July 2017 : and intellectual property portfolio in light of our strategy for growth, approve an additional authority following changes in The and have made and will continue to make further registrations Founder Share Plan Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles which provided to ensure that our protection is robust.
On 12 September 2017 the founders of Superdry announced an that an allotment of up to an additional 5% of our issued innovative long-term incentive scheme the FSP under which share capital may also be made on a non pre-emptive basis they will share a percentage of the increase in their wealth with if that allotment was used only for the purposes of financing all colleagues in the business worldwide excluding members of a transaction which the Board determined to be an the Board.
At the conclusion of the FSP, Julian Dunkerton and acquisition or other capital investment within the meaning James Holder will transfer into a fund 20% of their gain from of The Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles.
any increase in the Companys share price over a threshold of 18.
The shares to be used for the purpose of the FSP remain beneficially owned by Julian and James.
indd 93 26 07 2018 16:58:36 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Directors Report Where issues are identified, mitigating actions are built into a Greenhouse gas emissions plan involving the drafting and communication of policies and the We have measured our operational and wider carbon footprint delivery of training where appropriate, or are approached by way for the past eight years, providing insight into where the largest of a revision to key contractual terms.
The Board receives regular climate impacts are and to prioritise resources accordingly.
reports on material litigation and the legal action taken to support our strategy, and the Audit Committee monitors progress against The Sustainability Report contains a table detailing our set compliance targets.
global greenhouse gas carbon emissions on page 40 and is incorporated into the Directors Report by reference.
Whistleblowing hotlines are in place internationally and are managed through a third party provider.
These cover all countries Disclosure of information in which we operate.
All matters arising from the use of the whistleblowing hotline are referred to the company secretarial to Auditor team and investigated.
The Audit Committee receives a summary Each Director who held office on the date of approval of this of all matters arising through the whistleblowing hotline on a Directors Report confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, regular basis.
there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups Auditor is are unaware.
Furthermore, each Director has taken all the The Bribery Act 2010 steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make The Group has an established anti-bribery policy in place designed him or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to to manage risks relating to bribery and corruption.
Guidance and establish that the Groups Auditor is aware of that information.
training is provided to colleagues along with information on how to Approved and signed on behalf of the Board.
Suppliers, distributors, franchisees and agents are made aware of Superdrys anti-bribery policy, and relevant Simon Callander provisions are included in our Supplier Manual and our contractual Company Secretary arrangements with our partners.
The issue is kept regularly under 4 July 2018 review to ensure that the steps in place are sufficiently robust to prevent bribery and corruption.
Health and safety We are committed to providing a safe place for our colleagues to work, both those employed by us and by our key business partners, and customers to shop.
Policies applicable to colleagues are reviewed on an ongoing basis to ensure that the approach to training, risk assessments, safe systems of working and accident management are appropriate.
An ongoing audit programme assesses health and safety, environmental and security risks and ensures robust control measures are in place to limit these risks.
For further information, please refer to the Strategic Report on page 36.
