SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Viability Statement Assessment of the Assessment of Viability Viability Statement In accordance with the requirements of the Code, the Directors Based on the results of their assessment, the Directors confirm Groups Prospects have assessed the viability of the Group over the output of that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the its four-year plan.
The Directors have relied on a number of able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall Code, the Directors have assessed the future prospects of the existing processes in conducting the assessment, including the due over the four-year period ending 30 April 2022.
Group for the purposes of both the going concern and viability annual budget and long-term financial plan.
Periodically, the statements over a period significantly longer than 12 months Board reviews the financing position of the Group, its projected from the approval of the financial statements.
The Directors have funding position and ongoing requirements through a detailed concluded that the most relevant time period for this assessment consideration of the Groups cash flows.
is four years, since this time frame represents an appropriate To assist the Directors assessment, the liquidity headroom duration an investor can reasonably expect a brand business to position from the financial projections of the long-term business be assessed and is consistent with Superdrys long-term financial model were subject to severe but plausible stress tests in relation plan, which is used as a planning tool for strategic decisions and to the principal risks, both individually and collectively, with resource allocations.
The Group is operationally and financially consideration taken of the effectiveness of mitigating actions strong and has a track record of generating profits and cash.
that might be undertaken in particular situations, including This assessment is made by reference to the Groups historical reduced capital and revenue investments.
These tests include activities, its current financial position, and its prospects as part a protracted reduction in the Groups forecast like-for-like of the Groups growth strategy.
The growth strategy considers revenues due to the impact of brand damage and the failure factors likely to affect its future development and position, and to fully establish the brand in key development markets, which is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 59.
The including the US and China.
performance section on pages 44 to 49 demonstrates the strength of the current position.
This assessment is closely linked The stress testing confirmed that in all cases the headroom to a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, remained positive and none of the scenarios tested, either including those that would threaten the business model, how individually or collectively, would threaten the viability of the they are identified and mitigated, its solvency and its liquidity.
business over the four-year assessment period.
The principal risks are outlined on pages 51 to 59.
Sustainability of dividends has been assessed and is discussed in more detail in note 33.
