SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Our Market and Routes to Customers In delivering this strategy we benefit from deep experience and established capability in the following eight routes to the customer: We continue to focus Wholesale channels Ecommerce on expanding Superdry globally, adopting Superdry branded websites 1 Multi-brand independents and distributors 4 a disciplined multiPartner websites that build brand awareness 2 Franchise and license stores in secondary 5 and access a different customer base channel approach catchments and developing markets focused on capital-light 6 Off-price Ecommerce 3 Physical and online department stores routes to customers Commentary Commentary The addressable market for Superdry is significant with current opportunities in The capital-light nature of the Wholesale model allows us to Within the Ecommerce channel, owned Superdry economically developed markets supplemented expand rapidly into locations, drive brand awareness and gain branded websites are often our vehicle for initial entry through a fast developing, consumer base market share without significant capital investment.
Wholesale into new markets, allowing us to access unmet customer in growing economies, including China and channels represent the most significant route to consumer for demand and build brand awareness, with minimal capital India, where the brand is already present.
The the brand representing approximately 59.8% of Global Brand investment and the ability to fulfil orders from our expanded Superdry brand competes with all clothing and revenues in FY18 37.1% of Group revenues, and consist of distribution network.
We have 30 international websites accessory retailers on an indirect basis and three distinct routes to market: including third party websites covering 11 different occupies a niche position within the branded languages, and will continue to accelerate our online Independent retailers and distribution partners represent the fashion market defined by our unique product presence to capture the growing consumer demand.
largest part of our Wholesale routes to market, accounting ranges and the design detail for which we for 41.9% of total Wholesale revenue, through more than Ecommerce connects to Wholesale, through our partner are famous.
programme, for example with Zalando, or La Redoute and The impact of online retailing is becoming to stores via Click and Collect and iKiosk.
Franchise and license partners represent the majority of more evident as consumers shopping habits our store portfolio.
Our franchise estate now stands at 394 change with online channels increasingly Superdry stores, including eight dedicated Superdry Sport used to research and purchase products.
stores opened in the year.
Franchise and license stores This shift to online is taking place in every generate 36.8% of total Wholesale revenues, with more market in the world, with mobile purchases the than 63% of this in Continental Europe.
We will continue fastest growing segment within this.
We are to rebalance our physical store growth towards franchise embracing this shift and continually enhance stores, which are a faster, lower risk and capital-light route our consumers experience on-line to provide to market.
Physical and online department store key accounts such as Three of our eight routes to consumers are Next in the UK, Macys and Bloomingdales in the US, and digital representing 18.7% of revenues and we Peek & Cloppenburg and Zalando in Europe, allow us to have further plans to develop our capabilities capture incremental sales and grow brand awareness with including the introduction of a Progressive Web consumers we could not otherwise directly reach.
In financial App in 2018. year 2018, our 44 key account relationships generated 21.3% of total Wholesale revenues.
Our approach to each market is considered and seeks to optimise returns and minimise risk Consistency and quality of brand experience is critical to by tailoring the channel and marketing strategy the development of Superdry and this is controlled through to each country and its stage of development.
our Wholesale channels via a combination of contractual requirements and both announced and unannounced qualitycontrol audits.
com Strategic Report Owned stores Owned stores in primary 7 catchments 8 Outlet stores Commentary Owned stores remain important to our brand proposition, although as a relatively young brand, we have a much smaller geographic footprint than more traditional retailers and our store estate is predominately based on shortterm, flexible property terms.
As an illustration of this, approximately 60% of the Groups current owned store portfolio has an exit opportunity within the forthcoming four financial years.
Against this backdrop we continue to grow our presence in key markets, at a moderated rate and in line with strict investment criteria, requiring short lease commitments and rapid payback rates.
Owned stores total 246 across 11 markets where the brand has been established, primarily through Wholesale and Ecommerce.
Our optimal store trades from between 4,000 and 6,000 square feet, is located within a primary catchment and is now laid out in our Next Generation format.
While historic returns on invested capital have been strong, reflecting the ongoing consumer preference for Ecommerce and the resulting downward pressure on property costs, we are now targeting improved paybacks of less than 24 months.
Similar to eBay within Ecommerce, Superdry outlet stores are an important element of the business model, complementing full price stores.
While adapted to meet the different positioning of outlet locations in different geographies, they serve a key role in optimising the value generated from excess inventory while protecting brand integrity.
indd 13 26 07 2018 16:57:13 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 14 Superdry Front Section.
com Strategic Report Excellence Our evolving operating model The transformation of our category management approach continues.
Improvements to our buying model and stock management processes will harmonise the customer proposition, increase efficiency and lower operating costs while providing a fast track development route to improve speed to market.
Within a multi-year programme, referred to internally as Design Bringing our distribution centres closer to market with the to Customer, we continue to invest in our systems and processes enhanced capabilities of our centres in Europe and the US, to deliver greater efficiencies.
enabling us to offer market-leading delivery propositions in all key markets, and access incremental third party The key process changes within this are: channels: One single integrated range construction so that the Investing in new systems, including assortment planning Wholesale offering is a subset of the Retail range which, and life cycle planning tools, to ensure our consumer in turn, is a subset of our largest range offered through ranges are optimised for each operating location: Ecommerce.
This allows us to optimise our buying model Increasing our direct sourcing and better phasing of across the routes to our customers and, in turn, drives purchasing patterns to ensure newness for our customers, purchasing economies and enhances sell-through: improve stock management, product availability, and stock Significant progress has been achieved in this key value levels: and driver with range overlap now more than 20% higher Ensuring our range development strategies are informed compared with 2017: by a deep understanding of our customers and reflects the Leveraging this range overlap, we are consolidating our insight gleaned from our customer research programme.
Wholesale and Retail inventory into a single stock pool These process changes will be accompanied by physical and to fully maximise availability to all selling channels while systemic changes to our supply chain, including introducing increasing the number of options available to Wholesale Radio Frequency Identification RFID into our distribution customers and therefore driving incremental in-season centres and stores and extending supply chain activity B2B sales: upstream closer to production source.
This development remains scheduled to be implemented in autumn 2018: 15 Superdry Front Section.
