Strategic report IFC-57 Group financial statements 93-144 Company financial statements 145-156 Other information 157-160 Governance 58-92 Report of the Directors The Directors submit their Annual Report and the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The Report of the Directors comprises pages 89 to 91 and the following sections of the Annual Report which are incorporated by reference: Item Location in Annual Report Statement of Directors responsibilities Page 92 Financial instruments and financial risk management Financial Statements note 23 Present membership of the Board Pages 60 to 61 Corporate Governance Report Pages 62 to 66 Strategic Report including principal activities and principal risks and uncertainties and Viability Statement Pages 2 to 57 Directors Remuneration Report Pages 73 to 88 Share capital Financial Statements note 28 Sustainability Report Pages 44 to 57 Results and dividends The profit attributable to shareholders for the year was 99.8m.
The interim dividend of 4.0 pence per share was paid on 6 November 2018.
The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 9.1 pence per share payable on 5 July 2019 to those shareholders registered at the close of business on 7 June 2019.
A dividend reinvestment plan is available to shareholders and this alternative will continue to be offered until further notice.
Acquisitions and Disposals On 1 January 2018, the Group sold Synthomer Leuna GmbH.
and on 28 June 2018 the Group disposed of 51% of its sales entities in Dubai.
On 31 January 2018 the Group completed the purchase of the BASF Pischelsdorf SBR business and assets.
Further details of these transactions are contained in notes 32 and 31 respectively to the consolidated financial statements.
Directors All the Directors will retire and will be seeking election or re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
None of the Directors seeking re-election has a service contract other than C G MacLean and S G Bennett who each have a service contract which contains a twelve month notice period.
Director indemnity provisions Under the Companys Articles of Association, the Directors of the Company have the benefit of a qualifying third-party indemnity provision which provides that they shall be indemnified by the Company against certain liabilities as permitted by Sections 232 and 234 of the Companies Act 2006 and against costs incurred by them in relation to any liability for which they are indemnified.
The Company has purchased and maintains insurance against directors and officers liabilities in relation to the Company.
Share capital and control During 2018 no shares were issued or repurchased.
A total of 160,756 shares were purchased on the open market on behalf of the shareholders who elected to participate in the dividend reinvestment plan.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, being the only class of issued share capital, as well as the powers of the Companys directors, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House or can be downloaded from the Companys website.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in the Company.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to the control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of Association of the Company, the Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Other than in relation to its borrowings which, unless certain conditions are satisfied, become repayable on a takeover, the Company is not party to any significant agreements that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
The Company does not have agreements with any director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover.
All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 89 Report of the Directors continued Major shareholdings Other than the shareholdings disclosed as Directors interests in the Directors remuneration report as at 15 February 2019, the Company had been notified under Section 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its ordinary shares: Ordinary shares Percentage of ordinary number shares in issue Nature of holding Kuala Lumpur Kepong Berhad Group 66,879,401 19.68 Direct interest Merian Global Investors UK Limited 25,096,134 7.38 Indirect interest Standard Life Aberdeen plc 19,659,714 5.78 Indirect interest Kames Capital Plc 13,403,772 3.94 Direct and indirect interest Employment policies and employee involvement The Group gives every consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons.
Employees who become disabled are given every opportunity to continue employment under normal terms and conditions with appropriate training, career development and promotion wherever possible.
The Group seeks to achieve equal opportunities in employment through recruitment and training policies.
The Group encourages employee involvement in its affairs and makes use of an intranet system to promote such involvement and to aid communication with employees.
Regional management conferences are held annually to bring senior management together to share ideas and develop policy, values and behaviours.
Dialogue takes place regularly with employees to make them aware of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group.
Performance related bonus schemes are in operation throughout the Group.
Authority to purchase own shares The Company has a general authority, which expires at the conclusion of the 2019 Annual General Meeting, to make market purchases of not more than 33,988,076 of the Companys ordinary shares in accordance with the terms of the special resolution passed at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
A resolution will be tabled at the 2019 Annual General Meeting to renew this authority.
Political donations No political donations were made in the year.
UK pension funds The Trustees have reviewed the independent investment management of the assets of the Company pension schemes in the UK and assured themselves of the security and controls in place.
In particular, it is the Trustees policy not to invest in Synthomer plc shares nor lend money to the Company.
Subsidiaries All the Groups subsidiaries, joint ventures and related undertakings are listed on page 154 to 156.
Statement as to disclosure of information to auditor Each Director of the Company confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and that he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
For these purposes, relevant audit information means information needed by the Companys auditor in connection with preparing their report on pages 93 to 99.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
90 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report IFC-57 Group financial statements 93-144 Company financial statements 145-156 Other information 157-160 Governance 58-92 Going concern The directors have acknowledged the latest guidance on going concern and in reaching their conclusions have taken into account factors which include the refinancing in July 2018 of the Groups main borrowing facilities comprising a committed unsecured four-year revolving credit facility of 440 million.
After making enquiries and taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, the directors are satisfied that, at the time of approving the financial statements, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements of both the Group and the Company.
Cautionary statement The purpose of this report is to provide information to the members of the Company.
It contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forwardlooking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Independent auditors A resolution to appoint  LLP as the Companys auditor will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at the offices of Canaccord Genuity Limited, 88 Wood Street, London EC2V 7QR on 25 April 2019 at 10.00am.
By order of the Board R Atkinson Company Secretary 4 March 2019 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 91
