Our new global business structure 1 Performance Elastomers Market position Customers Maximising No 2 producer globally in Nitrile The worlds leading medical butadiene rubber latex.
Global and opportunities No 1 producer in European regional paper, packaging Styrene butadiene rubber latex and board companies, and No 1 producer globally of high leading bedding and footwear for growth solids styrene butadiene rubber.
Carpet and artificial turf producers.
Principal markets served Outlook Medical gloves, medical devices High growth in end user From 1 January 2019, Synthomer has and healthcare markets.
demand for Nitrile latex gloves, changed its structure from two regional Coated board, speciality supported by investment in businesses ENA Europe and North and graphic papers and capacity expansion and next America and ARW Asia and Rest of packaging, mattresses, generation patented new the World to three global businesses pillows and footwear.
Foam, Performance Elastomers, Functional carpets and compounds Solutions and Industrial Specialities.
Compounds for residential, growing, graphic paper industrial, automotive, carpets declining, partly offset by Performance Elastomers is focused on and artificial turf.
healthcare, carpet and paper markets through our Nitrile butadiene rubber latex Profile Priorities for 2019 NBR and Styrene butadiene rubber latex Twelve manufacturing plants Drive organisational synergies SBR products.
Functional Solutions located in Malaysia, Italy, through efficiency and is focused on coatings, construction, Germany, Finland, Austria, effectiveness in the new global adhesives and technical textiles markets the Netherlands and Egypt business organisation.
through our acrylic and vinylic based producing in excess of 850ktes dispersions.
Industrial Specialities is per annum.
Finalise planning for the next focused on our speciality chemical phase of Nitrile latex expansion Performance Elastomers is additives and non-aqueous based following the successful focused on markets where chemistry for a broad range of completion of the 90ktes scale is important and applications from polymer additives expansion in Pasir Gudang manufacturing operations to emerging materials and technologies.
in 2018. differentiated by the ability to handle high hazard raw Market penetration of Our former regional structure served materials and complex SyNovus and delivering plans us well but with our customer base processes.
Assets utilise for Asian innovation centre.
increasingly global and the development advanced proprietary of technology accelerating market Increase the focus on the technology and opportunities, our new structure will development of new business innovation chemistry.
provide closer proximity to our customers opportunities for our chemistry and their global requirements, accelerate and M&A opportunities.
Revenues 2018 our sales growth, sharpen our commercial Progress transformation focus and drive operational efficiencies.
704.5m programme at Kluang The new structure will enable Synthomer Malaysia.
to better leverage its global product portfolio and customer relationships, better exploit its R&D capability within chemistries, and bring greater operational focus to production sites.
Sales, marketing, research and development and production will be focused by business group into dedicated global teams whilst retaining very strong regional strength and local focus.
Read more about our Business Model and Strategy on page 28 20 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 Governance 58-92 Group financial statements 93-144 Company financial statements 145-156 Other information 157-160 Strategic report IFC-57 Functional Solutions Industrial Specialities 2 3 Market position Customers Market position Customers Top five global aqueous The worlds leading coating, Leading positions in selected Leading global PVC and polymer producer, with construction, adhesives, niche speciality chemical polyester polymer producers.
leadership positions in technical textiles and oilfield markets globally.
Manufacturers of specialist dispersions in Europe, Middle companies.
Specialist sealant and adhesives East and Asia.
producers of cement modifiers, Principal markets producers.
Specialist powder primers, flooring adhesives, served coating manufacturers.
Gas Principal markets specialist tapes, flexible Specialist markets including processing companies.
served roof coatings, emulsion and PVC manufacture, construction, Construction, coatings, specialist paints and coatings catalyst, automotive and Outlook adhesives, technical textiles and oilfield chemicals.
Positive outlook due to broad and oilfield.
Outlook Profile Profile Markets are seeing good Six manufacturing plants Priorities for 2019 Fourteen manufacturing plants growth as environmental located in UK, Italy, Czech Drive efficiency and reliability located in Germany, UK, Spain, regulations move to waterRepublic and Belgium across the operational network.
Italy, France, Czech Republic, based products.
Utilise innovation pipeline to Saudi Arabia, Malaysia, strengthen differentiation of Vietnam, Thailand, and the USA Priorities for 2019 Industrial Specialities has product range.
producing in excess of 500ktes Drive efficiency and a range of manufacturing per annum.
effectiveness in new operations focused mainly on Market penetration following global organisation and specialist niche manufacturing capacity expansion of Italian Functional Solutions is operational network.
in non-water-based speciality Powder Coatings and PVOH focused on speciality markets chemical manufacture.
assets in 2018. with mid-scale complex Utilise innovation pipeline to manufacturing operations to strengthen differentiation of Progress transformation Revenues 2018 supply differentiated water product range.
programme at Sokolov based dispersions to localised CzechRepublic.
Manufacturing assets leadership position to drive utilise advanced proprietary global and regional growth technology and innovative through accelerated transfer of chemistry.
Research and products and applications.
development, technical service and deep application Successful completion of knowledge are key to growth.
capital investment programme in Worms Germany and Revenues 2018 Roebuck USA.
Progress transformation 680.1m programmes at Ribcourt France and Sokolov Czech Republic.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 21 Our new global business structure continued Performance Elastomers Overview The Performance Elastomers division represents 44% of Synthomers 2018 revenue.
Focuses on healthcare, paper, carpet and foam markets.
The division has as its core Nitrile Butadiene Rubber latex NBR and Styrene Butadiene Rubber latex SBR including high solid variants.
The division produces over 850ktes from its twelve plants operating in Europe, Middle East and South East Asia.
Derick Whyte President, Performance Elastomers Performance Elastomers division combines Synthomers market leadership position in NBR, where we are the second largest producer globally, SBR where we are the market leader in Europe and high solids SBR where we are the global leader.
The division operates globally utilising some of Synthomers largest production facilities.
Strategic priority 1: With a new global organisation comprising Performance Elastomers serves a diverse 12 plantsand 1,000 people to optimise and market and customer base.
NBR is focused on drive efficiencies in the organisational and the healthcare market, which is characterised operationalmodel.
by increasing levels of demand for Nitrile latex gloves supported by capacity expansion and Strategic priority 2: significant innovation.
These markets are driven To commercialise the 90ktes Nitrile latex by the global mega trends of increasing hygiene investmentinPasir Gudang Malaysia, standards and emerging market population finaliseplans for the next phase of growth.
SBR, which serves the paper coating, capacityexpansion scheduled for 2020 carpet backing and foam markets, faces a andprogress thecommercialisation long-term shift away from the use of graphic of SyNovus.
coated paper to digital media.
This is balanced by growth in packaging consumption driven Strategic priority 3: by on line purchasing.
The carpet and foam To optimise the innovation process markets cover a range of differentiated acrossthedivision to deliver efficiency applications in flooring, bedding and footwear.
andeffectiveness and complete the Asia Product innovation remains core, particularly in innovationcentre investment scheduled NBR, where new products have continued to forearly2020.
support glove market demand for lower glove weights and accelerator free materials.
22 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 Governance 58-92 Group financial statements 93-144 Company financial statements 145-156 Other information 157-160 Strategic report IFC-57 Why innovation matters Innovation 1: Speed to market is key to driving competitive advantage Over the past four years the Asian innovation team has reduced the time to market for new product introduction with our latest generation patented NBR technology being introduced in half the time compared to previous generations.
The new Asian innovation centre to be opened in 2020 will deliver state-of-the-art facilities to drive further efficiency and effectiveness in our R&D activities.
Innovation 2: Efficiency and excellence through operations In our Marl Germany high solid SBR facility, a cross functional team of Synthomer experts focused on the value gap identified to deliver an initial 15% capacity debottleneck and expansion of speciality high solids SBR products to meet growing customer demand.
The delivery of additional capacity of differentiated products to serve the high growth bedding and footwear markets globally was the first step in a phased debottleneck and expansion of our facilities.
Innovation 3: Patented new product development Innovation has been at the core of the NBR expansion strategy in recent years with successful launches of our third and fourth generation glove dipping latex.
SyNovus, is the latest product launch from the NBR team and is a patented product offering the benefit of an accelerator free product, which reduces the risk of allergic reactions for glove users, and the additional benefit of lower operating costs through improved efficiencies and greater sustainability for the glove producer.
The product has undergone successful plant trials and approvals with further commercialisation growth anticipated in 2019.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 23 Our new global business structure continued Functional Solutions Overview The Functional Solution division represents 42% of Synthomers revenue.
Focuses on the Coatings, Construction, Adhesives, Textile and Oilfield markets.
The division has at its core aqueous acrylic and vinylic polymer dispersions which are used as speciality binders in the formulation of environmentally compliant materials.
The division produces over 500ktes from its fourteen plants operating in Europe, Middle East, AsiaandUSA.
Rob Tupker President, Functional Solutions Functional Solutions is Synthomers top five global aqueous polymer business with leadership positions in dispersions in Europe, Middle East and Asia.
The division is ideally placed to grow across all geographies both organically and inorganically to meet the expanding regulatory driven market for solvent free differentiated applications.
Using Strategic priority 1: proprietary technology and innovative Drive growth globally and regionally byutilising chemistry, Functional Solutions is focused on its market leadership positions in Europe, Middle specialist markets with assets strategically East and Asia through more focused sharing positioned to serve localised markets.
As a global business, Functional Solutions is Strategic priority 2: ideally positioned to better leverage its global Focus on specialisation and delivery of the product portfolios and customer relationships, innovation pipeline.
To focus on accelerated exploit its R&D capabilities and drive operational development of differentiated product platforms efficiencies further developing its global network.
ofkey segments via global product strategies.
With Functional Solutions markets continuing to grow in excess of GDP, and new capacity being Strategic priority 3: introduced in 2019, the division looks forward to Optimise the network and cost competitiveness.
To complete the strategic capacity investment programme in Worms Germany and Roebuck USA and restructuring programme in Ribcourt France and drive further operational efficiencies.
24 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 Governance 58-92 Group financial statements 93-144 Company financial statements 145-156 Other information 157-160 Strategic report IFC-57 Why innovation matters Innovation 1: Patented new product development Synthomer aqueous polymer dispersions are widely used in the adhesives markets globally.
In the USA our patented High Shear Adhesion Failure Temperature SAFT technology has been developed to allow solvent based technology to be replaced by more environmentally sustainable water-based products in speciality tape and label applications.
Regionally developed technology with access to a global manufacturing network, application testing and technical sales force allows accelerated product development and commercialisation and enabling customer, environmental and consumer benefits to be delivered quickly.
Innovation 2: Collaborative business development The battery market is being driven by the growth of electric vehicles with an underlying growth rate of 15% per annum.
leading to forecasts of 25% of all vehicles being electric by 2040.
Synthomer has developed a technology platform and is working with an industry wide consortium to accelerate the development of its current and next generation binders for high performance anode and cathode materials.
Innovation 3: Market focused new product development Synthomer is expanding its product range in technical textiles to introduce stateof-the-art binders for glass fibre mesh coatings to improve the performance of products in the construction industry.
This expanded product range meets the market need for significantly faster curing combined with excellent alkali resistance and a formaldehyde free cross-linking system.
The product future proofs our customer requirements through compliance with the latest international regulations and increasingly challenging environmental demands in the industry.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 25 Our new global business structure continued Industrial Specialities Overview The Industrial Specialities division represents 14% of Synthomers revenue and holds leading positions in selected speciality chemical markets globally.
The division focuses on specialist market positions in non-aqueous polymer chemistry to serve the PVC, construction, automotive, catalyst and polymer manufacturing sectors producing a range of performance additives and acrylic ester monomers for supply into polymer manufacturers.
The division produces over 130ktes from its six European manufacturing plants which serve markets globally.
Neil Whitley President, Industrial Specialities Industrial Specialities is Synthomers platform for high value specialist performance additives and acrylate monomers, which hold some leading positions in selected niche markets globally.
Our European assets support our aqueous polymer segmental focus allowing Synthomer to offer a more comprehensive range of products to our coatings, Strategic priority 1: construction, automotive and polymer additive Drive efficiency and excellence through segments and allow us to expand our foot operations.
To utilise operational excellence print into wider speciality chemical markets.
andour business focused value gap analysis The division serves leading global PVC and to debottleneck capacity, drive reliability, polymer producers, specialist sealant and completesite transformation programmes adhesive manufacturers, powder coating and todeliver growth in profitability.
The division offers a platform for both inorganic and organic Strategic priority 2: growth in speciality chemicals for Synthomer To optimise our innovation processes with innovation core to its strategy.
toacceleratenew product development andfurtherstrengthen the differentiation ofourproduct range.
Strategic priority 3: Focus on growth opportunities in speciality chemicals markets to extend the footprint of the Industrial Specialities division.
26 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 Governance 58-92 Group financial statements 93-144 Company financial statements 145-156 Other information 157-160 Strategic report IFC-57 Why innovation matters Innovation 1: Market focused new product development Synthomers Lithene liquid polybutadiene products offer excellent compatibility with rubber substrates, allowing modifications to be made to polymers to meet the increasingly demanding performance properties of advanced materials.
In both peroxide and sulphur cure systems, new Lithene grades demonstrate significant tensile, heat age and mixing time improvements to allow customers needs to be met in the automotive and specialist industrial markets.
Innovation 2: Accessing high growth markets Synthomer continues to invest in the development of advanced materials to access their high growth potential.
In absorbents, Synthomer has launched its Duraguard range of high capacity granular finished absorbants offering unrivalled durability to natural gas processing operators.
In other advanced materials, graphene is an exciting and innovative new material which has the potential to open new markets and even replace existing technologies.
Synthomer has developed exceptionally high-quality graphene products available under the Gographene range, which can be accessed via a newly introduced innovative marketing channel to service both the development and industrial scale customer.
With applications under development from superior performance tyres to footwear, our high purity products offer excellent opportunities for growth.
Innovation 3: Global network drives faster innovation Synthomer innovation is delivered through a global network with our four innovation centres in Asia, Europe and North America.
Our R&D teams are embedded within the businesses to allow close access to customers and to ensure that we provide solutions that deliver value where it matters.
In our Speciality Additive business, which we acquired from Perstorp in 2017, we have a new focused team in place to utilise the strength of the Synthomer network.
This allows us to develop coating and polyester additives and associated applications required to deliver differentiated materials and access to higher rates of growth globally.
