Business model Creating and sustaining value through innovative solutions Our strategy Our strategy is to create shareholder value 3.
Capacity utilisation We produce chemical formulations by creating a global speciality chemical Our aim is to drive profitability through for thousands of customers in a range business focused on providing customers maximum utilisation of our assets.
of industries, from construction and with innovative and high performance This involves identifying the root causes coatings to healthcare and automotive.
solutions that enable them to efficiently of production bottlenecks and finding Our strategic procurement specialists produce their own high quality products.
innovative solutions to eliminate them.
acquire the upstream raw materials used in our complex production processes Our strategy is composed of five 4.
Investment in capacity which involves controlling the pressure, key elements: We seek to add capacity in growth markets temperature and duration of mixing where investment opportunities meet our reactions in order to create specific 1.
Research and development capital management policies.
Our highly skilled and and technical expertise to experienced operations teams, supported exploit new markets 5. Business growth by R&D, deliver cost effective and flexible We anticipate market trends and through acquisition operational capabilities to maximise output customer requirements to deliver We actively seek opportunistic bolt-on and quality.
improved products with improved acquisitions in similar chemistries or margin and product differentiation.
transformational step change transactions Our production sites are local to our not limited by geography or chemistry.
customers to better understand their needs 2.
Driving efficiency and and reduce the cost of logistics and our excellence through operations Synthomer is a speciality chemical environmental impact.
We have leading We operate continuous improvement company which uses its technical service market positions in Europe and South East across our operations to improve expertise and R&D capability to understand Asia, which continue to be underpinned by our production efficiency, sales effectiveness and anticipate customer needs to drive drive for environmentally friendly technology and functional excellence.
We seek to competitive advantage.
and exposure to global mega-trends.
identify good practice in all areas of our business and ensure that relevant learnings Effective risk management is the key are disseminated throughout the business.
method we deploy to ensure our strategy is delivered and sustainable value created.
28 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 Governance 58-92 Group financial statements 93-144 Company financial statements 145-156 Other information 157-160 Strategic report IFC-57 Our sustainable value chain 1.
Formulations development We monitor megaservices Our formulations Under central trends and market Our technical are designed for leadership, our developments service teams work use in customer four research to ensure our with our customers specific products.
and development formulations meet to ensure we centres of the requirements provide the right excellence work not only of our formulation for their to both develop customers but also needs.
products that meet the end users of our customers their products.
Our value chain needs and to beneficiaries improve the efficiency of their Customers manufacture.
Our customers expect us to provide them with innovative, high quality, competitive products.
We seek to work in partnerships with customers, using our skilled R&D and technical 8.
1. services teams, to develop products that support their goals.
Employees Our employees are a critical part of our success.
Employees contribute to all aspects of our value chain and all employees benefit from the success 7.
We are committed to providing a safe and rewarding environment in which to work.
Communities We look to be a valued part of communities in which we operate, providing highly skilled employment opportunities, being aware of how our plans may impact on a community and demonstrating that we respect the community and its environment.
Suppliers Our suppliers are an important part of our business and we look to work closely with them using the skills of our strategic sourcing teams to ensure we get the right specification of products for our needs at competitive prices.
Shareholders Our shareholders, as the owners of our business, should see the benefits of our focus on long-term sustainable growth, regulatory compliance and strong governance.
Logistics raw materials Experienced control Our specialist Governments We work closely operations teams Our quality control logistics teams We see local safety and environment with our suppliers to continue to optimise procedures and work on ensuring legislative compliance as the obtain competitive the production laboratories safe and timely minimum level at which we should prices, correct process to be most ensure that we deliveries of operate and strive for higher specification and efficient by using manufacture and excellent products standards.
We look to ensure that to improve supply complex production store finished in more than we follow the letter and spirit of chain resilience.
tax regulations within each of the and removing manner that jurisdictions in which we operate and bottlenecks.
contribute fairly to public policy goals.
