Strategic report Our strategy Our mission is to give consumers abetter deal by offering simple, affordable, reliable, fairconnectivity for everyone and, in the process, deliver good returns to our shareholders.
Wewill do this byfocusing on our four key strategic objectives: 1.
Profitable growth in consumer Since the inception of TalkTalk, our network Themajority are contracting for longer ii In-home connectivity capability, cost advantage and ability to periods 18 months: 55% and 24 months: We have markedly improved our in-home offer multiple value for money services has 32%.
Customers appreciate not just the connectivity experience for customers.
enabled us to build a large and sustainable material savings the plans offer, but also Amajor contributor to this is the higher mix share approximately 16% of the UK fixed thecertainty and fairness they provide of customers taking fibre products: at the line broadband market source: Ofcom.
aswe guarantee not to increase prices end of March 2018, over one million of our There is significant opportunity for us to mid-contract.
In total we had drive further growth and enhance the nearly 1.3 million fibre customers including There is compelling evidence that FLPP is customer experience in our Consumer B2B, representing 33% penetration of the delivering not only reduced churn, but division in the following ways: broadband base March2017: 25%.
FLPP of all new acquisition Consumer customers i Highly disruptive, great value fixed allows customers to save over 400 at the end of March 2018 signed up to a price plans relative to comparable products with our fibre product, up from 39% at the half year.
In October 2016, we launched our radically rivals.
This means we have headroom to Weexpect this demand to continue in 2019. simpler range of Fixed Low Price Plans.
continue offering meaningful savings Theplans are unique in the market in giving relative to the market whilst retaining We will continue to advance our customer customers pricing certainty for the pricing flexibility.
We will launch market duration of the contract.
leading routers to strengthen network Additionally, we offer compelling triple and reliability andimprove the in-home This pricing strategy continues to provide quad play propositions for customers.
We have launched multi-room customers with the freedom to fix their supplementary TV offering is unique in the TV optionality to satisfy the demand from own package for 12, 18 or 24 months by market for the breadth of content available customers who want morethan one set tailoring mix-and-match broadband, TV, and the flexibility of access that customers top box.
mobile and landline calls to suit their enjoy, without any mandatory subscription needs.
Uniquely in the market, these are or buy-through requirements.
Under our available to all our existingcustomers.
new mobile proposition, we can provide customers access to unique offers in Demand remains strong, with over two partnership with O2 that are only available million customers on a FLPP at the end of to TalkTalk customers.
This means more of our base over two thirds is now in contract.
08 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 2.
Accelerate momentum in TTB As the scale challenger in B2B telecoms, meet the needs of the end customer in a million minutes daily on our SIP platform way that is impossible for large, traditional asthe UK business market reaches a TTB offers a set of services that combine our network reach and magnitude to give telecoms to deliver.
tipping point of IP voice services becoming the norm.
We serve all end Unencumbered by the need to protect a business customer segments from sole large high margin legacy business, we have ii Deliver the innovation the operators to large retailers all the way up used our Next Generation IP network to marketneeds toenterprise customers.
Wecurrently serve empower our wholesale and partner We are always looking for ways to disrupt this market both directly 17% of total B2B customers to take share from incumbent the market and we are focused on data revenues and c. 80k customers and indirectly providers and act as an extended, specialist access technologies.
We are currently 83% of total B2B revenues through partners, salesforce with thousands ofpeople helping trialling G. Fast and FTTP technologies and wholesalers, carriers and system integrators.
take TTB enabled solutions to market.
are significantly expanding our footprint Further information is contained within the for 1GB and 10GB Ethernet, sowe continue ChiefExecutive Officers review.
To continue the momentum in TTB, to meet our customers needs as they want wehave three key priorities: Our wholesale and partner customers to achieve ever higher bandwidths.
All these provide us with a great route to market and i Challenge the market with great services are delivered via our market low costs to serve, which, combined with value and reliable data and leading MyNetportal.
our continuing investment in automation, voiceservices iii Putting our customers first by being both improves efficiency andenhances We offer voice and data solutions at great brilliantly easy to do business with the customer experience.
This enables us value and we continue to see strong growth We have consistently improved customer to continue scaling the business at speed.
As costs continue satisfaction, ending the year on an all-time toreduce, more businesses are adopting high Customer Satisfaction Index CSI Our strong growth in the indirect channel higher margin Ethernet based connectivity comes as the majority of UK businesses score.
We will continue toroll-out initiatives services and we are seeing a clear shift to enhance the customer journey, such as choose to consume their telecoms services tobusinesses demanding these at higher via specialist partners.
We empower both the launch of anew online billing platform capacity Gigabit speeds.
In IP voice, our partners and wholesale customers to which will transform the experience for our wehave quadrupled the number of SIP deliver excellent communications solutions.
channels since our purchase of tIPicall They can then combine these solutions with three years ago.
We are now running a other areas of their technology platform to TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 09 Strategic report Our strategy continued 3.
Customer experience, cost efficiency and people development account with greater ease and simplicity.
Enhance customer experience real terms price reductions for both Metallic All this will be complemented with a brand Throughout 2018 we have worked to Path Facility MPF and Generic Ethernet new online help experience launching in enhance the customer experience Access GEA products, as well as price the firstquarter.
through the most intuitive sales and reductions on ancillary products, such as service predominantly self-serve and installations and engineering services.
As part of our reset we are now more People development focused than ever on fixed connectivity, We concluded an exit from India for all At TalkTalk we are committed to creating whilst remaining capital light elsewhere.
aworking environment where colleagues support services and have consolidated these into our strategic partners.
We have can be themselves and give their all.
Aplace We have made good progress towards where peers are called on to out-think the grown employee knowledge, tenure and reducing complexity in the business by operational stability leading to strong competition and collaborate with each doing fewer things and ensuring we approach other to deliver great results for our Q4performance across all operational them with ruthless efficiency.
Our customer community continues customers.
We therefore want to attract, year, we have incurred non-Headline items retain and motivate the best talent, and to grow in scale now over 300,000 members in relation to operating efficiencies and supporting our peer-to-peer support create a high-performance culture that business reorganisation of 16m 2017: allows us to achieve our potential.
Our live chat function saw 32m and 19m 2017: nil respectively.
conversations increasing by 75k in H2 to do this, we strive to make TalkTalk the Further detail is included within note 9 to best possible workplace for our employees.
up9% whilst the recent launch of SMS the consolidated financial statements.
messaging is now reaching 100,000 users In April 2018, we were officially recognised We are now working to reduce cost to as one of the Great Place to Work Institutes a month with satisfaction scores 85% serve per customer, by moving towards a inbothchannels.
UK Best Workplaces in 2018, among just predominantly self-serve digital model, 37 organisations to make it into the best Looking into 2019, we will continue to automating where it matters, having the Large Workplaces category.
The aim is progress on this front.
Feedback from lowest cost network, and running the now to maintain and build upon this, and customers, such as the satisfaction score simplest and most agile operating model.
we have five core focus areas to help above, indicates that many customers achieve this: We have a proven track record of operational prefer to self-serve, so we will continue to improvement, with previous simplification automate where it matters.
New initiatives i Becoming an increasingly agile programmes delivering significant benefits andefficient organisation will significantly reduce call handling time.
to the business since the demerger in Inbound voice calls reduced by 300k 7% We will continue to design our 2010.
However, we realise that we can do organisation, operating model and ways between H1 and H2 in 2018, whilst calls more outside of big cost saving programmes answered within 30 seconds increased ofworking to be agile and efficient, as we to ensure that we are operating efficiently.
must deliver quickly, accurately and at by5%.
Consequently, as we advance into the next As well as being what our customers want, financial year we will continue to rigorously this move to a more digital support model ii D eveloping our capability spikes apply a cost-conscious culture whereby We will identify and prioritise the also enables us to materially lower our cost there will be a bottom-up continuous to serve.
acquisition and development of the focus on our external spend challenging capabilities that are most critical for the We have already undertaken a complete all aspects of our cost base to ensure future success of TalkTalk.
revision of service standards and new where possible we only spend money that iii Develop our leadership capability quality principles are rolling out through our customers will see a benefit from.
aninitiative called Your Call where we We will raise the bar on leadership at One area where we will not compromise TalkTalk and ensure all our People Leaders areinvesting in voice and text analytics isour fixed network infrastructure, and we capabilities to support our agent are aligned with our values, and capable will continue to invest to reduce the cost ofmeeting the challenges of a modern, development and coaching.
of capacity, reducing the average cost of agileworkplace.
Throughout the year we will give customers traffic as demand continues to increase, the ability to digitally diagnose and service iv Enhancing our unique culture inorder to deliver customer concerns, which are both large drivers of We will work harder than ever to live our .
Customers will be values and behaviours because we know able to track tickets with our support teams We will also be improving the efficiency of they are the route to optimising our culture oursupport functions to ensure that our at their own convenience lowering customer and succeeding as a business.
overheads are aligned to those of a v D elivering the supporting experience valueprovider.
We will continue to develop our support We will develop a seamless end-to-end Alongside all of this, regulation continues colleague experience with people practices offering with a new mobile app to supplement to underpin much of what we do and the the use of live chat, text messaging and that enable agility, minimise bureaucracy recent Wholesale Local Access Market and create employee NPS.
simpler IVR experiences so that every Review WLAMR has resulted in significant customer can manage their own TalkTalk 10 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 4.
Investment in the network and full fibre Where these activities are part of a i Future proofing our network, iii Accelerating FTTP roll-out fundamental transformation of the systems and ways of working Full fibre is the essential infrastructure but network and forms part of our network Our network is the very backbone of the for too long, Britain has been falling behind transformation programme, related costs service we provide to our customers.
To the UK has just 3% FTTP penetration and of 19m 2017: 11m have been recognised maintain the competitive advantage our ranks behind nearly every developed within non-Headline results.
Further network gives us, we need to continually country in the world.
TalkTalk is determined detailis included within note 9 to the invest and out-innovate our competitors to help change that.
We are already a consolidated financialstatements.
to offer high performance, quality services fullfibre leader, as we rollout a full fibre to both our Consumer and B2B customers.
network in York, which currently reaches To complement our investment in our We will continue to optimise the network nearly 20,000 homes as we progress network we will also invest on our internal to maximise bandwidth and service availability towards our target of 54,000 premises.
systems and ways of working, with our whilst always seeking to reduce operating We have proved in York that we can bring technology department taking the lead to costs.
To successfully future proof our affordable full fibre to the public just like deliver and support cross-functional network it needs to have scalability and we brought affordable broadband to initiatives to provide a digital organisation flexibility built within the foundations to people a decade ago, and we see a experience for employees.
We are support the expansion of existing products, substantial opportunity to scale this to committed to delivering next generation launch of new products and to ensure we more homes and businesses across the working for all colleagues and a migration can continue to meet the changing needs UK.
Assuch, in February 2018 we announced to Office 365 sits at the very heart of this, of our customers.
We have several thatHeads ofTerms had been agreed with enabling us to provide a more secure, initiatives to provide additional capacity Infracapital, the infrastructure equity robust, stable and collaborative toolset.
and reduce costs: investment arm of M&G Prudential, to ii Relentlessly improving security establish a new company to build out Access Network Transformation ANT andcompliance theUKs low cost and alternative FTTP This programme addresses capacity Cyber-crime is a rising threat to businesses network.
TalkTalk will take a minority stake and scalability issues in the access and organisations globally but keeping our 20% and be the wholesale anchor partner.
andmetro network, deploying new next customers and their data secure is a key The joint venture will put up a potential equity generation edge devices, and revising priority for us.
As threats evolve, so must investment of up to 500m enabling total the topology and architecture for both our response.
We will continue to take investment, including debt, of c. 1.5bn to optimised traffic management and significant steps to enhance our security provide full fibre to more than three million improved resilience.
In 2019, we will continue to homes and businesses in mid-sized towns mature and enhance our controls across all and cities in the UK.
By partnering with Optical backhaul strategy Fibre optic the security domains based on the National backhaul is the next wave of network Infracapital we are making good progress Institute of Standards and Technologys towards putting TalkTalk at the heart of efficiency to maintain our cost advantage NIST Cyber Security Framework.
We have and underpin growth in FTTP and Britains fibre future by building a full fibre already invested heavily in our in-house network, bringing faster, more reliable Business Ethernet services.
By utilising team, which has a wide range of prevention, a hybrid adoption strategy of both lit internet to millions of homes and businesses.
detection and response tools in place to and Dark Fibre we will deliver each mitigate against, and manage security Gigabit at the lowest possible cost.
We will continue to work closely Core transport Upgrade of the withexternal security experts and law transport capacity of our core network enforcement agencies, to share intelligence and replace end-of-life equipment.
and ensure our processes align to best practice.
We also have visibility of security Route optimisation Reduction of practices across all our partners and number of hops and interfaces per suppliers and hold them to the same connection in the transport network, standards as we maintain internally.
creating super highways both at IP andoptical layers.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 11
