Directors report Reporting requirements The Articles of Association may be changed by special resolution.
The Group is required to produce a Strategic Report complying with The Company successfully raised 201m net of issue costs following the requirements of Section 414A of the Companies Act 2006 the its announcement on 8 February 2018 in respect of the placing of new Act.
The Group has complied with this requirement and incorporates ordinary shares in the capital of the Company through an accelerated a detailed review of the Groups activities, business performance bookbuilding process at a placing price of 107p pershare.
and developments during the year in a way that is fair, balanced and understandable and gives an indication of likely future developments In compliance with the exemption from the obligation to publish a on pages 1 to 31. prospectus for up to a 20% increase in securities admitted to trading under the Prospectus Regulation which came into force on 20 July 2017, The Corporate Governance Statement, as required by Rule 7.2.
1 of the Company issued placing shares of approximately 19.95% on a the Financial Conduct Authority FCA Disclosure and Transparency nonpreemptive basis of its existing issued ordinary share capital.
Rules, is set out on pages 34 to 38 of the Corporate Governance Members of its Board of Directors and senior management consulted Report and forms part of the Directors Report.
with the Companys major institutional shareholders ahead of theplacement.
Suppliers payment policy It is the Companys policy to develop and maintain key commercial Following admission of the placing shares on 12 February 2018, relationships with its suppliers, one aspect of which is payment timing, theCompany has a total of 1,146,269,670 ordinary shares in issue.
to obtain mutually agreed payment terms.
The Company has commercially TheExecutive Chairman and other Directors of the Company agreed longer credit terms with one of its larger corporate suppliers.
participated in the placing to an aggregate amount of 41m.
Excluding this supplier, the underlying average credit period taken The participation of the Executive Chairman, Invesco Asset on trade payables was 50 days 2017: 50 days.
Including this supplier, Management, Mr David Ross, Capital Research Global Investors the average credit period taken was 55 days 2017: 57 days.
andToscafund Asset Management in the placing constitute smaller related party transactions for the purposes of Rule 11.1.
10R of the Contracts with controlling shareholders Listing Rules.
During the period Sir Charles Dunstone was a controlling shareholder within the definition set out in the Listing Rules, although following The net proceeds of the placing have been used to strengthen the share placement on 12 February 2017 his shareholding currently theCompanys balance sheet, to support its continued customer falls below the required threshold.
In compliance with Listing Rule growth and its investment in its long term FTTP plans.
2AR 1 during the period, the Company has entered into a written was chosen as it minimises cost as well as use of management time and legally binding agreement with Sir Charles Dunstone under which at an important phase of TalkTalks growth strategy.
he agreed to comply with the independence provisions set out in Details in the movements in authorised and issued share capital Listing Rule 6.1.
4DR: however, as Sir Charles Dunstone no longer has during the period are provided in note 21 to the consolidated over 30% shareholding this binding agreement now falls away as it is financial statements.
During the period, there were no material contracts with controlling Going concern shareholders, except as set out above and disclosed in the Directors Our business activities, together with the factors likely to affect our Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 58. future performance and market position are set out in the Chief Executives Review.
Our financial position, cash and borrowing No Director is entitled to any compensation for loss of office on a takeover facilities are described within this Chief Financial Officers statement, or change of control of the Company.
Details of employee share schemes together with further detail on other sources of finance including are set out in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.
receivables financing and commitments given in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Share capital The rights and obligations relating to the Companys shares are set We have 1,115m of committed credit facilities and as at 31 March out in the Articles of Association.
The Articles of Association can 2018 the headroom on these facilities was 348m.
Our forecasts berequested from the Company Secretary at the Companys and projections, taking into account reasonably possible changes registered office.
intrading performance, indicate that there is sufficient cash and covenant headroom on our facilities.
Sensitivity analysis has been There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the performed in respect of certain scenarios, including an increase in capital of the Company other than those which may be imposed churn, lower net adds growth and lower than expected cost savings, bylaw from time to time.
In accordance with the Disclosure and and we have considered mitigating actions an cash management Transparency Rules, certain employees including the Executive activities within the Groups control in the event of a breach in Directors are required to seek approval to deal in the Companys covenant.
This, together with our market positioning, means that shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between weare well placed to manage our business risks successfully and shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfers of haveadequate resources to operate for the foreseeable future.
securities and or voting rights.
TheDirectors have therefore adopted the going concern basis of There is a general right of the Company to purchase its own shares, accounting in relation to the preparation of the financial statements.
as set out in Article 16 of the Companys Articles of Association.
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Directors to Shares held by the Group Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT assess and report on the prospects of the Group over a longer abstain from voting.
Thislonger term viability statement is set out within the Annual Report on page 38.
In addition, at the AGM in 2017, the Company was granted the right to acquire 95,561,546 shares.
This right expires on the date of the 2018 AGM or 20 October 2018 whichever is sooner.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 59 Corporate governance Directors report continued Borrowings and financial instruments Market Abuse Regulation The disclosures required in relation to the use of financial instruments The Company continues to oversee its share dealing processes including by the Company, including the financial risk management objectives those relating to persons discharging managerial responsibilities and policies including in relation to hedging of the Company: specific and its share dealing policy and provides mandatory training to quantitative information on borrowings and financial instruments: certain of its employees.
and the exposure of the Company to foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk, can be found in notes 18 and 19 Equal opportunities to the financial statements and the risks and uncertainties section We celebrate diversity and we have an equality policy that ensures of the Strategic Report on page 26, which are incorporated by that everyone is provided with the same opportunities for reference to this report.
employment, career development, training and promotion.
We are committed to providing equal opportunities and avoiding Appointment of Directors unlawful discrimination by further developing our diversity and The rules relating to the appointment and or removal of Directors inclusion strategy over the coming year.
are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
We are keen to ensure that employees are paid appropriately for the The powers of the Directors are set out in the Companys Articles work that they do.
We believe that everyone should have the same ofAssociation.
opportunities, regardless of gender, and we are committed to levelling the internal playing field to create a truly inclusive culture.
We undertook Property, plant and equipment our second gender pay audit in the year ended 31 March 2018 and Movements in property, plant and equipment are set out in note 12 will continue to do so on an annual basis.
We have also complied with to the consolidated financial statements.
the mandatory gender pay reporting regulations and published our first report on 1 February 2018.
Results and dividends The Group results and dividends for the year ended 31 March 2018 Audit information are set out in the consolidated income statement and note 8 on Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this pages 70 and 89 respectively.
The Company may, by resolution in a Annual Report confirms that: general meeting, declare dividends in accordance with the respective rights of the members, but no dividend can exceed the amount so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit recommended by the Board.
information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have Significant shareholdings taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any At 15 May 2018, the Company had been notified of the following relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys interests in the Companys shares: auditor is aware of the information.
Number % of This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Name of shares share capital with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Sir Charles Dunstone 326,769,676 28.51 Toscafund Asset Management 163,537,210 14.27 By order of the Board Invesco Asset Management 153,982,505 13.43 Mr David Ross 129,845,616 11.33 Capital Research Global Investors 126,135,841 11.00 Tim Morris TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Jupiter Asset Management 42,368,179 3.70 Company Secretary 11 Evesham Street 24 May 2018 London W11 4AR The total interests of the Directors are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 55.
Directors indemnities Directors liability insurance is provided for Directors.
Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R Other than the following, no further information is required to be disclosed by the Company in respect of Listing Rule 9.8.
4R: details of the incentive plans, which are set out on pages 53 to54 ofthe Directors Remuneration Report and note 5 to the consolidated financial statements incorporated by reference intothis report.
Greenhouse gas emissions reporting Details of the Groups greenhouse emissions can be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility section on page 31.
Charitable donations Charitable donations paid during the year are disclosed on page 31 of the Strategic Report.
60 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018
