Marketplace Markets in which we operate Food & Beverage Solutions Ingredients and solutions which add specific functionality and value to customers products The market 1 Food & Beverage Solutions which It serves customers globally, with an Size includes Sucralose provides ingredients increasing presence in higher and solutions which help customers growth markets such as Asia Pacific c. US$55 billion meet increasing consumer demand for and Latin America.
2 Annual growth healthier and tastier food and drink.
c. 4-5% Where we operate We focus on four areas of the market: Sweeteners Products include high Health and wellness Products We take these products and, using our intensity sweeteners e. g. SPLENDA include fibres e. g. PROMITOR technical expertise, we provide solutions Sucralose and speciality sweeteners Soluble Fibre, and oat protein for our customers in categories such e. g. DOLCIA PRIMA Allulose as beverages, dairy, and soups, sauces Stabilisers Customised ingredient and dressings.
Texturants Products include blends providing high functionality REZISTA Corn-based Starches and such as viscosity and stability CLARIA Clean-Label Starches e. g. HAMULSION.
Key market drivers Healthier Clean label Free from With obesity and diabetes on the rise Consumers want to understand the Intolerance to certain ingredients is worldwide, consumers are looking to ingredients on food and drink labels.
leading to increased demand for reduce sugar, calories and fat in their Increasingly, they are choosing products allergen-free foods such as dairy-free.
food and drink while also adding with labels with ingredients they feel are Convenience beneficial ingredients such as fibre less processed, or they perceive to be Convenience often comes at the cost of and protein.
Consumers want food and drink that offer fast, grab-and-go nutrition, and provide healthier choices.
How we deliver solutions We work in partnership with our Enrichment Stabilisation customers to reformulate their existing Our diverse portfolio of fibres offers a Through our in-depth knowledge of products, or create new products, range of nutritional and functional ingredients and complex food systems, to make food and drink healthier benefits, while delivering exceptional we create customised stabiliser systems and tastier.
highly functional ingredient blends that ensure products maintain stability, and Sugar and calorie reduction Texture appetising texture, throughout their Through our portfolio of sweeteners and Our range of starches provide key shelf life.
fibres, we create solutions that help functionality for foods such as reduce sugar and calories without giving thickening, shelf-stability and fat up the sweetness and texture reduction, while still providing the consumers want.
1 IHS 2014: Speciality Chemicals update Program: Food Additives: Leatherhead 2014: The Global Food Additives Market: and other sources.
2 Leatherhead: LMC International: Company analysis: data as at 2013, five year CAGR 2009-2013.
20 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Primary Products High volume ingredients which are largely undifferentiated and compete primarily on quality, service and price The market Primary Products provides high volume food and beverage, paper and packaging % of Primary Products profit from food and industrial products to industries.
It also sells co-products as NorthAmerica customers who operate on a large scale.
animal feed to customers globally.
The It primarily serves the North American end-markets it serves are mostly 90% market.
Its products, derived mainly mature and consolidated.
from corn, meet customer needs in the Where we operate Sweeteners Industrial starches Commodities Sweeteners provide sweetness Industrial starches strengthen and Commodities include co-products such and mouthfeel to regular carbonated improve the surface conditions of paper as corn gluten meal and corn gluten feed soft drinks and other foods and drinks.
and cardboard, and are also used in sold mainly as animal feed and corn oil.
We also produce some ethanol at our Loudon, Tennessee facility.
Acidulants Acidulants are used mainly to enhance flavour and preserve foods, beverages and pharmaceuticals.
Key market drivers Industry capacity utilisation Corn market Sweetener demand Our ingredients are produced The US corn wet milling industry Demand in the US for regular carbonated mainly at four large corn wet mills in processes around 9% of the US corn soft drinks, the main end-market for our the US and two smaller mills in Europe.
Recent harvests have been strong sweeteners, has declined modestly over the Supply demand balance is a key driver with corn inventory high and prices last three years, broadly offset by growth in of profitability in the US corn wet milling relatively low and stable.
Corn is largely other markets including exports to Mexico.
Supply demand in the industry a pass-through cost.
was well balanced during the year.
How we drive value As it operates in mature markets, reducing exposure to commodity We seek to steadily re-deploy primary Primary Products aims to create value markets where we can, by dampening capacity in our corn wet mills to support by focusing on: volatility by using conservative growth in Food & Beverage Solutions to hedging strategies: actively managing maintain good utilisation of our assets.
optimising product mix and margins co-product sales: and investing in our maintaining a mix of tolling and corn elevator storage network to non-tolling contracts secure raw material supply continuously driving productivity maintaining capital expenditure and efficiency discipline.
