Executive Committee Our executive team Responsible for delivering our strategy and achieving business results.
From left to right Rowan Adams, Rob Luijten, Nick Hampton, Joan Braca, Robert Gibber, Melissa Law, Andrew Taylor and Jim Stutelberg.
16 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Nick Hampton Melissa Law Chief Executive President, Global Operations Nick became the Chief Executive on 1 April 2018.
He joined Melissa joined Tate & Lyle in September 2017.
Prior to joining Tate & Lyle as Chief Financial Officer in September 2014.
Prior Tate & Lyle, Melissa worked for Baker Hughes, a GE company, to joining Tate & Lyle, he held a number of senior roles over a where she led the Global Specialties Chemicals Division, with 20-year career at PepsiCo, including as PepsiCos CFO Europe: prior executive roles for the companys Australian and Gulf of President, West Europe Region: and Senior Vice President Mexico operations.
Melissas 20 years of experience ranges Commercial, Europe.
across R&D, operations, marketing, commercial and sales.
Joan Braca Rowan Adams President, Food & Beverage Solutions Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs Joan joined Tate & Lyle in 2013 as Senior Vice President and Rowan joined Tate & Lyle in 2001 from National Westminster General Manager, Asia Pacific.
She was then appointed Bank.
During his career at Tate & Lyle he has held a number President, Food & Beverage Solutions from November 2014. of senior roles and was appointed Executive Vice President, Prior to joining Tate & Lyle, Joan spent nearly 20 years with Corporate Affairs in November 2014 with global responsibility Rohm and Haas Company in a variety of operational and general for public affairs, communications and risk.
management roles in the US, Europe and Asia Pacific.
Robert Gibber Jim Stutelberg Executive Vice President, General Counsel President, Primary Products Rob joined Tate & Lyle in 1990 as a commercial lawyer having Jim joined Tate & Lyle in 2014 from Pennsylvania-based started his career in private practice.
He was appointed General PPG Industries Inc. where he led its Americas Automotive Counsel in 1997 and was Company Secretary between 2001 and Coatings business.
Prior to that, he spent 16 years with Dow 2012.
Rob has global responsibility for Legal and Quality.
Corning Corporation in a variety of senior marketing, sales and Rob Luijten general management roles, including five years working in Shanghai, China.
Executive Vice President, Human Resources Rob joined Tate & Lyle as Executive Vice President, Human Andrew Taylor Resources in 2010.
Prior to joining Tate & Lyle, he was Human President, Innovation and Commercial Development Resources Director for Africa, Middle East and Asia for BG Group Andrew joined Tate & Lyle in September 2017.
He also spent ten years with GE Plastics in a number of Tate & Lyle, Andrew worked for the global management senior human resources roles in both Europe and Asia.
consultancy firm The Boston Consulting Group BCG, where he was a Senior Partner and Managing Director.
From 2008, he also led BCGs global Innovation Practice.
Imran Nawaz Chief Financial Officer from 1 August 2018 As announced on 17 April 2018, Imran will join Tate & Lyle and become the Chief Financial Officer with effect from - 1 August 2018.
Imran joins Tate & Lyle from Mondelez International where he has held the position of Senior Vice President Finance Europe since 2014. www.
