Board of Directors Our Board Dr Gerry Murphy Nick Hampton Paul Forman Chairman Chief Executive Independent non-executive director Lars Frederiksen Douglas Hurt Anne Minto OBE Independent non-executive director Senior Independent Director Independent non-executive director Imran Nawaz Imran Nawaz Chief Financial Officer Chief Financial Officer from 1 August 2018 from 1 August 2018 As announced on 17 April 2018, Imran As announced on 17 April 2018, Imran will join the Board and become the will join the Board and become the Chief Financial Officer with effect Chief Financial Officer with effect from 1 August 2018.
Imran Nawaz joins Tate & Lyle from Mondelz joins Tate & Lyle from Mondelez International where he has held the International where he has held the position of Senior Vice President position of Senior Vice President Finance Europe since 2014.
Dr Ajai Puri Sybella Stanley Independent Independent non-executive director non-executive director 52 52 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Dr Gerry Murphy Nick Hampton Paul Forman Chairman and Chair of Chief Executive Non-executive director Date appointed to Board: September 2014 Date appointed to Board: January 2015 Nominations Committee Date appointed to Board: January 2017 Independent: No Independent: Yes Independent: Yes on appointment Aged: 51 Aged: 53 Nationality: British Nationality: British Aged: 62 Nationality: Irish Skills and expertise: Board Committees Board Committees Nick brings a wealth of food industry A R N insights to the Board.
His general N management, financial and operational Skills and expertise: experience in senior management roles in Skills and expertise: Paul has wide experience in global a major multinational food and beverage manufacturing, commercial, as well as Gerry started his career in the food and business combined with his experience in drinks sector and received his PhD in food strategy consultancy and M&A advisory leading transformational projects provides services.
He brings insight to the technology.
He has held a number of chief him with the skillset required to inspire and executive roles and has also been an commercialisation of innovation pipelines lead the Group.
and the implementation of business-toinvestor and independent director in a number of international listed companies.
business customer and market-led Current external commitments: strategies in a large multinational His significant business and board level Non-executive director and Chairman of experience and a detailed understanding of business-to-business context.
His the Audit Committee of Great Portland experience as a CEO of a number of UK corporate governance requirements Estates plc.
enable him to provide the Board with global companies enables him to provide Previous roles: valuable insights to the Board.
Held a number of senior roles over a Current external commitments: Current external commitments: 20-year career at PepsiCo, including Senior Chairman of The Blackstone Groups Chief Executive of Essentra plc.
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, principal European entity Europe and President, West Europe Previous roles: Chairman designate of Burberry Group plc.
Region and Senior Vice President Group Chief Executive of Coats plc and Low Commercial, Europe.
Served as a non-executive Previous roles: director at Brammer PLC.
Senior Managing Director in Blackstones Private Equity group 2008 to 2017.
CEO of Greencore Group plc, Exel plc, Carlton Communications plc and most recently Kingfisher plc 2003 to 2008.
Held nonexecutive directorships in Intertrust NV, British American Tobacco plc, Invest Europe, Merlin Entertainments plc, Reckitt Benckiser plc, Abbey National plc and Novar plc.
Board Committees Certain responsibilities are delegated to three Board Committees, details of which are provided on pages 66 to 89.
A Audit Committee R Remuneration Committee N Nominations Committee www.
com 53 Board of Directors continued Lars Frederiksen Douglas Hurt Anne Minto OBE Non-executive director Senior Independent Director and Chair Non-executive director and Chair of the Date appointed to Board: April 2016 of the Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Date appointed to Board: March 2010 Date appointed to Board: December 2012 Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Aged: 59 Nationality: Danish Aged: 61 Aged: 64 Nationality: British Nationality: British Board Committees Board Committees Board Committees R N A N A R N Skills and expertise: As the former CEO of a global speciality Skills and expertise: Skills and expertise: food ingredients business, Lars led a Douglas is a chartered accountant and has Annes extensive career in general successful business transformation and his extensive experience as a former finance management and human resources is insights will be invaluable to the Board as director of a global manufacturing and particularly useful to the Board when Tate & Lyle continues to evolve.
He brings business-to-business engineering group, considering succession planning, talent operational expertise and insights and an and also in senior management roles in the management, executive remuneration and understanding of how to attract and retain US and Europe, which provides the Board other employee-related activities.
She has a talent in a global business.
with valuable perspectives and insights into detailed understanding of how to attract financial and operational issues.
In addition, and retain global talent and her roles on the Current external commitments: his understanding of the London investment boards of companies listed in both London Chairman of Matas A S community and pension matters supports and New York provide her with a detailed Non-executive director of Falck A S the Board in its oversight and  of global executive Chairman of the Danish Committee for making roles.
remuneration practices and UK and US Good Corporate Governance remuneration governance requirements.
Current external commitments: Chairman of the Hedorf Foundation.
Senior Independent Director and Current external commitments: chairman of the Audit Committee of Non-executive director of ExlService Previous roles: Vesuvius plc Holdings, Inc. CEO of Chr.
Hansen Holding A S from 2005 until retirement in March 2013, leading a Non-executive director of BSI Group Chairman of the University of Aberdeen transformation of the business and a Development Trust Senior Independent Director and successful listing on the Copenhagen stock Chairman of the Audit Committee of Non-executive director of the Court of the exchange during that period.
Prior to Countryside Properties PLC.
becoming CEO, held various management Previous roles: Previous roles: positions at Chr.
Finance Director of IMI plc and held Non-executive director and chairman of the a number of financial and operational Remuneration Committee of Shire PLC roles, including US and European until April 2018.
Group Director of Human senior management positions, Resources at Centrica plc from 2002 until at GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Prior to that, held senior management roles at Shell UK and Smiths Group plc and was Deputy Director-General of the Engineering Employers Federation.
A Audit Committee R Remuneration Committee N Nominations Committee 54 54 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Dr Ajai Puri Sybella Stanley Gender diversity of Directors Non-executive director and Chair of the Non-executive director At 23 May 2018 Date appointed to Board: April 2016 Research Advisory Group Date appointed to Board: April 2012 Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Aged: 56 Nationality: British Aged: 64 Nationality: Indian American Board Committees Board Committees A N R N Skills and expertise: Skills and expertise: Sybella has extensive commercial and financial experience and brings a wealth of Ajais food science background and career in research and development in global food knowledge about the London investment community and substantial experience of and beverage companies provides the Male 6 Board with detailed technical knowledge communicating with this and other Female 2 investment communities outside the UK.
and insights into market perceptions, nutrition and food and regulatory trends Her long career in corporate finance and M&A will be invaluable to the Boards relevant to the speciality food ingredients Directors nationalities business.
His experience in the Asia Pacific consideration of strategic opportunities.
At 23 May 2018 region is of particular benefit as we Current external commitments: continue to focus on growth in emerging Director of Corporate Finance at RELX markets.
His work with regulatory bodies Group plc and knowledge of nutrition, science and Non-executive director of The Merchants food regulation provides him with the Trust PLC skillset required to chair the Research Member of the Department of Business, Advisory Group and to support the Board and Tate & Lyle with valuable insights Energy and Industrial Strategys Industrial Development Advisory Board into how leading-edge science and technology can be successfully deployed Member of the Somerville College Oxford as part of the Groups Food & Beverage Development Board.
Previous roles: Current external commitments: Originally qualified as a barrister and, Non-executive director of Britannia before joining RELX Group in 1997, was a British 5 directors Industries Limited member of the M&A advisory team at American 1 director Non-executive director of Firmenich SA Citigroup and later Barings.
Irish 1 director Non-executive director of Global Alliance Danish 1 director for Improved Nutrition GAIN.
Previous roles: Tenure of non-executive President Research, Development and directors Product Integrity and a member of the Executive Board of Koninklijke Numico N. V. At 23 May 2018 from 2003 to 2007.
Prior to this, held various management positions with The Coca-Cola Company, culminating in Senior Vice President Technical, The Minute Maid Company.
Less than 3 years 2 directors 3 to 6 years 2 directors Over 6 years 2 directors www.
