Food & Beverage Solutions Commentary for Sucralose is provided separately on page 26.
Food & Beverage Solutions Volume growth and encouraging performance while we continue to invest for longer-term growth.
2018 Year ended 31 March Volume Continuing operations change Volume North America 1% Asia Pacific and Latin America 7% Europe, Middle East and Africa 6% Total 3% Constant currency 2018 2017 Change change m m % % Sales North America 416 420 1% -% Asia Pacific and Latin America 184 176 4% 5% Europe, Middle East and Africa 250 238 5% 1% Total 850 834 2% 2% Adjusted operating profit 137 129 5% 8% The Group has made changes to its reportable segments which are explained on page 12.
Key highlights Food & Beverage Solutions Good performance with profit 8% higher in constant currency Volume growth improved to 3%, with volume growth in North America Re-focused growth strategy on key categories to align with customer New Products progress with sales 15% higher Expanded application labs in Asia Pacific and Latin America.
Sucralose Adjusted operating profit 5% higher in constant currency with margin growth.
With our clear category focus and strong solutions portfolio, we are well-placed to benefit from growing global demand for healthier food and drink.
Joan Braca President, Food & Beverage Solutions 24 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Improving lives, making food healthier How do you make a delicious tasting yoghurt with reduced sugar, fat and calories, enriched with fibre, and with the texture consumers love?
Our ability to combine our understanding of sweetness, texture and fibre enrichment, with our expertise in the dairy category, makes this possible by tailoring the right solution for our customers in their local markets.
SPLENDA Sucralose PROMITOR Soluble Fibre Sweetens without adding calories Contributes added fibre, provides mouthfeel, and allows calorie and sugar reduction CLARIA Functional HAMULSION Clean-Label Starch Stabiliser Systems Provides clean-label texture Thickens, stabilises, and mouthfeel, and replaces fat optimises cost, and provides consistent mouthfeel Addressing global consumer trends Our solutions help our customers meet growing global consumer trends: 1 in 4 84% 81% products launched globally of US consumers report limiting of US consumers say taste is 1 2 3 contains a clean-label claim the amount of sugar in their diets the primary driver of purchase Sources 1 Innova Market Insights analysis for Tate & Lyle, May 2016.
2 Mintel, Insights on Health, Sugar & Sweeteners and Beverages May 2017.
3 Food International Council Foundation 2018 Food and Health Survey.
com 25 Food & Beverage Solutions continued Volume grew by 3%, with growth in all regions, including a return To meet increasing customer demand, during the year we to growth in North America.
Sales were 2% higher in constant announced an expansion of maltodextrin capacity at our facility currency at 850 million.
Adjusted operating profit was 8% higher in Slovakia, which is expected to come on line in the 2019 in constant currency reflecting both higher volume and the calendar year.
recovery of our stabiliser business formerly Food Systems New Products following the successful consolidation of our blending facilities in Europe and the lapping of the 5 million write down of an Volume of New Products grew by 24%.
Sales increased by 15% to unrecoverable debt.
US$121 million or 91 million 2017 US$105 million or 81 million.
During the year, we invested in the expansion of customer-facing applications laboratories in the emerging markets and invested Higher sales in texturants were led by growth in clean label in our offer to customers by selectively balancing competitive starches and in our range of Non-GMO products.
Our CLARIA price positioning and growing margins.
These decisions, together line of functional clean label starches continues to perform well, with increasing North American transport costs, moderated with a new line of instant starches released in the year and a profit growth in the second half of the year.
We continue to broaden our offering of Non-GMO solutions in line with this growing consumer trend.
The effect of currency translation was to increase sales by 1 million, but reduce adjusted operating profit by 2 million.
The replacement of sugar in beverages led to higher sales of TM our stevia portfolio of products, with PUREFRUIT, our monk North America fruit extract high intensity sweetener, also performing well.
In North America, market conditions continued to be challenging In April 2017, we entered into an exclusive partnership with as the overall US food and beverage market remained flat with Sweet Green Fields, one of the largest fully integrated stevia consumers increasingly seeking alternatives to traditional players.
Reflecting the encouraging progress demonstrated brands, and many of our largest customers experiencing end over the first year of this partnership, in May 2018, we extended market softness.
Despite this, volume grew 1% as we: our relationship by acquiring a 15% shareholding in Sweet 1 continued to win new business in targeted higher-growth Green Fields.
sub-categories across dairy, bakery and health and nutrition, where our technical depth and expertise are providing increasing value to our customers: 2 developed our business in customer Sucralose channels growing faster than the market, such as food service and own label: and 3 gained share in our larger food and Value-based strategy delivering returns.
Constant Sales in constant currency were flat at 416 million, reflecting currency 2018 2017 Change change product mix and pass through of lower corn costs.
m m % % Volume 12% Asia Pacific and Latin America Sales 146 162 10% 9% In Asia Pacific and Latin America, volume was 7% higher, with Adjusted operating profit 55 52 6% 5% especially strong growth in China and Mexico.
Sales increased by 5% in constant currency to 184 million.
The Group has made changes to its reportable segments which are explained In Latin America, Mexico saw double digit volume growth, with on page 12. particularly strong demand for sweeteners helped by favourable market dynamics.
In Brazil, we delivered double digit volume As expected, Sucralose volume reduced by 12% reflecting the growth, mainly driven by texturant and sweetener sales in the sale of excess inventory in the first half of the comparative year dairy category.
Weakness in the Venezuelan market led to double following the completion of the transition to our facility in digit decline in volume in the Andean region.
Pricing was firm with sales In Asia Pacific, we delivered strong double digit volume growth 9% lower in constant currency at 146 million.
While volume was in China with good growth in dairy and beverages, while in lower, our McIntosh facility continued to operate well and at close South Eastern Asia volume was lower due to a competitive to capacity, delivering lower operating costs, and adjusted sweetener market.
operating profit was 5% higher in constant currency at 55 million.
During the year, we expanded our customer-facing applications facilities in Shanghai, Singapore and Mexico City, and completed While overall market demand for sucralose continues to grow the expansion of manufacturing capacity at our polydextrose fibre over the longer term, market prices are expected to moderate facility in Nantong, China.
reflecting increases in industry supply from Chinese manufacturers.
The effect of currency translation was to reduce sales by Europe, Middle East and Africa 1 million, with no impact on adjusted operating profit.
In Europe, Middle East and Africa, volume increased by 6% driven by double digit volume growth both in Southern Europe, where sweetener demand in beverages was strong, and in Central Europe, reflecting good demand for our texturant solutions in soups, sauces and dressings.
In Russia, stabiliser volume was significantly lower following a customer credit issue in the prior year.
Sales at 250 million increased by 1% in constant currency, impacted by lower mix of stabiliser sales.
26 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018
