Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Business Conduct Doing business with integrity At Tate & Lyle we believe in doing what is right, no matter what.
Our anti-slavery and human trafficking statement is available on the Integrity is one of our three Values along with safety and respect, Companys website, at www.
and we expect everyone at Tate & Lyle, and all who work with us, Reporting concerns to act in accordance with our Values and live up to our standards.
We set out what this means in our Code of Ethics Code, which is We encourage our employees and business partners to come publicised widely throughout the Group.
It is supported by forward with any information concerning actual or alleged detailed policies and procedures.
We encourage people to report breaches of our Code.
We provide an independent, anonymous any breaches through our Speak Up programme, which we third-party reporting service in 47 countries via a free phone publicise widely in our plants and offices, on our intranet and in number and by email.
As we say in the introduction to We promote our Speak Up programme internally through our our Code, compromising our standards is never worth it.
employee communications and externally through the Companys website.
Members of our Speak Up Committee investigate any Code of Ethics and conduct of commerical issues reported.
relationships Our Code, available in 13 languages, defines the standards of Product safety and quality behaviour we expect from everyone at Tate & Lyle, and those who Our Product Safety and Quality Policy sets out the standards work with us such as our business partners and suppliers.
We have well-established processes in During 2017, our newly appointed Head of Ethics and Compliance place to make sure we both comply with applicable laws in the led a review of the Code.
As a result, an updated Code will be country of production and sale, and satisfy all relevant food safety published in 2018. standards.
These processes include in-process and finished product testing: a global compliance audit programme: annual We are subject to anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws in all product traceability and recall testing both globally and locally at countries in which we operate, including the UK Bribery Act, each facility : raw material, processing aids, packaging material which has extraterritorial reach.
Our operations in emerging and supplier risk assessments: environmental pathogen markets bring additional risk of bribery and corruption.
monitoring: robust food safety training and ongoing reviews of Tate & Lyle has a zero-tolerance approach to bribery.
Any breach global food safety recalls root causes to pressure test our controls.
of our Code in this area could result in reputational damage, We use continuous improvement tools such as a first-pass quality criminal prosecution, significant fines and loss of future revenue.
and complaint index to improve our quality performance.
We also aim to ensure that the business practices of our suppliers, distributors and agents are in line with our ethics.
Our global compliance audit programme includes local and global traceability and recall exercises, annual quality In order to protect against bribery by both employees and third management site reviews and activities to track compliance with parties, a number of controls are in place.
We support the Code our Product Food Safety and Quality policies.
Our aim is to ensure with a set of standards including the Group Competition Antiwe follow up all results from our audit programme, and share the trust Standard, Group Gifts and Hospitality Standard, Anti-Money results across facilities to leverage best practice.
We also Laundering and Anti-Corruption Bribery Standard and Agents monitor global regulatory food safety changes to make sure our and Commissions Standard.
In 2017, our legal team provided programmes address emerging issues and reflect changing targeted training on our Code, helping colleagues uphold the regulations.
Every year our manufacturing facilities are externally Code and our standards.
certified in line with the Global Food Safety Initiative.
We are We conduct due diligence on our agents, and include relevant pleased to report that all sites obtained an A AA rating or contractual terms in their agreements with us.
Through our equivalent indicating no major or critical food safety concerns.
internal regional Control Environment Councils, we monitor risks to the business in relation to ethics and compliance and take Priorities in the year ahead necessary steps to address any shortcomings.
Launch our updated Code of Ethics and training programme Review and enhance policies and controls to protect against Standards in our supply chain bribery by employees and third parties Our Code is part of our terms and conditions, contracts and other Continue to promote our Speak Up programme, encouraging supplier engagements.
We expect suppliers to comply with the open and honest communication across Tate & Lyle.
standards set out in the Code.
