Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Primary Products Primary Products Strong performance, firm margins and consistent execution.
2018 Year ended 31 March Volume Continuing operations change Volume North American Sweeteners 3% North American Industrial Starches 0% Total Primary Products 1% Constant currency 2018 2017 Change change m m % % Sales Total Primary Products 1 714 1 757 2% 1% Adjusted operating profit Sweeteners and Starches 134 121 10% 11% Commodities 32 8 311% 333% Total Primary Products 166 129 28% 30% The Group has made changes to its reportable segments which are explained on page 12.
Key highlights Strong performance with profit 30% higher Robust margins in balanced supply demand industry North American Sweeteners volume 3% higher 13 million increase in Sweeteners and Industrial Starches profit Good mix management and customer service Commodities profit 24 million higher in constant currency.
We remain focused on delivering steady earnings and cash, and optimising our portfolio to deliver incremental value.
Jim Stutelberg President, Primary Products www.
com 27 Primary Products continued Improving lives, for everyday needs From adding great taste to beverages, to making paper smoother, to helping cardboard boxes stay sealed, our sweeteners, starches and acidulants are used to help make the lives of millions of people easier and more enjoyable every day.
Packaging tape TM Our range of STA-TAPE starches are used in the manufacture of brown paper tape for sealing cardboard boxes.
TM STA-TAPE starches adhere very well and help to protect package contents during transit.
They also provide a security seal for products, as the tape cant be lifted and re-stuck.
Soft drinks High fructose corn syrup is used as a sweetener in soft drinks and beverages.
Citric acid can also be used to improve taste or add a distinct sour flavour impact.
Paper Our starches, such as ETHYLEX and STA-LOK, are used in the production of paper to increase strength and stability, and provide a smoother surface.
Our starches help improve everyday items such as magazines, writing paper, cardboard and tissues.
28 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Volume increased by 1% with North American sweetener growth North American Free Trade Agreement NAFTA and robust demand.
The United States, Canada, and Mexico commenced discussions in August 2017 to modernise NAFTA.
NAFTA is very important to Adjusted operating profit of 166 million increased by 30% in the US food and agriculture sector, and Mexico in particular is a constant currency.
Sweeteners and Starches adjusted operating key export market for the corn wet milling industry, notably for profit increased by 11% in constant currency, benefiting from high fructose corn syrup.
As at the date of this Annual Report, strong commercial and supply chain execution, solid demand, talks between the three parties are ongoing, and we continue to and moderate margin gains secured in the 2017 calendar year monitor the situation closely.
In the second half, increasing energy and transport costs held back profit growth.
Commodities contributed Prior to the commencement of the talks on NAFTA, in June 2017 profits of 32 million, an increase of 24 million.
the US Department of Commerce and the Mexican Secretariat of Economy agreed revised Sugar Suspension Agreements.
These The effect of currency translation was to decrease sales by Agreements, originally put in place in 2014, suspend the 20 million and adjusted operating profit by 2 million.
anti-dumping and countervailing duty investigations on imports of The US corn wet milling industry remains relatively well Mexican sugar into the US.
They also limit the amount of sugar balanced, reflecting firm overall demand with modestly declining that Mexican companies can export to the US, and set price floors US domestic demand for high fructose corn syrup offset by for that sugar.
The revised Agreements maintain a productive US growing sweetener demand in some end-use categories, trading relationship with Mexico, and preserve cross-border including the brewing industry, other fermentation uses and trade of sweeteners between the two countries.
Corn prices Using the whole corn kernel For the fourth consecutive year, the US corn crop was good with strong yields resulting in high closing US inventories.
Corn prices Tate & Lyle uses every part of the corn kernel: nothing is varied through the year, trading mostly in the $3.30 to $3.90 per wasted.
Corn is broken down into 58% corn starch used to bushel range, in advance of the 2017 crop.
US corn prices moved make food and industrial ingredients : 22% corn gluten modestly higher in the first quarter of the 2018 calendar year feed made from the hull and fibre and used in cattle feed : reflecting concerns of a smaller crop in Argentina and increased 4% corn gluten meal extracted from the endosperm and exports by the US.
used in aquaculture feed and pet food : 3% corn oil made from the germ and used by the food industry : and the North American Sweeteners remaining 13% is water.
Volume increased 3%, led by stable demand in the US and growth in export volume to Mexico.
Unit margins for contracts renewed for the 2017 calendar year increased, reflecting successful Endosperm Hull and contracting and continued good industry supply demand balance.
fibre Starch Unit margins further benefited from product mix management and efficiency initiatives.
The 2018 calendar year contracting round delivered unit margins broadly in line with the previous year.
Starch and North American Industrial Starches gluten Germ North American Industrial Starches volume was flat compared with the prior year.
Overall demand for paper remains steady with growing demand for packaging and tissue, offsetting Source: Tate & Lyle analysis.
declines in printing and writing paper.
Demand for starches in construction materials also remained steady in a relatively stable US housing market.
Commodities Commodities had a strong year delivering profits of 32 million, 24 million higher than the prior year.
The stronger performance mainly reflected gains from the sourcing of corn and stronger co-products profits.
Profits from corn gluten feed, a co-product used for animal nutrition, strengthened reflecting improved market conditions and better realised prices during the year.
Profits from our network of corn elevators also increased.
US ethanol cash margins remained towards the low-end of the historical range with industry inventories high.
