Innovation and Commercial Development Using science to make food better Innovation and Commercial Development ICD is an important ICD consists of five areas working together as one team.
part of our growth strategy.
ICD brings together scientific and Research and development: we use leading-edge science to commercial functions into one team to provide an integrated deliver innovative new products which target large market approach to developing and commercialising new products and opportunities technologies.
The team uses its deep understanding of consumer Platform management: we use research to develop strategies trends and food and beverage categories, along with leadingfor our four platforms aligned to large market opportunities edge science, to create solutions for customers which address Strategic marketing: our market research programme keeps growing demand for healthier and tastier food and drink.
us up to date with consumer and category trends.
Our own ICD is based at our global Commercial and Food Innovation Centre primary research is supplemented by insights from syndicated in Chicago, USA.
At the Centre, we offer our customers a full range research services such as Euromonitor of facilities and services including sensory evaluation, culinary Regulatory and nutrition: we support our business and our development, human nutrition and regulatory expertise, state-ofcustomers by undertaking pre-clinical and clinical research to the-art research and application laboratories, and a pilot plant.
provide key scientific knowledge about our ingredients, and to Through the Centre, and our global network of applications and navigate regulatory processes in markets across the world technical services laboratories, we work closely with our customers Open innovation: we complement our in-house science by to develop new products and bring them to market quickly.
developing relationships with universities and research ICD supports both business divisions and focuses mostly on four institutions specialising in food science and technologies.
food and beverage platforms where we have strong expertise.
We also seek to identify and develop opportunities across our Each platform has a clear strategic focus aligned to large market platforms.
Tate & Lyle Ventures also invests in early-stage opportunities.
companies in the food ingredient and technology space.
Sweeteners: we promote sugar substitution through a range We manage our innovation pipeline through a rigorous, of low-calorie and no-calorie alternatives to sugar.
Reducing multi-step stage gate process with clear milestones.
calories is an increasingly important priority for both Through this process, we assess the size and viability of an consumers and governments idea from conception through to final launch into the market.
Texturants: we deliver highly functional and clean-label starches.
In the food industry, starches are used to provide texture and shelf stability Health and wellness: we offer soluble fibres and a range of oat-based ingredients which support healthy digestion and Protecting our science have other functional benefits such as replacing fat, sugar and calories We protect our intellectual property by patenting our Stabilisation and functional systems: these help food innovations and processes.
During the year we had 88 new preserve its structure, for example, by preventing oil and patents granted.
In total, at 31 March 2018, we had 384 water emulsions from separating, ice crystals from forming, patents in issue and more than 370 patents pending.
and fruit from settling in products such as jams and yoghurts.
Focus on five scientific competencies Organic chemistry Biochemistry Separations science Particle design Formulations science 30 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018
