Our purpose... 2 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Through our purpose, we believe we can successfully grow our business and have a positive impact on society.
Our purpose is to improve lives for generations.
Our purpose inspires us and informs what we do.
It motivates us and makes us strive to do our best.
Our purpose is our passion its in our DNA.
Reducing calorie intake Enhancing taste SPLENDA Sucralose From soft drinks and smoothies to biscuits and has removed more than bars, from soups and sauces to gravies and seasonings, our solutions are used to enhance the taste, texture and flavour of food and drink enjoyed by people all over the world.
85 trillion calories from peoples diets globally over the last 26 years.
That is the equivalent of over 21 million tonnes of sugar.
Stabilising food Education on nutrition Our stabiliser business has Our child health improvement programme in three been helping to improve food schools in Shanghai, China, is helping children, for over a century.
Founded in parents and teachers learn about the importance Germany in the 19th century, of diet, nutrition, and maintaining an active lifestyle.
it started its business by sterilising food at high temperatures so it could be canned or bottled to make it safer for long sea voyages.
com 3 For a changing world... 4 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Modern life is changing the way we work, eat and play.
Our purpose drives us to find innovative solutions to meet changing consumer demands.
The rise of technology, together However, while over two billion people with changes in diets and lifestyles, are either overweight or obese, one in has caused many people to lead a nine people in the world do not have more sedentary, less active way of enough food to eat.
People are generally eating too you look, societies are facing significant much and moving too little, and food and health-related challenges.
progressively unbalanced lifestyles By delivering our purpose, we believe are affecting their health.
The Tate & Lyle can help make a difference.
incidence of diseases like obesity and diabetes, and digestive health concerns, are increasing rapidly.
Digestive health Diabetes Daily fibre intake is below recommended levels 40 Recommended range 25-38 grammes 30 23 20 21 18 17 16 10 12 422m adults globally are estimated to 0 UK US China Japan Mexico Brazil suffer from diabetes Source: World Health Organization Sources: see page 183.
2014 data: adult is 18 years or older.
com 5 To improve lives for generations 6 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information n o B i t a i l r t a n u n c e n d o l i n f o e i s t t a y l c e u d E Working in partnership with our customers and other stakeholders, we bring our purpose to life every day.
Our purpose is to improve lives for Through our ingredients, people and generations by helping people make expertise, we are passionate about healthier and tastier choices when making a positive difference to they eat and drink, and lead a more peoples lives.
By delivering nutrition balanced lifestyle.
By doing this, we while maintaining great taste to believe we can deliver meaningful products consumed by millions of benefits for consumers, our people every day, we dont just feed customers, employees and the people, we feed them well.
Living our purpose Helping people make healthier choices by reducing sugar, calories and fat from Helping people gain a their food and drink, better understanding of or adding more fibre the link between food and protein.
We deliver our purpose by focusing on four areas Helping people understand the need to Helping to promote balance the calories they physical, emotional and consume with the mental health in the calories they burn workplace and local through physical activity.
