Business Model How we create value Our ingredients and solutions are valuable to our customers because they are highly functional and help meet growing consumer and societal needs.
They add taste, texture, nutrition and functionality to products consumed and used by millions of people every day.
The revenue from the sale of our ingredients and solutions generates income which, after meeting our costs, helps fund business investments, and provide returns to shareholders through dividends.
How our business works Consumer insight We use our expertise in areas such as sensory, culinary and marketing to obtain a deep understanding of what the consumer wants.
This insight drives our new product development programme, and Deliver Innovation how we collaborate with We aim to deliver our Our teams of scientists our customers.
ingredients to customers on and nutritionists continuously time, in full and to the right research and test ingredients specification.
For Food & to create solutions for our Beverage Solutions, this is a customers.
We work closely complex process with multiple with our customers to ingredients travelling around understand their needs.
For Primary Engaging with them earlier Products, volumes are larger and throughout the innovation but products generally travel process helps drive quicker Customers relatively shorter distances adoption cycles.
Manufacture Local solutions Most of our ingredients are Consumer taste and texture made from agricultural crops, mostly preferences are different across corn.
They are mainly produced at the world, which is why we have a large-volume corn wet mills shared global network of application labs.
by both divisions and smaller Customers come to our labs to blending facilities.
Safety, quality, work with our food scientists to traceability and environmental reformulate their products using impact are high priorities in our our ingredients for their raw material sourcing and local markets.
18 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information What drives us Our purpose is to improve lives for generations.
Inspired by our purpose, we work with our customers to make food and drink healthier and tastier.
We do this by delivering sweetness, texture, fibre enrichment and stabilisation to products consumed by millions of people every day.
We focus on three categories globally: beverages, dairy, and soups, sauces and dressings: and on a regional basis categories such as bakery and bars and biscuits.
Our solutions are valuable to our customers because they help meet growing consumer and societal needs for food which is lower in sugar, calories and fat, and with more fibre, in the face of growing global levels of obesity and diabetes, and digestive health issues.
Our industrial products, including our large portfolio of industrial starches, are also valuable to our customers as they enhance product performance across a wide range of markets from paper production to adhesives, to applications in building supplies, oil drilling and more.
What makes us different We have key strengths which, in combination, differentiate us in the market.
Leading functional expertise Deep category understanding We have strong technical expertise in the intersection of Through our teams of food scientists, nutritionists and other sweetness, texture, stabilisation and fibre enrichment, through experts, we have an increasingly deep understanding, globally our leading portfolio of sweeteners, highly functional speciality and locally, of the categories we focus on such as beverages, starches, and fibres with specific nutritional and health benefits.
dairy, and soups, sauces and dressings.
Delivering tailored solutions Customer focus The combination of functional expertise and deep category Both divisions look to develop strong customer relationships understanding, together with our strong innovation pipeline, built on a partnership approach.
We are a trusted service enables us to deliver tailored solutions for our customers which provider and provide local, regional and global services to fit meet growing consumer demand for healthier and tastier food our customers needs.
Large scale manufacturing base Talented people Our scale manufacturing base and know-how enable us to Our people are passionate, dedicated and highly skilled.
drive operational efficiencies and a high level of product quality.
We invest in training and developing our employees and also They also provide a cost effective supply of ingredients and recruit high-calibre talent to ensure we have the right people, solutions for distribution through our global supply chain.
teams and skills to grow our business.
What underpins our business Safety Values Board oversight Protecting our people is foundational to Our Values of safety, integrity and respect The Board of Directors oversees the our business.
Our ultimate goal is to have define what we stand for and how we activities of the Group through regular no accidents and no injuries, and this year behave with our customers, suppliers, meetings, its committees, and visits we implemented a new approach to investors, partners, the communities in to our operations around the world.
which we operate, and each other.
Read more on pages 46 and 47 Read more on page 42 Read more on page 57 www.
