DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS The Company, in accordance with the requirements of The Directors present their Annual Report together with the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys articles the audited consolidated accounts for the year ended 31 of association the Articles of Association, requires December 2018, which can be found on pages 167-297.
Directors to declare actual or potential conflicts of interest that could interfere with the interests of the Company.
The The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 106 was approved by the Directors are required, prior to the Board meetings, to Board on 2 April 2019 and signed on its behalf by Vakhtang declare any conflict of interest they may have in relation Butskhrikidze, the Companys Chief Executive Officer.
to the matters under consideration and if so, abstain from The Management Report together with the Strategic voting and decision-making, in relation to the matter in Report on pages 2 to 106 form the Management Report for question.
R. Directors have a continuing duty to notify the Chairman and Company Secretary as soon as they become aware of Other information that is relevant to the Directors Report any potential or actual conflicts.
and incorporated by reference into this report can be located as follows: DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES AND INSURANCE The Group maintains directors and officers liability insurance, which gives appropriate cover for legal action Contents Page brought against its Directors.
The Company has also Directors governance statement 108 granted indemnities to each of its Directors to the extent Corporate Governance and permitted by law.
Neither the indemnity nor insurance Nomination Committee report 129 cover provides cover in the event that a Director, officer or company secretary is proved to have acted fraudulently Risk, Ethics and Compliance or dishonestly.
The above referred liability insurance and Committee report 133 indemnities were in force during the course of the financial Audit Committee report 156 year ended 31 December 2018 and remain in force as at the Remuneration Committee report 136 date of this report.
Viability statement 118 Going concern statement 117 POLITICAL DONATIONS Greenhouse gas emissions 85 The Group did not make any political donations or incur any political expenditure during 2018.
Risk management 57 Principal risks and uncertainties 50 RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT Board of Directors 120 On 31 May 2016, the Company entered into a relationship Employee matters 74 agreement with Mamuka Khazaradze, Badri Japaridze, Environmental matters 84 Vakhtang Butskhrikidze, Temur Japaridze, Bob Meijer and Share capital 244 David Khazaradze together the Presumed Concerted Party Group the Relationship Agreement to regulate Disclosures required under Listing the degree of control that the members of the Presumed Rule 9.8.
4: Concerted Party Group and their associates may exercise Details of long-term incentive over the Groups management and business.
The principal schemes 151 purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that Agreements with controlling the Company and its subsidiaries are capable at all times shareholders 115 of carrying on their business independently of members of Information on the Groups financial the Presumed Concerted Party Group and their associates.
risk management and its exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate Under the Relationship Agreement, for as long as it remains risk and foreign currency risk 259 in force, the members of the Presumed Concerted Party Events after reporting period 297 Group shall, and have agreed that each of their associates shall, when acting in a capacity which could include as a shareholder or director with any member of the Group, amongst other things: TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 115 115 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED conduct all transactions and arrangements entered POWERS OF DIRECTORS into between any member of the Group on the one The Directors may exercise all powers of the Company hand and that member of the Presumed Concert Party subject to applicable laws and regulations and the Articles Group and or his associates on the other on an arms of Association.
length basis and on normal commercial terms and in accordance with the related-party transaction rules set out in the Listing Rules: SPECIAL RIGHTS AND TRANSFER not take any action that would have the effect of RESTRICTIONS preventing the Company from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules: and or None of the ordinary shares in the capital of the Company not propose or procure the proposal of any resolution carry special rights with regard to the control of the of the shareholders which is intended, or appears to be Company.
There are no specific restrictions on transfers of intended, to circumvent the proper application of the shares in the Company, which is governed by its Articles of Listing Rules.
Association and prevailing legislation, other than: certain restrictions which may from time to time be SHARE CAPITAL imposed by laws or regulations such as those relating to insider dealing: As of 2 April 2019, the Companys issued ordinary share pursuant to the Groups Share Dealing Code, whereby capital comprised 54,859,504 ordinary shares with a the Directors and designated employees require nominal amount of 0.01 each and carrying one vote per approval to deal in the Companys shares: ordinary share at general meetings of the Company.
There where a person with an interest in the Companys shares were no shares held in treasury.
The Company has in issue has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed one class of ordinary shares, all of which are fully paid to provide the Company with information concerning up, and it does not have preference shares in issue.
The interests in those shares: and rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary pursuant to the Groups Senior Management shares are set out in the Articles of Association.
There are Compensation System, whereby Participants as no voting restrictions on the issued ordinary shares and defined therein may be granted restricted share each ordinary share carries one vote.
awards, which vest subject to continuous employment Details of the movements in share capital during the and malus and clawback provisions over three years year are provided in Note 25 to the consolidated financial from the award date.
statements on page 244 of this Annual Report.
All employees including Directors that are deemed by the Company to be insiders have complied with the PROFIT AND DIVIDENDS Groups Share Dealing Code.
There are no restrictions on exercising voting rights save in situations where the The profit for the financial year ending 31 December Company is legally entitled to impose such a restriction for 2018 attributable to the Companys shareholders, after example, under the Articles of Association where amounts taxation, amounts to GEL 435,079,671.
The Board intends remain unpaid in the shares after request, or the holder to recommend GEL 1.98 per share, which will represent is otherwise in default of an obligation to the Company.
about 25% of the net profit, to be distributed to the The Company is not aware of any arrangements between Companys shareholders as dividend, payable in British shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer Pounds Sterling at an official exchange rate of the National of securities or voting rights.
Bank of Georgia for 13 June 2019, which is subject to shareholders approval at the 2019 AGM.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 12 July 2019 to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business in the UK ie 6pm London Time on 7 June 2019.
Shareholders may have their dividends reinvested in the Company by joining Companys scrip dividend programme approved at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The scrip dividend programme enables shareholders, if they wish, to receive new fully-paid ordinary shares in the company instead of cash dividend.
116 116 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 Shareholders are authorised to appoint replace the MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS Directors and make amendments to the Articles of As at 31 December 2018, the Company had been notified Association by resolution at a general meeting of the under Rule 5 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Company with the latter being required to be passed as a Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority the DTRs of the special resolution.
following interests in its total voting rights of 3% or more.
All of the Directors will stand for annual re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
As already mentioned, Maria As of 31 December 2018 Luisa Cicognani and Tsira Kemularia were appointed to the % of voting # of voting Shareholder rights rights Board as non-executive Directors in 2018 and will stand for election by the shareholders at the Annual General Mamuka Khazaradze 13.54% 7,343,936 Meeting.
Vakhtang Butskhrikidze and Giorgi Shagidze Badri Japaridze 6.77% 3,669,878 have service contracts with the Company, which came into effect on 10 August 2016 and will continue until terminated JPMorgan Asset Management 8.40% 4,556,867 by either party to such contracts, giving the other not less European Bank for Reconstruction than seven months written notice.
Biographical details and and Development 8.18% 4,436,406 reasons for the reappointment for the Directors are given Schroder Investment Managein the Notice of AGM.
ment 7.08% 3,839,205 Dunross &Co 6.01% 3,262,322 CHANGE OF CONTROL During the period 31 December 2018 to 2 April 2019 There are no significant agreements to which the Company the Group did not receive any notifications under is a party of that take effect, alter or terminate upon a Rule 5 of the DTRs.
Any future regulatory filings by change of control of the Company.
In addition, there are no shareholders will be available on the Groups website at agreements between the Company and its employees and www.
com and the LSE website at the Directors that contain compensation clauses for loss www.
of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid, resulting in a case of change of control.
POWERS OF DIRECTORS TO ISSUE AND OR EMPLOYEE DISCLOSURES BUY BACK COMPANY SHARES The Companys disclosures relating to the employee The Companies Act 2006 and the Articles of Association engagement and policies, as well as human rights, are determine the powers of Directors, in relation to share included in the Employee Matters section on pages 74 to issues and buy backs of shares in the Company.
The 79 of this Annual Report.
Directors are authorised to issue and allot shares subject to approval at a general meeting of shareholders.
Such authorities were granted to the Directors by shareholders DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE at the annual general meeting of the Company, held on 21 AUDITOR May 2018, authorising the Directors to allot ordinary shares in the capital of the Company up to an aggregate nominal The Directors, who held office at the date of approval of value of 178,501.
The Company did not repurchase any of this Annual Report, confirm that, so far as they are aware, its ordinary shares during 2018. there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware, and that each Director has taken all This authority will apply until the conclusion of the 2019 steps that he she reasonably should have taken as a Director AGM.
Shareholders will be requested to renew these in order to make him herself aware of any relevant audit authorities at the 2019 AGM.
information and to establish that the Companys statutory auditors are aware of such information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the APPOINTMENT REPLACEMENT OF provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
DIRECTORS AND AMENDMENT OF ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION GOING CONCERN STATEMENT The appointment and retirement of Directors is governed The Board has fully reviewed the available information by the Companys Articles of Association, the UK Corporate pertaining to the principal risks, strategy, financial health, Governance Code and the Companies Act 2016 and related liquidity and solvency of the Group, and determined that legislation.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 117 117 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED the Groups business remains a going concern.
The A summary of all material risks the Group is exposed to directors have not identified any material uncertainties and the mitigating actions taken by the Group are set out that could threaten the going concern assumption and on pages 50 to 56. have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the The Groups strategic plans Group have adequate resources to remain operational and solvent for the foreseeable future which is, for this While reviewing and analysing the Groups strategic plans, purpose, a period of 12 months from the date of approval the Directors assessed all potential risks related to the of these financial statements.
Accordingly, the Groups strategic plans, the achievement of the Groups strategic consolidated financial statements are prepared in line with objective and ensured that those risks were properly the going concern basis of accounting.
The key focus areas were: VIABILITY STATEMENT In compliance with the Code, the Directors have i the current business position and future prospects of assessed the viability of the Group over a three-year the Group: period beginning on 1 January 2019.
The Directors have ii capital, funding and liquidity profile of the Group and: determined the three-year period ending on 1 January iii the availability and efficient use of respective human 2022 to be appropriate, as it is consistent with the Groups and technical resources.
planning cycle, covering financial forecasts and strategic Effectiveness of the Groups risk management considerations of the Group.
While asseseing the viability framework, practice and internal control mechanisms.
of the Group and its operations, the Directors have carried out a robust and thorough assessment of the Groups risk The Directors ensure that the Groups governance structure profile including all material existing and emerging risks enables adequate oversight and accountability, as well that could cause the deviation of the Groups financial as a clear segregation of duties.
The involvement of all condition, operations and prospects from the expectations governance levels in risk management, clear segregation over the period of assessment.
As part of their strategic of authorities and effective communications between planning, the directors look beyond this period and take different entities facilitates clarity regarding the Groups into consideration, as far as possible, information from strategic and risk objectives, adherence to the established a variety of sources relating to local, regional and other risk appetite, risk budget and sound risk management.
The wider macro-economic and political factors which may centralised ERM function ensures effective development, impact the Groups business and development.
At this communication and implementation of risk strategy and point, the Directors have no reason to believe that the risk appetite across the Group.
Group will not stay viable over the longer term period.
In addition, the Directors analysed the Groups ability to meet The Directors have determined that the Groups risk all regulatory requirements.
management framework is adequate for managing the principal risks and uncertainties set out in the Annual The Directors assessment considered: Report and reducing their likelihood and impact wherever possible.
All principal risks and uncertainties of the Group and effectiveness of current and proposed mitigating The review and analysis of the information presented in this actions.
Annual Report has enabled the Directors to confirm that they have a reasonable expectation of the Groups viability The key areas of focus were: over the next three years up to 1 January 2022 and that the Group will be able to continue its operations and meet its i foreign exchange rate risk which is significant due to liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period from 1 the high dollarisation of the Groups portfolio: January 2019 to 1 January 2022. ii the risk of economic and political instability and its impact on the Groups future performance: iii the regulatory risk, as a result of significant regulatory Regulatory Stress test changes within the last two years: In 2018, the Bank performed second round of the iv the risk of not meeting regulatory requirements with enterprise wide regulatory stress testing exercise, which key focus on minimum capital adequacy and liquidity assessed the impact of stress on the Banks profitability requirements: and the capital adequacy.
v operational risks including cyber security risk given the further digitalization of the Banks services: vi the risks associated with the Groups international operations.
118 118 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 The stress test covered adverse macro scenario assesing The Directors have a responsibility that the Company and significant GEL devaluation, sharp decrease of real estate the Group keep accounting records, which disclose with prices, decrease in wages and increase in unemployment, reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company negative GDP growth and increase of interest rates.
The and the Group and enable the Directors to ensure that the assumptions are mostly comparable to the stress test accounts comply with the Act.
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the The results of enterprise wide stress test showed the Bank assets of the Company and the Group and for taking has the sufficient capital to withstand the stress scenario reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and stay viable.
In addition, the Directors are responsible for the The Directors consider the stress scenarios and the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
associated results to be appropriate to the business, and Legislation in the UK, governing the preparation and will continue to monitor these closely on an ongoing basis.
dissemination of financial statements, may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The following statement, which should be read together DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT with the Auditors report set out on pages 167-297, is Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are required by the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
listed on pages 120 to 124 of this Annual Report, confirms The Directors are required to prepare the Companys and that to the best of their knowledge: the Groups financial statements for each financial year.
the Groups financial statements, which have been Under the Act, the Groups financial statements shall be prepared in accordance with the IFRS standards, give prepared in accordance with the International Financial a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial Reporting Standards the IFRS as adopted by the position and profit or loss of the Company and the European Union, and the Directors have elected to prepare undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a the Companys financial statements on the same basis.
whole: The financial statements are required by the Act and the Strategic Report and Directors Report contained the IFRS to present fairly the financial position and in this Annual Report include a fair review of the performance of the Company and the Group for that period.
development and performance of the business and the The Directors must not approve the financial statements, position of the Company and the Group, together with a unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view description of the principal risks and uncertainties that of the state of affairs and the profit or loss of the Company they face: and and the Group for that period.
the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, and and The Directors consider that in preparing the financial provide the information necessary for the shareholders statements they have used appropriate accounting policies, to assess the Companys position and performance, supported by reasonable judgments and estimates, and business and strategy.
that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
The Directors also believe This responsibility statement was approved by the Board that the financial statements have been prepared on the and is signed on its behalf by: going concern basis.
Please see further the Going concern statement on page 117 of this Annual Report.
In addition, the Group has in place an effective internal control system in order to ensure accurate and reliable Mamuka Khazaradze financial reporting.
The Group has a well-defined framework Chairman of accountability and delegation of authority, as well as 2 April 2019 policies and procedures that include financial planning and reporting: preparation of monthly management accounts: project governance: information security: and review of the disclosures within the annual report and accounts from the respective leads, to appropriately disclose all relevant developments within the Group in the year and to meet the requirements of a true and fair presentation.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 119 119
