58 Board of Directors A leadership team committed to delivering strong performance underpinned by good governance Chair Executive Directors N R Kevin Beeston Pete Redfern Chris Carney James Jordan Jennie Daly Chair Chief Executive Group Finance Director Group Legal Director and Group Operations Company Secretary Director Joined July 2010 Joined July 2007 Joined 20 April 2018 Joined July 2011 Joined 20 April 2018 Skills & experience Skills & experience Skills & experience Skills & experience Skills & experience Kevin has significant Pete was previously Group Chris is a Chartered James, a solicitor, was Jennie has a wealth experience of chairing Chief Executive of George Accountant and has worked previously Group Company of experience in the boards and of being a Wimpey Plc and before that, in both private practice and for Secretary and General housebuilding industry nonexecutive director of successively held the posts Associated British Foods plc Counsel of George Wimpey gained from roles which both public and private of Finance Director and before joining Taylor Wimpey Plc until July 2007, when he included strategic land companies.
He also brings ChiefExecutive of George in 2006.
Since joining the was appointed to the same oversight at Westbury plc a wealth of commercial, Wimpeys UK housing Group, he has successively position with Taylor Wimpey and managing director financial and high level operations.
held the roles of Group plc.
Before joining the of Harrow Estates Plc.
management experience, Financial Controller: Finance Group, James held senior She joined the Company Pete has full day to day including being a former CEO Director of Taylor Wimpey UK legal and company secretary in 2014 from Redrow plc, operational responsibility for of a FTSE 100 company.
the Groups main operating roles in industry which as UK Planning Director, delivering the Companys company : Managing Director included positions with before becoming UK Land Kevin was formerly Chair of strategy in a profitable, of the Companys South The Rugby Group Plc and Director in 2015.
Equiniti Group plc: Serco safe and environmentally Thames business unit: and English China Clays Plc.
Group plc and Domestic and responsible manner.
Jennie chairs the Group was appointed Divisional General Limited: and was He has significant financial, James oversees compliance Operation Team and in her Chair for the London and previously a non executive operational and management with legal and regulatory role, oversees our land, South East Division in 2015, director of IMI plc.
experience, gained from his obligations and also planning, design and where he oversaw significant various roles in industry and manages the Companys technical, production and progress in the operational External appointments from his time at KPMG.
Legal and Secretariat supply chain functions, in and financial performance.
Kevin is a non executive Departments.
He has addition to managing the External appointments director of Severn Trent plc, Having gained significant significant legal, commercial, Taylor Wimpey Logistics Marston Corporate Limited, Pete is a non executive operational and delivery transactional and regulatory business.
Elysium Limited and The director of Travis Perkins plc, experience, Chris was corporate governance External appointments Football Association Premier where he is also Chair of appointed as Group Finance related experience.
the Stay Safe Committee Jennie is a non executive Director on 20 April 2018.
External appointments and a member of the director of the Peabody Trust.
He has operational Remuneration Committee.
James is a Trustee of The responsibility for managing Pete is also Chair of the Tennis Foundation charity the Companys finances Youth Adventure Trust and a where he also chairs their and also oversees the Trustee of the homelessness Audit and Remuneration commercial, information charity, Crisis.
Find out more Board gender diversity A Audit Committee Read more on our Governance N Nomination and Board Structure Committee Pages 60-81 R Remuneration Executive Group Board Non Executive Read more on our Board Activities Committee Male: 3 Male: 5 Male: 2 Pages 68-71 Chairship Female: 1 Female: 4 Female: 3 of the Committee Read more on our Board Framework Page 67 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 59 Independent Non Executive Directors N A R N R N R A N A Kate Barker DBE Gwyn Burr Angela Knight CBE Humphrey Singer Independent Independent Independent Independent Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Joined April 2011 Joined 1 February 2018 Joined November 2016 Joined December 2015 Skills & experience Skills & experience Skills & experience Skills & experience Kate is a business Gwyn has over 25 years Angela brings to the Board a Humphrey has a wealth economist.
She was a executive experience, wealth of experience gained of financial experience member of the Bank of principally in marketing, HR at a senior level in both the and expertise in the areas Englands Monetary Policy and customer service in the public and private sectors.
of both digital solutions Committee from 2001 retail sector, which included and customer services.
Previously, Angela was a until May 2010.
During this the roles of Customer Member of Parliament from Previously he was Group period, Kate led two major Director and Customer 1992 to 1997, including two Finance Director of Dixons policy reviews for the Service and Colleague years as the Economic Carphone plc: Group Government, on housing Director at J Sainsbury plc.
Secretary at HM Treasury, Finance Director of Dixons supply and on land Previously, Gwyn held non and Chair of the Office of Retail plc: and earlier held use planning.
executive positions with the Tax Simplification in HM senior finance-related roles Kate is the Companys Principality Building Society Treasury until the end of within Dixons and Coca Cola Senior Independent Director.
Stadium Limited and the External appointments External appointments External appointments Financial Ombudsman Service.
Kate is a Trustee Director Angela is senior independent Humphrey is Chief Finance External appointments and Chair of the British Coal director of TPICAP Plc: and Officer of Marks and Staff Superannuation Gwyn is the Senior a non executive director of Spencer Group plc.
Scheme and a non executive Independent Director Arbuthnot Latham & Co and director of Man Group plc.
of Hammerson plc and Provident Financial plc.
Her other roles include being her other non executive a member of the National directorships include Infrastructure Commission, Just Eat plc, Metro AG a member of the Industrial a German listed company Strategy Council and an and Sainsburys Bank plc external member of Oxford a non listed company.
Non Executive Director tenure Non Executive Director areas of experience Customer service 1 Economist 1 Financial services 3 1-2 years 3-4 years 7-8 years Marketing 2 Public sector 2 2 1 1 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0
