Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 117 Statutory, regulatory and other information Introduction This section contains the remaining matters on which the Directors are required to report each year, which do not appear elsewhere in this Directors report.
Certain other matters which are required to be reported on appear in other sections of this Annual Report and Accounts, as detailed below: Matter Page s in this Annual Report An indication of likely future developments in the business of the Company and its subsidiaries appears in the Strategicreport 2 to 56 The Groups profit before taxation and the profit after taxation and minority interests appear in the Consolidated statement of 131 and 135 to 167 comprehensive income and in the Notes to the accounts The Companys Viability Statement 51 The Remuneration Committee report 96 to 116 Details of the Companys long-term incentive schemes as required by LR 9.4.
3 R are set out in the Remuneration Committee report 96 to 116 The reporting on the Companys carbon footprint 40 to 41 A list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings, including branches outside the UK, principally affecting the profits or net 174 to 177 assets of the Group in the year Changes in asset values are set out in the Consolidated balance sheet in the Notes to the accounts 132 and 135 to 167 A detailed statement of the Groups treasury management and funding including information on the exposure of the 151 to 154 Company in relation to the use of financial instruments Details of an arrangement under which a shareholder has waived or agreed to waive any dividends, and where a shareholder 119 and 189 has agreed to waive future dividends, details of such waiver together with those relating to dividends which are payable during the period under review A statement that this Annual Report and Accounts meets the requirements of Section 4, Principle N, Provision 27 of the UK 80 Corporate Governance Code 2018 the Code formerly Provision C. 1.1 prior to the July 2018 updating of the Code All information required to be reported by Listing Rule 9.8.
4 R and applicable to the Company or Group for this reporting period is set out in the table above.
Directors Retirement and re-election Qualifying third party indemnity The following Directors held office throughout The Company has determined that in accordance The Company has granted an indemnity in the year: with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 favour of its Directors and Officers and those of the Code which applied to 2018, all Directors its Group companies, including the Trustee Kevin Beeston, Chair of the Board should seek election or re-election, as appropriate, Directors of its Pension Trustee Company, at this years Annual General Meeting AGM as against the financial exposure that they may Pete Redfern, Chief Executive explained in the Notes to the notice of Annual incur in the course of their professional duties as James Jordan, Group Legal Director and General Meeting and on page74.
Directors and Officers of the Company and or Company Secretary its subsidiaries affiliates.
The indemnity has Kate Barker DBE, Independent Each of the Directors proposed for election or been put in place in accordance with Section NonExecutive Director re-election at the AGM is being unanimously 234 of the Companies Act 2006 in respect of Angela Knight CBE, Independent recommended by all the other members of the which the Company took advice from its NonExecutive Director Board.
This recommendation follows the corporate lawyers, Slaughter and May.
Humphrey Singer, Independent completion of the annual Board evaluation NonExecutive Director.
process, which was internally facilitated this year.
Audit and auditor This included a detailed appraisal of the Board, Each Director has, at the date of approval of In addition to the above, Chris Carney and its Committees and also in respect of each this Report, formally confirmed that: Jennie Daly were appointed to the Board as Director, which in turn included a review of their Group Finance Director and Group Operations respective time commitments.
Further to the best of his or her knowledge there is Director respectively on 20 April 2018, and information relating to the evaluation is set out in no relevant audit information of which the Gwyn Burr was appointed to the Board as an the Corporate governance report on page 80.
Companys auditor is unaware: and Independent Non Executive Director on 1 February 2018.
Ryan Mangold stood down he or she has taken all the steps that The Articles of Association of the Company from the Board as Group Finance Director on they ought to have taken as a Director in further regulate the appointment and removal of 20 April 2018 and Rob Rowley and Mike order to make themselves aware of any Directors, in addition to the Companies Act Hussey stood down from the Board as relevant audit information and to establish 2006 and related legislation.
The Companys Independent Non Executive Directors on that the Companys auditor is aware of Articles of Association may be amended by 26April and 19 July 2018 respectively.
special resolution of the shareholders as necessary.
The various powers and responsibilities of the The Directors together with their biographical This confirmation is given and should be Directors are described in the Corporate information are shown on pages 58 to 59. interpreted in accordance with the provisions governance report on pages 60 to 81. of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
118 Statutory, regulatory and other information continued Deloitte LLP Deloitte have confirmed their Annual General Meeting Capital structure willingness to continue in office as auditor The AGM will be held at 11:00 am on Details of the Companys issued share capital, of the Company.
Following a review by the 25 April 2019 at The British Medical together with information on the movements in Audit Committee of their effectiveness, details Association, BMA House, Tavistock Square, the Companys issued share capital during the of which are set out on page 85, a resolution to London, WC1H 9JP.
year, are shown in Note 23 on page 159. re-appoint Deloitte will be proposed at theAGM.
Formal notice of the AGM including details of The Company has two classes of shares: Ordinary the special business being proposed is set out Shares of 1p, each of which carries the right to one It is the Companys general policy that its in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on vote at general meetings of the Company and such auditor will not carry out non-audit services pages 181 to 183 and on the Companys other rights and obligations as are set out in the except where it is appropriate to do so and in website at: www.
Companys Articles of Association, and Deferred accordance with the Companys formal policy In line with recent practice and good Shares which carry no voting rights.
for the carrying out of such work.
In addition, governance, voting on all resolutions at this and in line with the Code, the Audit Committee The authority to make market purchases years AGM will again be conducted by way of takes into account the relevant ethical and a poll.
The Board believes that this method of pursuant to the resolutions passed at both the auditing professional standards guidance 2018 AGM and the General Meeting held on voting gives as many shareholders as possible regarding the provision of non-audit services by the opportunity to have their votes counted as 28 December 2018 was not exercised during the external auditor.
The Company has 2018 or prior to the date of this Report.
The part of the process, whether their votes are reviewed the policy in light of the regulation set tendered by proxy in advance of, or in person Company has no current intention of exercising out on page 85 which applied to the Company this authority but will nevertheless be seeking at, the AGM.
Any revision to current the usual renewal of this authority at the AGM regulations or guidelines will be taken into and the Board will continue to keep the position Web communication account in framing the Companys policy going under regular review.
The Company currently With shareholders consent, the Company has forward and reported on in future Annual holds no shares in treasury.
Deloitte provided some adopted web communication.
The benefits of web communication are that it: limited non-audit services to the Group during There are no specific restrictions on the size of the year within the policy framework as a holding, the exercise of voting rights, or on the enables the Company to significantly reduce described in the Audit Committee report, details transfer of shares, which are governed by the its printing and postage costs: of which are set out in Note 6 on page143.
Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
enables shareholders to access information The Directors are not aware of any agreement General Meeting faster, on the day documents are published or agreements between holders of the on the Companys website: and Companys shares that may result in restrictions A General Meeting of the Company was held on reduces the amount of resources consumed, on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
28 December 2018 for the purpose of seeking such as paper, and therefore helps to reduce a general authority to make market purchases the impact of printing, mailing and related Details of employee share schemes are set out of the Companys ordinary shares following the activities on the environment.
in the Remuneration Committee report on inclusion of a typographical error in the resolution pages 96 to 116.
The Employee Share granting authority at the AGM on 26 April 2018.
Shareholder communications including the 2018 Ownership Trust which holds shares on trust for This error meant that the authority granted at Annual Report and Accounts are available employees under various share schemes, that AGM expired at the end of the meeting electronically through the Companys website.
generally abstains from voting at shareholder instead of remaining available until the end of general meetings in respect of shares held the 2019 AGM.
The Board wanted to correct 91% of the Companys shareholders use either by them.
this error and reinstate the expired authority on electronic or web communication.
No person has any special rights of control over The Company will of course continue to provide the Companys share capital and all issued The result of the poll in respect of the General hard copy documentation to those shareholders shares are fully paid.
The authority who have requested this and is, of course, will last until the earlier of 25 October 2019 happy to do so.
being the later date set out in the resolution granting authority at the AGM of the Company Registrar on 26 April 2018 and the conclusion of the Companys AGM in 2019.
The Companys Registrar is Link Asset Services formerly known as Capita Asset Services.
Their details, together with information on the services and facilities available to shareholders, are set out in the Shareholder facilities section on pages 189 to 191.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 119 Substantial interests The persons set out in the table below have notified the Company pursuant to Rule 5.1 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of their interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company.
At 26 February 2019, no change in these holdings had been notified nor, according to the Register of Members, did any other shareholder at that date have a disclosable holding of the Companys issued share capital.
Directors interests, including interests in the Companys shares, are shown in the Remuneration Committee report on page 115.
The Board strongly believes in the alignment of interests between senior management and the Companys shareholders.
Substantial interests in the Companys shares were as follows: As at As at 31 December 2018 26 February 2019 Percentage of Percentage of Number of shares issued voting share Number of shares issued voting share Name held millions capital held millions capital BlackRock Inc 182.5 5.57 182.5 5.56 Woodford Investment Management Limited 166.4 5.08 166.4 5.08 Legal & General Group plc 98.5 3.00 98.5 3.00 Standard Life Investments Limited 96.5 2.94 96.5 2.94 In addition to the substantial interests shown above, the Company held in its Employee Share Ownership Trust 13.9 million of its own shares at 31 December 2018 representing 0.42% of the shares in issue at that date 2017: 13.1 million: 0.40%.
The Company currently holds no shares in treasury.
that are in place, should they wish to either quality, responsive and adaptable homes which Dividend participate in the DRIP or discontinue or vary we believe can fundamentally change what An interim ordinary dividend of 2.44 pence per any participation, as existing mandates will houses can be and how they are delivered.
ordinary share was paid on 9 November 2018 apply to all dividend payments including special The Infinite Houses external envelope allows and the Directors recommended a final ordinary dividends unless or until revoked.
it to adapt to suit different contexts without dividend of 3.80 pence per ordinary share appearing to be a repeated house type, which, together with the interim dividend, The right to receive any dividend has been maintaining the efficiency and cost effectiveness increases the total ordinary dividend for the year waived in part by the Trustees of the Companys of repetition and structural standardisation.
Information Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT over relating to the recommended 2018 final ordinary that Trusts combined holding of 13,909,816 During 2018 we started building nine Infinite dividend is set out on page 56 and in the notes shares.
More details of the ESOT are contained House prototypes on three sites, in Glasgow, to resolution 2 in the Notes to the notice of in Note 26 on pages 160 to 161.
The regional teams have Annual General Meeting on page 185. been reviewing different build methodologies and new techniques as well as suitable materials to Research and development The Directors also recommended a special meet the innovative design, functional and dividend for 2019 of 10.7 pence per ordinary Our research and development initiatives technical requirements.
In Didcot, we are building share 2017: 10.4 pence.
Information relating Project 2020 continued throughout 2018 with five homes trialling Cross Laminated Timber to the recommended 2019 special dividend a focus on technology and innovation driven construction, in Manchester we are building two is set out on page 56 and in the notes to trends and advances in our industry to enhance homes using traditional masonry construction resolution 3 in the Notes to the notice of our build efficiency and quality.
This focus and in Glasgow we are building two homes using Annual General Meeting on page 185. enables us to provide a better quality customer advanced timber frame.
experience, as well as future proof our Company.
The Company will be operating a Dividend During the first half of 2019, we will be carrying Re-Investment Plan DRIP, further details of Project 2020 is just one example of how we out post completion evaluations of the which are set out on page 189 of this Annual continue to move towards being a customer prototypes environmental performance, build Report.
The DRIP will operate automatically in centred business.
For us, this is all about times, construction quality and cost.
Using the respect of the 2018 final ordinary dividend for building homes to match how our customers different build methodologies will allow us to those shareholders who have previously want to live, with construction methods and compare the production efficiency and energy registered a DRIP mandate unless varied by materials that will deliver the quality they expect.
performance of these build methodologies.
shareholders beforehand and also in respect of all future dividends, including special dividends, In 2016 we held an architectural competition with In 2018, we have refined our Direct Labour Model the Royal Institute of British Architects, looking for until such time as each participating shareholder in response to the predicted skills shortage in elects to withdraw from the DRIP, or the DRIP is exciting new ideas in home design.
The winning the housebuilding industry.
We are currently entry, Openstudio Architects Infinite House, is a suspended or terminated in accordance with pursuing a hybrid labour model which allows for the the terms and conditions of the plan.
The Board set of contemporary housing prototypes designed recruitment of both experienced trades people and to offer maximum flexibility, customisation, cost will continue to keep the availability of the DRIP the attraction and development of new skills into a under regular review.
efficiency, enhanced daylight levels and the ability shrinking workforce.
We will be employing and to use diverse construction techniques.
developing key trades people such as bricklayers, Shareholders are again reminded to check their These characteristics allow us to offer high carpenters, scaffolders, roofers and painters.
position with regard to any dividend mandates 120 Statutory, regulatory and other information continued All of our business units are actively recruiting Italso includes an Open Door Forum which Employee involvement apprentices and we are piloting an apprentice puts employees directly in touch with our andcommunication training programme which aims to train and Chief Executive.
Information is also regularly We are proud of how committed our employees develop apprentices at a faster rate and to a cascaded throughout the Company via email, are to the long-term success of the Company higher standard than the traditional route.
including regular communications from the and we strive to listen and engage with all Additionally, we are driving a programme Chief Executive and via verbal briefings and employees.
The results from our 2017 encouraging those seeking a change of career management presentations.
employee engagement Talkback survey were to join the housebuilding industry, for example extremely positive with an increase in response Social media platforms have been utilised to we are encouraging the recruitment of rates from 55% to 72% and overall employee ex-armed forces personnel.
inform our employees of developments around engagement remaining strong at 93%.
the Company and to invite their feedback on them.
Additionally, 97% of respondents said they were The use of timber frame construction increased Our employees have enthusiastically engaged with willing to go the extra mile and 95% were during 2018 in line with the developed strategy this new internal communication channel and we proud to work for Taylor Wimpey.
to diversify construction methods and we have seen an increase in the sharing of examples remain on course to achieve the strategy target of best practice.
Also, the ability of employees As a result, we have continued to enhance our of 20% of all plot completions being built in to interact and share across the Company is work environment by increasing collaboration timber frame during 2020. leading to the spread of knowledge and through moving to open plan offices, improving success throughout the Company.
Around half site technology, promoting a flexible working During 2018 we continued to support the of our employees now post and engage on a mindset and supporting our employees with our Horizon Group at the Supply Chain regular basis and usage is steadily growing.
focus on health and wellbeing.
The Horizon Group have a vision of a more sustainable built environment Externally, over the last 12 months, we have In March 2019, we plan to run another through the development and implementation of focused on improving our careers site and digital Talkback survey and again will respond to our collaborative industrial and academic supply channels such as LinkedIn and Glassdoor.
We undertake this chain research.
We are currently in discussions have introduced more content to our careers site engagement survey periodically and it forms an regarding supporting Masters degree theses at to drive more interest and focus on future talent important part of how we involve, gain feedback Aston and Surrey Universities.
with new videos focusing on the careers of our and communicate with our employees.
We have continued to In 2018 we commissioned the leading carbon develop our external channels to market to In our regional business units, we have active consultancy, the Carbon Trust, to validate the increase our reach and visibility to a wider Employee Consultation Committees, which Carbon Futures approach to quantifying the candidate audience.
Carefully selected updates involve elected representatives meeting with carbon dioxide emissions from entire sites.
to our social recruitment channels over the management to consult on appropriate issues.
This approach takes into account not only the course of the year have resulted in our new As we continue to develop our strategy, senior buildings but also the carbon absorption of follower audience on Glassdoor and LinkedIn leaders including the Chief Executive, Group green and blue infrastructures throughout a increasing significantly.
We have also jumped up Operations Director and Group Human development.
The Carbon Trust found the six places on Glassdoors 2019 UK Best Places Resources Director have chaired strategy focus concept progressive and the underlying to Work list to within the top ten.
These have provided valuable feedback principles sound, but identified that more the top ten will give us a greater platform to and insight on how we can continue to improve detailed research was needed to enable Carbon communicate our positive employee sentiment to our employee experience, which then helps to Futures and its innovative approach to lifecycle a wider job seeking audience.
carbon footprinting, to achieve the robustness required by the existing assurance standards.
In the next year, the careers site functionality Furthermore, our National Employee Forum and technology will be improved with a view to continues to meet regularly, with four meetings The widely publicised skills shortage coupled with creating a better applicant experience.
Chaired by Tim Betts, a Divisional shorter build timescales and a desire to improve to become an employer of choice, then a strong Managing Director, the employee voice continues quality for our customers have accelerated our first impression is key.
The Chair of the Board and the Chair of efforts to explore several off-site construction will soon be able to fully complete an application the Remuneration Committee have attended a methods in order to build right first time.
An for any vacancy via a mobile device for the first meeting as well as senior management, including example of this innovation is the construction of time, upload their CV from a wider variety of the Group Legal Director and Company Secretary fourteen Housing Association units at Great sources and proactively register their interest and the Group Human Resources Director also Western Park using a large format block system for future vacancies so they are notified if a having attended meetings.
The topics discussed developed in Holland.
The large format blocks are new role is posted that fits their interest.
All this in 2018 included flexible working, bonus and 15 times larger than traditional blocks and one functionality is critical to attract talent in what we rewards, and direct trade and apprentices.
sub-contractor installs the walls, floors and roof already know is a very competitive labour market.
with the same trained team in a matter of days.
We also communicate with our employees via This type of build methodology can have many During 2018, employees from across the our half yearly Teamtalk magazine and regular benefits including improved build speeds, better business have helped us make improvements to Teamtalk email newsletter.
Our Intranet system is health and safety, enhanced quality and reduced the current learning and development offer.
As a continually updated with a wide range of employee requirements for skilled trades people.
This will result, we have increased the number of topics information from Human Resources policies, adjust the demand for specific trades people and available from 10 to 50, all based on the skills to advice for employees on sustainable living.
could offer a solution to adapt our approach in within the Companys cultural principles and job geographical locations where certain trades profiles, and there are now more bookable people are difficult to source.
courses for employees to choose from.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 121 The increasing range of topics offered includes The Company promotes employee share No employee or potential employee will receive negotiation, giving presentations, motivation, ownership as widely as possible across the less favourable treatment due to their race, delegation and budget management, among business.
In addition to the various share-related creed, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, religion, many others.
Furthermore, the Line Manager reward plans described in the Remuneration political or other opinion, affiliation, gender, sexual Toolkit includes videos, articles and guides as Committee report on pages 96 to 116 and orientation, marital status, family connections, well as People Workshops delivered by the referred to below, the Company also offers a age, membership or non-membership of a trade Human Resources team on providing feedback, scheme whereby employees who do not union, or disability.
We are committed to making motivating teams, conducting interviews and participate in the Executive Incentive Scheme reasonable adjustments wherever possible.
There have also been new cash bonus scheme are offered the opportunity exceptional circumstances, for example due to course formats introduced and a new partnership each year to exchange any cash bonus awarded health and safety considerations on construction with Litmos Heroes, who provide instant access for exceptional performance, for shares of the sites, some adjustments are not possible.
to a variety of online learning materials offering a Company, offering a 20% enhancement to the As previously mentioned, one of the learning and blend of credible theory and engaging animation.
value if taken entirely in shares and retained for a development modules which forms part of the In addition, we offer video tutorials and step by designated period.
The scheme has operated induction programme highlights the importance step instructions on various aspects of Microsoft since 2012 and in 2018 resulted in 377,277 of equal opportunities.
This will help employees Office including Word, Excel and Outlook.
shares 2017: 349,835 being acquired by 289 to understand in more detail our commitment to employees 2017: 289. building a more diverse and inclusive workforce.
New employees are encouraged to take part in a set of modules focused on Taylor Wimpey, In addition, the Company also maintains two all Our Diversity Policy can be found including the development of the Company and employee share plans, namely, the Save As You on the Companys website at: information on diversity and inclusion.
One of Earn share option plan and the Share Incentive www.
co. uk corporate these modules is Welcome to Taylor Wimpey Plan, which are offered as widely as possible sustainability our-policies which introduces users to the Company, across the Group.
The percentage informing them what the business is about and of our eligible employees who either participate Employment of people with disabilities giving an overview of the different functions.
in one or both plans or who are already It is our policy that people with disabilities Another module is The role of the plc which shareholders in the Company has risen to 59% should have fair consideration for all vacancies informs users about what it means to be a fully 2017: 57%.
listed public limited company, the rules and processes involved and the corporate Equal opportunities The Company is therefore committed, where governance standards that the Company must possible, to ensuring that people with disabilities We strive to treat our employees fairly and with adhere to.
Although this content forms part of respect at all times.
We have policies and are supported and encouraged to apply for our induction process for new employees, employment and to achieve progress once processes in place to ensure that we act in existing employees are encouraged to accordance with our vision, mission and values employed.
They will be treated so as to ensure participate as the content has proved that they have an equal opportunity to be which encompasses equal opportunities, informative for existing employees to broaden anti-harassment and bullying, anti-corruption selected, trained and promoted.
In addition, their knowledge of the Company.
every reasonable effort is made for disabled and whistleblowing.
We encourage our employees and subcontractors to speak up persons to be retained in the employment of the During 2018, we communicated our Group by investigating the possibility of making about concerns over any wrongdoing at work commitment to supporting the health and and provide access to an independent reporting reasonable adjustments to the job, workplace wellbeing of our employees through the or equipment.
introduction of a health and wellbeing project.
This is focused on supporting our employees We remain committed to the belief that We have increased the number of employees through improved support and awareness with disabilities recruited.
Working with key embracing diversity and inclusion will enable across four main areas: mental health, financial Taylor Wimpey to succeed through a workforce partners, we hope to increase permanent and health, social health and physical health.
secondment opportunities for people that is creative and innovative.
We continue to actively embrace the local communities in which with disabilities.
We recently launched our mental health we operate and will strive to reflect their commitment by providing awareness sessions For example, we continue to engage with the richness and character, including such aspects and training for employees and line managers Leonard Cheshire Disability Change 100 as gender, race and religion but also diversity of focusing on the importance of mental health in Programme, a charity that provides talented thought, background and experience.
We have also introduced mental disabled students with the opportunity to health first aiders who are able to provide early participate in a 100 day summer internship and As set out in our Diversity Policy, we remain intervention help and support to those who may committed to equality of opportunity in all of our professional development programme.
be developing a mental health issue.
This project Feedback from the students who participated in employment practices, policies and procedures is helping to reduce the stigma associated with across the Group.
To this end, within the the programme in 2018 has been very positive mental health in the workplace and signals to our and we intend to engage with the programme framework of applicable law, we are committed, employees that we value their health and wellbeing.
wherever practicable, to achieving and further during 2019.
This project is further supported by the Employee maintaining a workforce which broadly reflects Assistance Programme which is accessible to that of the local catchment area within which all employees and provides counselling and we operate.
support to help individuals with issues that may be affecting their health and wellbeing.
122 Statutory, regulatory and other information continued Our focus is on charitable initiatives Modern Slavery Act Political donations that support: The Company welcomes the aims and The Company has a policy of not making objectives of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and donations to political parties, and has not made aspiration and education in disadvantaged continues to take its responsibilities under the any this year and neither does it intend to make areas Act with the seriousness that it requires and any going forward.
The Company does support intervening and improving homeless deserves.
A dedicated multidisciplined team is certain industry-wide and trade organisations situations for seriously economically responsible for ensuring that objectives continue which directly assist the house building industry disadvantaged groups in the UK to be met.
The Company will shortly be such as the Home Builders Federation and the local projects and initiatives with a direct link publishing its third statement under the Modern Confederation of British Industry.
Whilst we do to our regional businesses and developments Slavery Act 2015.
It will be available on our not regard this support as political in nature in website at: www.
co. uk any way, the Companies Act 2006 definition of During 2018, Group Companies donated political organisations and related terms is very 927,000 2017: 816,000 to various charities wide and in certain circumstances a donation, Charitable donations and local community causes, the majority of which subscription or membership fee paid to such We support charities and local community were in the UK.
In addition to volunteering in line organisations or to a charity could causes that are relevant to our business, with our volunteering policy, many employees at retrospectively be categorised as a political communities, partners and people.
We aim to all levels and all around the country gave up their donation from a strict legal perspective.
make a positive impact through donations of work and free time to participate in fundraising Accordingly, as a matter of prudent corporate time, money and materials, as well as through events for charitable causes including St governance, the Company will therefore be encouraging our employees to get involved.
Mungos, the Youth Adventure Trust, CRASH, seeking the usual annual dispensation from its For example, our volunteering policy enables Crisis, and End Youth Homelessness, which shareholders at the 2019 AGM, so as to be able employees to take up to four half days, or two raised a further 357,000 2017: 295,000. to continue with the above memberships and full days, paid leave per year to participate in make charitable donations up to defined levels, volunteering.
Our focus is on our national We want to understand the difference that we without inadvertently breaching the corporate charities as well as regional and are making to our charity partners and how we applicable legislation.
local organisations where we can have a can increase our impact.
During the year, we significant impact and our employees can carried out visits to our charity partners and Agreements be active participants.
used their feedback to direct our donations.
The Companys borrowing and bank facilities The Charity Committee oversees and prioritises contain the usual change of control provisions For example, through our continued support in our national charity donations.
The Committee which could potentially lead to prepayment and 2018 of St Mungos Bricks and Mortar and members include senior executives such as our cancellation by the other party upon a change Revive projects, 77 individuals experiencing Group Legal Director and Company Secretary of control of the Company.
There are no other homelessness have received construction skills and our Group Human Resources Director, as significant contracts or agreements which take training.
Of these individuals, 17 have gone on well as a combination of employees from across effect, alter or terminate upon a change of to paid employment in the construction industry the business including mid-management and control of the Company.
and we are currently exploring routes into Taylor junior employees.
In addition to the national Wimpey for graduates of this programme.
charities we support, our regional businesses Branches have a discretionary charity budget to support Further information on the Groups donations, A subsidiary, Taylor Wimpey Developments local charities and initiatives.
activities and initiatives can be found in the Limited, has a branch in Spain, the former Charities section on page 35 and in the activities of which were taken over some years Sustainability Report 2018 which is ago by our Spanish subsidiary Taylor Wimpey available on the Companys website at: fide Espaa S. A. U whose details appear on www.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 123 In preparing the Group financial statements, IAS Important events since the year end Responsibility statement 1 requires that Directors: There have been no important events affecting The Directors confirm that to the best of the Company or any of its subsidiary their knowledge: properly select and apply accounting policies undertakings since 31 December 2018. present information, including accounting the financial statements, prepared in policies, in a manner that provides relevant, accordance with the relevant financial Directors responsibilities statement reliable, comparable and understandable reporting framework, give a true and fair view The Directors are responsible for preparing the information of the assets, liabilities, financial position and Annual Report and Accounts in accordance provide additional disclosures when profit or loss of the Company and the with applicable law and regulations.
compliance with the specific requirements in undertakings included in the consolidation the IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to taken as a whole Company law requires the Directors to prepare understand the impact of particular the Strategic report includes a fair review of financial statements for each financial year.
transactions, other events and conditions on the development and performance of the Accordingly, Directors are required to prepare the entitys financial position and financial business and the position of the Company the Group financial statements in accordance performance and the undertakings included in the with International Financial Reporting Standards make an assessment of the Companys consolidation taken as a whole, together with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union ability to continue as a going concern.
a description of the principal risks and and Article 4 of the International Accounting uncertainties that they face Standard IAS Regulation and have elected The Directors are responsible for keeping the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a to prepare the Parent Company financial adequate accounting records that are sufficient whole, are fair, balanced and understandable statements in accordance with Financial to show and explain the Companys transactions and provide the information necessary for Reporting Standard 101 United Kingdom and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any shareholders to assess the Companys Accounting Standards and applicable law.
time the financial position of the Company and performance, business model and strategy.
In accordance with company law, the Directors enable them to ensure that the financial statements must not approve the accounts unless they are comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are This Report of the Directors was approved by satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Board of Directors on 26 February 2019. state of affairs of the Company and of the profit the Company and hence for taking reasonable or loss of the Company for that period.
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
In preparing the parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial select suitable accounting policies and then information included on the Companys website.
apply them consistently James Jordan Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the Group Legal Director and Company Secretary, make judgements and accounting estimates preparation and dissemination of financial Taylor Wimpey plc 26 February 2019 that are reasonable and prudent statements may differ from legislation in state whether applicable UK Accounting other jurisdictions.
Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained In accordance with Section 4, Principle N, in the financial statements Provision 27 of the Code formerly Provision prepare the financial statements on the C. 1.1 prior to the July 2018 updating of the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate Code as set out in the Corporate Governance to presume that the Company will continue Report on page 80, the Directors are required, in business inter alia, to ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Details of how this was addressed are set out in the Audit Committee report on page 86.
