28 Our business model Creating value at every stage Our vision What we do Delivering Our people Selecting Working together to build your dreams customer service land Our mission Enriching the lives of We remain focused on, We aim to be the employer We believe that the quality customers and and are committed to, of choice in the of our landbank is one of communities by putting delivering excellent housebuilding industry the key strengths for them at the heart of our customer service to all of Taylor Wimpey decisions our customers at every stage of their journey Our values Be respectful, fair and deliver together How this enables us to be a customer-centric homebuilder By enhancing every step of Our people are the backbone of Land is our key raw ingredient Use our knowledge and our customers buying and our customer-centric approach and its selection is important expertise for positive after service experience, and we are investing in our to both our offering for benefit building homes which are people and their development to customers and the return we right first time and right for our ensure they have the right skills achieve for our shareholders.
customers income and and to help underpin our The landbank remains an Continuously improve lifestyle, we can create real future growth.
important driver of value as it and innovate additional value for enables us to build and sell We may be a national customers, and the rest of the right product, create the our stakeholders.
We aim to homebuilder, but for customers, right community and deliver Build a proud and it is their interactions with the deliver an excellent customer the right service to sustainable legacy experience from start to finish.
local site and sales team and our customers.
This Whilst the majority of our is where their impression of Location is key when buying a customers would recommend Taylor Wimpey is formed and home and we have focused us to their friends, we where we strive to prove to our landbuying in quality acknowledge that we do not them that they made the right locations where customers always get it right for our choice by choosing a Taylor want to live.
We believe this customers and sometimes fall Wimpey home.
will be a key determinant short of our high standards.
Where this is the case, we We are focused on growing talent from within and are work with customers to put issues right and learn from committed to the learning and development of our people.
We will continue to invest in our early talent programmes, including graduates and trainees.
Weare increasing our directly employed staff on site.
This is key to creating the next generation of leaders, with the same focus on customer values.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 29 Creating value for stakeholders Managing the Getting the Optimising Our planning and homebuilding value customers community basics right engagement process Read more on pages We aim to be the industry Getting the basics right We look to optimise the 30 to 31 leader in managing the means effective processes value of each site not only planning and community are consistently applied during the initial acquisition engagement process across our regional process, but throughout the Our businesses planning and development stages so that the original employees value is not only protected but enhanced Read more on pages 32 to 33 We aim to be the industry We work with selected Our ability to constantly Our leader in all aspects of the subcontractors and build increase efficiency and tightly planning process and to using carefully sourced control costs is part of the partners obtain the right planning materials to ensure the Taylor Wimpey culture and consents that enable us to homes that we sell are of a remains central to delivering respond to a changing high quality and are built enhanced returns.
This market, reflect the desires of safely, efficiently, cost extends to and encompasses Read more on pages our customer base and effectively and with minimal all aspects of our business as 34 to 35 deliver the quality homes we impact on the environment.
we strive to optimise and want to build, whilst meeting capture value at every level, There is nothing more our financial objectives.
from procurement through to important to us than providing delivery.
We also aim to add Our We believe that local a safe place in which our value to the charities we investors communities should have a employees and support and to our say in development.
enables us to achieve the are also committed to high right planning permissions standards of environmental and ensure our developments management.
Read more on pages are valued by their local 36 to 37 The building process is communities.
carefully managed by our Our customer research site-based and regional Our shows that one of the highest production teams to ensure priorities for people after quality, minimise disruption to communities moving in is to quickly feel residents in the surrounding part of a thriving community.
areas, and to protect and enhance the value of each site.
Read more on pages 38 to 41 The following pages discuss how we engage with and respond to our key stakeholders and set out key issues and priorities.
