DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CHAIRMANS GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW be joined by two new members, which are being selected by the Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee and will be announced in due course.
Another area of focus for the Board this year has been development of our Strategic Plan.
The Board is collectively responsible for overseeing delivery of the Groups strategy and has a significant role to play in determining the purpose of the Group and ensuring that the Groups culture, values, strategy and business model are all aligned in order to create sustainable value for our shareholders.
My role as Chairman is to lead the Board and ensure that it works effectively and that in our business the Group applies the highest principles of corporate governance.
A summary of our strategy is outlined on page 14-23.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, all Directors will be subject to annual reelection by shareholders at our Annual General Meeting.
Dear shareholders, I am pleased to present our corporate governance report for 2018.
As Chairman, I firmly believe that the highest standards of governance should prevail throughout Mamuka Khazaradze the business and that a sound corporate governance Chairman framework is vital to ensure our business functions 2 April 2019 effectively, while at the same time creating long-term, sustainable value for our shareholders.
We understand that the Board requires the right balance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK of skills, country-specific knowledge, and diversity of experience and perspectives to achieve maximum The Groups corporate governance framework provides effectiveness.
For this reason, composition of the Board shareholders with an explanation of how the Company has and gender diversity remained a key focus for the Board applied the main principles of the Code as relevant to the this year and I am pleased to report that two new female Company in 2018 and the Groups approach to governance independent non-executive Directors have joined our in practice, the work of the Board and its committees.
Maria Luisa Cicognani and Tsira Kemularia bring extensive banking and financial services experience, COMPLIANCE STATEMENT helping to ensure that the Board is well placed to function effectively and take opportunities which present As a premium-listed company on the LSE, the Company themselves to us in the year ahead.
Board and committee complies with the Code.
changes over the past year are set out in further detail in the Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee At the date of this report, the Company has applied the report.
principles and complied with the provisions set out in the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in I am deeply saddened that Eric Rajendra has resigned from April 2016 in full for the Companys 2018 financial year.
The the Board due to health reasons.
I would like to thank him Code can be found on the FRC website www.
for his contribution and dedication during the past years and wish him a speedy recovery.
THE BOARD Further to the Companys announcement made on 21 The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the February 2019, the Bank will implement a restructuring Groups long term success and the delivery of sustainable of its Supervisory Board whereby Badri Japaridze and I value to shareholders by establishing and overseeing the will continue in our roles as the Deputy Chairman and strategic direction of the Company and its business.
Chairman of TBC Bank Group PLC, and be stepping down from the Supervisory Board of the JSC TBC Bank.
This The Board is led by the Chairman and provides challenge, will enable us to focus more on the Groups strategic and oversight and advice to ensure the Companys success.
The Board of JSC TBC Bank will 108 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 Chairman, ensures that there is constructive debate in the BOARD COMMITTEES boardroom in order to create and maintain an environment The Board is supported by its committees the where the Board remains open to different viewpoints and Committees and delegates a broad range of ideas.
responsibilities to them, while maintaining the effective links between Committees and the Board where required.
The Board is comprised of eight members, of which four The Board has four Committees: i the Audit Committee: ii namely, Nikoloz Enukidze SID, Maria Luisa Cicognani, the Remuneration Committee: iii Corporate Governance Nicholas Haag and Tsira Kemularia are considered and Nomination Committee: and iv the Risks, Ethics and independent non-executive Directors.
The Board views Compliance Committee.
The chair of each Committee each of these non-executive Directors as being independent reports matters of significance to the Board after each of management judgment and character, and free from meeting.
Each committee is made up of independent nonany business or other relationship that could materially executive Directors, with the exception of the Corporate interfere with their exercise of independent judgment.
Governance and Nomination Committee, which comprises two independent non-Executive Directors and Badri The Board is the decision-making body in relation to all Japaridze, a non-executive Director, who is not considered matters that are significant to the Group.
There is a formal to be independent under the provisions of the Code.
schedule of matters reserved for the Boards approval in place to ensure that the Board retains control over The detailed roles and responsibilities of each Committee key decisions.
The matters exclusively reserved for the are set out in its terms of reference, which can be found on Boards approval include, among other things, approval of the website at www.
the Groups strategy, long-term objectives, risk appetite, the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets, changes to the Groups capital, share buy-backs, major acquisitions and or mergers, annual reports and accounts.
The full document is available on our website at www.
During the year ended 31 December 2018, the Board considered a wide range of matters, including: the strategic development of the Group: performance of key business units: the consolidated budget and the underlying business unit budgets: the interim and full year results: payment of a dividend: the appropriateness of the going concern basis of financial reporting: the assumptions and stress testing applied to preparing the Companys viability statements: investment project proposals and expansions into new territories: changes to various board Committees and the appointment of new directors: and a review of the findings of the externally facilitated Board evaluation exercise and the action plans resulting therefrom.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 109 DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Remuneration Corporate Governance Risks, Ethics Audit Committee Committee and Nomination Committee and Compliance Committee Badri Japaridze 1 Eric Rajendra Nikoloz Enukidze Nicholas Haag 2 Maria Luisa Cicognani 3 Tsira Kemularia Chairperson Member DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the senior independent non-executive Director.
As Chairman, Mamuka Khazaradze is responsible for leading the Board to ensure that the Board as a whole performs a full and constructive role in the development and determination of the Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives.
He also oversees the Boards decision-making processes.
The Chief Executive Officer, Vakhtang Butskhrikidze, is responsible for the Companys day-to-day management and has the principal responsibility of running the Groups business.
He is responsible for proposing, developing and implementing the Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives, which is done in close consultation with the Chairman and the Board.
In addition, the Board has appointed, in line with the requirements of the Code, Nikoloz Enukidze as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, who provides a sounding board for the Chairman.
He serves as an intermediary for the other Directors where necessary and meets with investors to discuss the Groups corporate governance matters.
This separation of responsibilities between the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director ensures that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision-making.
The full document detailing the division of responsibilities between the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the senior independent non-executive Director is available on our website at www.
BOARD COMPOSITION The Board currently comprises a Chairman, Deputy Chairman, four non-executive Directors and two executive Directors.
In accordance with the Code, the majority of the Board are independent non-executive Directors.
Non-executive Directors constructively challenge and scrutinise the performance of management and help develop proposals on strategy.
In 2018, there were changes in composition of the Board and details of these changes are set out in the Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee report.
The Board has considered the independence of the Companys non-executive Directors as against the factors described in the Code and has determined, as mentioned previously, that all non-executive Directors are independent, except for Mamuka Khazaradze and Badri Japaridze.
Mamuka Khazaradze is the Companys Chairman and he is, for the purposes of the Code, not considered to have been independent on his appointment as the Chairman, due to his role as founder of the Group.
The Board is unanimously of the opinion that Mr Khazaradze is an extremely valuable asset to the Company, bringing a wealth of experience in Georgias banking sector, and that it is, therefore, in the Companys best interests that he should continue as the Chairman of the Company.
Each non-executive Director has an ongoing obligation to inform the Board of any circumstances that could impair his independence.
Details of the individual Directors and their biographies are set out on pages 120 to 124.
1 Mr Rajendra has stepped down from the Board and Committees on 15 March 2019 2 Mrs Cicognani joined the Board on 10 September 2018.
She was appointed as the head of the Remuneration Committee and as a member of the Risks Ethics and Compliance Committee and the Audit Committee of the Board on 1 October 2018 3 Mrs Kemularia joined the Board on 10 September 2018.
She was appointed as a member of the Risks Ethics and Compliance Committee, the Audit Committee and Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee on 1 October 2018 110 110 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 TIME COMMITMENT Each non-executive Director is required to devote such time as necessary for the effective discharge of their duties.
This includes attendance at the Board meetings and respective Committee meetings of which they are members, as well as scheduled away days, site visits, conference calls and email communication.
Non-executive Directors consider all relevant materials prior to each meeting and commit additional time to the Company when it is undergoing a period of particularly increased activity.
BOARD AGENDA The Chairman is responsible for setting the Board agenda.
Prior to each Board meeting the Chairman reviews the agenda and discusses key items of business with the Chief Executive Officer.
Board agendas are sent to Board members well in advance of meetings and are structured in such a way as to allow adequate time for discussion of each item on the agenda.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDANCE In 2018, the Company held 3 scheduled and 19 additional meetings.
Moreover, the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer maintain frequent contact in person or otherwise with each other and the other Board members throughout the year outside of the formal meetings.
In addition, the affairs of the Companys main subsidiary, the Bank, are supervised by a supervisory board the Supervisory Board.
There is also equivalent committee structure of the Supervisory Board as the Boards committees.
There are, therefore, in practice two equivalent supervisory bodies within the Group represented by the Board and the Supervisory Board, which are separate but interconnected together with committees.
However, the work of the Board, the Supervisory Board and their respective committees is carefully balanced, dividing functions according to whether they are supervising the topics that impact the Company or solely the Bank.
Further to the Companys announcement made on 21 February 2019, the Bank will implement a restructuring of its Supervisory Board whereby the founding shareholders will not be represented at the supervisory Board of the Bank.
The founding shareholders will maintain their positions as the Chairman and Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company.
Attendance of meetings of the Board and its Committees in 2018 are set out below: Risks, Ethics and Compliance Remuneration Corporate Governance and Committee Risks, Ethics and Board meetings Audit Committee Committee meetings Nomination Committee Compliance Committee eligible to attend meetings eligible to eligible to attend meetings eligible to attend meetings eligible to attend Board Attendance attended attend attended attended attended attended Vakhtang Butskhrikidze Chief Executive Officer 22 22 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Giorgi Shagidze Chief Financial Officer 22 22 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Non-Executive Directors Mamuka Khazaradze Chairman 22 22 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Badri Japaridze 22 22 0 0 0 0 7 7 0 0 1 Eric Rajendra 22 22 9 9 7 7 7 7 4 4 2 Nikoloz Enukidze 22 22 9 9 7 7 7 6 4 4 Nichola Haag 22 22 9 9 7 7 0 0 4 4 3 Maria Luisa Cicognani 6 6 3 3 2 2 0 0 2 2 4 Tsira Kemularia 6 6 3 3 0 0 2 2 2 2 5 Stefano Marsaglia 15 11 6 5 5 4 0 0 2 2 6 Stephan Wilcke 15 9 6 6 0 0 4 3 2 2 1 Mr Rajendra stepped down from the Board and Committees on 15 March 2019 2 Mr Enukidze was unable to attend one Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee meeting due to prior business related commitment however he discussed all matters on the agenda with the Chairman of Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee and provided feedback on materials in advance of the meeting 3 Mrs Cicognani joined the Board on 10 September 2018.
She was appointed as the head of the Remuneration Committee and as a member of the Risks Ethics and Compliance Committee and the Audit Committee of the Board on 1 October 2018 4 Mrs Kemularia joined the Board on 10 September 2018.
She was appointed as a member of the Risks Ethics and Compliance Committee, the Audit Committee and Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee of the Board on 1 October 2018 5.
Stefano Marsaglia stepped down from the Board and Committees on 10 September 2018 6 Stefan Wilcke stepped down from the Board and Committees on 10 September 2018 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 111 111 DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Attendance of meetings of the Supervisory Board and its committees in 2018 are set out below: Supervisory Remuneration Corporate Governance Board meetings Audit Committee Committee meetings and Nomination ComRisks, Ethics and Complieligible to attend meetings eligible to eligible to attend mittee meetings eligible ance Committee meetings Supervisory Board Attendance attended attend attended attended to attend attended eligible to attend attended Mamuka Khazaradze Chairman 65 65 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Vakhtang Butskhrikidze Chief Executive Officer 23 23 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Giorgi Shagidze Chief Financial Officer 24 24 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Badri Japaridze 66 66 0 0 0 0 6 6 0 0 1 Eric Rajendra 86 86 11 11 10 10 6 6 23 23 Nikoloz Enukidze 86 85 11 11 10 10 6 5 23 23 Nicholas Haag 86 86 11 11 10 10 0 0 23 23 2 Maria Luisa Cicognani 32 32 2 2 3 3 0 0 5 5 3 Tsira Kemularia 32 32 2 2 0 0 1 1 5 5 4 Stefano Marsaglia 54 50 8 7 7 5 0 0 18 16 5 Stephan Wilcke 54 51 8 8 0 0 5 4 18 17 Kemularia included an on-site business introduction, DIVERSITY POLICY followed by meetings with executives and key business unit The Board recognises the importance of ensuring diversity managers and an introduction to the operations, risks, and and sees significant benefit to our business in having a governance environment of the Group.
In addition, the new Board and management team that is drawn from a diverse Directors received training on their duties as directors of a range of backgrounds, since this brings the required listed company, at the offices of Baker McKenzie LLP, the expertise, cultural diversity and different perspectives to Companys external counsel.
the Board discussions and helps to improve the quality of decision making.
Moreover, the Chairman takes responsibility to ensure that the Board is updated in a timely manner about the During 2018, there were two appointments to the Board Companys performance, to enable it to make proper of female Directors, Maria Luisa Cicognani and Tsira decisions.
The Chairman ensures information exchanges Kemularia and the Board notes that there are a number between the Board, the Committees and executives.
If of talented women in key positions, who report directly to there is a need for independent advice, the Board can seek the CEO and other members of the management board it directly at the Companys expense.
Information on the Groups approach to diversity, including, gender balance and how it influences Members of the Board are required to complete a selfthe appointments we make to our Board is set out in the assessment process at the end of the year, where the Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee report members of the Board can identify a relevant development on pages 129 to 132. programme.
INDUCTION AND TRAINING ANNUAL BOARD EFFECTIVENESS EVALUATION A formal induction is arranged for newly appointed Directors based on the individuals need, skills and During 2018, an  Board evaluation experience.
Typically, these included a series of meetings was conducted by Independent Audit Limited IAL, an with the Chairman and other Directors and senior independent specialist.
The review was carried out at the executives, as well as local site visits to provide familiarity initiative of and with the participation of the Corporate with the business.
During the year, there were two new Governance and Nomination Committee, which selected appointments to the Board and its Committees.
The the evaluator from a shortlist of leading evaluation induction process for Maria Luisa Cicognani and Tsira 1 Mr Rajendra has stepped down from the Board and Committees on 15 March 2019 2 Mrs Cicognani joined the Supervisory Board on 10 September 2018.
She was appointed as the head of the Remuneration Committee and as a member of the Risks Ethics and Compliance Committee and the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board on 1 October 2018 3 Mrs Kemularia joined the Supervisory Board on 10 September 2018.
She was appointed as a member of the Risks Ethics and Compliance Committee, the Audit Committee and Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee of the Supervisory Board on 1 October 2018 4 Stefano Marsaglia stepped down from the Supervisory Board and its committees on 10 September 2018 5 Stefan Wilcke stepped down from the Supervisory Board its committees on 10 September 2018 112 112 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 companies that submitted proposals in response to an RFP.
holding joint committee meetings on topics of interest to The evaluator was selected following detailed interviews more than one committee.
and consideration of relevant sectorial and geographical During 2019, the implementation of the detailed action experience.
plan as adopted by the Board in February 2019 will be The evaluation process included review of board papers, monitored by the Corporate Governance and Nomination interviews and observation of meetings.
The evaluators Committee and progress will be reported in the 2019 carried out in-depth individual interviews with all Board Annual Report, alongside the outcome of the annual Board members in Tbilisi and London, as well as follow-up evaluation for 2019.
The Company intends to continue to interviews where necessary.
Independent Audit also undertake regular annual Board reviews in line with the interviewed key management personnel and various requirements of the Code.
functional heads to discuss their views of the Board, IAL has confirmed that this report is a fair summary of the experience of interacting with it and the information review and its outcomes.
they provided to the Board.
Independent Audit attended meetings of the Board and most Committees to observe the Boards processes and the dynamics between the DIRECTORS COMMITMENTS various Board members and attendees.
The Directors are required to disclose to the Board their A full report of IALs findings was discussed with the external appointments or other significant commitments Chairman, the Deputy Chairman of the Board and the prior to their appointment.
Chairman of the Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee.
The report was then circulated to all Directors.
Each nonexecutive Director is required to devote such Subsequently, the Committee and the Board discussed the time as is necessary for the effective discharge of their report, with the evaluator participating by conference call, duties.
Whilst our non-executive Directors hold external and formulated an action plan for 2019. directorships or other external positions, the Board believes they still have sufficient time to devote to their The report noted that the Company aims to meet the duties as a Director of the Company and that the other highest international standards, and highlighted the strong external directorships positions held provide the Directors foundation on which the Company can develop further its with valuable expertise which enhances their ability to act governance structures.
The report found that the Board as a non-executive Director of the Company.
No significant benefits from a highly experienced Chairman, an open changes to the commitments of the Chairman or nonand constructive management team, and a co-operative executive Directors were identified during the year 2018. relationship between executives and the non-executive Directors.
Executives value both input and challenges from the non-executive Directors.
According to the evaluation RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS report, these factors were complemented by a strong As mentioned above, all Directors are subject to annual resecretarial presence supporting the Board processes.
election by shareholders at our Annual General Meeting, in accordance with the Code.
Biographical details of the During the Board meeting in February 2019, the Board Directors are included on pages 120 to 124. agreed an action plan for 2019.
The principal areas to be addressed are: REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Succession planning and Board skills Continue to develop robust succession plans for both nonInformation on the Remuneration Committee is included executive and executive board members, based on a clear in the Directors Remuneration report on pages 136 to 155. view of the full range of skills currently available to it and potentially required in future.
Information flow to the Board Work on improving information flows to the Board.
In particular, management to aim to produce more focused Board papers, and to give the Board more exposure to key managers.
The Boards focus Increase the Boards focus on the Groups strategic development, while continuing to maintain robust oversight of the underlying culture and risk environment.
Adjustments to the Board and Committee meeting structure Implement various organizational changes to maximise the Boards allocation of time on key issues, including adjusting the length and agendas for the meetings, and TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 113 113 DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED ENGAGEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Effective communication with shareholders is given high The last Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company priority by the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer and the was held on 21 May 2018 at the offices of Baker McKenzie, Chief Financial Officer, together with the Deputy Chairman 100 New Bridge Street, London.
85.90% of total voting and or the Chairman, maintain very close engagement with rights were exercised by shareholders.
All resolutions put the Companys major shareholders.
They have participated to shareholders were passed with votes in favour ranging in non-deal roadshows across numerous geographic from 90% to 100 % of the votes cast.
locations to promote the awareness and understanding The 2019 AGM Notice will be circulated to all the of the Groups business.
In addition to roadshows, the shareholders at least 21 working days before the AGM Banks senior executive team and Directors were involved and it will also be made available on our investor relations in hosting a capital markets day in London.
The voting on the hold regular investor calls and also conduct face-to-face resolutions will be announced via the Regulatory News meetings with investors visiting Georgia and take an active Service and made available on our investor relations part in government events abroad aimed at increasing website www.
investor confidence in the economic stability of the country and its sustainable development.
The Company has a dedicated investor relations section on its website, which contains information on all disclosures made to the market, including results presentations and annual reports.
All announcements issued to the LSE are available on the Groups website at www.
Moreover, any shareholders of the Company, potential investors and analysts are able to ask questions about the Group through Companys permanent representative in London, who is always available for investor meetings and updates relating to investor relations and international media on behalf of the management team.
The Chief Executive Officer, Chairman and Senior Independent Director are also available to discuss the concerns of shareholders at any point during the year.
114 114 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018
