DIVISIONAL REVIEW RETAIL BANKING 2018 HIGHLIGHTS 40.0% 54.6% 1 RETAIL LOAN MARKET SHARE RETAIL DEPOSIT SHARE IN TOTAL PORTFOLIO 41.2% c. 2.3 million customers 1 RETAIL DEPOSIT MARKET SHARE AROUND 83% OF ADULT POPULATION IN GEORGIA 45.3% 90.6% RETAIL LOAN SHARE IN TOTAL PORTFOLIO OFFLOADING RATIO OVERVIEW TBC Bank is the leader in Georgias retail banking segment, ranking first in terms of both deposits and loans, with market 1 1 shares of 41.2% and 40.0% respectively.
We operate a customer-centric service model and offer our clients a full range of banking products through our advanced omni-channel distribution platform with strong focus on digital channels.
As a result 90.6% of our transactions are conducted remotely with Internet and mobile banking applications being our customers most preferred communication channels.
As the countrys leading service provider in retail banking, we differentiate ourselves by our exceptional customer experience, world-class digital channels, most trusted brand and advanced analytical capabilities.
PROGRESS AGAINST STRATEGIC PRIORITIES IN 2018 Further enhance our customer The best service provider 2 experience in Georgia Introduced an innovative and safe way of transferring money via chat extension, Ti-Transfer Continue to innovate and offer the most Enriched our products offering via Internet and up-to-date digital solutions on the market mobile banking applications Please see below for more information Increase the number of customers in Number of TBC Status customers increased the affluent segment by 36.1% YoY and reached up to 41,000 Increase assets under management in 3 Assets under management in HNWI segment the high-net-worth individuals HNWI increased by 9.8% YoY to GEL 2,151 million segment 1 Based on data published by the National Bank of Georgia as of 31 December 2018: in this context retail refers to individual customers 2 Based on survey conducted by independent research company IPM among retail segment in December 2018 3 AUM includes deposits, bonds and equity shares 26 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 OMNI-CHANNEL DISTRIBUTION PLATFORM c. 529,000 internet or c. 17,000 POS terminals and mobile banking users c. 3,300 self-service terminals The award-winning Internet and mobile The wide network of POS and banking applications self-service terminals 95% of our customers c. 1,200 ATMs answered within 15 seconds The largest ATM network in Georgia The best-in-class call center with first together with partner banks voice biometric recognition system c. 231,000 voicprints taken 149 branches c. 241,000 users The wide network of branches The first Georgian-speaking with a customer centric design chat-bot, Ti-Bot, available through Facebook Messenger TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 27 DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED Should customers need a personal consultation with their RETAIL SUB-SEGMENTS banker, they are attended to in a comfortable service space We serve more than 2.3 million retail customers, designed especially for them.
We have around 70 TBC accounting for about 83% of the total Georgian adult Status areas in 27 branches.
In order to serve our clients more effectively, we have grouped our retail customers into three subsegments: high-net-worth individuals HNWI, affluent 1 Highlights customers TBC Status, and mass retail.
This allows us to offer the most comfortable banking experience to each customer.
2,158 mln TBC up by 38.7% YoY - TBC Status loan book Mass retail Status HNWIs Number of clients c. 2.3 million c. 41,000 c. 2,400 1,563 mln Loan book share 51.1% 46.4% 2.5% up by 23.9% YoY - TBC Status deposit book Deposit share 38.7% 30.6% 30.7% Cross-selling ratio 3.65 8.55 6.51 HIGH-NET-WORTH INDIVIDUALS HNWI TBC Bank was the first bank to introduce private banking We serve more than 2,400 HNW resident and non-resident services in Georgia more than 10 years ago and to individuals from over 40 countries.
We provide our HNW establish high standards of service.
We strive to be the first customers with tailor-made banking products and services, choice for private banking customers and are committed to as well as advise them in relation to various investment gaining a deep understanding of clients needs and goals opportunities in Georgia.
We also have a representative in order to provide them with complete and personalised office in Israel, TBC Invest, which allows us to attract nonrange of solutions and to build a lifelong partnership.
In resident clients from Israel more effectively.
recognition of our continuous efforts to deliver exceptional private banking services, in 2018 TBC Bank was named the We serve our high-net-worth clients in VIP service areas, Best Private Bank in Georgia by the Professional Wealth which combine luxury, comfort and privacy.
Most experienced Management PWM and The Banker magazines for the personal bankers act as consultants and wealth planners to fourth time.
build lifelong relationships with our high-net-worth clients.
TBC STATUS We offer our HNWI sophisticated brokerage and investment banking services through our wholly owned subsidiary, TBC TBC Status serves around 41,000 affluent customers in Capital.
In 2018, the majority of bonds issued by TBC Capital Georgia and provides them with special banking experience were acquired by our HNW individuals, which allowed them tailored to their specific needs.
Our value proposition is to diversify their investments.
In addition, we have also comprised of: developed an exclusive investment product in partnership individual approach and long-lasting relationship: with LS Opportunities Fund - Frontier Senior Income FSI, exceptional customer experience: a Luxembourg-domiciled investment vehicle managed by highly professional and experienced personal bankers: Thales Investments.
The fund invests in a well-diversified personalised banking products and services: portfolio, with strictly controlled credit and operational risks.
dedicated multi-channel with extended capabilities and a strong digital focus: various lifestyle offerings through TBC Status concierge: MAIN ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2018 exclusive events and special discounts for the countrys 2 In 2018, our retail loan book grew by 18.1% to GEL 4,699 main cultural events, including TBC Banks annual Jazz million, mainly driven by an increase in mortgages, Festival.
which represented 57.7% of the retail book.
Slowdown As our customers comfort is of utmost importance for in consumer lending is attributable to the reduction in us, we continually upgrade our digital offerings and allow the unsecured loan portfolio related to NBG regulation them to conduct most of their daily transactions remotely.
Over the same period retail deposits As a result, the mobile and Internet banking penetration increased by 16.6% to GEL 5,104 million, supported by the level stood at as high as 82.7% among Status clients as of growth of both term and current and savings accounts.
31 December 2018 up by 3.5 pp compared to a year earlier.
More information about the financial performance of the 1 Based on management accounts retail segment is provided under the section Financial Review on pages 90 to 106.
28 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 In order to optimise the operational costs we started a We are also increasing our engagement with branch optimization project which foresees switching younger Georgians by offering them special youth the service model, from product-centric to customercards tailored for their needs.
The plan is to replace existing branch positions agreements with all large universities in Georgia with universal sales staff financial advisors and service covering around 48.0% of all students in Georgia.
managers for a more integrated customer relation Additionally, at the end of 2018 we introduced system.
In 2018 the project was piloted in two branches gift cards in collaboration with Georgias largest and we are planning to roll out this model across all TBC shopping centres.
We continue to leverage on our advanced data analytics In terms of digitalization, we have achieved outstanding capabilities and during 2018 we implemented a thorough results in 2018: market study across the globe in order to identify best practices for analytics use cases and assessed their During the year several new products were added relevance for TBC Bank.
Based on our analysis, we to the Internet and mobile banking applications identified relevant use cases for each division and including: renewal and limit change of credit cards, developed the roadmap for the next 3 years.
The first purchase of payment protection insurance and car project was implemented in November 2018 and accident risk insurances, purchase of car parking envisaged optimizing consumer credit pricing and credit permit and automatic payment of car fines.
limit management in order to improve profitability in By the end of the year, our mobile banking consumer lending.
We plan to launch more projects penetration increased by 5.6 pp and reached 37.0%, during 2019.
In parallel, we are building strong in-house while our mobile or Internet banking penetration analytical team by recruiting and training the best talents level grew by 3.3 pp and totaled 43.7%.
and we are developing big data infrastructure.
We also pride ourselves that in 2018 our Internet bank has been named the worlds Best Integrated Consumer Banking Site by Global Finance STRATEGY 2019 magazine in addition to multiple digital country and regional CEE awards.
Strong focus on customers: develop value added Ti-bot, the first Georgian-speaking chatbot, is services around our customer sub-segments in increasingly popular among our clients.
Since March order to increase their engagement and customer 2018 Ti-bot has received around 14.4 million messages experience and attracted around 241,000 customers.
In addition to the simple transactions that Ti-bot can perform, in 2018 Continue to strengthen our technological we added an innovative and safe money transfer system leadership by introducing the most innovation via chat extension, Ti-Transfer.
Developed in partnership digital solutions on the market with industry leader Pulsar Al, Ti-transfer has already gained international recognition and it was named Best Transform into data driven company and further Alternative Payments Project at the Payments Awards develop our advanced data analytical capabilities ceremony organised by FStech and Retail Systems.
in order to increase our profitability and efficiency We have also achieved strong results in the card business: levels, as well as increase customer experience After the successful launch of a new loyalty and engagement programme in 2017, Ertguli, our credit card sales continue to increase and our market share reached 3 44.9% by the end of 2018.
On the debit card side, in August 2018 we launched a new product-My Payroll Card, for payroll and selfemployed customers, who receive their salaries by cash or in another bank and are not inlcuded in our standard payroll programme.
This card allows such customers to accumulate their monthly income and to benefit from simplified procedures in case 2 Growth without re-segmentation effect - In Q1 2018, GEL 236 mln they need credit products.
The card proved to be was transferred from retail to MSME portfolio successful and since its introduction we issued more 3 Based on NBG data than 26,000 cards.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 29 Ti Bot is the perfect partner for the young generation.
I have been using it since its launch as it allows me to perform daily banking transactions, such as mobile top up and P2P transfer in very simple and interactive way.
I especially enjoy communicating with Ti Bot though sending voice messages, as I am always in a hurry and need to get information quickly, Rima Tsagareishvili, Branch manager at Yves Rocher cosmetic store I am very excited about Ti Bot as it is fun and easy to communicate with.
Conducting banking operations through Facebook messenger suits perfectly young people who spend a great deal of time on Messenger and feel much more comfortable chatting with Ti Bot rather than logging on to a mobile banking application.
My favorite feature is the latest addition, Ti transfer, which allows me to send money to my friends, while talking with them in messenger without leaving the conversation.
Zviad Tatunashvil, Philology student at Tbilisi State University, 30 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 RETAIL CASE STUDY THE YOUNG GENERATION BEFRIENDS TI-BOT Ti Bot is the first Georgian-speaking chatbot available via Facebook messenger.
It is an innovative and fun channel, which allows our customers to perform simple banking transactions, as well as provides useful information about TBC Bank products, entertainment events and weather forecast.
We value our clients feedback to add new features and capabilities in order to constantly improve the customer experience.
For this purpose, we have created a special Facebook group where our digital savvy customers can send their recommendations and comments about our Ti Bot.
Rima Tsagareishvili is a branch manager at Yves Rocher cosmetic store and an active contributor to our Facebook group.
She is actively involved in testing our Ti Bot and provides valuable insights.
Zviad Tatunashvil, a Philology student at Tbilisi State University, helps us in testing Ti Bot by providing useful suggestions on how to make it better.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 31 DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED CORPORATE INVESTMENT BANKING CIB 2018 HIGHLIGHTS 37.4% 30.6% 1 CORPORATE LOAN MARKET SHARE CORPORATE LOAN SHARE IN TOTAL PORTFOLIO 41.2% 34.5% 1 CORPORATE DEPOSIT SHARE IN TOTAL PORTFOLIO CORPORATE DEPOSIT MARKET SHARE c. 2,800 47.4% 1 NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS CORPORATE GUARANTEE MARKET SHARE OVERVIEW TBC Bank is the market leader in the corporate segment in Georgia, leading in all core corporate banking products including loan, deposit and guarantee portfolios.
We serve more than 2,800 corporate clients and have a well-diversified portfolio with strong presence in all sectors of the Georgian economy.
We employ more than 120 highly skilled banking professionals with deep and extensive sector knowledge.
Our bankers offer tailor-made solutions to the businesses and seek to optimise their financial and capital structure as well as assist them in growing and developing their businesses.
To respond to the more sophisticated product requirements of our clients, we are also actively developing investment banking services through our wholly owned subsidiary TBC Capital.
We differentiate ourselves through an advisory-focused business model, an exceptional customer experience, an advanced trade finance and strong project finance syndication capabilities, as well as highly experienced and professional team.
Corporate loan book breakdown by sectors 3% 1% 1% 1% 1% Energy & Utilities 3% Real Estate 3% 24% Food Industry 4% Hospitality & Leasure Communication 5% Construction Trade 5% Healthcare Automotive 14% Metals & Mining 7% Agriculture Services Tranportation 14% 14% Other Financial Services 32 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 PROGRESS AGAINST STRATEGIC PRIORITIES IN 2018 The bonds issued and listed by TBC Capital Further accelerate the development increased by 400% YoY and amounted to of the capital markets and investment GEL 305 million, which represented 55% of banking business in Georgia and increase total bonds issued and listed on Georgian Stock our footprint in this area in the region Exchange in 2018 Further strengthen our coverage in Credit portfolio and net interest income of Georgias regions and in such customers grew by 28.4% and 29.4% YoY the mid-corporate segment respectively Increase penetration of corporate The volume and number of POS transactions of clients through the TBC Banks our corporate clients grew by 156% services and products and 145% YoY respectively 1 Based on data published by the National Bank of Georgia as of 31 December 2018: in this context corporate refers to legal entities TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 33 DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED placements.
The bonds issued and listed by TBC Capital MAIN ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2018 during the year increased by 400% YoY and amounted to In 2018, we achieved outstanding results in terms of GEL 305 million, which represented 55% of total bonds client acquisition in both the large and mid-corporate issued and listed on Georgian Stock Exchange in 2018.
Our corporate loan book grew by 24.6% YoY During the year, TBC Capital also served as advisor to and reached GEL 3,177 million leading to a market share 8 Georgian Beer Company and Lisi Lake Development to of 37.4% up by 1.4pp.
Corporate deposits increased by obtain and maintain a global credit rating.
Furthermore, 2 29.0% YoY and reached GEL 3,231 million resulting in TBC Capital published two comprehensive research a market share of 41.2% up by 3.3pp.
More information reports: Fixed Income Securities in Georgia and about the financial performance in the corporate Georgian FMCG Sector Analysis.
The full reports can segment is provided under section financial review on be viewed at www.
ge under TBC Capital pages 90 to106.
In recognition of our efforts, in 2018 In 2018, TBC Bank served as the sole mandated lead EMEA Finance magazine named TBC Bank Best arranger for the largest M&A transaction in Georgia, Investment Bank in Georgia 2017 and TBC Capital the which allowed us to position ourselves as a large project Best Broker in Georgia 2017. acquisition powerhouse.
Silknet, Georgias leading Our client-centric approach and tailor-made product telecommunications operator, acquired Geocell, the offerings were translated into a strong cross-sell countrys second largest mobile operator for US$ 151.7 platform for our corporate clients.
The transaction was the Georgias largest corporate clients payroll accounts increased by 16% syndicate consisting of nine participants, including YoY and reached 148,000, while payroll fund went up by Georgian and regional banks, as well as the largest debt 30% YoY totaling GEL176 million.
Over the same period, facility arranged from local banks amounting to US$ the number of POS transactions grew by 145% YoY to 62 133 million.
Out of the total financing, US$ 10 million million, while the respective volumes went up by 156% was raised in bonds and TBC Capital acted a sole lead YoY and reached GEL 2,625 million.
arranger of private bond placement.
In 2018, our guarantee portfolio increased by 51.1% YoY and reached GEL 1,301 million, leading to a market 3 share of 47.4%.
The prestigious international awards STRATEGY 2019 have recognized our strong trade finance capabilities: the Asian Development Bank named TBC Bank Leading Further increase penetration of corporate clients Partner Bank in Georgia in Trade Finance 2018, while by providing them with tailor-made solutions Global Finance awarded us The Best Trade Finance Provider in Georgia 2019.
Further strengthen coverage of Georgian regions In terms of investment banking activities, in 2018 we and growing mid-corporate segment completed several notable transactions.
TBC Capital 4 5 was the sole lead arranger for Silknet, Nikora Trade, 6 7 Further enhance the role of TBC Capital in the TBC Leasing, Lisi Lake Development, Georgian Beer 8 Company, BSTDB and FMO bonds via public and private development of capital market in Georgia 1 Growth without re-segementation effect - In Q1 2018 GEL 66 was transferred from MSME to corporate loans 2 Growth without re-segmentation effect - In Q1 2018, GEL 78 mln was transferred from MSME to corporate deposits portfolio 3 Based on data published by National Bank of Georgia as of 31 December 2018 4 Silknet is a leading telecommunication company in Georgia.
5 Nikora Trade is a leading food producer company in Georgia.
6 TBC Leasing is a leading leasing company in Georgia and a subsidiary of TBC Bank 7 Lisi Lake Development is a leading developer company in Georgia.
8 Georgian Beer Company is a leading producer of beverages in Georgia 34 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 35 Our successful partnership with TBC Bank began in 2017 and since then it has become our house bank, providing not only core banking products, but also consultations on various financial issues.
I would like to especially thank TBC Banks Corporate and Investment Banking team for its outstanding support and professionalism during the complex process of Geocells M&A.
Going forward, we are committed to further developing our business and delivering valuable services to our society with support of our partner TBC Bank.
Davit Mamulaishvili, CEO of Silknet 36 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 CORPORATE CASE STUDY SILKNET GEOCELL - GEORGIAS LARGEST M&A TRANSACTION Silknet is one of the countrys largest provider of telecommunication services.
The company offers a wide range of telecommunication products including Internet, TV and fixed telephone services to corporate and individual clients.
In March 2018, Silknet acquired a 100% holding in Georgias second largest mobile operator, Geocell LLC.
The acquisition was valued at US$ 151.7 million, making it the largest M&A transaction ever on the Georgian market.
The transaction creates a major convergent telecom operator in Georgia with Internet and fixed telephony subscribers 1 market shares of 34% and 51% respectively : it will also provide Georgian consumers with an enhanced access to voice and data services as well as exclusive global content.
TBC Bank acted as a sole mandated lead arranger for financing this transaction through organizing the largest debt facility in Georgia, amounting to US$ 133 million.
It was also Georgias largest syndicate consisting of nine participants including local and regional banks.
In addition, TBC Capital, our wholly-owned subsidiary, acted as a sole lead arranger for a private bonds placement in the amount of US$ 10 million.
Through this transaction TBC Bank positioned itself as a large acquisition powerhouse.
1 Data as of 31 December 2018, Source: www.
ge TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 37 DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES SEGMENT 2018 HIGHLIGHTS 1 65% c. 130,000 OF NEWLY REGISTERED LEGAL ENTITIES CUTOMERS CHOSE TBC BANK 2 24.1% 92.5% 2 MSME SHARE IN TOTAL LOAN BOOK OFFLOADING RATIO OF MSME 3 10.9% 78% MSME SHARE IN TOTAL DEPOSIT PORTFOLIO NPS OVERVIEW We are the leading partner bank for micro, small and medium enterprises MSMEs in the country.
In 2018, 65% of all newly registered legal entities in Georgia chose TBC Bank.
Our key differentiators are an exceptional customer experience, best in class financial products and services, extensive business support programme, as well as innovative solutions.
We are the 4 only bank in the region offering fully digital on-boarding, which enables legal entities to become our customer by registering online at www.
In December 2018, the fully digital on-boarding ratio was 16%.
In addition, our strong digital channels enable our customers to conduct most of their transactions online: as a result, the offloading ratio stood as 3 high as 92.5% by year-end.
We also pride ourselves on our NPS score of 78%, significantly higher than our peer bank.
PROGRESS AGAINST STRATEGIC PRIORITIES IN 2018 3 Continue to improve our superior Our NPS score increased by 4pp YoY customer experience Launched an innovative B2B platform for Further develop our flagship business businesses www.
ge support programme Please see below for more information Maintain our focus on digitalization by Upgraded our award-winning Internet banking further enhancing our multichannel for legal entities with new features and intuitive platform design to make it much easier to use 1 Data is for FY 2018, source: www.
ge, the National Agency of Public Registry 2 Excluding cash transactions 3 Based on survey conducted by independent research company IPM among MSME segment in October 2018 4 Region in this context comprises Azerbaijan, Armenia and Georgia 38 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 We remain committed to supporting early-stage businesses BUSINESS SUPPORT PROGRAMME and continue to roll our new offerings within our innovative We are the only bank in Georgia offering a full-scale business programme Startaperi, which was launched in 2017. support programme, which includes educational resources Startaperi aims to create more successful startups in and business blog, business support tools, an annual Georgia by supporting them with easily accessible capital, business award and start-up programme.
All these services a digital platform for advertising campaigns, as well are united on a single platform: www.
as various educational programmes and conferences.
Currently, we offer three types of loans for start-ups: a Within our business education programme, we general loan, a specific one for hotels, and special one for conduct trainings, run conferences, organise individual agro businesses.
The programme has gained tremendous consultations as well as regional agro forums.
All these popularity and attracted around 24,000 companies since services are provided free of charge.
Throughout 2018, we have disbursed loans totaling entrepreneurs to improve their skills in areas such as around GEL 76 million, up by 180% compared to 2017. management, marketing, finance and taxation that will support them in developing their businesses.
The programme was launched in 2013 in partnership with the Asian Development Bank ADB.
During 2018 up to 7,500 business individuals participated in this programme.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 39 DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED To encourage entrepreneurship in Georgia, since 2016 We continue to develop our business support programme we have been organising the Annual Business Awards and in 2018 we launched an innovative B2B platform ceremony, which has become the major business event for businesses www.
This platform of the year in the country, attrackting more than 1,500 creates a marketplace which connects businesses and community members.
This year we added two new IT service providers with each other and encourages nominations, the Woman Entrepreneur of the Year the development of new software relevant for Georgian and the Social Impact Award and announced winners businesses.
Companies can search, compare and in 6 categories.
The event attracted 16 million reach in choose the most suitable software for their needs press and social media while a survey conducted by the including computer programs, mobile applications or independent research agency, ACT, showed that top-ofweb services.
On the one hand, the website supports mind awareness of the project reached 76% in 2018. developers in raising awareness of their products, and on the other hand, the platform helps businesses to automate their processes and increase their efficiency.
MAIN ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2018 We have achieved strong growth: our MSME loan book 1 increasing by 23.4% YoY to GEL 2,497 million, while our 2 STRATEGY 2019 deposit portfolio increased by 8.9% YoY, amounting to GEL 1,018 million.
The results were mainly driven by the increase in loans disbursed to businesses operating Build an ecosystem for MSMEs which will in the following sectors: agriculture, construction, food encompass a wide range of solutions need by industry, hospitality and leisure, as well as services.
businesses on every stage of their development More information about financial performance of MSME segment is provided under section financial review on Focus on innovative and digital offerings pages 90 to 106.
We are the leading partner bank for the government Provide outstanding customer experience across programme, Produce in Georgia which aims to support each component of our ecosystem agriculture, manufacturing and hospitality industries.
Within the programme, borrowers can apply for a subsidy from the government to lower their interest expense during a grace period.
Under this programme, in 2018 we disbursed 64 loans for a total amount of GEL 42 million.
Internet banking remains the most widely used digital channel, accounting for around 71% of all digital transactions.
In 2018 we upgraded our award-winning Internet banking for legal entities with new features and an intuitive design to make it much easier to use.
We are also proud that the Global Finance magazine named our corporate digital bank Best in Social Media Marketing and Services globally in 2018, a global recognition which was added to our multiple regional CEE and country awards in a range of digital banking categories.
1 Growth without re-segementation effect - In Q1 2018, GEL 236 mln was transferred from retail to MSME portfolio and GEL 66 was transferred from MSME to corporate loans 2 Growth without re-segementation effect-in Q1 2018, GEL 78 mln was transferred from MSME to corporate deposits portfolio 40 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 STARTUP SUPPORT PROGRAM - STARTUPERI Nino Slepchenko and her husband, Levan Vateishvili run a family start-up business Saini and are active members of our Startaperi programme.
They offer customers a wide range of interior and exterior design options with gorgeous alphabetical ornaments, which include vessels, lamps, decorative mirrors, wall decors, mosaic and ceramic tiles.
The source of inspiration for their work became the Georgian alphabet, Mkhedruli.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 41 We are very thankful to TBC Bank for organising Apps Challenge in Georgia.
It is the first IT competition aiming to promote Georgian software applications and motivate young IT companies to create innovative solutions.
It is a win-win situation for both IT companies and businesses, since IT systems created by Georgian specialists are tailored on local needs and are cheaper than their foreign equivalents.
Levan Meskhishvili, founder of System Jet 42 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 MSME CASE STUDY SYSTEM JET - INTRODUCING TECH INNOVATIONS FOR GEORGIAN BUSINESSES In 2018 TBC Bank organized its first Apps Challenge in partnership with EFSE DF.
The aim was to foster the creation of innovative software solutions to simplify and automatise processes for Georgian businesses.
Applicants were required to present original ideas and products new to the Georgian software development market.
Twenty teams were shortlisted, out of the 78 who participated, and were asked to present their ideas to the jury.
In the final round of the contest, three winners were selected and awarded with monetary prizes by EFSE DF.
The first prize went to a start-up company, System Jet, which developed a software enabling beauty salons, aesthetic centers and similar companies to manage their daily activities entirely online.
This is the first application in Georgia allowing such businesses to manage their front office activities, to control their internal business processes, as well as to conduct statistical analysis.
Some of the features include: making reservations in multifunctional calendars: sending SMS to the customers: tracking client activity in terms of number of visits and amount of money spent: controlling flow of money and managing inventory.
System Jet is user-friendly and easy to navigate.
The company also offers trainings and maintenance services to its clients.
The software was launched in the test mode in March 2018 and is already successfully implemented in around 30 companies.
System Jet plans to use the award to enhance its product with an intuitive design and new capabilities, including financial analysis, CRM features and online training videos.
TBC Bank will also support the company in organising training and introductory presentations to potential customers in order to to increase awareness about the application.
The company has ambitious plans to scale up its biness to all major cities in Georgia during 2019.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 43 DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED SPACE 2018 HIGHLIGHTS PRODUCT DESCRIPTION AND c. 94,000 customers ITS MAJOR BENEFITS As a fully-digital bank, Space has no branches and offers all its products through the mobile application.
Should c. 260,000 downloads customers have questions, consultations are provided online either via Facebook messenger, an in-app chat, or by telephone.
The registration is very easy as one can become 4.8 stars of Apple Store a Space client in a few minutes, simply by uploading his her ID card or passport and a selfie.
4.6 stars on Google play Currently Space is offering the following products and capabilities: remote account opening: consumer loans: money transfers: OVERVIEW bill payments: In May 2018, we launched Georgias first fully-digital bank, debit cards, it is possible to attach other Space.
A cutting edge mobile application for managing banks cards as well: daily finances, this application challenges and redefines online Installments for e-commerce.
the traditional banking experience by offering a unique customer experience through simple procedures and The application is a fully cloud solution and is easy to products, intuitive design, price transparency and instant integrate with traditional legacy system.
We believe that the young, digitally savvy generation is looking for an alternative to the traditional banking services simple, quick to use and free from any kind of STRATEGY 2019 bureaucracy.
Space was created with this idea in mind.
In Space, all products and services are distributed just a We aim to continue enhancing Space with new few clicks away: everything can be done remotely without products and features and actively involving going to a branch.
The application is very intuitive and easy customers in the development process in order to to use.
For instance, in order to apply for a loan one just get instant feedback.
We also plan to deploy Space needs to press button, while in order to transfer money one clicks - button.
in the Azerbaijani and Uzbekistani markets.
Space was developed over the course of just 15 months by a dedicated team of 35 professionals, in partnership with best-in-class players including Amazon Cloud, Pulsar AI, Mambu, SalesForce and Corezoid.
Since its launch in May 2018 Space has exceed our expectations, attracting around 94,000 clients and 260,000 downloads by the year-end, while the loans disbursed amounted to GEL 15 million as of 31 December 2018.
44 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 45 DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED SUBSIDIARIES TBC INSURANCE TBC Insurance is a rapidly growing, wholly owned subsidiary of TBC Bank and it is the banks main bancassurance partner.
The company was acquired by the Group in October 2016 and it has grown significantly since then, becoming the second largest player on the P&C and life insurance market and the largest player in the retail segment, holding 20.4% and 37.8% 1 market shares without border motor third party liability MTPL insurance, respectively.
TBC Insurance serves both individual and legal entities and it provides a broad range of insurance products covering motor, travel, personal accident, credit life and property, business property, liability, cargo and agro insurance products.
The company differentiates itself by advanced digital channels, which includes TBC Banks award winning Internet and mobile banking applications, a wide network of self-service terminals, a web channel, as well as a Georgian-speaking chat bot-B Bot, which is available through Facebook messenger.
GWP by products GWP by segments 5% 25% 19% 44% 49% 26% 32% Casco Bancassurance Credit Life Retail Property SME & Corporate Business Others MARKET OVERVIEW P&C and life insurance market has a high growth potential The insurance business in Georgia is regulated by an as it is under-penetrated with gross written premium to independent body, the Insurance State Supervision Service 2 GDP standing at around 0.8% as of the end of 2018, which of Georgia, which closely monitors insurance companies is the second lowest among CEE countries.
The density, and sets the minimum and solvency capital requirements.
which is measured as gross written premium per capita, is There are 17 insurance companies in the Georgian P&C 3 also low compared to peer countries standing at US$ 33.4. and life insurance market with Aldagi and TBC insurance 2 During 2014-2017, the P&C and life insurance market being the two largest players with market shares of 29.7% has grown at a compound annual growth rate of around and 20.4% respectively, as of 31 December 2018, followed 11.0%, while the growth rate accelerated in 2018 and by GPIH with 14.0%.
1 Or 19.1% for the total and 31.2% for the retail market shares, with MTPL insurance.
Starting from March 1, 2018 border MTPL has been introduced and GWP was divided evenly between 17 insurance companies, therefore it has decreased our market share.
Source: Insurance State Supervision Service of Georgia 2 Or 28.0% and 19.1% respectively, with MTPL insurance.
Starting from March 1, 2018 border MTPL has been introduced and GWP was divided evenly between 17 insurance companies.
Source: Insurance State Supervision Service of Georgia 3 Source: Geostat and Insurance State Supervision Service of Georgia 46 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 reached 34.1%.
This was supported by the introduction of a Insurance faced fierce competition in the SME & Corporate compulsory motor third party liability insurance MTPL for market, given that most of the largest client tend to stay vehicles crossing Georgian borders.
The largest products with their insurers for loyalty-related reasons, or due to on the market are casualty and collision CASCO and long-term binding contracts.
Nevertheless, we managed property insurance which combined account for 66.0% of to increase our P&C and life insurance market share of the total market.
legal entities from 4.5% to 10.4% in 2018 and attracted some leading companies in Georgia.
At the end of 2018, we Going forward, we expect P&C and life insurance market also launched the SME Bancassurance web portal, which to grow by around 15.0% annually excluding compulsory will help us to increase penetration in the underpenetrated MTPL insurance, which is expected to be introduced from SME market.
the Q3 2019, increasing the market by around GEL 100- 130 million in 2020 leading to an additional growth rate of Going forward, TBC Insurance plans to further strengthen around 35.0%.
its positions on the market and become the number one insurance company in Georgia in the medium-term with the highest net promoter score NPS among the industry players in the country.
Market composition by products Strategic priorities 2018 Mid-term target P&C and life insurance- 1 Market share 20.4% Above 30% 20% P&C and life insurance 1 retail market share 37.8% Above 40% 6 Offloading ratio in voluntary retail sales 29.3% Above 40% 39% 7 NPS in claims service 68.0% Above 65% 14% TBC LEASING TBC Leasing was founded in 2003 by TBC Bank, which Casco currently holds 99.6% interest.
This year, TBC leasing 27% th Property celebrated its 15 anniversary and during all these years the company has worked hard to gain its strong expertise Life & PA and leading market position.
As of 31 December 2018, TBC Others 8 Leasings market share stood at 72.3% and its portfolio amounted to GEL 206.0 million with approximately 3,600 customers.
MAIN ACHIEVEMENTS AND STRATEGY TBC Leasing serves both individuals and legal entities and In 2018, TBC Insurance achieved strong growth results and provides comprehensive leasing solutions and advisory improved its efficiency.
The gross written premium grew by services including financial leasing, operating leasing, 91.8% and amounted to GEL 60.1 million, leading to a P&C 1 and life insurance market share of 20.4% up by 7.1 pp YoY.
4 Over the same period, the net combined ratio decreased 5 by 17.9 pp to 79.3%, and loss ratio decreased by 7.3 pp to 41.7%.
As a result, the net profit for the year stood at GEL 7.3 million almost 8 times higher compared to 2017.
4 Net insurance claims plus acquisition costs and administrative expenses divided net earned premium We achieved particularly impressive results in the retail 5 Incurred losses divided by earned premium 1 segment, increasing our market share to 37.8% up by 9.3 6 Number of sales conducted in digital sales divided by total number of retail voluntary sales pp YoY and becoming the largest player in P&C and life 7 Based on the internal survey insurance retail market.
In terms of legal entities, TBC 8 Based on internal estimates TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 47 DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED sales and leasebacks tailored to customers needs.
Legal To meet the demands of the rapidly expanding payments entities account for around 85.0% of our portfolio with business, in 2018 we added 491 self-service terminals, up services, construction, health care and production being by 17.6% compared to the previous year and we currently the largest sectors.
Our retail portfolio is comprised of new have 3,281 terminals in operation.
Over the same period, and used cars with respective shares of 33.7% and 67.3% the number of transactions increased by 9.5% YoY to 43.3 in total.
Our retail customers are served at our service million, while the volume of transactions went up 69.7% centers, while we use the banks channels to sell our YoY to reach GEL 2,327.2 million.
products to MSME and corporate customers.
This year, we achieved strong results in relation to our cash management business which we launched at the In 2018 the company achieved strong growth increasing its end of 2017.
This service is designed for companies with legal entities portfolio by 33.5% YoY to GEL 175.0 million, a large volume of cash operations, allowing customers to while its retail portfolio grew by 118.8% YoY to GEL 31.0 deposit money directly to their bank account, which will million.
Overall the leasing portfolio grew by 41.8%.
appear instantly on their electronic statement.
During The company also actively cooperates with governmental 2018, we attracted several large retailers including Wissol 1 2 3 projects, Produce in Georgia and Agriculture Projects Petroleum Georgia, Socar Georgia Petrolium, and Gepha.
Management Agency APMA, which aims to support the Currently, we operate around 131 such special terminals, development of the manufacturing, service and agriculture and the volume of such transactions amounted to GEL industries by subsidizing companies interest expenses.
461.8 million in December 2018 up by around 100% yearDuring the year, we have issued GEL 24.5 million leases on-year.
We plan to further expand this business during within these programmes.
We also strive to increase 2019. awareness of leasing solutions to startup companies for whom leasing is an affordable and particularity convenient We continue to enhance our online payment platform and option to obtain the necessary equipment.
In addition, we in 2018 we have added several features to it, including strive to contribute to preserving the environment through payment template management, SMS reminder for bill financing energy efficient equipment and appliances.
payments and card-to-card instant transfer service, which allows customers to transfer money between Georgian In 2019 we plan to develop supplementary services to bank cards instantly.
In 2019 we will introduce an e-wallet, our clients, including a new portal which will allow our which will be integrated in our self-service terminals and customers to control their payment schedule and financial online platform and give an opportunity to our clients to reports on-line, as well as enhance our management conduct electronic transactions without using their credit information and customer relationship management cards.
TBC Pay mobile application will follow shortly after, systems.
We also plan to cooperate with TBC insurance to introducing the easiest instant money transfer service.
During 2019, we will continue to grow our cash and online payments business in Georgia by continually improving the customer experience, adding new products and features TBC PAY to our online platform and self-service terminals and TBC Pay is one of Georgias leading payment companies.
It providing the most comfortable and effective service to was founded in 2008 by TBC Bank and it is its wholly owned customers in Georgia.
TBC Pay operates a wide network of self-service terminals all over the country, which allow individuals to perform payments for various daily services instantly in the interactive mode on a 24-hour basis.
Payments can be made in cash or using a debit or credit card.
The company also operates an online platform www.
ge, which has the same functionality as self-service terminals.
1 Wissol Petroleum Georgia is a leading petroleum company in Georgia 2 Socar Georgia Petroleum is a leading petroleum company in Georgia 3 Gepha is the leading pharmacy retailer in Georgia 48 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 Bank has purchased the remaining 25.0% from Enclude TBC CAPITAL LTD, becoming 100% shareholder of TBC Kredit.
In TBC Capital is TBC Banks wholly owned investment January 2019, TBC Bank signed a shareholder agreement banking subsidiary and a licensed broker-dealer in with Nikoil Bank to develop its business in Azerbaijan by Georgia.
It is an integral part of TBC Banks corporate and merging TBC Kredit with Nikoil Bank More information is investment banking franchise.
Its main lines of business given on page 22. include corporate advisory services, both debt and equity TBC Kredits total loan portfolio stood at GEL 31.6 million capital markets, brokerage services and market research.
SME lending accounted for 37.2% of TBC Capital is also a shareholder of the Georgian Stock the total, while consumer and mortgage loans accounted Exchange and plays an active role in the development of for a respective 45.3% and 17.5%.
its infrastructure and the integration of domestic capital market into international markets.
OTHER LOCAL SUBSIDIARIES Whilst the capital market related legislation and regulatory environment is still evolving in Georgia, the demand for The Group also includes the following subsidiaries: capital markets products and corporate finance advisory services continues to grow among the countrys large United Financial Corporation is the largest card-processing corporates.
We believe that the anticipated pension centre in Georgia, serving eight banks, seven financial st reforms, which came into force on 1 January 2019, will institutions and two loyalty companies.
Its services fully lead to significant change, boosting the development of the comply with VISA International and MasterCard Worldwide securities market and creating long-term GEL liquidity.
regulations, as well as payment card industry data security standards.
To capture this opportunity, TBC Capital has emerged as a player with strong suite of investment banking products and Real Estate Management Fund and Mali manage property services helping clients to achieve their strategic corporate that TBC Bank has repossessed for future sale.
In 2018, we widened the team, Banking Systems Service Company provides hardware positioning TBC Capital to benefit from increased capital 4 and software maintenance of ATMs, POS terminals and markets activity in Georgia and the region.
Our focus in other electronic banking systems.
2019 remains to further broaden the investment banking 4 transaction coverage in Georgia and across the region as BG provides asset management service to TBC Bank.
well as enhance brokerage and research business units.
More information about TBC Capital can be found in the corporate and investment banking section on pages 32 to 37.
Breakdown of Breakdown of total assets net income The Bank 97.1% 92.1% INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS International operations 0.2% 0.4% Most of TBC Banks operations are conducted in Georgia Other local operations 2.7% 7.5% 99.8% of total assets.
However, we have two international subsidiaries, one in Azerbaijan and one in Israel.
TBC Invest TBC Invest is a representative office of TBC Bank in Israel that acts as an intermediary with Israeli clients, offering information regarding products, fees and interest rates on TBC Banks products.
TBC Kredit TBC Kredit is a non-banking credit organisation that has operated in Azerbaijan since 1999.
It mainly focuses on the SME, consumer and mortgage lending sectors.
Since 2008 TBC Bank owned 75.0% of TBC Kredit.
In August 2018, TBC 4 Region in this context comprises Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 49
