12 Our strategy Developing best in class business resilience and creating high-quality growth and returns by putting customers first.
How does becoming customer-centric add value?
Over the last seven years, the land and planning Over the coming years, by enhancing every environment has undergone a structural step of our customers buying and after service Together with our response to the changes in change, with more good-quality land available experience, building homes which are right first the land and planning environment, our through the planning system and an increase in time and right for our customers income and customer-centric strategy will offer further opportunities, including a reduced level of lifestyle, we can create real additional value for scope for differentiation and enable us to competition, in certain parts of the market, such customers, and the rest of our stakeholders.
become the customers first choice of as large scale sites.
While land remains a key homebuilder in all market conditions.
This will Our ultimate goal is to become a genuinely value driver, the easing of the land constraint make us a more efficient and resilient through this cycle means that other elements of customer-centric homebuilder.
To do this we homebuilder throughout the cycle and ultimately have to commit to putting our customers and the business model have become increasingly enhance our brand and returns by: important to future success.
This includes their communities at the heart of our strategy, ensuring that the focus of all key business operational ability, delivery capability and 1.
Industry leading sales and service to approach to customers, particularly in the decisions is on identifying customers needs customers through the cycle, providing and earning their trust by delivering on our context of significantly changed customer increased resilience in weaker market expectations.
These changes present an promises time and time again.
In this way we conditions and a route to high-quality and can grow our business, providing more homes opportunity in an industry which has historically sustainable growth been very reactive to genuinely shift our focus to to more people, whilst continuing to manage 2.
Optimising our strong landbank to deliver the cycle cautiously and without compromising our customers needs and their aspirations for enhanced returns, by adopting a factory their homes and communities.
approach, to build more efficiently where there is market demand 3.
Continuing to improve the operational business model to drive efficiency and reducecosts Our strategy focuses on five key pillars Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Best in Customers and class efficient communities at the engine room heart of our strategy See pages 22 and 23 See pages 14 and 15 Becoming a customer-centric Becoming the homebuilder Build quality: employer gettingit right first time of choice See pages 16 and 17 See pages 20 and 21 Optimising our strong landbank See pages 18 and 19 14 Our strategy continued Customers and communities at the heart of our strategy Each of the decisions we take, from the location We operate in an industry which is underpinned of the land we buy, to the house types we by a fundamental long term demand and What this means... choose and the location and timing of supply imbalance.
As one of the UKs largest community facilities, has a significant impact homebuilders, we believe that we have a shared onour customers lives and their lifestyles.
responsibility to create more choices for those Understanding what our customers need has wanting to access housing, and to deliver this In practice been a key priority for everyone at Taylor housing with high quality and excellent service.
Focus of all key business decisions Wimpey.
During 2017 and 2018, we conducted is on identifying our customers Our customers have a very strong desire to a wide ranging customer research project to needs and delivering on them in a help set our customer facing priorities.
become part of a community and to do so commercially sound way quickly after they move in.
Our research Increased customer research We have made a significant step change in showed that customers believe we should play ourbusiness over the last four years and are a more active role in facilitating the relationship Piloting initiatives aimed at building community relationships pleased to have achieved a customer between the new residents, their new satisfaction score of over 90% as measured by community and their neighbours.
This is an Shared financial responsibility for the Home Builders Federation HBF survey.
area we will be exploring further in 2019 and affordability Whilst we have made great progress and over we will be undertaking a number of pilots at a Renewed focus on placemaking 90% of customers would recommend Taylor community level to test effectiveness and Buy in from all the business Wimpey to a friend 2017: 89%, this impact.
Our customer research also shows a Strong commitment to design and performance often drops over time, a common clear relationship between good placemaking timing location of infrastructure trend across the industry.
There are of course and long term customer satisfaction.
anumber of contributing factors, and not all Key priorities within our control, but we start from the point Ensuring that all stages of our that to be genuinely customer-centric, we have to understand the causes and look for solutions.
build process are right first time We have therefore introduced the NHBC Meeting our high standards 9-month would you recommend score, as an consistently additional KPI, which captures the feedback Trial a number of community projects from customers living in their homes for within our developments ninemonths.
Continue to embed our customercentric culture and priorities within thebusiness Continue to develop our placemakingskills Read more on pages 30 to 31 Q&A Read more on page 6 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 15 Read more on page 24 Our KPIs Read more on pages 30 to 31 Read more on pages 96 and 107 Customer satisfaction 8-week score 90% Would you recommend?
90% 2018 2017 89% 2016 86% Customer satisfaction 9-month score 76% Would you recommend?
2018 76% 76% 2017 2016 74% 16 Our strategy continued Build quality: getting it right first time Our customer research made very clear that Quality assurance this is an absolute foundation stone for What this means... We have clear quality and finish standards for all customer satisfaction.
Our customers rightly Taylor Wimpey homes and during 2017 and expect high-quality homes that are 2018 we continued to strengthen our quality professionally built and free from defects.
Each one of our homes believe that investment in quality upfront In practice should meet our quality standards and we want effectively benefits all stakeholders as getting it every customer to receive excellent service.
Getting it right first time saves right first time saves significant time, cost and significant time, cost and energy in energy in putting things right.
Having spent time During 2018 we rolled out our Consistent putting things right and resources on ensuring the quality of Quality Approach CQA guidelines to make Increased customer satisfaction products handed over to customers is sure our Site Managers, subcontractors, Sustainability benefits associated with consistent and meets our high standards, production and customer service teams all have achieving high-quality standards including the introduction of a Taylor Wimpey a consistent understanding of the finishing including greater durability, less waste national quality manual, we are now focused on standards we expect on all Taylor Wimpey and fewer resources used for repairs ensuring that a right first time approach is homes.
We are developing specific guidance and maintenance adopted consistently through all stages of build.
within the CQA for the different trades working New house type range offers on our sites that will form part of our framework Quality product range customers more choices in all market agreements with contractors in the future.
We conditions We build homes that people want to live in.
plan to produce a version of the CQA for We are proud of the homes we build and the customers in 2019 so they know what they Key priorities communities we create.
Our focus is on should expect from us.
providing high-quality, well-designed, Ensuring that a right first time We have introduced the National Housesustainable homes and communities that meet approach is consistently applied the needs and aspirations of local residents.
Building Council NHBC Construction Quality through all stages of build Review score as a new KPI in the business Our mix of homes is informed by the local area.
Roll out new house type range We continue to offer a wide range of homes which measures build quality at key build stages.
In 2018 we scored an average of 3.93 from one-bedroom apartments to six-bedroom houses, with prices ranging from under 70k 2017: 3.74 from a possible score of six.
This compares with an industry average score of to over 3 million.
In 2018 the proportion of th th apartments in our private completions was 3.68 and we have moved from 12 to 5 nationally over the last year.
The average square footage of our total completions also increased slightly this further by ensuring our quality assurance processes are embedded at every stage of to 1,017 square feet 2017: 1,013 square feet.
Our target is to achieve at least a four rating by 2020 for each regional business.
New house type range During 2019, we will finalise our new house type Innovation range and begin the initial stages of the roll out.
This has been developed using extensive We are also exploring how technology can help us improve quality.
For example, using 3D customer research and will include further consultation with customers, with the objective animated drawings can help site teams to visualise site plans and improve accuracy.
We of identifying customer needs while delivering as aspirational a product as possible, within have equipped our Site Managers with mobile devices they can use to help them monitor practical and commercial limitations.
This house type range will have the added benefit of quality on site and reduce paperwork.
This allows them to complete the Build Quality reducing costs and will offer us new choices in how we deliver homes to our customers in a Checklist electronically, attaching photographs to enable them to better monitor progress.
way that serves the needs of more customers effectively and adds additional value.
We have also introduced a timber frame standard house type range and an apartment range, as we look to provide more affordable options to customers.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17 Read more on page 107 Our KPIs Read more on page 24 Construction Quality Review 3.93 2018 3.93 2017 3.74 Average reportable items per inspection 0.28 0.28 2018 2017 0.26 2016 0.27 18 Our strategy continued Optimising our strong landbank The land and planning environment is including location quality.
Over 51% of this short structurally different in this cycle and is more term landbank has been strategically sourced What this means... balanced and effective today than at any point 2017: 52%.
We are confident that, We currently have c. 5.1 years of land supply at barring a fundamental change in Government policy, this will continue to be the case for the current completion levels in towns, villages and In practice cities where customers aspire to live in all types foreseeable future.
Our investment and scale Potential to increase pace of build continue to be based on our view of land quality of market and where they will be proud to call and accelerate growth in 2020 home 2017: c. 5.1 years.
and capital risk in a cyclical market.
Although depending on market conditions the planning approval process remains complex Increased cash generation The average cost of land as a proportion of and often slow, land is no longer the totally average selling price within the short term Increased site efficiency dominant constraint on the success and scale owned landbank remains low at 15.2% of our business and for the industry that it once Increased sales rates 2017: 14.8%.
The average selling price in the was.
The easing of this constraint means it is no Enhanced dividend and returns short term owned landbank in 2018 increased longer a necessity to hold a very long landbank, by 0.4% to 281k 2017: 280k.
and we are instead focused on delivering value Key priorities and maximising returns from our land Focus on delivering value and A key strength of Taylor Wimpey is our strategic investments.
One of our key strategic objectives maximising returns from our investments land pipeline.
This is an important input to the is to work our existing landbank harder and Continue to acquire land at high short term landbank and provides an enhanced smarter and reduce the length of the short term returns and in quality locations where supply of land at a reduced cost, giving us landbank by one year by 2023.
We will do this customers want tolive increased flexibility and choices.
Importantly, it by taking a more strategic approach to our build gives us greater control over the planning Focus on getting outlets open in the on site, adopting a factory approach, scaling up permissions we receive.
We have one of the right way for customers build teams on large sites, to align with the largest strategic pipelines in the sector which market demand, to deliver more homes.
The Embed factory approach to stood at a record of c. 127k potential plots as at short term owned and controlled landbank largesites 31 December 2018 31 December 2017: included 92 large including super large sites c. 117k potential plots.
The increase in the converted a further 7,619 plots from the proportion of large sites that we have seen in Q&A Read more on page 6 strategic pipeline to the short term landbank the market, and those we have secured in our 2017: 7,863 plots.
We continue to seek new land pipeline, brings both opportunities and opportunities and added a net 17.8k new risks.
Our approach to these sites is core to our potential plots to the strategic pipeline in 2018 belief that we can deliver significant benefits to 2017: 17.1k new potential plots.
In the year, a our customers and deliver further financial value record 58% of our completions were sourced to our shareholders.
We continue to see a key competitive advantage in our high-quality landbank.
This remains an important driver of value as it enables us to build and sell the right product, create the right community and deliver the right service to our customers.
Our short term landbank stands at c. 76k plots 2017: c. 75k plots, which have been sourced using strict criteria, Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 19 Read more on page 24 Our KPIs Strategically sourced completions 58% 2018 58% 53% 2017 2016 51% Land cost as % of average selling price on approvals 19.2% 2018 19.2% 19.8% 2017 2016 18.7% Landbank years c. 5.1 2018 c. 5.1 2017 c. 5.1 2016 c. 5.5 20 Our strategy continued Becoming the employer of choice Our people are the backbone of our customercareer change.
We piloted this approach in centric approach and we are investing in their six regions during 2017 and 2018, focusing What this means... development to ensure they have the right skills on five key trades: bricklayers, carpenters, and to help underpin our future growth.
We scaffolders, painters and joiners.
We currently aspire to be the employer of choice in our directly employ 748 key trades including trade sector, offering a unique and valued employee apprentices 2017: 581, a 29% increase on In practice experience by investing in our people, giving 2017.
Our approach includes recruiting a Attraction, recruitment and retention them more challenge, more ownership and greater diversity of candidates to join our of a talented employee base is a more flexibility, where it counts.
This includes working competitive advantage that cannot pleased to have been named in the top 10 with St Mungos, one of our national charities, be easily or quickly replicated places to work in the UK for 2019, by to support their long term unemployed clients to Properly resourcing future growth Glassdoor, as rated by employees, once again transition from their Train and Trade scheme Importance of employee buy in the only commercial housebuilder to make the into paid employment.
This is the second consecutive year we Through our learning and development have featured on the list, having ranked number Increased commitment to customer 15 in 2018. initiatives, aimed at growing talent from within, service and Taylor Wimpey culture we give our employees the opportunities and Increased employee and customer We may be a national homebuilder, but for skills to become our future business leaders satisfaction customers, it is their interactions with the local and develop their careers with Taylor Wimpey.
site and sales team and regional office that We continue to expand and improve our early Key priorities matter.
This is where their impression of Taylor talent development programmes.
Apprentices Continue to prioritise health and Wimpey is formed and where we strive to prove and apprenticeships will support our plans for safety at all levels of the business to them that they made the right choice by direct labour.
We will increase the numbers of Create a more consistent framework choosing a Taylor Wimpey home.
Embedding apprentices in 2019 and will deliver a more and development path for early and our approach to customers and getting buy in consistent framework and development path for ongoing talent management and commitment from our employees has been apprentices through the business.
We are a key part of our strategy.
During 2018 we ran a delighted to have been named as a top Focus on direct labour programme and roll out to all regional businesses very successful engagement programme employer for graduates and apprentices by featuring emails, presentations, meetings and JobCrowd in 2018 19.
Continue to engage our employees focus groups hosted by senior management with the strategy and get their feedback across the country, as well as an all staff survey.
There is nothing more important to our Board or Increase apprentices and our early employees than health and safety.
Building sites talent programmes There is a skills shortage in our industry.
are, by their very nature, dangerous and so we Toreduce the impact on our business and do everything we can possibly do to minimise help reverse this trend, we are increasing the those risks.
We embed a safety culture through Q&A Read more on page 7 number of trades people we hire directly.
training, awareness and visible health and This also has the benefit that it will increase safety leadership.
customer satisfaction and underpin future growth.
During 2018, we began our first direct labour model, increasing the number of trades people we hire directly as well as through subcontractors.
This includes both experienced trades people and new recruits to the industry, such as apprentices and people looking for a Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 21 Read more on page 25 Read more on pages 32 to 33 Our KPIs Voluntary employee turnover Directly employed key trades people, including trade apprentices 14.5% 748 14.5% 2018 2018 748 2017 14.0% 2017 581 2016 2016 450 13.9% Health and Safety Annual Injury Number recruited into early Incidence Rate per 100,000 talent programmes 228 175 employees and contractors 228 2018 175 2018 126 2017 152 2017 2016 2016 104 211 22 Our strategy continued Best in class efficient engine room As land and planning has become less of a Increasing the output from each factory also constraint, the operational capacity of the industry enables an improved workflow and consistency What this means... as a whole has become more constrained inquality of the finished home.
We believe that having an In the year, we achieved a 0.5 percentage point efficient engine room, to protect and enhance value through the business is vitally important.
margin upside on completions from land acquired In practice since 2009, compared with the expected margin Through structured investment and by Cost and efficiency review to ensure developing our skills and supply chain, we at the point of acquisition.
We achieve this value-added investment is properly optimisation of value by undertaking a series of believe we can grow the capacity of our tested and benchmarked operational business and our delivery capability.
thorough reviews of each site at all stages of its life Prioritising research and cycle, using our value improvement and tracking This will be an ongoing effort, and whilst it cannot development, looking for be done overnight, we have started by putting in processes to ensure that we are continually bettersolutions optimising and delivering the value within our land place a number of initiatives that will increase our Technology to free up valuable capacity to deliver and, importantly, maintain and portfolio and capturing market inflation.
We have begun this by Supply chain security will deliver and drive build strengthening and investing in our people and Seeking greater collaboration with efficiency.
We are working to strengthen our skills, including investment in direct labour, our suppliers partnerships with the supply chain, and will be apprentices, our production teams as a whole, seeking greater collaboration to deliver solutions as well as technology and process improvements.
Key priorities to build quality and efficiency issues on an Work together with suppliers to It remains our belief that homebuilding is ongoing basis.
reduce inefficiency and cost inherently cyclical and so we remain committed Continue to work to reduce waste Our scale affords us the benefit of strong to retaining a strong balance sheet, not over and emissions purchasing power, and we can achieve stretching investment, and maintaining financial significant cost savings across our regional discipline.
As announced previously, we have businesses through national agreements with undertaken a cost and efficiency review to anumber of suppliers.
We continue to work to identify and validate opportunities for Q&A Read more on pages 6 and 7 improve our relationships with our supply chain, performance improvement and cost efficiencies.
Read more in our 2018 Sustainability Report both in procurement and via Taylor Wimpey As a consequence, we have initiated a number Logistics, to deliver solutions to build quality and of workstreams during the year which are efficiency issues on an ongoing basis.
Taylor primarily targeted at applying technology and Wimpey Logistics plays an important part in our standardisation to increase productivity.
supply chain management, providing us with an We are prioritising research and development, alternative route to delivery and aiding efficiency with the preparation of just in time build packs seeking out new processes and products that canimprove efficiency and sustainability, and also for each stage of the building process.
With focus and greater standardisation on process, improve quality and the final product for customers.
The build of our Project 2020 prototype homes compliance, house types, design, suppliers and through collaboration, we believe we can deliver in2018, following our design competition with the Royal Institute of British Architects RIBA, has been a greater quality and efficiency from our supply chain.
This includes increasing efficiency by particularly useful in providing new insights.
reducing stock items and improving visibility Wealso balance our desire to improve quality with onprogramming for material demands.
a focus on making our assets work harder for us and our stakeholders.
As set out on page18, we We aim to use natural resources efficiently and to reduce our impact on the environment.
We are believe we can do more with our existing landbank by taking a much more strategic approach to our pleased to have reduced our emissions intensity by38.7% since 2013.
Whilst our emissions in assets.
This includes adopting a factory approach by increasing build and sales rates on large sites, 2018increased to 24,837 tonnes of CO e 2 2017: 23,683, we are still on track towards our inline with market demand.
target of 50% reduction in direct emissions scope 1 and 2 by 2023.
