DOING BUSINESS RESPONSIBLY We are dedicated to running our business in a responsible and sustainable manner and creating value for all our stakeholders.
OUR CUSTOMERS We are committed to continuously improving our customers experience by offering tailored products and services in an accessible way coupled with superior customer experience, as well as support the development of the business sector to foster job creation in the country.
2018 HIGHLIGHTS During 2018, we continued to innovate and develop new digital solutions to further improve our value proposition to our retail and business customers.
In May 2018 we launched a new, innovative product, Space, aimed at young and digitally savvy customers.
Space is a fully digital bank developed in partnership with leading industry players including Amazon Cloud, Pulsar AI, Mambu, SalesForce and Corezoid.
The application has very modern and intuitive design and performs all banking transactions in real time More information can be found on page 44.
We also started an innovative online platform www.
ge which aims to help businesses to increase their efficiency by automatising their processes with software solutions created by Georgian IT companies.
The platform is an online marketplace connecting businesses with IT service providers - it assists the former in finding the right digital solution on the local market and it helps the latter to introduce their products to the business community, ultimately increasing their sales.
In addition, we ran a software competition, in partnership with EFSE DF to encourage the creation of IT solutions, which would bring maximum value for businesses.
The top three winners were awarded with monetary prizes from EFSE DF to support them in the development of their products.
We also attracted several special purpose facilities from different international financial institutions to support young entrepreneurs, women-led MSMEs, businesses operating in rural areas, innovative projects, energy efficient and renewable energy products, foreign trade support, as well as mortgage loans for first-time home buyers.
The total amount disbursed under these projects amounted to GEL 128 million in 2018.
More information about each facility can be found on our website under the press release section at www.
70 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 DIGITAL ENGAGEMENT AND CUSTOMER PRIVACY AND DATA SECURITY FINANCIAL INCLUSION Safeguarding customers personal information is one of our top priorities and we continuously work on upgrading Our goal is to allow our customers to interact with us in our control systems in order to ensure high-level customer the most convenient way.
For this purpose, we operate an privacy and data security.
We use advanced information omni-channel distribution platform with a strong focus on security technologies to identify and prevent any fraudulent digital channels, which enables our customers to conduct activities.
In order to minimise cyber security risks and most of their daily transactions easily and remotely.
Our detect cyber threats more effectively we constantly award-winning mobile and Internet banking applications enhance our defense system with artificial intelligence remain the most popular communication channels measures and techniques.
accounting for 37.2% of all transactions.
The other widely used channel is self-service terminals as Georgia is still In 2018, the National Bank of Georgia conducted a a largely cash-based society.
At the end of 2018, 19.3% of thorough audit of our data security systems and no all transactions were conducted through these terminals.
Periodically, we also hire external audit companies to examine our data security In order to increase young peoples engagement in and verify its compliance with existing local regulation and banking, we offer special cards to school and university international best practices.
The last audit, conducted in students with distinctive benefits tailored to their needs 2017 by a Ukrainian leading information systems securities and interests.
The cards are free of any banking charges, company, confirmed that our systems ensure reliable including annual service fee and ATM withdrawal fee protection against cyber threats.
The cards feature unique designs which can be customised based on owners wishes and In order to increase awareness and help our clients to interests.
For card owners, we organise various campaigns protect their data security, we send periodic warnings to which include special promotions and discounts at them through Internet and mobile banking applications popular retailers.
Furthermore, we regularly organise regarding widespread cyber frauds and tips on how they masterclasses for students, which are delivered by leading should act in such cases.
We also conduct regular mandatory trainings on cyber security and data privacy for all our employees to ensure that CUSTOMER SATISFACTION they are well aware of potential threats and remain alert.
Our customer satisfaction is of utmost importance to us.
In 2018, we have enhanced our Privacy Policy in line with We regularly request feedback from our clients and use this the requirements of the new EU General Data Protection information to analyse their needs and fine-tune our value Regulation GDPR.
The full policy can be found on our IR proposition accordingly.
We also pay special attention to website at www.
our customers concerns and have a dedicated department dealing with clients complains.
We react promptly to each case and work closely with a customer to understand his her problem.
We regularly measure customer satisfaction levels based on various surveys conducted by independent third party companies and maintain the highest scores in the Georgian banking sector.
We also hold the leading position among the whole retail industry in the country.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 71 DOING BUSINESS RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED Annual Business Award ceremony has become the major SUPPORTING BUSINESSES DEVELOPMENT business event of the year in the country and it counts We are committed to supporting Georgias business and more than 1,500 community members in total.
Traditional entrepreneurs by providing access to finance as well media as well as social network channels widely covered as extensive non-financial services under our business the event which attracted 16 million reach in PR and Social support programme.
Media and top-of-mind awareness of this project reached 76% according to the survey conducted by the independent As of 31 December 2018, our MSME portfolio stood at GEL research agency, ACT in the end of 2018.
Out of this amount, GEL 859 million has been used to finance rural areas and thus helped in creating new job opportunities in different sectors, including hospitality PRIORITIES FOR 2019 and leisure, agriculture, food industry and construction.
Since March 2017, we run Startuperi, a start-up oriented We will continue to roll out innovative products project offering full-scale support to companies in their and services to customers based on their evolving early stage of development.
The programme aims to foster preferences, as well as maintain our focus on entrepreneurship by providing easily accessible funding, superior customer experience.
We will also media & PR support, free educational programmes and conferences, as well as partnerships with large companies continue supporting businesses by expanding in Georgia.
Startuperi proved to be very successful and our business support programme with new since its launch we have attracted 24,000 participants and digital tools and solutions.
Furthermore, we have funded 490 startups totaling GEL102.5 million.
The are committed to increase our presence in media reach of this programme was more than 36 million underpenetrated regions and sub-segments to views at the end of 2018. contribute to further financial inclusion.
Within our business support programme, launched in 2013 in partnership with the Asian Development Bank ADB, we continue to hold various educational events for our customers, including training courses, individual consultations, regional agro forums, networking events and masterclasses.
All events are offered free of charge.
During 2018, up to 7,500 MSMEs participated in this programme.
Since 2016 we also hold the annual Business Award ceremony which has become one of the most prominent business event in Georgia.
The initiative aims at supporting the development of both new and established businesses and promote entrepreneurship in the country.
The slogan is #sharesuccess as participants have an opportunity to share their success stories among the whole business community.
Two new categories were added in the 2018 edition: the Woman Entrepreneur of the Year and the Social Impact Award.
In addition, we have added special prizes for the winners who can choose one award from three categories: digital strategy and new web page development: brand strategy and image campaign: business soft Tool or SAAS.
72 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 THE ANNUAL LITERARY AWARD SABA TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 73 DOING BUSINESS RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED OUR COLLEAGUES Our colleagues are integral part our success and our most valuable asset.
We are committed to creating a collaborative and diverse working environment where people feel valued and are motivated to realise their full potential and deliver high performance.
2018 HIGHLIGHTS TBC Bank is one of Georgias top employers and we work closely with the worlds leading HR consulting companies in order to fine-tune our human resources system in line with the markets best practice.
In this regard, in 2018 we successfully delivered on a number of initiatives: we launched a job classification system which classifies head office staff positions according to the responsibilities and duties associated with the job.
This scheme creates parity and consistency in job titles, sets defined salary ranges and promotes a fair and transparent working environment: we also implemented a self-service platform, embedded in our internal network, which allows employees to access information and perform routine tasks independently, without help from the HR team.
In its first implementation stage, the platform allows employees to perform simple operations online, such as filling applications for annual leave or registering for insurance.
Over time, more complex transactions will be added.
The main benefits of such self-service tools include increased efficiency, simplified processes, time saving and low costs: in May 2018, we introduced the Human Resource Management System HRMS, a new software which was developed in partnership with a leading software company in Central and Eastern Europe.
Our new HRMS is the most up-to-date platform: it is fully automated and it features advanced reporting and data analysis capabilities.
74 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY We believe that workforce diversity and inclusion is key to Middle management creating a sustainable and successful business.
Our work environment is free from any kind of discrimination and 2018 2017 2016 each and every employee is valued, respected and treated Male 200 200 222 equally regardless of gender, age, marital status, race, Female 120 105 119 ethnicity, religious and political beliefs or disability.
We recognize the benefits of gender diversity and actively support women in the workforce.
Over 65% of All employees our employees are women whereas, the share of women holding senior roles is 36%.
We remain committed to 2018 2017 2016 improve the gender balance across managerial positions, Male 2,425 2,339 2,195 We also appointed two new female non-executive board Female 4,827 4,745 4,097 directors detailed information is given in directors governance statement on page 112.
We support colleague with disabilities and ensure that they are treated fairly and have the same access to We have a good mix of people with extensive working learning, development and job opportunities.
We give fair experience, as well as young and bright individuals who consideration to disabled candidates and are unbiased have just graduated from top universities in Georgia and when selecting and appointing people.
Since 2012, we run an internship programme discriminated because of his her disability.
We also strive for the best students from Georgias leading universities, to improve our workplace to make it more flexible for at the end of which we offer permanent jobs to the best disabled people.
This programme has proven to be very successful and helped us identify the brightest and most talented students who are part of our team today.
We believe that GENDER DIVERSITY STATISTICS age diversity creates a more dynamic and high-performing team that leads to better results.
Board of directors 2018 2017 2016 AGE DIVERSITY STATISTICS Male 7 9 9 Female 2 0 0 2018 20 0.3% 20-29 56% Top management 30-39 32% 2018 2017 2016 40-49 9% Male 7 7 7 50 3% Female 1 1 1 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 75 DOING BUSINESS RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED GENDER PAY GAP We regularly review our pay levels and make sure that men Table 3 and women are paid equally for doing the same type of job.
In 2018, for the first time, we have published details of the Front Office Employees % average pay gap between male and female colleagues in mean gender pay gap in hourly pay 50.8% the bank.
median gender pay gap in hourly pay 54.4% mean bonus gender pay gap 64.5% As shown in the 1st table below, the average gender pay and bonus gaps are in favour of men.
This is mainly due to median bonus gender pay gap 65.5% higher number of women being employed in junior roles, including the customer service positions as shown in table 3, which is related to our business model.
However, the Table 4 gap is positive for middle management positions, whereas we employ relatively lower proportion of women at higher Back Office Employees % pay quartiles based on their roles please refer to table 2. mean gender pay gap in hourly pay 29.6% We remain committed to achieving a better gender median gender pay gap in hourly pay -7.7% balance and increasing the proportion of women working mean bonus gender pay gap 20.2% in senior roles.
median bonus gender pay gap -11.3% 1 Gender pay and bonus gap statistics Gender pay gap is based on the data from April 1, 2018 to April 30, 2018.
Gender bonus gap is based on the data from April 6, 2017. to April 5, 2018 Table 1 Bank Full % mean gender pay gap in hourly pay 48.9% median gender pay gap in hourly pay 43.0% mean bonus gender pay gap 53.7% median bonus gender pay gap 52.4% Table 2 Middle Management % mean gender pay gap in hourly pay -21.4% median gender pay gap in hourly pay -13.4% mean bonus gender pay gap -33.9% median bonus gender pay gap -104.2% 1 The data on gender pay gap is presented only for the bank, which accounts for the 89% of the total Groups employees.
Negative gap indicates a percentage pay gap in favor of women, while positive gap indicates a percentage pay gap in favor of men 76 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 We recognise the benefits of a regular communication with EMPLOYEE MOTIVATION AND ENGAGEMENT our colleagues and use different online channels to keep High levels of employee motivation and engagement is one our employees up-to-date with the Groups progress and of our core priorities and we are constantly seeking new recent developments.
Employees are also encouraged to ways to create the best working environment.
share their views and concerns through internal forums.
We support various social activities, including internal In order to accurately measure our employee satisfaction clubs, championships and retreats.
TBC clubs unite and engagement levels, we annually run a feedback survey employees based on their interests and hobbies and bring in partnership with leading international universities and together photographers, sport and art lovers, employees research firms.
The results of the survey are analysed with three or more children and many other.
We also carefully and taken on board for the managements regularly organise different internal championships and future actions.
Based on the latest survey, conducted in employee gatherings, including board game competitions, December 2018, the engagement index and net promotor intellectual game What?
and various score stood at 87%and 66% respectively compared to 91% sports events such as football, basketball, bowling and and 55% in 2017.
The consistently high scores confirms others.
Furthermore, we frequently take part in different that our colleagues believe that the Group is moving into external sport activities.
For five years our employees have the right direction and feel part of this success.
been taking part to the Wings for Life World Run, a running competition which raises funds for the research to cure spinal cord injuries.
LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT We strive to attract and retain top talent and therefore For our middle managers, we organize annual overseas we continuously invest in our colleagues learning and retreats to boost their team spirit and improve their job professional development.
In 2016, the group supported Georgias national rugby team in Scotland, 2017 it traveled to Wales and in In 2011 we established TBC Academy, an in-house November 2018, the middle managers were in Florence to educational platform which provides training and support the national rugby team in a test match against workshops in different fields and allows our employees Italy.
Such initiatives support our employees involvement to learn from TBC Banks top and middle management.
in sport events and is in line with our strategy of becoming Classes comprise technical subjects such as financial the rugby ambassadors in Georgia.
institutions, capital markets, ethics and financial fraud management, as well as soft skill including leadership, We care about health and wellbeing of our colleagues and change management and others.
Due to the increasing offer free medical check-ups and consultations.
In 2009, demand, in 2018 the number of courses conducted per we established the TBC Fund, a charity fund which covers year increased from four to seven.
In 2018 more than 150 the medical expenses of our employees and their close employees attended the training offered.
relatives in case of severe diseases.
Most of our employees regularly donate up to 2% of their salaries and the fund has We also provide specialised training on a regular basis for already helped more than 1,170 people.
front office staff to ensure that they are constantly up-todate with new procedures and regulations.
In order to allow In addition, we offer a wide range of non-monetary awards more flexibility to our employees, since 2013 we operate including free tickets for exhibitions, cinema, opera, ballet a distance learning system, which give our colleagues an and rugby games, as well as special discounts in various opportunity to study at a suitable time for them.
hotels, restaurants, gyms, book fairs and popular cultural events.
For the employees young children we provide backIn addition to the in-house training opportunities, we provide to-school gift packages which comprise branded bags and our employees with financial support to attend various stationary from our brand shop.
The online brand shop in external courses and gain international certifications, subsidised by TBC Bank and includes various accessories, such as CFA, FRM, ACCA and others.
To further encourage clothes and gifts.
We collaborate with Georgian designers them, in 2012 we established TBC Scholarship Fund, which and regularly add new collections that are designed provides co-financing to our top employees to study at the exclusively for TBC Bank.
In 2018, 10 managers received this scholarship.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 77 DOING BUSINESS RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED Another initiative in this regard is organising masterclasses mobile numbers, paid annual and sick leaves as well as for our employees all over the country where leading fully-paid six months of maternity and paternity leave.
Georgian professionals are invited to share their experience Other benefits include monetary gifts in case of marriage and knowledge.
These masterclasses have proved to be and childbirth and compensation in case of serious illness very successful and have recorded high attendance rate, or death.
Furthermore, since 2013 we run a special club for for a total of c. 3,500 people since its launch in 2017. large families.
This social programme provides a special one-time gift of GEL 10,000 to all TBC Bank employees upon the birth of their fourth and fifth child and GEL PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT AND REWARD 50,000 upon the birth of their sixth child or more.
At the end of 2018, the club counts up to 500 employees and have Our performance appraisal system is closely linked with granted around GEL 780,000 since its establishment.
overall objectives of the Group and is based on three core principles: clarity, fairness and integrity.
We make We operate a deferred share bonus scheme for our middle sure that our colleagues have a clear understanding of managers whereby 15%-20% of the total annual bonus their contribution to the companys strategic priorities, is paid in the form TBC PLC shares which are subject to are actively engaged in setting their goals and are given three year continued employment condition and holding appropriate coaching by their supervisors to help them period: 10% and 10% are awarded on the first and second achieve these goals.
Regular employee feedbacks and anniversaries respectively and the remaining 80% on the a constructive dialogue are an important part of our third anniversary.
This scheme encourages a long-term performance appraisal system.
commitment to the company and helps to align the middle managers interest with those of the shareholders.
In 2019, We use different assessment systems for front and back 167,361 shares were awarded as bonus shares to middle office staff and it varies depending on the positions held.
Detailed information regarding to directors We assess our back office staff with the  system can be found in the remuneration by-objectives MBO system, a personnel management report on pages 136 to 155. technique where managers and employees work together to set, record and monitor goals for the financial year.
Goals are written down annually and are continually monitored ETHICAL STANDARDS AND by managers to check progress, including semi-annual RESPONSIBLE CONDUCT direct feedback from supervisors.
Rewards are based on the goal achievement.
We have a uniform scoring system We aspire to run a business that promotes high ethical for all employees within the MBO, which ensures fairness standards, values and respects human rights, and throughout the organisation.
encourages our employees to act with integrity and responsibility towards each other as well as towards our For our middle managers, we also run a 360-degree customers, business partners, other stakeholders and the feedback that provides each employee with the opportunity community at large.
to receive performance feedback from his her supervisor, peers and subordinates.
The 360-degree feedback allows For this purpose, we have implemented a set of internal our employees to understand how their performance is policies and procedures and we closely monitor their viewed by others and it helps them to better identify their execution: strengths and weaknesses as well as to develop new skills.
Code of Ethics For front-office employees we use a target-based Code of Conduct performance assessment system, whereby his Anti-Bribery, Anti-Corruption and Prevention of the her performance is linked to specific KPIs, including Facilitation of Tax Evasion Policy quantitative and qualitative components.
Within the targetWhistleblowing Policy based system, employees are assessed monthly, quarterly or annually depending on their positions.
These policies apply to all employees of the Group and can be found on our IR website at www.
We offer a competitive remuneration package, which includes a monthly salary, a performance-driven bonus The Code of Ethics and Code of Conduct outline ethical and an attractive benefits package.
This is comprised principles and standards of professional conduct expected of pension contributions, medical insurance, corporate from all employees of the Group and set appropriate 78 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 relationship norms with colleagues, customers, partners but is uncomfortable using the normal reporting lines.
TBC Banks employees are guidelines seek to ensure that complaints are recorded expected to act with professionalism and integrity at and that employees are safeguarded from any potential all times and to comply with both spirit and intent of all retaliation.
The employees are The Compliance Department regularly conducts employee also required to treat all stakeholders with respect and training sessions in order to raise awareness and highlight act fairly and responsibly towards them.
In dealing with the importance of anti-corruption and anti-bribery issues.
customers, we ensure that our products and services are Periodic audits are also conducted by the Internal Audit tailored to their needs, that are straightforward and easy Department to identify any violations or inappropriate to understand.
We also make sure that clients do not behavior.
No such material instances were identified face unreasonable post-sale barriers to change product, during 2018. submit a claim or make a complaint.
With regards to suppliers and other business partners, the Group engages only in arms-length transactions.
In relation to our employees, we are committed to fostering a supportive, safe and respectful working environment, which is free of any form of harassment, discrimination including race, ancestry, color, religion, national origin, citizenship, marital status, veterans status, gender, gender identity, sexual PRIORITIES FOR 2019 orientation, age or disability or inappropriate behavior.
Environmental and social issues are also on top of our We will continue investing in our colleagues agenda in all our undertakings.
development in order to create the best talent within our company.
We are also committed to The compliance with the Groups Code of Ethics and Code of Conduct is closely monitored by the HR Department and creating the best working environment for our Compliance Department on regular basis.
The Internal employees to provide them with most rewarding Audit Department also conducts periodic audits in order to careers in all aspects including financial identify any breach or misconduct in relation to compliance benefits, learning and professional development with these policies.
No material breaches of the Groups opportunity, social interaction and safety.
Code of Ethics and Code of Conduct were identified during 2018.
Our Anti-Bribery, Anti-Corruption and Prevention of the Facilitation of Tax Evasion Policy complies with all relevant local and international laws and regulations, and applies to all employees of the Group.
The policy provides comprehensive guidance on the types of behaviour that may give rise to violations of anti-bribery and anticorruption laws and or Criminal Finance Bill requirements, and reinforces a culture of honesty and openness among employees.
To ensure employees protection and improve working conditions, we have a whistleblowing policy in place, available to all, which aims to identify and respond to potential violations that may jeopardise employees work effectiveness.
The policy encourages every staff member to report on any suspected violations in an open manner, without fear of retaliation.
In addition, TBC Bank provides channels for anonymous whistleblowing including hotline, email or letter for anyone who believes that a violation of internal standards or legal requirements has taken place TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 79 DOING BUSINESS RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED OUR COMMUNITY As the largest banking group in Georgia, we feel a responsibility towards our community and strive to give back by supporting those areas that are key for our country and its future: the young generation, art and culture.
2018 HIGHLIGHTS During 2018, we implemented a number of remarkable projects: TBC Bank supported Saba, Georgias main literary award, to celebrate its sixteenth award ceremony at 70th International Frankfurt Book Fair, which is the worlds largest book fair.
Georgia was the fairs guest of honour which provided the opportunity to introduce the Georgian literature to the prominent audience.
In addition, within the framework of the fair, the renowned Struwwelpeter-Museum hosted an exhibition dedicated to the Georgian folk tale Tsikara.
The display consists of three-dimensional objects and patterns decorated with Georgian traditional visual art ornaments.
It is open to the public from October 2018 through January 2019: To mark the 100th anniversary of Georgias independence, TBC Bank supported the publication of the first book about Georgian history and culture by Oxford University.
The book is based on the Wardrop collection which contains rare, ancient Georgian manuscripts, unique books and documents, including handwritten scripts of the famous Knight in Panthers Skin dating to the 17th century.
The collection, stored at Bodleian Library in Oxford, was created by former British diplomat Sir Oliver Wardrop and his sister, Marjory, during many years.
The book was presented at Sir Wardrops former house, in Seven Oaks, in Great Britain, and is now available on Amazon: In October 2018 TBC Bank supported the return of the archives of the Zubalashvili brothers to Georgia.
Petre, Jacob, and Stephan Zubalashvili were well-known industrialists, merchants and philanthropists in the 18th century.
Their unique archives, consisting of historical documents about history, civilization, and archeology as well as artifacts, were preserved for over 114 years by their descendents who gifted them to Georgia in 2018.
They were transferred to the National Museum of Georgia where an exhibition was held in November 2018.
80 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 books.
The website allows access up to 300 authors and YOUNG GENERATION publishers and it has attracted around 170,000 readers, We are committed to supporting talented young people in both in Georgia and abroad.
their professional development and continue to roll out new projects and initiatives in this regard.
Another remarkable project is Artarea, the countrys first online channel dedicated specifically to art and culture.
Since 2016 TBC Bank is the main partner of the Young Artarea offers its viewers various cultural programmes, Researchers and Innovators Competition Leonardo da online lectures, exhibitions, concerts and entertainment Vinci, an annual event which aims to popularise STEM activities.
Its popularity is steadily growing and it counts on acronym for science, technology, engineering and math over 30,000 daily viewers and over 110,000 daily users on subjects among young people.
The winning team of the social media.
2018 edition received a one-year scholarship from TBC Status.
Furthermore, in 2018 TBC became a partner of To popularise the Georgian language and to integrate the Millennium Innovations Award which is a nationwide the Georgian alphabet into the digital world, in 2016 challenge that aims to promote innovations in STEM fields we launched #WriteinGeorgian.
As part of this project among youth throughout Georgia.
TBC Bank will provide in 2017 we partnered with Microsoft and created www.
financial support to send the winning team at the Space kartulad.
ge, the first Georgian-language platform which Center University at the NASA Space Center in Houston, aims to integrate the Georgian language into Microsofts USA, in May 2019. programmes and software such as Skype, Office, and others.
The platform encourages the Georgian population In June 2018, TBC Bank and Tbilisi State University TSU to engage with the website and translate sentences taken signed a memorandum of cooperation which envisages out of Georgian literature.
This year, Tbilisi State University the development of joint educational projects and ad-hoc and its center of Lexicography translated around 50,000 training, employment programmes for students, as well as sentences.
Over 100,000 sentences have been translated creation of a special online brand shop for the university.
In thus far making it possible for Microsofts platform to addition, TBC Bank will share its know-how in marketing begin studying the Georgian language.
During the year, and branding with the university and will also develop several other remarkable initiatives were also completed banking products tailored specially for the students needs.
including: We are also actively supporting young talents through our the digitalisation of the largest Georgian-English first Georgian online charity platform www.
dictionary: ge which strives to promote success on behalf of TBC the organisation of the first fonts competition in Georgia Status clients and develop a culture of social responsibility in order to digitalize new Georgian fonts and promote in society.
Launched at the beginning of 2017 the platform fonts engineering in the country: has since financed 25 projects for a total of GEL 125,000 the transfer of a database with over three million and it has improved the life of over 70 people.
sentences phrases to Microsoft from Sabas electronic books.
CULTURE We also continue to actively host various exhibitions and cultural events at our art galleries in Georgias TBC Bank has been a fervent supporter of Georgian culture three main cities.
During 2018, we hosted around 140 since its establishment and it has implemented various events.
Among them, the most remarkable was Battle projects to promote Georgian heritage.
or Habituation?, an exhibit dedicated to Georgias 100th anniversary of independence which was held with the In 2003 TBC Bank established Saba, the leading literary support of the Korneli Kekelidze Georgian National Center award in Georgia.
To date, Saba has awarded over 150 of Manuscripts.
prizes in different categories for a total amount of over GEL 700,000.
This year, the Saba award ceremony was a particularly distinguished event as it was held in Germany within the framework of the Frankfurt International Book Fair.
ge, the largest online platform for Georgian electronic and audio TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 81 DOING BUSINESS RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED RUGBY TBC Bank is general sponsor of the Georgian Rugby Union since 2015.
Rugby is a sport close to the heart of Georgians, it is the countrys national game and it promotes the countrys image on the international stage.
We are proud to contribute to the development of rugby in Georgia and are committed to supporting our national rugby team in their quest to be included in the Six Nations club.
PRIORITIES FOR 2019 Going forward, we will continue setting leading example for other business to give back to community by our active involvement in CSR activities.
Our priorities remain providing new opportunities of education and development to talented young people, supporting art and taking care of Georgias cultural heritage.
We firmly believe that these are key areas where we can have a positive impact and we can focus our efforts to build a prosperous country.
82 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 83 DOING BUSINESS RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED ENVIRONMENT We are strongly committed to preserve the environment by conducting our business in a responsible and sustainable way and we take active measures to reduce our environmental footprint from our direct and indirect activities.
per employee by 19% in 2019 from the current level of LENDING RESPONSIBLY 13.49 m3 pp : As the largest banking group in Georgia, our major We renewed 73% of our auto park at the bank with hybrid environmental impact stems from the projects we choose 59% and electric 14% cars: to finance.
Therefore, we have adopted the Environmental we prioritise the use of green and energy-efficient and Social Risk Management Policy which is compliant products in our everyday activities by incorporating with the Georgian environmental legislation and follows environmental assessment into procurement process: international best practice guidelines.
The policy also we use green construction standards within the bank.
ensures that we lend responsibly and do not finance projects that have an adverse environmental or social In terms of waste management, TBC Bank operates a waste impact.
The sector-specific environmental and social risk management programme since 2016, which ensures that we assessment is integrated into the credit risk management closely monitor and effectively manage our non-hazardous processes and is applied to all commercial lending and hazardous waste.
Non-hazards waste mainly arise from activities.
The full policy can be viewed at www.
ge printing paper, which we shred and exchange with a recycling web en web guest esms.
The compliance with procedures company in return for books that we donate to orphanages, is closely monitored by the Environmental and Social Risk vulnerable families and libraries in remote villages in Management Team and the Internal Audit Department Georgian rural and mountain regions.
For hazardous office conducts periodic audits in order to identify any breaches.
waste, such as printer cartridges, we collaborate with a No such material breaches were identified during 2018. company specialised in supplying new cartridges and refilling the used ones.
Starting from 2019, we plan to implement We also operate a dedicated channel where employees, waste separation system that will enable us to reduce the partners, customers or any other interested person can amount of waste we send to the landfills.
raise environmental and social concerns in relation to our activities.
More information can be found on the following link: www.
EFFICIENT CONSUMPTION OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND RESPONSIBLE WASTE PRIORITIES FOR 2019 MANAGEMENT We plan to enhance our policies and procedures in We strive to use natural resources efficiently by reducing order to further reduce our environmental impact and the consumption of fuel, gas, electricity, water and printing to implement various initiatives to raise our colleagues papers.
To achieve this we take the following measures: awareness to environmental issue and increase their we use energy-efficient LED lightings in our premises: engagement.
we operate an energy-efficient heating and cooling systems in our offices: we reduce consumption of paper through high level of digitalisation of processes, both in our back and front office.
In 2018, we set the target to futher reduce the consumption of printing paper by 36% in 2019 compared to the current level of 11.2 printing paper per person in reams: we also set the target for reducing consumption of water 84 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS As a premium-listed company trading on the LSE, TBC Bank is required to calculate and report upon the greenhouse gas GHG emissions stemming from its direct operations.
For this purpose, TBC Bank has established a comprehensive internal environmental system to manage its GHG emissions within the Group and is committed to reducing its GHG emissions by closely monitoring consumption of fuel, gas and electricity.
TBC Bank also commissioned an independent Health, Safety, Environment HSE consulting company, Gergili LLC to verify the measurements of its GHG emissions.
Total CO2 Emissions tonnes KPIs Data for the FY 2018 2017 2016 2019 Scope 1 Fuel Combustion 2,584 2,409 1,805 -8% heating, vehicles, generators Scope 2 1,391 1,375 1,147 -5% Electricity consumption Scope 3 644 366 268 - International flights Total emissions tCO 4,619 4,150 3,219 -6% 2 Total emission per full time employee CO t pp 0.65 0.60 0.52 -6% 2 Scope 1: a 1,483 CO2e emissions in tonnes from combustion of fuel NG from owned operation and facilities of TBC Bank in 2018 compared to 1,538 CO2e in 2017 and 1,209 CO2e in 2016 b 1,013 CO2e emissions in tonnes from owned vehicles of TBC Bank in 2018 compared to 763 CO2e in 2017 and 533 CO2e in 2016 c 88 CO2e emissions in tonnes from owned generators of TBC Bank in 2018 compared to 108 CO2e in 2017 and 63 CO2e in 2016 In 2018, total GHG emissions increased by 11% YoY mainly due to increased number of international flights related to our international expansion strategy, as well as rise in emissions from vehicles as a result of increase in total number of cars related to the overall growth of business.
CALCULATION METHODOLOGY For GHG inventory following step has been set: organization boundaries, operational boundaries, gathering data and calculation of carbon dioxide CO2 equivalent.
This report describes all emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013 Scope 1 and 2 and additionally the emissions under Scope 3 that are applicable to the business.
In preparing the emissions data, the emissions factors from the UK Governments Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2017 and National IPCC emission factors for electricity tCO2 MWhe was used.
The required data was collected and report developed for the boundaries of TBC PLCs main activities as follows: Scope 1 combustion of fuel and operation of facilities includes emissions from combustion of natural gas, diesel and or petrol in equipments at owned and controlled sites.
Combustion of petrol, diesel fuel, natural gas and etc in owned transportation devices: TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 85 DOING BUSINESS RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED Scope 2 purchased electricity for own use lighting, office appliances, cooling & etc.
includes emissions from: Used electricity at owned and controlled sites: to calculate the emissions, it has been used the conversion factor for National IPCC emission factors for electricity tCO2 MWhe : Scope 3 includes emissions from air business travels a short haul, a medium haul, a long haul and an international haul : it should be noted that information on the travel class was considered and an economy class conversion factor has been used for the emissions calculation from the following link: www.
fide en offset flight NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT TBC Bank complies with non-financial reporting requirements contained in sections 414 CA and 414 CB of Companies Act 2006.
The following table summarises the reference to the non-financial matters described in the Strategic Report.
NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION PAGES The entitys business model Business model, pages 14 to 25 Environmental matters Environment, pages 84 to 86 Employees Our colleagues, pages 74 to 79 Social matters Our community, pages 80 to 83 Ethical standards and responsible conduct, Human rights pages 78 to 79 Ethical standards and responsible conduct, Anti-corruption and anti-bribery pages 78 to 79 Non-financial key performance indicators Key performance indicators, page 16 relevant to the entity's business Description of principal risks and mitigations Principal risks and uncertainties, pages 50 to 56 86 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 87 BORJOMI GORGE FORESTS TBC Bank was the first Georgian private company to announce the decision to restore and reforest the Borjomi Gorge where 752 hectares of woods were destroyed during violent wildfires in 2017 and the Russian-Georgian armed conflict in 2008.
In 2018, TBC Bank partnered with the Forestry Agency and fully restored 10 hectares of damaged land by planting 17,500 Caucasian pine trees.
Employees were actively involved in this initiative and TBC Bank organized weekend field trips to Borjomi to help out the Forestry Agency staff with the tree planting process.
