2 Chairs statement Werecognise that each of the decisions our A step change in strategy Taylor Wimpey 2018 financial teams take, from the land we buy to the house performance 2018 has been an exciting year for Taylor Wimpey.
types and community facilities we build, has a Im delighted that during 2018 we have I will touch on some of the years operating significant impact on our customers lives.
Our highlights and our record financial performance delivered 14,933 home completions across the homes are where important memories are UK 2017: 14,541.
During the year operating later in my statement, but will first begin with our made, where birthday parties are hosted, where new strategy which we introduced to shareholders profit has grown to 880.2 million, a new record the first photos in school uniform are taken, and for the Group.
Profit before tax was 810.7 million, at our Capital Markets Day in May 2018.
This is where we live, work and play.
We therefore have something we are all very passionate about and up 19% in 2018 2017: 682.0 million and an important role to play in our customers lives profit for the year increased to 656.6 million represents a shift for Taylor Wimpey, following and are aware of the huge responsibility this brings.
the natural conclusion of a very successful 2017: 555.3 million.
Iam particularly pleased to report that in 2018, we have also returned a strategic plan which took us from 2011, through Your Board also believes that there will be a the early stages of the housing market recovery, record amount to shareholders through real benefit not only to our customers, but to dividends and, alongside our strategy update in up to early 2018.
Our new strategy reflects a our employees, shareholders and other deep desire to do more for our customers and May 2018, we announced an enhanced ordinary stakeholders from delivering on our new strategy.
During 2018 a recognition that, in an ever-changing world, As shareholders, you own a business that believes our customers expectations have moved on shareholders continued to benefit from our in its customers and, through identifying and success, receiving c. 500 million in dividends, significantly and that our products and services serving customers needs better than anyone must too.
Our strategy ultimately aims to position and we have committed to returning 20% more else in the industry, this will make us a bigger, dividends in 2019 which underlines our confidence Taylor Wimpey as a genuinely customer-centric better and stronger business.
This evolution takes place in a in the business.
More information about our this 2018 Annual Report to clearly show how we financial performance can be found in the At a much-improved planning and land environment, plan to achieve our objectives.
More information which we are confident will persist for the glance section and within Chris Carneys financial about our strategy, and our investment proposition review on pages 52 to 56.
It is worth taking foreseeable future.
More information on this can to you, can be found within Pete Redferns letter be found on pages 10 and 11. the time to recognise that whilst financial on page 5 and on page 27. performance is obviously very important to us As Chair, I am proud of the investment and the and our shareholders, we want to ensure that The UK housing market in 2018 progress we have already made in improving our we deliver this in the right way.
Accordingly, and The housing market has been stable throughout customer service to date, and we are very as I have said in prior years, a key function of the 2018, despite the wider macro-economic and pleased to have scored over 90% on the Home Board is to ensure good corporate governance significant political uncertainty that has Builders Federation HBF 2017 18 survey, at all times, and this is something we take very characterised the year.
Whilst our share price however there is still some way to go before we seriously at Taylor Wimpey and has been and that of our peers has been volatile through can be really described as customer-centric.
recognised by the level of shareholder support the year, reacting to this uncertainty, we have For this to happen we need to commit to at successive Annual General Meetings.
More seen the underlying business and our future putting customers and communities at the heart information can be found within my introduction potential remain strong.
Customer confidence of each and every decision we make throughout to the Corporate Governance section on page 60: has continued to be resilient with strong levels the business and deliver on this time and again, in the Board activities section on page 68: and of interest in our developments converting to aspiring to get it right first time, every time.
We in stakeholder engagement on pages 76-79. high sales rates.
You can find more information are privileged to work in a company and an Webelieve in ambition and accountability and on the market on pages 10 and 11 including the industry which has a deep connection to its have set out five-year goals which you can find main drivers for future performance, and how customers and their lives and lifestyles.
on page 26 which are stretching and target the business is set up to manage the cycle, further improvement in a number of areas.
which we believe to be an important differentiator for Taylor Wimpey.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 3 Male We are privileged to play an important role Female in our customers lives and are aware of the Board 4 huge responsibility this brings.
diversity 5 Wehave accordingly updated our senior success.
Over half of our employees either management bonus targets to reflect this and participate in one or both of the All Employee more information on remuneration can be found Share Plans or are already shareholders in the on page 96.
In 2018, 34.2% of all eligible employees participated in the 2018 Sharesave Health and safety and environment scheme upfrom 33.3% in 2017.
The health and safety of everyone on and 1,730 This year, a particular highlight for me personally around our sites has always been, and will Employee was the Boards visit to our South Thames always be, our number one priority.
We are business where I and the rest of the Board diversity committed to this non-negotiable objective had the opportunity to meet some of our each and every day.
We were therefore deeply 3,835 apprentices and hear first hand about their saddened by the tragic death of a training and their aspirations for the future.
subcontractor on one of our sites in 2018 Weare delighted to have taken on over 400 following a serious accident.
We are assisting apprentices over the past three years and the Health and Safety Executive with the delight in seeing their fantastic progress.
accident investigation and await their findings.
Ourapprentice programme builds on extremely This is the first fatality on a Taylor Wimpey site successful graduate intakes over many years since 2004 but that makes it no less of a tragedy.
Our 3 Group commitment to training continues throughout Building sites are, by their very nature, Management their careers and many who have joined us as dangerous and so we do everything we can Team trainees over the years have gone on to possibly do to minimise those risks.
We embed diversity become key members of our management a safety culture through training, awareness and 6 teams including Ingrid Osborne, one of our visible health and safety leadership.
Annual Injury Incidence Rate AIIR remains well below both the HBF Home Builder Average Kate Barker DBE, our Senior Independent and Health and Safety Executive Construction Director and Chair of the Remuneration Industry Average, we are not complacent Committee, and I also had the pleasure of and we will continue to seek to improve this.
as Group Finance Director in April 2018 after attending one of our National Employee Our AIIR for reportable injuries per 100,000 eight highly successful years in the role: Forummeetings during the year, which is the employees and contractors was 228 in 2018 to Mike Hussey who stood down as an Companys elected workforce representative 2017: 152.
Our AIIR for major injuries per Independent NonExecutive Director in July 2018 body.
We enjoyed a good discussion on Taylor 100,000 employees and contractors was 64 in after almost seven years in the role and as a Wimpeys governance and remuneration 2018 2017: 54. member of the Audit and Nomination Committees: approach.
More details of the Forum appear and to Rob Rowley who stood down as an onpage 79.
We aim to integrate sustainability into the way Independent Non Executive Director and the we work for the benefit of our business, our Senior Independent Director in April 2018 after During 2018 we were particularly delighted customers, our people and all our stakeholders.
over eight years service on the Board and to be recognised as one of the UKs top 10 Our sustainability framework sets out our priority its Committees, particularly as Chair of the employers by Glassdoor as rated by our sustainability issues and shows how we will Audit Committee.
We wish Ryan, Mike and Rob employees.
Once again, we were the only deliver on our values to build a proud and all the very best for the future.
commercial housebuilder to make the list, and it sustainable legacy.
More information can be further demonstrates that we are well on our found in our 2018 Sustainability Report.
I joined the Board of Taylor Wimpey in July 2010 way to becoming an employer of choice in the and I have enjoyed my time immensely.
As part industry, as we strive to deliver a unique and Taylor Wimpey culture and our employees of our ongoing Board succession planning valued employee experience.
reviews, the Nomination Committee will be The culture of Taylor Wimpey and our people is putting the wheels in motion to recruit my what makes our company special.
I talked about We have promoted Chris Carney and Jennie successor during the course of this year.
our ultimate goal of becoming a genuinely Daly to the Board in 2018 as Group Finance customer-centric homebuilder but we can Director and Group Operations Director In drawing this Chairs statement to a conclusion only do that with and because of our people.
Both Chris and Jennie bring Id like to thank our shareholders for their During the year we have engaged extensively great operational depth and experience from continued support and look forward to updating with teams across the business about our new other roles, and present a different perspective you further throughout the year.
Their input has been invaluable in how to Board discussions.
I am delighted to we have shaped and will implement it.
Therefore, welcome them on your behalf and thrilled that it is here that I want to say thank you to all our we have been able to develop such strong employees across the business.
We have seen leadership succession both for the Board record employee engagement this year and this and throughout the business.
I would also, just underlines the commitment and energy from on behalf of the Board, like to express our the whole business to our company and its thanks to Ryan Mangold who stood down Kevin Beeston Chair
