6 Group Management Team Q&A Well positioned for the year ahead Pete Redfern PR Chris Carney CC Jennie Daly JD James Jordan JJ Chief Executive Group Finance Director Group Operations Director Group Legal Director andCompany Secretary Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities As head of the Group Chriss role covers all areas Jennie oversees our land, Management Team GMT, of finance, including tax, planning, design and James is responsible for our responsibilities include key treasury and managing the technical, production and Company Secretariat strategic and operational Groups defined benefit supply chain functions, in department, as well as decisions, sustainability, pension scheme, as well as addition to managing the overseeing all legal matters customer service and overall responsibility for our Taylor Wimpey Logistics from plot conveyancing health and safety.
As part of her to landbuying.
land and planning role, Jennie also leads our response to the evolving UK planning system.
Taylor Wimpey launched a In what ways does this approach It has been a great year customer-centric strategy in 2018 impact operations?
for Taylor Wimpey but what is new in this approach JD A great deal of thought and detail has gone there are always forcustomers?
into how we will embed our customer-centric approach throughout the business.
Our strategy DM We always strive to work in the best challenges and 2019 will focuses on the five key pillars we have outlined in interests of the customer and, in a sense, be no exception.
How is this report: placing customers and communities this approach formalises that commitment.
at the heart of our strategy: right first time build But it is more than that.
Where it goes further the GMT preparing for the quality: optimising our strong landbank: is in outlining, in some detail, the changes we year ahead?
becoming the employer of choice: and need to make to really put customers first.
developing a best in class efficient engine room.
During 2017 and 2018 we conducted a wide What are the key priorities for the To achieve each of these aims we have ranging customer research project to help set established a number of new principles and year ahead?
It has also helped us practices that have each been matched with assess each stage of the business model, PR Operationally, safety on site is always our relevant KPIs to help measure our progress.
through the customers eyes, from planning and non-negotiable number one priority and design to construction, sales and aftersales continues to be the first item discussed at every How will you drive improvements and, where necessary, make improvements.
We are continuing to embed atsite level?
our customer-centric strategy and our focus in Why the change in strategy?
2019 is on making good progress on the key IO We will do this by taking a more strategic priorities that underpin our customer-led approach to our build on site, adopting a factory JJ With a much improved land and planning strategy.
This includes ensuring our right first approach, scaling up build teams on large sites, backdrop environment aiding our forward time approach is adopted consistently through to align with the market demand, to deliver planning, there is an opportunity for us to all stages of build, supply chain improvements, more homes.
increasingly shape our business around the ongoing people development and resourcing of needs of our customers.
This of course involves future capacity, through apprentices and our NH For example, on large sites such as Great continuing to listen to what customers are telling direct labour programme.
We reset our KPIs in Western Park, Didcot, in my Division, we have us whilst employing technology that can bring 2018 to ensure we are targeting the right areas multiple factories operating independently.
Being able to focus on the and these will be measured and reported to approach enables us to provide more homes for areas that really matter to customers also GMT through the year.
our customers, utilise our skilled teams more simplifies the business, informing our priorities productively and is a more efficient use of our and guiding our decision making.
feedback plays an important role.
For example, this has helped us design a new standard house type range which we will launch in 2019.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 7 Our focus in 2019 is on making good progress on the key priorities that underpin our customer-led strategy.
Pete Redfern Chief Executive Anne Billson-Ross Nigel Holland NH Daniel McGowan DM Ingrid Osborne IO Lee Bishop LB ABR Divisional Chair, Central and Divisional Chair, North Divisional Chair, Major Developments South West London and South East Director Group Human Responsibilities ResourcesDirector Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Daniel oversees our Responsibilities Nigel oversees our North Division which Ingrid has responsibility for Lee manages our Central and South West covers our East and the integrated London Major Developments Anne has responsibility Division, covering our East West Scotland, North East, strategy and oversees our business which has for all areas of human Midlands, South Midlands, North Yorkshire, Yorkshire, London and South East been specifically created resources, including East Anglia, Oxfordshire, North West, Manchester, Division, which includes our to secure and project recruitment, benefits, South Wales, Bristol, North Midlands, Midlands East London, Central manage large scale talent and performance Southern Counties and and West Midlands regional London, North Thames, land opportunities.
South East, South Thames and our Spanish business.
and West London regional businesses.
This strategy also gives us the flexibility to How can you best protect Will the supply of building materials increase our pace of build and accelerate stakeholders in uncertain markets?
growth in 2020, depending on market CC Market conditions can change and it is JD Most of our building supplies are conditions, while maintaining focus on quality important that our strategy is dynamic enough manufactured in the UK.
For example, we order land investment in good locations.
The reality is that housebuilding around 120 million bricks annually, the vast is a cyclical industry that will undergo periods of majority of which are sourced in the UK.
What is the outlook for labour relative strength and weakness.
Whilst we can Wepurchase a significant proportion of our following Brexit?
do little to influence the wider economic products in bulk via national agreements and backdrop, we have taken steps to ensure we ABR Around 10% of people working in UK have preferential partnerships with many of our manage the business effectively through the construction are non-UK citizens 7%from EU suppliers.
The 15% of our products that have cycle for our stakeholders.
This means making countries so, depending on the outcome of Brexit, an element imported from the EU are mainly decisions in the long term interests of our a more restricted labour supply may be a concern sourced through a network of UK-based customers and stakeholders rather than adopting for the industry.
However, we feel we are in a suppliers.
There is a risk that, in a no deal Brexit a short term approach.
The key elements of strong position at Taylor Wimpey.
Irrespective of outcome, our supplier network may experience managing our business through the cycle are the Brexit outcome, we have been adapting our delays in their own supply chain and we are tied into our customer-centric approach.
labour strategy as part of our long term planning.
working closely with these distributors to Overrecent years skilled labour such as understand any issues they may face.
Unusually LB We believe that our customer-centric bricklayers, carpenters, supervisors and site for our sector, we also have our own internal strategy will offer further scope for differentiation managers have sometimes proved difficult to logistics arm, TW Logistics, which provides and enable us to become the customers first recruit and we have responded.
We successfully additional visibility, control and flexibility in choice of homebuilder in all market conditions, trialled direct labour schemes in six regions which managing our supply chain.
which will make us a more efficient and resilient are now being rolled out nationally and we are homebuilder throughout the cycle.
Are there any other concerns resulting from Brexit?
CC While we are conscious of the wider political and economic risks, particularly as the UK plans We are confident that our strong balance its exit from the EU, we are confident that our strong balance sheet, with our high-quality sheet, with our high-quality landbank, and a landbank, and a strategy focused on customers makes us a more resilient business.
strategy focused on customers makes us a more resilient business.
Chris Carney Group Finance Director
