STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY E-commerce enables us to offer our customers access is localised to each of Canada and the US, and a fast-growing STRATEGY to an extended product range and provides us with a means wholesale business.
Our strategy is to enhance our position as a leading global Ted Baker has grown steadily from its origins as a specialist to talk directly with our customers and engage them with the As part of our strategy to invest for the longer-term lifestyle brand by the continuous development of three main shirt store in Glasgow to the global lifestyle brand it is today.
We focus on ensuring that we development of the brand, we have launched the brand in Asia elements of our business model: In order to protect the ethos and persona for which we have provide a user-friendly online brand and shopping experience with stores and concessions in China, Hong Kong and Japan.
gained an enviable reputation, we always ask ourselves the across multiple devices.
We also understand the growing desire of our customers to considered extension of the Ted Baker collections to question: Would Ted do it that way?
The wholesale business in the UK serves countries buy our products online and trade on renowned local websites achieve our brand growth potential.
We review our across the world, primarily in the UK and Europe, as well as in this region.
collections continually to ensure we anticipate and react PRODUCT supplying products to stores operated by our territorial licence Through our territorial licences we also trade in many other to trends and meet our customers expectations.
In Ted Baker is a quintessentially British brand with a quirky yet partners.
In addition, we operate a wholesale business in North countries across Africa, Asia, Australasia and the Middle East.
addition, we look for opportunities to extend the breadth commercial fashion offering that prides itself in always being America serving the US and Canada.
Our wholesale partners of collections and enhance our offer: able to satisfy the needs of our customer.
Our approach is Trustees are custodians of our collections and uphold controlled distribution through three main channels: retail focused on unwavering attention to detail and firm commitment our brand integrity by ensuring that their retail environment including e-commerce : wholesale: and licensing.
and brand adjacencies are in keeping with the profile and consider each new opportunity to ensure it is right for the We offer a wide range of collections including Menswear: positioning of the brand.
We have built up strong relationships brand and will deliver margin led growth: and Womenswear: Global: Phormal: Endurance: Accessories: with some of the best independent retailers and department further international growth through carefully managed Bedding: Childrenswear: Crockery: Eyewear: Footwear: stores around the world.
We continue to manage Fragrance and Skinwear: Gifting and Stationery: Jewellery: We operate both territorial and product licences.
Our growth in existing territories while considering new Lingerie and Sleepwear: Luggage: Neckwear: Rugs: Suiting: licence partners are all experts in their field and share territories for expansion.
Technical Accessories: Tiles: and Watches.
our passion for unwavering attention to detail and firm The menswear collection is a reflection of popular commitment to quality.
Underlying our strategy is an emphasis on design, product contemporary culture, with a sense of humour and style mixed Territorial licences cover specific countries or regions in quality and attention to detail, delivered by the passion, in.
It also includes our Phormalwear range, offering a number Asia, Australasia, Europe, the Middle East and North America, commitment and skill of our teams, licence partners and of distinctive suiting collections that combine heritage British where our partners operate licensed retail stores and, in some wholesale customers.
The womenswear collection territories, wholesale operations.
is a fresh and feminine mix of European elegance with London Product licences cover Bedding: Childrenswear: Crockery: flair, and is a celebration of beauty, individuality and exquisite Eyewear: Footwear: Fragrance and Skinwear: Gifting and attention to detail.
Stationery: Jewellery: Lingerie and Sleepwear: Luggage: Neckwear: Rugs: Suiting: Technical Accessories: Tiles: DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS and Watches.
The brand operates through three main distribution channels: retail, which includes e-commerce: wholesale: and licensing, GEOGRAPHIC REACH which includes territorial and product licences.
We want our Ted Baker is a truly global lifestyle brand with 532 stores and customers to enjoy a seamless experience regardless of how concessions worldwide, comprised of 195 in the UK, 113 in they choose to shop and interact with the brand.
Europe, 127 in North America, 88 in the Middle East, Africa and The retail channel comprises stores, concessions and Asia, and 9 in Australasia.
e-commerce, which is now an integral part of our retail The Group opened its first shop in the UK in Glasgow in experience.
We operate stores and concessions across 1988 and has since established itself in all the major fashion the UK, Europe, North America and Asia, and localised destinations in the UK.
We have also built a growing presence e-commerce sites for the UK, Europe, US, Canada and in Europe with stores and concessions in Belgium, France, Australia.
We also have e-commerce businesses with some of Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain.
e-commerce and wholesale businesses complement our Stores and concessions are designed to showcase locations in Europe.
the brands unique style of retail theatre and to ensure our In 1998, the Group opened its first store in North America customers enjoy a welcoming and pleasurable shopping in New York.
Since then, the Group has established a presence experience.
Each store boasts a fully bespoke design that is across the US from the East to West Coasts and into Canada full of innovative and distinctive touches.
through both own stores and concessions.
In addition, the Group has a standalone e-commerce site in North America that Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 8 9 STRATEGIC REPORT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS We review the ongoing performance of the business using key performance indicators.
The Key Performance Indicators KPIs that the Directors judge to be most effective in assessing progress against the Groups objectives and strategy have been detailed below and are considered throughout the Strategic Report.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR 52 WEEKS ENDED 52 WEEKS ENDED VARIANCE CONSTANT 27 JANUARY 28 JANUARY CURRENCY 1 2018 2017 VARIANCE Group Revenue 591.7m 531.0m 11.4% 9.6% Gross margin 61.0% 61.0% - 2 Operating contribution excluding exceptional items % 12.7% 12.6% 10 bps 2 Operating contribution including exceptional items % 12.0% 11.8% 20 bps Profit before tax excluding exceptional items 2 as a % of revenue 12.4% 12.4% - Profit before tax including exceptional items 2 as a % of revenue 11.6% 11.5% 10 bps Retail Total revenue 442.5m 400.7m 10.4% 8.5% Store revenue 341.4m 328.4m 4.0% 1.8% E-commerce revenue 101.1m 72.3m 39.8% 38.7% Gross margin 67.0% 66.1% 90 bps 3 Average square footage 410,190 387,373 5.9% 3 Closing square footage 420,158 395,088 6.3% Sales per square foot excluding e-commerce sales 832 848 1.9% 3.9% Wholesale Revenue 149.2m 130.3m 14.6% 13.3% Gross margin 43.3% 45.1% 180 bps Licence income Revenue 21.4m 18.2m 17.6% 4 Group Operating cashflow per share 98.4p 118.4p 16.9% 5 Working capital 168.6m 136.8m 23.3% 1 Constant currency comparatives are obtained by applying the exchange rates that were applicable for the 52 weeks ended 28 January 2017 to the financial results in overseas subsidiaries for the 52 weeks ended 27 January 2018 to remove the impact of exchange rate fluctuations.
2 Operating contribution is defined as operating profit as a percentage of revenue.
For information about exceptional items please refer to page 18 in the Financial Review and Note 1 x and Note 3 of the Financial Statements.
4 Operating cashflow per share is defined as net cash generated from operating activities divided by the weighted number of ordinary shares diluted.
5 Working capital comprises inventories, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables.
Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 11
