OUR VALUES AND SERVICES FIXED TELEPHONY BROADBAND Our fixed-line telephony service gives Members highly competitive pricing on the cost of their line A choice of high-quality broadband services rental and guaranteed savings on their call costs offering great value, fast speeds and outstanding compared with other major providers.
CASHBACK CARD INSURANCE An exclusive pre-paid Visa card providing between 3% and 7% CashBack at a wide We offer a branded home insurance service range of leading national retailers, plus featuring consistently low pricing, no upfront up to 1% CashBack on their other monthly payment, and monthly premiums at no extra household spend.
charge on their regular UW bill.
BILL ONE MONTHLY BILL ONLINE SHOPPING MOBILE We have over 3,000 online shopping partners With a wide choice of handsets and offering attractive extra savings of up to competitive price plans, our mobile service 20%.
Members choosing to take advantage provides outstanding value and great savings.
of these offers by purchasing through our We also offer a unique combination of online Clubhouse, receive the extra discount benefits including budget control, a loyalty as CashBack on their bill - irrespective of the discount, free handset protection against GAS AND ELECTRICITY means of payment they have chosen.
loss or damage, low out-of-bundle charges, and allowing Members to change their Price We provide consistently fair prices, with Plan at any time even within any applicable guaranteed savings for domestic users compared minimum contract term.
with the average of the cheapest standard variable tariffs charged by the Big 6.
2 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements OUR APPROACH Our lowest prices and most attractive benefits are reserved for Members who switch all their services to us Energy, Broadband and Mobile.
We strongly believe in treating our Members fairly, and that loyalty should not be penalised.
These values are reflected throughout our retail proposition, with everyday low pricing for both new and existing Members.
So for example and unlike most other suppliers, where we reduce the cost of a tariff due to falling wholesale prices or to attract new Members, then these lower prices and or improved benefits e. g. extra mobile data are automatically given or made available as applicable to all our existing Members too.
Our mission is to be the Nations most trusted utility supplier... the one youd recommend to your Mum Welcome to the Club Youre a Although were a major British business, were not like other utility suppliers.
Member not Were a Discount Club, 100% focused on helping our Members save money a number on their household bills.
Switch more, save more Guaranteed By bundling different services together, and cutting out expensive value overheads, we can pass savings directly onto our Members.
The more services you take, the more you can save.
One bill, one contact Making life We make life easier for you with one clear, simple monthly bill for all the simple services you take.
It shows you where you make extra savings and get more value.
And with only one supplier, you have a single contact to deal with.
CashBack card It really does pay to be a Member of Utility Warehouse.
Not only can Exclusive you save on energy and phone bills, but there are lots of other exclusive club benefits Member benefits like our CashBack card that saves you money on your everyday shopping.
5 star customer service We really care about our Members.
In fact, great customer service is at the Taking care heart of everything we do.
When you switch your services to us, we handle of you it all for you.
And our award-winning UK call centre is always here when you need us.
Winner Utilities Provider of the Year at Which?
Awards 2018 Friendly, fair, ethical with an absolute commitment to being the Nations Trusted and most trusted utility supplier.
People come to us because their family and recommended friends recommend us.
recommend us too time and time again.
Ranked #1 for energy and mobile, a Recommended Provider for Home Phone and Broadband, and overall winner in their 2018 Annual Award as the Utilities Provider of the Year.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018 3
