Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements DIRECTORS REPORT The directors have pleasure in presenting their report and the audited financial statements for the year to 31 March 2018.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW A full review of the development of the business is contained in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 36.
A summary of the financial risk management objectives and policies is contained in note 19 to the financial statements.
This Directors Report, together with the information in the Strategic Report forms the management report for the purposes of DTR 4.1.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The profit for the year after tax of 30,490,000 2017: 94,960,000 has been transferred to reserves.
An interim dividend of 24p per share 2017: 23p was paid during the year.
A final dividend of 26p per share 2017: 25p per share is proposed.
On 19 April 2018 the Board announced that it expected adjusted profit before tax from continuing activities to be around 54.0 million for the year ended 31 March 2018.
The actual adjusted profit before tax for the year ended 31 March 2018 was 54.3 million see Financial Review page 21.
GROUP REORGANISATION On 1 April 2017 the trading activities, the majority of the assets and liabilities, and the employees of Telecom Plus PLC, as well as all its subsidiaries, were transferred to Utility Warehouse Limited a 100% subsidiary of Telecom Plus PLC under a group reorganisation.
The reorganisation was designed to provide the Group with a more conventional legal structure in line with other large publicly-listed entities, and to facilitate the launch of the LTIP 2016 detailed in the Remuneration Committee report.
The reorganisation has not had any impact on the consolidated trading results of the Group.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018 73 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS The names of directors who served during the year and their interests, including those of their connected persons, in the share capital of the Company at the start and end of the year are set out in the table below.
Details of the directors share incentive awards are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 67 and 68.
ORDINARY 5p SHARES HELD AT 31 MARCH 2018 31 MARCH 2017 DIRECTOR Charles Wigoder 16,010,741 16,073,241 Julian Schild 189,932 189,932 Andrew Lindsay 357,448 382,674 Nick Schoenfeld 6,250 6,250 Andrew Blowers - - Beatrice Hollond 1,800 1,800 Melvin Lawson 2,136,744 2,136,744 indicates non-executive directors In respect of the above shareholdings, Mr Wigoder has a non-beneficial interest in 3,467,683 shares 2017: 3,067,683, and the small reduction of 62,500 in his total shareholding relates to shares held by one of his previously minor children ceasing to be included after reaching 18 years of age.
The powers of directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association the Articles.
The Articles may be amended by way of a special resolution of the members of the Company.
The Board may exercise all powers conferred on it by the Articles and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, and other applicable legislation.
The Board has established a formal, rigorous and transparent process for the selection and subsequent appointment of new directors to the Board.
The rules relating to the appointment and replacement of directors are contained within the Articles.
The Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the members or by a resolution of the Directors, provided that, in the latter instance, a director appointed in that way retires at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
In addition, shareholders with in excess of 20% of the shares in the Company are entitled under the Articles to appoint a director and remove any such director appointed.
In accordance with current best practice, all Board directors will be retiring at the forthcoming AGM and will then offer themselves for re-election.
74 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations where they have, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
The Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles allow the Board to authorise such conflicts of interest should this be deemed to be appropriate.
The Board has put in place effective procedures for managing and, where appropriate, approving conflicts or potential conflicts of interest.
Under these procedures, the Directors are required to declare all directorships or other appointments to companies which are not part of the Group, as well as other situations which could give rise to a potential conflict.
The Board will, where appropriate, authorise a conflict or potential conflict, and will impose all necessary restrictions and or conditions where it sees fit.
The Company maintains a register of directors interests which is reviewed regularly by the Board.
DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITY INSURANCE The Company maintains appropriate insurance to cover directors and officers liability and has provided an indemnity, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006, in respect of all of the Companys directors which was in force throughout the financial year and remains in force.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover where a director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.. EMPLOYEES The requirements of the Companies Act 2006 in respect of employees are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 32 to 34.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS As at 18 June 2018, in addition to the directors, the following have notified the Company of their substantial shareholdings as detailed below: SHAREHOLDER NUMBER OF SHARES PERCENTAGE OF ISSUED SHARE CAPITAL Aberdeen Standard Life Investments Ltd 9,430,952 12.0% Schroders PLC 5,432,809 6.9% Norges Bank 3,086,641 3.9% Canaccord Genuity Group Inc. 3,025,128 3.9% Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018 75 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED CAPITAL STRUCTURE Restrictions on the transfer of shares The Company only has ordinary shares in issue.
Other than as set out below, there are no restrictions on the transfer of the ordinary shares, except where a holder refuses to comply with a statutory notice requesting details of those who have an interest and the extent of their interest in a particular holding of shares.
In such cases, where the identified shares make up 0.25% or more of the ordinary shares in issue, the directors may refuse to register a transfer of any of the identified shares in certificated form and, so far as permitted by the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, a transfer of any of the identified shares which are held in the electronic share dealing system CREST, unless the directors are satisfied that they have been sold outright to an independent third party.
Other than as set out below and so far as the directors are aware, there were no arrangements at 31 March 2018 by which, with the Companys co-operation, financial rights carried by securities are held by a person other than a holder of securities, or any arrangements between holders of securities that are known to the Company and which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Executive Chairman Charles Wigoder entered into an agreement to charge 325,000 of his shares in the Company as security for a loan from Barclays Bank Plc Barclays on 3 December 2013.
The loan enabled him to apply for 57,142 ordinary shares as part of his open offer entitlement which resulted from funding the Companys entering into of the new energy supply arrangements with npower on 20 December 2013.
Under the terms of the charge, title to the 325,000 shares can be transferred, sold or otherwise dealt with by Barclays following the occurrence of a failure to pay any amount due and payable under the loan.
On 22 March 2018 Charles Wigoder notified the Company that he had entered into an agreement to charge 1,404,000 of his shares in the Company as security for a loan from the Julius Baer Group Julius Baer.
Under the terms of the charge, title to the 1,404,000 shares can be transferred, sold or otherwise dealt with by Julius Baer following an event of default under the security agreement.
On 23 March 2018 Charles Wigoder notified the Company that he had deposited a further 350,000 of his shares in the Company into a collateral account at Barclays as partial security for an increase to his existing loan facility.
Under the terms of his agreement with Barclays, title to the 350,000 shares can be transferred, sold or otherwise dealt with by them following an event of default under the security agreement.
In addition, certain members of senior management have loans secured against some or all of their shareholdings in the Company which restrict their ability to transfer these shares prior to repayment of the loans.
The Company established a Joint Share Ownership Plan the JSOP on 30 March 2011.
As part of the JSOP an employee benefit trust was established to jointly hold shares with the participants in the plan the JSOP Share Trust.
As at 31 March 2018 the JSOP Share Trust held 252,638 shares.
All voting and dividend rights attached to these shares have been waived.
76 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Takeovers There are no significant arrangements to which the Company is party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, save in relation to the arrangements with npower and EE BT for the supply of energy and mobile telephony respectively, or any agreements between the Company and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Authority for purchase of own shares At the last AGM held on 20 July 2017, the Company obtained authority to purchase up to 8,048,230 ordinary shares representing approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares as at 16 June 2017.
The Company intends to renew this authority at this years AGM.
Other than the tender offer made to shareholders in July 2017 described in note 15, during the year the Company did not repurchase any ordinary shares.
As previously announced at the half yearly results, following the decision to retain the majority of the proceeds from the sale of Opus in February 2017, the Company now has a particularly strong balance sheet, with capital in excess of its current operating requirements: this will remain the case until these funds are either utilised to take advantage of an appropriate strategic opportunity, or are instead returned to shareholders.
The Board is keeping this situation under review, and in the meantime, in order to prevent the level of excess capital continuing to increase, intends to use any retained profits from this period to buy back shares in the market.
Any buy-back programme will operate under the authority granted to the Company by shareholders at the Companys last Annual General Meeting and will be subject to pricing, liquidity and quantum parameters.
It is intended that any programme will be conducted in compliance with the Market Abuse Regulation EU No.
596 2014 and the delegated regulations made pursuant to it.
Treasury shares The Company held 60,000 ordinary shares in treasury as at 31 March 2018 2017: 60,000.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION Each of the directors has confirmed that so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware, and that he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Companys position in relation to compliance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council is set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 39 to 44.
RISK, CONTROL AND VIABILITY In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a three year period, taking into account the Groups current position and the potential impact Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018 77 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED of the principal risks and uncertainties set out on pages 25 to 31.
Based on this assessment, the directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to March 2021.
The directors have determined that a three year period to 31 March 2021 constitutes an appropriate period over which to provide its viability statement.
This is the period focussed on by the Board during the strategic planning process.
Whilst the directors have no reason to believe the Group will not be viable over a longer period, given the inherent uncertainty involved we believe this presents users of the Annual Report with a reasonable degree of confidence while still providing a longer-term perspective.
In making this statement, the Board carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Board considers annually and on a rolling basis, a three year strategic plan.
The output of this plan is used to perform central debt and headroom profile analysis, which includes a review of sensitivity to business as usual risks, such as profit growth and working capital variances and severe but plausible events.
The Board also considers the ability of the Group to raise finance and deploy capital.
The results take account of the availability and likely effectiveness of the mitigating actions that could be taken to avoid or reduce the impact or occurrence of the underlying risks.
Under the revised energy supply arrangements which were effective from 1 December 2013, npower continues to be responsible for funding the principal working capital requirements relating to the supply of energy to the Companys Members.
This includes funding the Budget Plans of Members who pay for their energy in equal monthly instalments and pre-funding the payment of certain energy network charges.
The Group has from Barclays Bank PLC and Lloyds Bank PLC total revolving credit facilities of 150 million for the period to 14 December 2020, of which only 40 million was drawn down as at 31 March 2018.
The Company has considerable financial resources together with a large and diverse retail and small business membership base and long term contracts with a number of key suppliers.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its business risks.
Whilst this review does not consider all of the risks that the Group may face, the directors consider that this stress-testing based assessment of the Groups prospects is reasonable in the circumstances of the inherent uncertainty involved.
For and on behalf of the Board David Baxter Company Secretary 18 June 2018 78 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018
