STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OF STRATEGY The directors present the strategic report for the Company sector of 35% be applied irrespective of the benchmark weighting.
for the year ended 31 December 2018.
In keeping with the Boards preference for the portfolio to The strategic report is designed to help shareholders assess be managed in a less constrained manner it is proposed how the directors have performed their duty to promote the that the reference to the Company maintaining a success of the Company during the year under review.
diversi ed portfolio, typically comprising 70-80 holdings, be amended to 30-50 holdings.
Over the past decade the BUSINESS OF THE COMPANY portfolio has consistently held fewer holdings than the typical range and therefore the Board feels that it would Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC was incorporated be appropriate for the stated investment objective more in England and Wales in 1926 with the registered accurately to re ect the likelihood of a more concentrated number 214601. portfolio for the foreseeable future.
The portfolio is not managed with respect to the The Company carries on business as an investment company speci ed target portfolio yield of between 120-140% of under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and has been that of the benchmark index and hence this objective is approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust in no longer relevant.
Accordingly, it is proposed that this accordance with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010. target be removed.
The Board will, however, continue to propose a progressive dividend policy.
The Companys principal business activity of investment management is sub-contracted to Investec Fund Managers The full text of the Companys current and proposed Limited IFM, the Alternative Investment Fund Manager investment policies are set out below.
IFM delegates the management of the Companys portfolio to Investec Asset Management The proposed amendments, which constitute a material Limited IAM.
change of the Companys investment policy, require the approval of the holders of the ordinary shares at the A review of the business is given in the Chairmans Statement forthcoming annual general meeting under the Listing Rules.
The results of the Company are shown on page 36.
The ordinary resolution numbered 9 to be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting will, if passed, approve INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE AND POLICY the adoption of the new investment policy set out below.
The Companys investment objective is to provide growth The Board considers it to be in the best interests of the in income and capital to achieve a long term total return Company and the Companys shareholders as a whole greater than the benchmark FTSE All-Share Index, through that the resolution numbered 9 to amend the Companys investment primarily in UK Listed securities.
The Companys investment policy be passed.
policy is to invest in a broad spread of securities with typically the majority of the portfolio selected from the constituents of Existing investment policy the FTSE 350 Index.
The Companys current investment policy is as follows: As a result of a thorough review of the Companys current The Companys policy is to invest in a broad spread of investment policies conducted by the Board during the year, securities with typically the majority of the portfolio selected the following changes are being proposed, subject to the from the constituents of the FTSE 350 Index.
passing of an ordinary resolution at the AGM: The UK equity element of the portfolio will be mostly The Board believes that the present limit of 20% of the portfolio that may be held in listed equities in developed invested in the FTSE All-Share Index: however, exceptional economies is unduly restrictive.
The growing globalisation positions may be sanctioned by the Board and up to 20% of of economies and markets means that in certain cases the portfolio may be held in listed international equities in the most attractive investment opportunities can be developed economies.
The Company may continue to hold found outside the UK.
Furthermore, some overseas securities that cease to be quoted or listed if the Manager listed securities may have a higher level of economic considers this to be appropriate.
There is an absolute exposure to the UK economy than companies that limit of 10% of the portfolio in any individual stock with a are listed in London but in practice have little or no maximum exposure to a speci c industrial or commercial UK exposure.
Accordingly, the Board is proposing to sector of 25%, in each case irrespective of their weightings increase the maximum permissible investment in non-UK in the benchmark index.
securities from 20% to 30% and to remove the developed economies limitation, but to retain a maximum of 10% It is the Companys policy to invest no more than 15% of its in emerging markets.
The new policy will therefore gross assets in other listed investment companies including specify that up to 30% of the portfolio may be held in listed international securities, s ubject to a maximum 10% listed investment trusts.
For the sake of clarity, it should be stressed that there is no current intention to The Company maintains a diversi ed portfolio of investments, increase the portfolios overseas exposure to this level.
typically comprising 70-80 holdings, but without restricting the Company from holding a more or less concentrated It is proposed that the requirement for a maximum exposure to a speci c industrial or commercial sector of portfolio from time to time as circumstances require.
T he Board believes that this The Companys long term investment strategy emphasises: rule is unduly restrictive, particularly as certain industrial or commercial sectors have in the recent past exceeded Achieving a portfolio yield of between 120-140% 25% of the benchmark index from time to time.
Therefore of that of the FTSE All-Share Index.
it is proposed that a maximum exposure to any one TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 8 9 OVERVIEW OF STRATEGY CONTINUED Stocks of companies that are out of favour and whose Liquidity and borrowings are managed with the aim of share prices do not match the Managers assessment of increasing returns to shareholders.
The Companys net their longer term value.
gearing range may uctuate between 0% and 30%, based on the current balance sheet structure, with an absolute From time to time xed interest holdings or non limit of 50%.
equity interests may be held for yield enhancement and other purposes.
Derivative instruments are used in As a general rule it is the Boards intention that the certain circumstances, and with the prior approval of the portfolio should be reasonably fully invested.
An Board, for hedging purposes or to take advantage of investment level of 90% of shareholder funds is regarded speci c investment opportunities.
as a guideline minimum investment level dependent on market conditions.
Liquidity and borrowings are managed with the aim of increasing returns to shareholders.
The Companys net gearing Risk is managed through diversi cation of holdings, range may uctuate between 0% and 30%, based on the investment limits set by the Board and appropriate financial current balance sheet structure, with an absolute limit of 50%.
and other controls relating to the administration of assets.
As a general rule it is the Boards intention that the portfolio INVESTMENT APPROACH should be reasonably fully invested.
An investment level of The investment approach of the Manager is premised on 90% of shareholder funds is regarded as a guideline minimum a contrarian view on the timing of buy and sell decisions, investment level dependent on market conditions.
buying the shares of companies when sentiment towards them is thought to be near its worst and selling them as Risk is managed through diversi cation of holdings, fundamental pro t improvement and or re-evaluation of investment limits set by the Board and appropriate financial their long term prospects takes place.
The belief is that repeated investor behaviour in driving Proposed amendments to the investment policy down the prices of out of favour companies to below their The Companys proposed amended investment policy fair value will offer investment opportunities.
This will allow would be as follows: the Company to purchase shares at signi cant discounts to their fair value and to sell them as they become more fully The Companys policy is to invest in a broad spread of valued, principally as a result of predictable patterns in securities with typically the majority of the portfolio human psychology.
selected from the constituents of the FTSE 350 Index.
The Managers process is designed to produce best ideas The UK equity element of the portfolio will be mostly to drive active fund management within a rigorous control invested in the FTSE All-Share Index: however, exceptional framework.
The framework begins through narrowing down positions may be sanctioned by the Board and up to the universe of stocks by passing those companies with a 30% of the portfolio may be held in listed international market capitalisation above 200 million through a screening equities, subject to a maximum 10% exposure to process which highlights the weakest performing stocks.
The Company may continue to hold This isolates opportunities with the most negative sentiment securities that cease to be quoted or listed if the Manager characteristics which are then in turn scrutinised in greater considers this to be appropriate.
There is an absolute detail to identify investment opportunities.
limit of 10% of the portfolio in any individual stock with a maximum exposure to a speci c sector of 35%, in each The process is very much bottom up and can result in large case irrespective of their weightings in the benchmark sector positions being taken if enough stocks of suf cient index.
interest are found within a single sector.
However, top down risk analysis is undertaken to identify potential concentration It is the Companys policy to invest no more than 15% of risk and to factor this awareness into portfolio construction.
of its gross assets in other listed investment companies The portfolio comprises stocks which have been purchased including listed investment trusts.
for different reasons and at different times.
In general, The Company maintains a diversi ed portfolio of because of the bottom up approach to stockpicking, each of investments, typically comprising 30-50 holdings, but these reasons is independent of the other and the portfolio, without restricting the Company from holding a more therefore, is not excessively vulnerable to longer term macro or less concentrated portfolio from time to time as trends.
Cash is a residual of the process and normally will not circumstances require.
exceed 15% of the portfolio value.
The Companys long term investment strategy emphasises The approach to stock selection and portfolio construction is stocks of companies that are out of favour and whose driven by four core beliefs: share prices do not match the Managers assessment of 1.
Markets overreact to news on the upside and the their longer term value.
The Manager aims to be sceptical of the crowd From time to time xed interest holdings or non equity and aware of investor psychology, which often causes interests may be held for yield enhancement and other overvaluation of those stocks that are deemed to have purposes.
Derivative instruments are used in certain good prospects and an undervaluation of those which are circumstances, and with the prior approval of the Board, out of favour.
for hedging purposes or to take advantage of speci c investment opportunities.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 10 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 2.
There are few companies which sustain below normal KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS pro ts over the longer term.
Weaker companies tend to The key performance indicators KPIs used to determine the leave an industry, thus improving the balance of supply progress and performance of the Company over time, and and demand, are bid for or management is changed.
which are comparable to those reported by other investment Similarly, there are few companies which can sustain trusts, are: supernormal pro ts over the longer term.
Such pro ts Net asset value total return relative to the FTSE tend to be competed or regulated away.
All-Share Index and to competitors within the UK Equity Income sector of investment trust companies: 3.
Fundamental valuation is the key determinant of share price performance over the long term.
In other words Discount premium on net asset value: cheap stocks will outperform expensive stocks.
Earnings and dividends per share: and 4.
Diversi cation is an important control.
companies or sectors can be out of favour for a considerable time.
While some elements of performance against KPIs are beyond management control they provide measures of PERFORMANCE the Companys absolute and relative performance and are, In the year to 31 December 2018 the net asset value total therefore, monitored by the Board on a regular basis.
return of the Company was -11.2% c ompared with a total Net asset value NAV total return return of the Companys benchmark index of -9.5%.
The In reviewing the performance of the assets of the Companys effect of removing gearing from the performance calculation portfolio the Board monitors the NAV in relation to the FTSE is shown in the following graph of investment performance All-Share Index.
This is the most important KPI by which over a ten year period compared with the FTSE All-Share performance is judged.
During the year the net asset value Index.
The Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 3 and total return of the Company was -11.2% c ompared with a the Managers Review on pages 4 to 7 include a review of total return of -9.5% by the FTSE All-Share Index.
The ten developments during the year together with information on year net asset value total return performance is shown below.
investment activity within the Companys portfolio and an assessment of future developments.
Net asset value total return Ungeared 10 year performance 340 320 320 300 300 280 280 260 260 240 240 220 220 200 200 180 180 160 160 140 140 120 120 100 100 80 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 80 Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Temple Bar share price total return Temple Bar NAV total return Sources: Thomson Reuters Datastream and IAM FTSE All-Share Index total return Temple Bar gross assets, excluding effects of gearing and associated costs FTSE All-Share Index total return The Board also monitors Temple Bars performance relative to its peer group over various time periods and believes that this is satisfactory.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 8 11 OVERVIEW OF STRATEGY CONTINUED Discount on net asset value The final dividend recommended for the year is 20.47p per ordinary share which brings the total for the year to 46.72p The Board monitors the premium discount at which the per ordinary share, an increase of 10.0% from the prior year.
Companys shares trade in relation to the net assets.
During This will be the 35th consecutive year in which the Company the year the shares traded at an average discount to NAV has increased the overall level of its dividend payment.
This compares with an average discount of 4.7% in the previous year.
The Board and Manager closely monitor both movements in the Companys share price and signi cant 150 dealings in the shares.
In order to avoid substantial overhangs or shortages of shares in the market the Board asks 140 shareholders to approve resolutions which allow for both the buy back of shares and their issuance which can assist in the management of the discount or premium.
130 Discount premium to net asset value excluding current year revenue 120 8% 7% 110 6% 5% 4% 3% 100 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2% 1% 0% Source: Bloomberg Temple Bar dividend -1% Retail Prices Index -2% -3% 10 Year Comparative Dividend Growth -4% -5% Ongoing charges -6% Ongoing charges is an expression of the Companys -7% management fees and other operating expenses as a -8% -9% percentage of average daily net assets over the year.
The Board compares the Companys 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 ongoing charges with those of its peers on a regular basis.
Source: Morningstar Cum income NAV, debt at market value At the present time the Company has one of the lowest ongoing charges in the UK Equity Income sector of investment trust companies.
Earnings and dividend per share It remains the directors intention to distribute, over time, by way of dividends substantially all of the Companys net revenue income after expenses and taxation.
The Manager aims to maximise total returns from the portfolio.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 12 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Company must also comply with the provisions of the Companies Act and, since its shares are listed on the London With the assistance of the Manager the Board has drawn up Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules.
A breach of the a risk matrix which identi es the key risks to the Company.
Companies Act could result in the Company being ned or The Board has carried out a robust assessment of these risks subject to criminal proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Listing which includes those that would threaten the Companys Rules could result in the Companys shares being suspended business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
from Listing which in turn would breach Section 1158.
The The Board reviews and agrees policies, which have remained Board relies on the services of its Company Secretary, IAM, unchanged since the beginning of the accounting period, for and its professional advisers to ensure compliance with the managing these risks, as summarised below.
Companies Act and the UKLA Listing Rules and is satis ed that they are able to provide an appropriate service in this regard.
Investment strategy risk An inappropriate investment strategy on matters such Control systems risk as asset allocation or the level of gearing may lead to Disruption to, or failure of, IFMs accounting, dealing or underperformance against the Companys benchmark payments systems or the custodians records could prevent index or peer companies.
The Board manages such risks accurate reporting and monitoring of the Companys financial by diversi cation of investments through its investment position or adversely impact the ability to trade.
Details of restrictions and guidelines, which are monitored and how the Board monitors the services provided by IFM and its reported on by the Manager.
The Manager provides the associates and the key elements designed to provide effective directors with regular management information including internal control are included within the internal control section absolute and relative performance data, attribution analysis, of the corporate governance report on page 2 3. revenue estimates, liquidity reports, risk pro le and shareholder analysis.
The Board monitors the implementation Other risks and results of the investment process with the portfolio Other risks to which the Company is exposed and which manager, who attends Board meetings.
Periodically the form part of the market risks referred to above are included Board holds a separate meeting devoted to strategy, the in note 22 to the financial statements together with most recent being in September 2018. summaries of the policies for managing these risks.
These comprise: market price risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, Income risk dividends credit risk and currency risk.
Generating the necessary level of income from portfolio investments to meet the Companys expenses and to VIABILITY STATEMENT provide adequate reserves from which to base a sustainable The Board makes an assessment of the longer term prospects programme of increasing dividend payments to shareholders of the Company beyond the timeframe envisaged under is subject to the risk that income generation from investments the going concern basis of accounting having regard to the fails to meet the level required.
The Board monitors this risk Companys current position and the principal risks it faces.
The through the receipt of detailed income reports and forecasts Company is a long term investment vehicle and the directors, which are considered at each meeting.
As at 31 December therefore, believe that it is appropriate to assess its viability 2018 the Company had distributable revenue reserves of over a long term horizon.
For the purposes of assessing the 37.3 million before declaration of the final dividend Companys prospects in accordance with Code Provision C. 2.2 for 2018 of 13.7 million.
Furthermore, income risk is of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers mitigated by the Companys ability to distribute realised that assessing the Companys prospects over a period of five capital gains if required to meet any revenue shortfall.
years is appropriate given the nature of the Company and the inherent uncertainties of looking beyond a longer time period.
Share price risk The directors believe that a five year period appropriately The Companys share price and premium or discount to re ects the long term strategy of the Company and over NAV are monitored by the Manager and considered by the which, in the absence of any adverse change to the regulatory Board on a regular basis.
The directors attach considerable environment and the favourable tax treatment afforded to importance to any premium or discount to NAV at which UK investment trusts, they do not expect there to be any the shares trade, both in absolute terms and relative to the signi cant change to the current principal risks and to the average rating at which the UK Equity Income sector of adequacy of the mitigating controls in place.
investment trusts as a whole is trading.
Premiums judged to be excessive will be addressed by repeated share In assessing the viability of the Company the directors have issues, either new or from Treasury.
Discounts judged to be conducted a thorough assessment of each of the Companys excessive will be addressed by repeated share buybacks, principal risks and uncertainties as set out above.
Particular for Treasury or cancellation.
The directors are prepared to scrutiny was given to the impact of a signi cant fall in be proactive in premium discount management to minimise equity markets on the value of the Companys investment potential disadvantages to shareholders.
The directors have also considered the Companys leverage and liquidity in the context of its long dated xed Accounting, legal & regulatory rate borrowings, its income and expenditure projections In order to qualify as an investment trust the Company must and the fact the Companys investments comprise mainly comply with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010. readily realisable quoted securities which can be sold to meet Were the Company to breach Section 1158 it might lose funding requirements if necessary.
investment trust status and, as a consequence, gains within the Companys portfolio would be subject to capital gains tax.
The Section 1158 quali cation criteria are, therefore, monitored by the Board at each meeting.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 8 13 OVERVIEW OF STRATEGY CONTINUED All the key operations required by the Company are The Manager signed the Principles for Responsible outsourced to third party providers and alternative providers Investment in 2008 and the UK Stewardship Code in 2010. could be secured at relatively short notice if necessary.
It has carefully considered all global principles and focuses on five core principles to guide its stewardship role in Having taken into account the Companys current representing its clients ownership rights.
The Manager will: position and the potential impact of its principal risks and Disclose how it discharges its stewardship duties through uncertainties, the directors have a reasonable expectation publicly available policies and reporting.
that the Company will be able to continue in operation and Address internal governance of effective stewardship meet its liabilities as they fall due for a period of five years including con icts of interest and potential obstacles.
from the date of this Report.
Support a long-term investment perspective by MODERN SLAVERY ACT integrating, engaging, escalating and monitoring material Environmental, Social and Governance ESG issues.
Due to the nature of the Companys business, being a company that does not offer goods and services to customers, Exercise its ownership rights responsibly including engagement and voting rights.
the Board considers that it is not within the scope of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 because it has no turnover.
The Act alongside other investors, where appropriate.
Company is therefore not required to make a slavery and The Manager believes that the consideration of material human traf cking statement.
In any event, the Board considers ESG risks and opportunities allows it to better understand the Companys supply chains, dealing predominantly with risks and identify companies that are better placed to create professional advisers and service providers in the financial long-term shareholder value.
It is an inherent characteristic services industry, to be low risk in relation to this matter.
of value investing to look at any upside, including ESG GENDER DIVERSITY considerations, which could enable a company to improve its current low valuation.
This would often involve issues related At the year end there were three male directors and two to governance or management.
Any ESG issues identi ed female directors on the Board.
The Company has no will be incorporated into the investment teams final analysis, employees and therefore there is nothing further to report and any impact that these issues may have on valuation will in respect of gender representation within the Company.
The Manager has a dedicated ESG team The Companys policy on diversity is detailed in the that works very closely with the investment team to provide corporate governance report on page 2 3. support, guidance, training and in depth research across ESG integration and active ownership.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS The Managers Stewardship Policy and Ownership Policy & All the Companys activities are outsourced to third parties.
Proxy Guidelines are available on request from the Company The Company therefore has no greenhouse gas emissions to Secretary or can be downloaded from its website.
FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS BRIBERY ACT The future development of the Company is dependent on The Company has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery the success of its investment strategy in the light of economic and is committed to carrying out business fairly, honestly and and equity market developments.
The outlook is discussed openly.
The Manager a lso adopts a zero tolerance approach in the Chairmans Statement on page 2 and the Managers and ha s policies and procedures in place to prevent bribery.
CRIMINAL FINANCES ACT 2017 The Company has a commitment to zero tolerance towards By order of the Board of Directors the criminal facilitation of tax evasion.
EMPLOYEE, SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL, ETHICAL AND HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY Arthur Copple The Company is managed by IFM, has no employees and Chairman all its directors are non-executive.
There are, therefore, no 2 1 February 2019 disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The Board notes the Managers policy statement in respect of Social, Environmental and Governance issues, as outlined below.
STEWARDSHIP ENGAGEMENT The Manager embraces the concept of active stewardship and aims to preserve and grow the real purchasing power of the assets entrusted to them by clients over the long term.
In ful lling this purpose, it assumes a stewardship role, including the effective exercising of clients ownership rights.
It monitors, evaluates and if necessary, actively engages or withdraws investments with the aim of preserving or adding value to client portfolios.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 14 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018
