REPORT OF DIRECTORS The directors present their report and accounts for the There is also a fee payable to Investec Asset Management year ended 31 December 2018.
Limited of 4 6,845 pa excluding VAT in respect of the provision of secretarial and administrative services, adjusted THE ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND MANAGERS annually in line with the Retail Price Index.
DIRECTIVE AIFMD The contract terms are reviewed at least annually.
This Investec Fund Managers Limited IFM, an af liate of covers, inter alia, the performance of the Manager, its Investec Asset Management Limited IAM, is the Companys management processes, investment style, resources Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM or Manager.
The Board endorses the investment For the purposes of the AIFMD the Company is an Alternative approach adopted by the Manager, recognising that while Investment Fund AIF.
IFM has delegated responsibility for the contrarian style can sometimes lead to periods of the day to day management of the Companys portfolio to underperformance it usually delivers superior investment IAM.
returns over the longer term.
In addition, the portfolio has produced high and growing dividend income to IFM is required to ensure that a depositary is appointed and shareholders.
In the opinion of the directors the continued accordingly IFM and the Company have appointed HSBC as appointment of the Manager on the terms set out above is, the depositary and custodian.
HSBC is responsible for the therefore, in the best interests of shareholders.
custody of the Companys assets and for monitoring its cash ows.
GOING CONCERN The AIFMD requires certain information to be made available The directors have reviewed the going concern basis of to investors in AIFs before they invest and requires that accounting for the Company.
The Companys assets consist material changes to this information be disclosed in the substantially of equity shares in listed companies and in most annual report of each AIF.
An Investor Information Document, circumstances are realisable within a short timescale.
The which sets out information on the Companys investment use of the going concern basis of accounting is appropriate strategy and policies, leverage, risk, liquidity, administration, because there are no material uncertainties related to events management, fees, con icts of interest and other shareholder or conditions that may cast signi cant doubt about the ability information is available on the Companys website at of the Company to continue as a going concern.
enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in There have been no material changes to this information operational existence for the foreseeable future, including requiring disclosure.
Any information requiring immediate recourse to a 7.5 million overdraft facility with HSBC Bank.
disclosure pursuant to the AIFMD will be disclosed to the Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt the going London Stock Exchange through a primary information concern basis in preparing the accounts.
As an authorised AIFM, IFM will make the requisite disclosures on remuneration levels and policies to the ORDINARY DIVIDENDS Financial Conduct Authority FCA at the appropriate time.
Interim dividends of 8.75p per ordinary share were paid on 30 June 2018, 29 September 2018 and 27 December MANAGEMENT FEES 2018 2017 : 8.33 p in each case and the directors are The Company has a management agreement with Investec recommending a final dividend of 20.47p per ordinary share Fund Managers Limited IFM for the provision of investment 2017: 17.48p, a total for the year of 46.72p 2017: 42.47p.
The agreement is subject to one years Subject to shareholders approval, the final dividend will be notice of termination by either party.
paid on 29 March 2019 to shareholders on the register on 8 March 2019.
IFM receives an investment management fee of 0.35% per annum, payable quarterly, based on the value of the ISAs investments including cash of the Company together with The Company has conducted its investment policy so as to an additional fee of 125,000 pa, plus or minus 0.005% of remain a qualifying investment trust under the Individual the value of the investments including cash of the Company Savings Account ISA regulations.
It is the intention of the above or below 750 million, calculated and payable Board to continue to satisfy these regulations.
Investments in funds managed by IFM are wholly excluded from this charge.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 18 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 8 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHARE CAPITAL There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the year in which a director of the Company is or was interested No new ordinary shares were issued during the year.
and which are or were signi cant in relation to the Companys business.
No director has a service contract with the Company.
SECTION 992 OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 The following information is disclosed in accordance with The Company maintains insurance cover for its directors Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006. under a Directors & Of cers Liability policy, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
Directors are also covered by the Capital structure indemnity provisions in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Companys capital structure is summarised on pages 47 and 4 8.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS As at 31 December 2018 and 2 1 February 2019 the following Voting Rights in the Companys Shares were registered or had indicated an interest in 3% or more of The voting rights at 31 December 2018 were: the issued ordinary shares of the Company.
Number of Voting rights Total % Share class shares issued per share voting rights Brewin Dolphin Ltd 10.5 Ordinary shares of 25p each 66,872,765 1 66,872,765 Alliance Trust Savings Ltd 7.7 Investec Wealth & Investment Ltd 7.3 As at 21 F ebruary 2019, the share capital of the Company and total voting rights were 66,872,765.
There are no restrictions Speirs & Jeffrey Ltd 5.0 on the transfer of securities in the Company and there are Equiniti Financial Services 3.9 no special rights attached to any of the shares.
Deadlines for the exercise of voting rights and details of arrangements by AXA SA 3.1 which someone other than the registered shareholder can exercise voting rights are provided in the Notes to the Notice DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITOR of Meeting on page 5 4.
The Companys ordinary shares have The directors are not aware of any relevant information of which a Premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
the auditor is unaware and have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as directors in order to make themselves To the extent that they exist, the revenue pro ts and capital aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that of the Company including accumulated revenue and realised the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
capital reserves are available for distribution by way of dividends to the holders of the ordinary shares.
Upon a AUDITOR winding-up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor surplus assets would be distributed to the shareholders pro to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General rata to their holding of ordinary shares.
Change of control ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING There are no agreements that may be altered or terminated The notice of the Annual General Meeting of the Company on change of control of the Company.
to be held on 28 March 2019 is on page 5 2.
In addition to the ordinary business the following matters are proposed DIRECTORS as special business.
The directors of the Company who held of ce at the end of the year are detailed on page 1 7.
John Reeve retired as a Investment objective and policy director and chairman on 24 May 2018 and Nicholas Lyons As a result of a thorough review of the Companys current resigned as a director on 7 August 2018.
No other person investment policies conducted by the Board during the year, was a director for part of the year.
Details of directors the following changes are being proposed to the Companys bene cial shareholdings may be found in the Report on Investment Objective and Policy: Directors Remuneration on page 21.
The Board believes that the present limit of 20% of the With the exception of June fide Moller, who will be standing portfolio that may be held in listed equities in developed down as a director at the AGM, all the directors will be economies is unduly restrictive.
The growing globalisation retiring in compliance with the provisions of the AIC Code of economies and markets means that in certain cases and, each being eligible, the Board recommends their rethe most attractive investment opportunities can be election.
In making these recommendations the Board has found outside the UK.
Furthermore, some overseas listed carefully reviewed the composition of the Board as a whole securities may have a higher level of economic exposure to the UK economy than companies that are listed in London and borne in mind the need for a proper balance of skills but in practice have little or no UK exposure.
The Board does not believe that length of the Board is proposing to increase the maximum permissible service of itself detracts from the independence of a director, investment in non-UK securities from 20% to 30% and to particularly in relation to an investment trust, and on that remove the developed economies limitation while retaining basis considers that all directors standing for re-election are a maximum 10% exposure to emerging markets.
It is con rmed that, following formal evaluation, policy will therefore specify that up to 30% of the portfolio the performance of each director continues to be effective may be held in listed international equities, s ubject to a and each continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
maximum 10% exposure to emerging markets.
For the TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 8 19 REPORT OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED sake of clarity, it should be stressed that there is no current No issues of shares will be made which would alter the intention to increase the portfolios overseas exposure to control of the Company without the prior approval of this level.
It is proposed that the requirement for a maximum Directors authority to purchase the Companys exposure to a speci c industrial or commercial sector of 25% should be amended.
The Board believes that this rule own shares is unduly restrictive, particularly as certain industrial or The directors consider it desirable to give the Company commercial sectors have in the recent past exceeded 25% the opportunity to buy back shares in circumstances where of the benchmark index from time to time.
Therefore, it is the shares may be bought for a price which is below the net proposed that a maximum exposure to any one sector of asset value per share of the Company, as previously fide ned.
35% be applied irrespective of the benchmark weighting.
The purchase of ordinary shares is intended to reduce the In keeping with the Boards preference for the portfolio to discount at which ordinary shares trade in the market through be managed in a less constrained manner it is proposed the Company becoming a new source of demand for such that the reference to the Company maintaining a shares, as well as being accretive to NAV.
The rules of the diversi ed portfolio, typically comprising 70-80 holdings, UK Listing Authority provide that the maximum price which be amended to 30-50 holdings.
Over the past decade the can be paid by the Company is 5% above the average of the portfolio has consistently held fewer holdings than the market value of the ordinary shares for the five business days typical range and therefore the Board feels that it would be appropriate for the stated investment objective more before the purchase is made.
accurately to re ect the likelihood of a more concentrated Recommendation portfolio for the foreseeable future.
The Board considers the resolutions to be proposed at the The portfolio is not managed with respect to the speci ed target portfolio yield of between 120-140% of AGM to be in the best interests of the Company and its that of the benchmark index and hence this objective is members as a whole.
Accordingly, the directors unanimously no longer relevant.
Accordingly, it is proposed that this recommend that shareholders should vote in favour of the target be removed.
The Board will, however, continue to resolutions to be proposed at the AGM, as they intend to do propose a progressive dividend policy.
so in respect of their own bene cial holdings, amounting to 104,968 ordinary shares.
The proposed amendments, which constitute a material change of the Companys investment policy, require the approval of the holders of the ordinary shares at the forthcoming annual general meeting under the Listing Rules.
By order of the Board of Directors The ordinary resolution numbered 9 to be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting will, if passed, approve the adoption of the new investment policy set out in full on page 10.
Arthur Copple Chairman Authority to allot shares and disapplication 2 1 February 2019 of pre-emption rights It is proposed that the directors be authorised to allot up to 1,671,819 of relevant securities in the Company equivalent to 6,687,276 ordinary shares of 25p each, representing 10.0% of its ordinary shares in issue as at 21 F ebruary 2019.
When shares are to be allotted for cash, the Companies Act 2006 requires such new shares to be offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings of ordinary shares.
However, in certain circumstances, it is bene cial to allot shares for cash otherwise than pro rata to existing shareholders and the ordinary shareholders can by special resolution waive their pre-emption rights.
Therefore, a special resolution will be proposed at the AGM which, if passed, will give the directors the power to allot for cash equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,671,819 equivalent to 6,687,276 ordinary shares of 25p each or 10.0% of the Companys existing issued ordinary share capital.
The directors intend to use this authority to issue new shares to prospective purchasers whenever they believe it may be advantageous to shareholders to do so.
Any such issues would only be made at prices greater than net asset value per share, including current year income, as adjusted for the market value of the Companys debt, and would, therefore, increase the assets underlying each share.
The issue proceeds would be available for investment in line with the Companys investment policy.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 20 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 8
