Investment Managers Process Investment Philosophy FTEME is known for its disciplined, yet flexible, long-term approach to finding attractive stocks derived from more than 30 years of experience.
FTEMEs research-based, active approach to investing is intended to find companies with high standards of corporate governance, which respect their shareholder base and which understand the local intricacies that may determine consumer trends and habits.
Utilising a large team of analysts, the FTEME team aims to maintain close contact with the board and senior management of existing and potential investments and believes in engaging constructively with investee companies.
Value FTEMEs investment style is based on finding good value in the companies in which to invest.
Value is defined by reference to analysts projections of the growth potential of companies, with a strong focus on sustainable earnings power and risks to that potential.
This means that FTEME looks beyond traditional measures of value such as price earnings ratios to a detailed analysis of a companys share price compared with potential long-term return, over typically five years or more.
FTEME seeks companies whose shares are trading at a discount to its assessment of their value.
Patience On a short-term basis, stocks may overreact to news and noise.
On a long-term basis, FTEME believe that markets are efficient and that patience will reward those who have identified undervalued stocks.
Bottom-up FTEME identifies value through rigorous fundamental analysis and a worldwide network of experienced research resources.
Research is carried out on a company by company basis in different countries, geographical regions and industries to determine an assessment of the economic worth of a company, based on many factors including projected future earnings, cash flow or asset value potential as well as management capability and governance.
While FTEME considers politics and macroeconomic events as an integral part of its investment process, it is their view that a fundamental focus on individual companies and their earnings can often play a bigger role in achieving investment objectives.
The Investment Managers investment style is based on finding good value in the companies in which it chooses to invest.
18 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Investment Managers Process continued The Investment Managers process is detailed below: 1.
Identify Potential Bargains The large and experienced research team is key to the Does this stock meet FTEMEs criteria of valuation, Franklin Templeton process.
While their philosophy remains unchanged, continual Is it a potential bargain within the global universe, its refinement and improvement is part of the FTEME sector and on a historical basis?
FTEME is able to leverage 60 years of global investing by Franklin Templeton Investments to build an extensive network of local contacts around the world.
In Depth Fundamental Analysis Within the framework of a disciplined, long-term Is this stock a candidate for the FTEME Action List?
Is approach, analysts look beyond short-term noise to the stock trading at a substantial discount to what their estimate long-term economic worth.
research indicates the company may be worth over the Bottom-up fundamental analysis, industry knowledge and long-term?
access to company management drive original research.
Team Review Process A collaborative team culture that leverages the Has analysis met FTEME standards?
experience of the entire FTEME group produces Does the recommendation pass the FTEME review process?
Construct Portfolio Taking into account the investment objective and What is considered to represent the best combination guidelines, the portfolio is constructed with attention to of stocks for creating a diversified portfolio with the diversification and risk levels.
The process seeks to reduce portfolio turnover.
The portfolio combines FTEMEs best ideas with the risk benefits of diversification.
Portfolio Evaluation and Attribution Analysis Portfolios are subject to weekly review, while a What are the performance contributors detractors?
semi-annual review evaluates methodology, resources, FTEME follows a disciplined sell methodology where themes, country level issues and global trends.
fair value is exceeded, another stock has greater value FTEMEs investment process combines the benefits of potential, or a fundamental company change alters the individual and team portfolio management.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 19 Investment Managers Process continued Investment Risk Management Investment in emerging market equities inevitably involves risk in a volatile asset class, and portfolios constructed from the bottom up may be exposed to risks that become evident when viewed from the top down.
FTEME is one of a number of Investment Management groups within Franklin Templeton Investments FTI.
FTI uses a comprehensive approach to managing risks within its managed portfolios and this approach is inherent in all aspects of the investment process.
Investment risks are to be identified and intentional.
Risk is to be optimised, not minimised: Risk management is led first and foremost by experienced portfolio managers.
It is integrated within each step of FTEMEs fundamental, research-driven process, and includes formalised collaboration with FTIs independent Investment Risk Management Group.
The group consists of over 90 investment risk and performance professionals in 20 global locations.
The group is responsible for the independent preparation and monitoring of risk management information and for the reporting of any exceptions to senior management and the Board of the Company.
A monthly executive risk summary report is reviewed by FTIs Executive Investment Risk Committee as an input to the senior management reporting process.
The group also provides regular performance analysis versus the benchmark and peers to identify absolute and relative performance trends or outliers.
Exposure and attribution analysis is another key measure to support the integration of investment risk insight into each step of the investment process.
Risk management The approach Integrated Strong risk management begins with the PORTFOLIO Begins with portfolio management portfolio management teams research MANAGERS process and the assessment of market and active risk The Investment Risk Management Group Independent reports directly to the FTI CEO and serves Strengthened by an independent risk team multiple stakeholders within FTI Collaboration between portfolio managers and specialised risk professionals No single measure or methodology can Insightful reveal the truth about risk.
It requires a Powered by actionable insights mosaic of analytics, oversight protocols and consultation Building from this philosophy and within the boundaries of the overall investment strategy or potential regulatory restrictions, the portfolio manager and Investment Risk Management Group will agree upon guidelines that reflect TEMITs risk profile.
As part of the ongoing risk management, potential performance in stressed markets or under anticipated scenarios are assessed and discussed.
Using their specific expertise and with an independent view, the Investment Risk Management Group can provide risk-related information to the Investment Manager which can provide valuable insight for consideration in the portfolio construction process.
For additional information with respect to the AIFM risk management framework, visit the Investor Disclosure Document on the website.
20 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
