Strategy and Business Model Company Objective The objective of TEMIT is to provide long-term capital appreciation for private and institutional investors seeking exposure to global emerging markets, supported by both strong customer service and corporate governance.
Investment Policy The Company seeks long term capital appreciation through investment in companies listed in emerging markets or companies which earn a significant amount of their revenues in emerging markets, but are listed on stock exchanges in developed countries.
It is intended that the Company will normally invest in equity instruments.
However, the Investment Manager may invest in equity-related investments such as convertibles where they believe it is advantageous to do so.
The portfolio may frequently be overweight or underweight in certain investments compared with the MSCI Emerging Markets Index and may be concentrated in a more limited number of sectors, geographical areas or countries than the benchmark.
The Company may also invest a significant proportion of its assets in the securities of one issuer, securities domiciled in a particular country, or securities within one industry.
No more than 10% of the Companys assets will be invested in the securities of any one issuer at the time of investment.
The Board has agreed that TEMIT may borrow up to 10% of its net assets.
Strategy The Company seeks to achieve its objective by following a strategy focused on the following: Performance At the heart of the strategy is the appointment and retention of highly regarded investment management professionals, who will identify value and achieve superior growth for shareholders.
The Investment Manager, under the leadership of Chetan Sehgal, continues to apply the same core investment philosophy that has driven TEMITs performance since the Companys launch.
The investment team aim to achieve long-term capital appreciation for shareholders by investing in companies that they believe offer long-term sustainable growth and good value, combined with strong management and sound governance.
See pages 18 to 20 for details of the Investment Managers process.
Liquidity The Company is listed on the London and New Zealand Stock Exchanges.
The Company has engaged Winterflood as Financial Adviser and Stockbroker, who act as a market maker for investors wishing to buy and sell shares in the Company.
They also continually monitor the market in our shares.
Gearing On 31 January 2017, the Company entered into a three year 150 million unsecured multi-currency revolving loan facility with The Bank of Nova Scotia, London Branch.
Under the facility, up to 150 million may be borrowed, and drawings are available in pounds sterling, US dollars and Chinese renminbi.
8 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Strategy and Business Model continued The Companys net gearing position was 3.3% net of cash in the portfolio at the year end 2017: 0.8%.
The Directors Report on page 44 includes further commentary on the gearing facility.
The Board continues to monitor the level of gearing and considers gearing up to 10% to be appropriate.
Stability The Board has powers to buy back the Companys shares as a discount control mechanism when it is in the best interests of the Companys shareholders.
On a daily basis, the Board ensures that the share price discount to NAV is actively monitored.
Discount management is reviewed regularly by the Board to ensure that it remains effective in the light of prevailing market conditions.
This is discussed in more detail in the Directors Report on page 45.
Affirmation of Shareholder Mandate In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, the Board must seek shareholders approval for TEMIT to continue as an investment trust every five years.
This allows shareholders the opportunity to decide on the long-term future of the Company.
The last continuation vote took place at the 2014 AGM, when 99.74% of shareholders voted in favour.
The next continuation vote will take place at the 2019 AGM.
Communication We ensure that investors are informed regularly about the performance of TEMIT and emerging markets through clear communication and updates.
TEMIT seeks to keep you updated on performance and investment strategy through the revamped website www.
Here you will find all the latest information on the Company, including monthly factsheets, portfolio holdings information, updates from the Investment Manager on the latest news on emerging markets and other important documents that will help shareholders understand how their investment is managed.
During the year we also launched @TEMIT on Twitter.
We also hold investor briefings and discussions in order better to understand investor needs.
Service Providers The Board conducts regular reviews of the Companys primary service providers as discussed on pages 46 and47, to ensure that the services provided are of the quality expected by TEMIT.
The Directors also ensure that the Companys primary service providers have adopted an appropriate framework of controls, monitoring and reporting to enable the Directors to evaluate risk.
Business Model The Company has no employees and all of its Directors are non-executive.
The Company delegates its day-today activities to third parties.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 9 Strategy and Business Model continued At least quarterly, the Board reviews with Franklin Templeton International Services S. r. l. FTIS or the Manager and the Investment Manager a wide range of risk factors that may impact the Company.
Further analysis of these risks is described on pages 12 and 13.
A full risk and internal controls review is held every September at the Audit Committee meeting.
Due to the nature of the Companys business, investment risk is a key focus and is reviewed on an ongoing basis by the Investment Manager as part of every investment decision.
Further information on this process is detailed on page 20.
The Board is responsible for all aspects of the Companys affairs, including the setting of parameters for the monitoring of the investment strategy and the review of investment performance and policy.
It also has responsibility for all strategic policy issues, namely dividend, gearing, share issuance and buy backs, share price and discount premium monitoring, and corporate governance matters.
Key Performance Indicators The Board considers the following as the key performance indicators for the Company: Net asset value total return over various periods, compared to its benchmark: Share price, discount and use of buy back powers: Dividend and revenue earnings and Ongoing charges ratio.
The 10 year records of the KPIs are shown on pages 3 and 4.
Net asset value performance Net asset value performance data is presented within the Company Overview on page 1 along with the 10 year record on pages 3 and 4.
The Chairmans Statement on pages 5 to 7 and the Investment Managers Report on pages 17 to 37 include further commentary on the Companys performance.
Share price, discount and use of buy back powers Details of the Companys share price and discount are presented within the Financial Summary on page2.
On24 May 2018, the latest date for which information was available, the discount had widened to 14.5%.
The Company has powers to buy back its shares as a discount control mechanism when it is in the best interests of the Companys shareholders.
The Company was authorised at its AGM on 13 July 2017 to buy back up to 42,105,217 shares or 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital on that date, whichever was lower.
The present authority expires on the conclusion of the AGM on 12 July 2018.
The Directors are seeking to renew this authority at the 2018 AGM, as further detailed in the Directors Report on page51.
Additionally, permission was given by the shareholders at the 2017 AGM to place shares bought back into treasury.
Details on share buy backs in the year can be found on pages 6, 45 and 82.
10 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Strategy and Business Model continued From 1 April 2018 to 24 May 2018, 3,634,942 shares were bought back for a total consideration of 26,696,000 and placed into treasury by the Company.
Share price discount to NAV 0 0 -2 -2 -4 -4 -6 -6 -8 -8 -10 -10 -12 -12 -14 -14 -16 -16 Mar 13 Mar 14 Mar 15 Mar 16 Mar 17 Mar 18 TEMIT Share Price Discount, based on a 7 day moving average Dividend and revenue earnings As noted in the Chairmans Statement on page 5 underlying revenues were significantly higher this year.
Total income earned was 60.5 million 2017: 46.1 million which translates into net earnings of 15.90 pence per share 2017: 6.59 pence per share, an increase of 141.3% over the prior year.
The increase in revenue earnings per share was partly attributable to the increase in underlying revenues and partly attributable to the change in the policy of allocating management fees and the cost of borrowing 70% to the capital account.
The Board is proposing a dividend of 15.00 pence per share.
Ongoing charges ratio OCR The OCR fell to 1.12% for the year ended 31 March 2018, compared to 1.20% in the prior year.
This was due to the AIFM fee reduction as detailed within the Directors Report on page 46, and an increase in the average net assets during the year.
Costs associated with the purchase and sale of investments are taken to capital and are not included in the OCR.
Transaction costs are disclosed in Note 6 to the Financial Statements on page 81. www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 11 Strategy and Business Model continued Principal Risks The principal risks facing the Company, as determined by your Board, are summarised in the table below.
Further explanation of the monitoring of risk and uncertainties is covered within the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 59 and 60.
Information on the risks that TEMIT is subject to, including additional financial and valuation risks, are also detailed in Note 13 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
Risk Mitigation Investment and concentration The portfolio will diverge significantly from the MSCI The Board regularly reviews the portfolio composition Emerging Markets Index and may be concentrated in a asset allocation and discusses related developments with more limited number of sectors, geographical areas or the Investment Manager.
This is consistent with the stated investment team of the Investment Manager monitors concentration approach of long-term value investing.
limits and potential breaches are signalled to portfolio management for remedial action.
Where possible, investment will generally be made directly in the stock markets of emerging countries.
Emerging markets can be subject to greater price volatility than developed markets.
Market Market risk arises from volatility in the prices of the The Board regularly reviews and discusses with the Companys investments, from the risk of volatility Investment Manager the portfolio and investment in global markets arising from macroeconomic and performance of the Company and the execution of the geopolitical circumstances and conditions as well as from investment policy against the long-term objectives of the borrowing utilised by TEMIT.
Many of the companies the Company.
The Board also reviews regularly risk in which TEMIT invests are, by reason of the locations management reports from the Managers independent in which they operate, exposed to the risk of political risk team.
In addition, exchange control, tax or other regulations introduced in any country in which TEMIT invests may affect its income and the value and marketability of its investments.
Foreign currency Currency movements may affect TEMITs performance.
In The Board monitors currency risk as part of the regular general, if the value of sterling increases compared with portfolio and risk management oversight.
TEMIT does not a foreign currency, an investment traded in that foreign hedge currency risk.
currency will decrease in value because it will be worth less in sterling terms.
This can have a negative effect on the Companys performance.
Portfolio liquidity The Companys portfolio may include securities with The closed ended structure of TEMIT reduces the impact to reduced liquidity.
This may impair the ability to sell shareholders of potential illiquidity in the portfolio.
assets which could limit the Investment Managers ability The Board regularly receives and reviews updates on to make significant changes to the portfolio.
Credit Certain transactions that the Company enters into expose it The Board receives regular reporting and reviews the to the risk that the counterparty will not deliver an investment approved counterparty list of the Investment Manager on an purchase or cash in relation to a sale or declared dividend annual basis and receives and reviews regular reporting on after the Company has fulfilled its responsibilities.
counterparty risk from the Managers independent risk team.
12 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Strategy and Business Model continued Risk Mitigation Operational and custody Like many other investment trust companies, TEMIT The Managers systems are regularly tested and monitored has no employees.
The Company therefore relies upon and an internal controls report, which includes an the services provided by third parties and is dependent assessment of risks together with an overview of procedures upon the control systems of the Manager and of the to mitigate such risks, is prepared by the Manager and Companys other service providers.
The security, for reviewed by the Audit Committee annually.
example, of the Companys assets, dealing procedures, J. P. Morgan Europe Limited is the Companys depositary.
accounting records and maintenance of regulatory and Its responsibilities include cash monitoring, safe keeping of legal requirements depends on the effective operation of the Companys financial instruments, verifying ownership these systems.
and maintaining a record of other assets and monitoring the Companys compliance with investment limits and borrowing requirements.
The depositary is liable for any loss of financial instruments held in custody and will ensure that the custodian and any sub-custodian segregate the assets of the Company.
The depositary oversees the custody function performed by JPMorgan Chase Bank.
The custodian provides a report on its key controls and safeguards SOC 1 SSAE 16 ISAE 3402 which is independently reported on by its auditor, PwC.
The Board reviews regular operational risk management reporting provided by the Investment Manager.
Key personnel The ability of the Company to achieve its investment The Manager endeavours to ensure that the principal objective is significantly dependent upon the expertise members of its management teams are suitably of the Investment Manager and its ability to attract and incentivised, participate in strategic leader programmes retain suitable staff.
and monitor key succession planning metrics.
The Board regularly discusses this risk with the Manager.
Regulatory The Company is an Alternative Investment Fund AIF The Board is active in ensuring that the Company complies under the European Unions Alternative Investment Fund with all applicable laws and regulation and its internal risk Managers Directive.
The Company operates in an increasingly and control framework reduces the likelihood of breaches complex regulatory environment and faces a number of happening.
As appropriate the Board is assisted by the regulatory risks.
Breaches of regulations could lead to a Manager in doing this.
number of detrimental outcomes and reputational damage.
Cyber The Company benefits from Franklin Templetons technology Failure or breach of information technology systems framework designed to mitigate the risk of a cyber security of the Companys service providers may entail risk of breach.
financial loss, disruption to operations or damage to the reputation of the Company.
For key third party providers, the Audit Committee receives regular independent certifications of their controls environment.
Although not judged a principal risk for the Company, the Board continues to monitor developments around Brexit.
Additionally, the Manager has a dedicated working group assessing the potential impact of Brexit.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 13 Strategy and Business Model continued Environmental, Social and Governance Matters As an investment trust, the Company has no significant direct social, community, environmental or employee responsibilities.
Its policy is focused on ensuring that its funds are properly managed and invested within the guidelines approved by the Board.
The Board receives regular reports on the policies and controls in place.
The Investment Manager invests in companies which it considers to be well-managed and subject to appropriate corporate governance.
A well-managed company is considered to be one which complies with all the relevant legislation and which meets the environmental, social, governance ESG requirements of the country in which it operates.
It is important to recognise that local laws and requirements of emerging markets do not necessarily equate with those of developed countries.
ESG issues have become increasingly important to companies worldwide as they seek to balance organisational goals with the expectations of their stakeholders in an increasingly complex operating environment.
When companies manage these stakeholder relationships effectively, they are, in general, more successful at managing risks and capturing opportunities placing them in a better position for long-term success.
Recognising the importance of these considerations, the Investment Manager became a signatory to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment UNPRI in 2013.
Becoming a signatory is a natural extension of the Investment Managers existing practices to integrate ESG considerations within its investment process.
In addition, the Investment Manager has established a dedicated ESG team to support and enhance integration of UNPRI within its investment processes and provide firm wide support and participation in Responsible Investing Initiatives such as UNPRI.
As a signatory, the Investment Manager reports annually on its integration approach and progress.
A link to the UNPRI Transparency Report can be located at www.
Additionally the Investment Manager is an active member of industry associations promoting best practice and greater understanding of evolving ESG practices.
A full listing can be found at www.
As a long-term investor, the Investment Manager performs extensive bottom-up investment analysis, employing rigorous and comprehensive processes to assess both the risk and return potential of the investments it considers for the Company.
The depth of its research provides comprehensive insights into the many factors that affect the value of an investment, which may include environmental, social and governance issues.
The Investment Manager determines the extent to which various research inputs are included and weighted in its investment decisions.
TEMIT has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from the operations of the Company, as all of its activities are outsourced to third parties, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
On 26 March 2015, the Modern Slavery Act 2015 came into force.
TEMIT has no employees and is not an organisation which provides goods or services as defined in the Act and thus the Company considers that the Act does not apply.
14 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Strategy and Business Model continued Diversity The Board supports the principle of diversity.
The selection policy of the Board is to appoint the best qualified person for the job, by considering factors such as diversity of gender, thought, experience and qualification.
The Board currently comprises six Directors, five male and one female.
Viability Statement The Board consider viability as part of their continuing programme of monitoring risk.
In preparing the Viability Statement, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code provision C. 2.2, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company over a longer period than the 12 months required by the Going Concern provision.
The Board have considered the Companys business and investment cycles and are of the view that five years is a suitable time horizon to consider the continuing viability of the Company, balancing the uncertainties of investing in listed emerging market securities against having due regard to viability over the longer term.
In assessing the Companys viability, the Board have performed a robust assessment of controls over the principal risks.
The Board consider, on an ongoing basis, each of the principal risks as noted above and set out in Note 13 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
Financial measures, including the ability of the Company to meet its ongoing liabilities, are also reviewed.
The Board monitor income and expense projections for the Company, with the majority of the expenses being predictable and modest in comparison with the assets of the Company.
The Company sees no issues with meeting the obligations of the gearing facility.
A significant proportion of the Companys expenses are in ad valorem investment management fees, which would naturally reduce if the market value of the Companys assets were to fall.
Taking into account the above considerations, the Board have concluded that there is a reasonable expectation that, assuming there will be a successful continuation vote at the 2019 AGM, the Company will be able to continue to operate and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next five years.
Future Strategy The Company was founded, and continues to be managed, on the basis of a long term investment strategy which seeks to generate superior returns from investments, principally in the shares of carefully selected companies in emerging markets.
The Companys results will be affected by many factors including political decisions, economic factors, the performance of investee companies and the ability of the Investment Manager to choose investments successfully.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 15 Strategy and Business Model continued The Board and the Investment Manager continue to believe in investment with a long term horizon in companies that are undervalued by stock markets but which are fundamentally strong and growing.
It is recognised that, at times, extraneous political, economic and company-specific factors will affect the performance of investments, but the Company will continue to take a long term view in the belief that patience will be rewarded.
The Companys overall strategy remains unchanged and is expected to remain consistent with these aims for the foreseeable future.
By order of the Board Paul Manduca 5 June 2018 16 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
