The Investment Manager The Investment Manager comprises a large, experienced team of emerging markets equity specialists.
Previously known as the Templeton Emerging Markets Group TEMG, the group has recently integrated with other local emerging markets teams to form the Franklin Templeton Emerging Markets Equity group FTEME or the Investment Manager.
FTEME brings together all of Franklin Templetons emerging markets investment specialists in one organisation.
Franklin Templeton is one of the pioneers of emerging market investment with more than 30 years experience and a significant presence in these areas.
With over 80 portfolio managers and analysts, FTEME is one of the largest asset managers dedicated to emerging markets investing.
Their on-the-ground presence in countries around the globe and years of relevant industry experience greatly assists their understanding of the companies researched for inclusion in the TEMIT portfolio.
FTEME analysts are responsible for researching emerging markets and deciding which companies, in their opinion, offer the strongest risk and reward opportunities for TEMIT investors over the long term.
Portfolio Manager Chetan Sehgal, CFA Chetan Sehgal became the Lead Portfolio Manager for TEMIT on 1 February 2018.
Chetan has been an integral part of the Investment Managers Emerging Markets Group since joining in 1995, contributing to the Groups investment strategy.
In October 2015, he was more formally recognised with his appointment to Senior Research Analyst and later as Deputy Portfolio Manager, working very closely with Carlos Hardenberg, the previous Lead Portfolio Manager.
Prior to October 2015, as part of the Investment Managers broader team, Chetan contributed investment research and to the overall investment strategy for TEMIT.
As part of his broader responsibilities within FTEME, Chetan is a Senior Managing Director and the Director of Portfolio Management.
In this capacity, he is responsible for managing the overall Global Emerging Markets and Small Cap strategies, providing guidance and leadership, coordinating appropriate resources and coverage, and leveraging the groups expertise to add value across funds investing in these strategies.
He joined Franklin Templeton in 1995 from the Credit Rating Information Services of India, Ltd where he was a senior analyst.
Chetan holds a BE Hons in mechanical engineering from the University of Bombay and a post-graduate diploma in management from the Indian Institute of Management in Bangalore, where he specialised in finance and business policy and graduated as an institute scholar.
Chetan speaks English and Hindi and is a Chartered Financial Analyst CFA charterholder.
As well as drawing on his wealth of experience in managing emerging markets portfolios, Chetan is able to draw on the support of the large resources of the FTEME team and the independent analysis of the Franklin Templeton Investment Risk Management Group see page 20.
Carlos Hardenberg Carlos Hardenberg was the Lead Portfolio Manager for TEMIT from 1 October 2015 until 31January2018.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 17
