MANAGERS REVIEW 2018 was the first year post the Global Financial Crisis GFC Equity market weakness provided opportunities to invest in which investors started fretting.
So inclined they found the cash that has long been burning a hole in our pocket plenty to concern them: a subject to which we will return later.
As often happens, we would have been better waiting a little longer.
However, i A Federal Reserve apparently happy to raise rates in the bells are not rung at the bottom.
face of falling markets For some time we h ave expressed frustration over the ii The beginning of the end of Quantitative Easing QE with dif culties facing value investors.
This remained the case the consequent risk of upward pressure on bond yields in 2018 with continued investor preference for stocks iii Increasing trade wars between the US and China exhibiting excellent financial characteristics thus earning iv A slowdown in Chinese economic growth themselves the moniker quality.
W hilst we understand v Increasing worldwide corporate and government debt investors appetite for companies promising durable longburden as interest rates started to rise term cash ows, we have two long-held concerns.
Firstly, we believe that much quality fails to deliver over the long-term vi The risk that after a very long period of economic as competitive advantages are eroded and secondly that recovery, the US economy was on borrowed time low bond yields are encouraging investors to overpay for vii Indications that labour costs were increasing and eating these stocks.
into corporate pro tability viii And all this against a backdrop of the worlds biggest Perhaps we should refrain from throwing stones from our equity market, the US, at historically high valuations glasshouse.
There are, after all, many commentators who believe the merits of value investing have been over-stated And for UK centric investors: and that cheap stocks are usually cheap for a reason.
And, they add, with so much technology driven change in the ix A concern that Brexit could cause a recession in the UK world, these stocks are particularly vulnerable as their economy business models become increasingly challenged.
Whereas a year ago we thought markets were pricing in a We remain believers.
Value investing has worked over the perfect scenario, that is clearly no longer the case.
Stocks long-term perhaps primarily for psychological reasons.
worldwide ended the year far more rationally priced.
Investors typically extrapolate recent experience and this often drives share prices to unjusti ed extremes.
Currently we believe we are witnessing the consequences of this dynamic in very low bond yields, very low valuations of value stocks and very high valuations for quality stocks.
ALASTAIR MUNDY Alastair, who has been the portfolio manager of Temple Bar since 2002, is head of the Value Team at Investec Asset Management having joined in 2000 from Morley Fund Management.
In addition to Temple Bar Investment Trust, Alastair manages a number of funds including the Investec Cautious Managed Fund and the Investec UK Special Situations Fund.
Alastair graduated from City University in 1988 with a Bachelor of Science degree in Actuarial Science.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 4 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION There have been few times in the last four decades when UK equity portfolios have been as divergently positioned as they are currently.
THE UK EQUITY MARKET AND THE BREXIT Our view on Brexit has not changed: ELEPHANT IN THE ROOM 1.
It is impossible to add anything of analytical value on the There have been few times in the last four decades when subject, especially given the uncertainty at the time of UK equity portfolios have been as divergently positioned writing surrounding what type of Brexit if any occurs as they are currently.
The two deep UK recessions of the 2. but investors have probably, to some extent, allowed 1980s and 1990s split investors into two camps and this was their political beliefs to affect their investment decisions.
repeated in the late 1990s as technology shares became 3.
If Brexit is bad, the worst economic effects will must have holdings in many investors eyes, leaving old probably be earlier rather than later.
But unlike the GFC, economy investors rightly claiming their companies had at least the authorities should be prepared and, one a far rosier future than their extraordinarily low valuations assumes, have a plan.
This difference of opinion was repeated in the mid 2000s when many investors i purchased stocks 4.
The UK economy will keep spinning but probably a bit most exposed to emerging economies and ii generally slower than if Brexit had not occurred.
embraced high levels of debt in companies.
A negative outcome, i. e. a UK recession, seems priced found value in the less exciting, more defensive and into a number of stocks already.
cheaper parts of the market.
A more signi cant worry for UK centric stocks is the prospect of a left-wing Labour government.
It seems In this cycle the camps are divided between quality stocks rather too early in the electoral cycle to be considering and cheap stocks, a lot of which are exposed to the this outcome unless there is a surprise early election.
vagaries of the UK economy.
With Brexit looming, many investors are simply reluctant to risk stepping into the WHAT WORKED DURING 2018?
Although the portfolio had a relatively low number It would be wrong however to blame all the ills of UK of holdings it is somewhat anomalous that few stocks domestic stocks on Brexit.
A second important factor contributed signi cantly either positively or negatively to has been concern over industry disruption particularly performance.
affecting retailers as they commit more capital to their The stock which contributed most to performance after a on-line businesses whilst continuing to support their weak 2017 was GlaxoSmithKline.
This was more due to its landed businesses.
Increasingly onerous regulation has merits as a cheap defensive stock than good operational also hampered several UK companies over the last few performance.
Towards the end of the year the company was years with speci c focus on vulnerable and loyal customers busy restructuring its portfolio selling its Horlicks brand who are often the most pro table.
This has particularly hit and reinvesting the proceeds and more to fund what the some companies within the banking, insurance, utility and market felt was an expensive oncology acquisition.
swiftly followed by an announcement that it was placing its Consumer Healthcare business into a joint venture with PORTFOLIO DISTRIBUTION % Temple Bar FTSE portfolio All-Share Index % % 13 11 1 Financials 24.4 26.2 12 10 2 Consumer Services 13.8 11.5 9 1 3 Industrials 24.0 10.9 8 7 4 Oil & Gas 11.9 14.3 6 5 Health Care 6.8 8.5 6 Basic Materials 2.7 7.8 5 7 Utilities 1.5 2.8 8 Physical Gold and Silver 3.1 2 9 Consumer Goods 5.6 13.9 4 10 Telecommunications 2.1 3.1 11 Technology 1.0 Total Equities 95.9 100.00 3 12 Fixed Interest 2.8 13 Cash 1.3 100.00 TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 8 5 MANAGERS REVIEW CONTINUED Rather than cursing our inability to time the bottom we prefer to take advantage of what we see as irrational selling to increase our holdings and thus reduce our average cost price.
P zers similar business with an intention to spin-off the joint The sales proceeds were partially re-invested in existing venture into a separate entity in 2022. holdings at depressed prices although unfortunately they were in a number of cases even more depressed by year-end.
This covered acquisitions such as Travis Perkins, Forterra, SIG had been a strong performer in 2017 which encouraged easyJet, SIG, King sher, Marks & Spencer, BT, Aggreko, Land us to reduce our holding.
However, we didnt foresee quite Securities, Countrywide, Dixons Carphone and Tesco.
We believe new management We also purchased new positions in eight stocks: Crest has delivered on its promise to simplify the business and Nicholson, McCarthy & Stone, Headlam, TP Icap, Delphi although debt reduction has been slower than expected, the Technologies, Superdry, Hipgnosis Song Funds, and Capita.
company is far healthier than a few years ago.
Although the insulation materials market has been challenging in both the We accept that each of these companies has some challenges UK and mainland Europe, operational improvements have be it on-line competition, increasing industry capacity, kept earnings estimates stable.
We believe the company industry disruption, weak demand or exposure to prices is modestly valued on current earnings and very cheap if beyond their control.
However, these issues are common margins return to historic levels and consequently added to to most companies.
We make our purchases after these the position throughout the year.
challenges become apparent - and valuations have fallen and we hold them as management attempts to work through THE OUT OF FAVOUR UNIVERSE them.
To us, that remains a superior bet to paying a high Within the UK market our universe of out-of-favour stocks valuation for a seemingly perfect company.
increased quite signi cantly during the year.
This resulted in a greater number of new holdings than in a typical year.
A common theme in our investee companies is previous management which has made sub-optimal decisions and If a stock is both out of favour and cheap on our assessment consequently added to the companys dif culties.
For of normalised earnings then we look for good reasons not to example, retirement home builder McCarthy & Stones own it.
These often fall into one or more of four buckets if management was too focussed on meeting the high-growth the company has an inappropriate level of debt: if corporate expectations promised to investors at IPO at the cost of governance including capital allocation is poor: if the ensuring its developments were well located, ef ciently business is overly complex or excessively dependent on constructed and properly marketed: Countrywides a variable which is both out of the companys control and management removed a lot of entrepreneurial decision appears highly priced: and if the business is under extreme making from estate agency branches which impacted on pressure from structural changes in the industry.
market share in a falling market and Capitas management was obsessed on growth in new sectors in preference to Admittedly, these decisions are highly subjective.
For optimising performance in the core business.
example, many investors would argue that Marks & Spencers issues are largely structural as consumers move away from New management is more willing to embrace the dif cult the high street and to on-line.
There is clearly some truth issues, streamline the business and, perhaps most positively, in this, but sometimes the narrative around a company is offer a new perspective.
Expectations are so low for these too simple.
Even the Marks & Spencer management admits companies that it would take little in the way of good news to many of its problems have been self-in icted and we believe impress the market.
In other words, these stocks seem to be self-help operational improvements are just as, if not more, priced for a far from certain failure.
important for the equity story as the structural issues affecting the industry.
Even when we nd sympathy for our approach we are questioned whether we really need to buy these stocks so PORTFOLIO ACTIVITY early i. e. on the way down rather than awaiting validation During the last year our strategy has been nally to spend of the recovery.
We have asked ourselves this a lot, but our some of the cash we have been holding and, as usual, to conclusion has not really changed.
Often the shares can switch some winners into underperformers.
We disposed bounce signi cantly before any such validation and one is left of two very long-term winners, Games Workshop and paying a higher price for the same facts.
Direct Line was sold following strong our inability to time the bottom we prefer to take advantage performance since its IPO and we were very lucky in selling of what we see as irrational selling to increase our holdings Royal Mail Group part way through the year as first signs and thus reduce our average cost price.
that the operation recovery was slowing became apparent.
We also capitulated on Centrica believing we had more straightforward and cheaper opportunities elsewhere and Signet Jewelers new management having made some puzzling capital allocation decisions.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 6 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Following activity over the year, the portfolio is more fully invested than it has been for some time.
PORTFOLIO POSITIONING Our central thesis is that despite or perhaps because of its intuitive attractions it is dangerous to build a portfolio Following activity over the year, the portfolio is more fully structured for a recessionary outcome.
This is partially invested than it has been for some time.
It is also heavily because the valuations of stocks deemed attractive in those weighted towards nancials particularly banks, consumer conditions are already quite high but also as we believe stocks particularly those in food and clothing retailing authorities would use shock and awe tactics in such a and industrials through large holdings in companies scenario, preferring to risk in ation ahead of negative exposed to repair, maintenance and housing improvement.
The portfolio stands at a signi cant discount to our assessment of its true worth driven by investor dislike of We believe policymakers have made life very dif cult for both UK centric stocks and value stocks in general.
6% of themselves and that markets could react quite violently the portfolio is allocated to precious metal investments if there are perceived policy mistakes.
This informs our see below.
decision to allocate 6% of the portfolio to precious metals.
This represents a bet against the chances of central bankers OUTLOOK and politicians pleasing everyone.
Investors are very skittish currently and as we outlined at the start of this review have much to be skittish about.
With We think an upward sloping yield curve a situation in global economic growth having probably peaked, Central which investors demand higher yields on long-dated bonds Banks have apparently missed the small opportunity than short-dated bonds is a likely conclusion to this cycle they had to return rates closer to historical levels.
The with short-term rates being kept low to allow debt to be importance of this will become apparent the next time they nanced and rates rising at the longer end on the back of wish to relax monetary policy.
increased bond issuance and in ationary concerns.
Come the next slowdown we may learn whether If investors start adjusting to a rising bond yield backdrop conventional interest rates will make a meaningful after more than three decades of falling yields this could economic impact and, if not, whether Central Banks will catalyse signi cant market activity.
Low bond yields have impose negative interest rates or instead return to QE.
been used to justify higher equity valuations so it seems Whilst more QE may be implemented, it would probably be only right to assume higher bond yields could bring about considered by many as excessively risky or likely to bene t lower valuations for many stocks.
financial markets more than the real economy.
Consequently, expansionary scal policy could become Alastair Mundy increasingly relevant even though government debt is For Investec Fund Managers Limited quite high already especially as the trend to populism grows worldwide.
