Report of the Directors and Governance Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report, together with the Financial Statements of the Company, for the year ended 31 March 2018.
Board of Directors Paul Manduca Chairman Paul Manduca was appointed to the Board and the Management Engagement Committee on 1 August 2015.
Paul took over as Chairman on 20 November 2015.
He was appointed to the Nomination Committee on 22 February 2016 and is Committee Chairman.
He is currently Chairman of Prudential plc, one of the worlds leading financial services groups with significant emerging market exposure.
Paul has had a long and successful career in asset management, both as a fund manager and as chief executive of fund management groups.
He is an independent Director.
Fees for the year 63,000: beneficial interest 5,000shares.
Attendance Record: Board 4 4, Nomination Committee 1 1 and Management Engagement Committee 1 1.
Hamish N Buchan Hamish Buchan was appointed to the Board and the Audit Committee on 26 June 2008, the Management Engagement Committee on 12 June 2012 and the Nomination Committee on 18 July 2014.
Mr. Buchan is also the Senior Independent Director and is due to retire from these positions at the 2018 AGM.
He is currently Chairman of Personal Assets Trust plc.
Mr. Buchan has been involved with the investment company sector for over almost 50 years, and for 30 years was one of the leading UK Investment Trust sector analysts, working with Wood Mackenzie & Co and its successor owners.
Since semi-retiring in 2000, he has been a director of nine investment companies as well as Chairman of the Association of Investment Companies.
He will stand down at the conclusion of the AGM in July 2018.
Fees for the year 36,000: beneficial interest 15,000 shares.
Attendance Record: Board 4 4, Audit Committee 3 3, Nomination Committee 1 1 and Management Engagement Committee 1 1.
38 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Directors Report continued David Graham David Graham joined the TEMIT Board and Audit Committee on 1 September 2016.
He is also a member of the Management Engagement Committee.
David is a Chartered Accountant whose career has been in investment management, firstly as an Asian fund manager with Lazards and then building businesses across Asia Pacific, Europe, the Middle East and Africa for BlackRock and predecessor firms Merrill Lynch Investment Managers and Mercury Asset Management.
David has worked in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Sydney and has been a Representative Director in domestic, joint venture, fund management companies in India, China, Thailand and Taiwan.
David is an advisor to BlackRock in the Asia Pacific region and is one of BlackRocks nominated Directors on the Board of DSP BlackRock, a fund management joint venture in India.
He is also a non-executive Director of both JPMorgan Chinese Investment Trust and Fidelity Japan Trust.
Fees for the year 36,000: beneficial interest 9,298 shares.
Attendance Record: Board 4 4, Audit Committee 3 3 and Management Engagement Committee 1 1.
Beatrice Hollond Beatrice Hollond joined the TEMIT Board and the Audit Committee on 1 April 2014.
She was appointed to the Nomination Committee on 22 February 2016 and the Management Engagement Committee on 1 April 2014.
Beatrice Hollond is a non-executive Director of M&G Group Limited and sits on the main Board and International Advisory Board of US based Brown Advisory.
She is Chair of Keystone Investment Trust plc and a non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Henderson Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc.
Beatrice is a non-executive Director of Telecom Plus PLC and a non-executive Director of Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC.
She had a long career in the investment industry, starting as UK equity analyst at Morgan Grenfell, before spending 16 years at Credit Suisse Asset Management.
Beatrice has experience as a fund manager, as well as 13 years as a non-executive Director in the investment trust sector.
She is an independent Director.
Fees for the year 36,000: beneficial interest 6,250 shares.
Attendance Record: Board 4 4, Audit Committee 3 3, Nomination Committee 1 1 and Management Engagement Committee 1 1. www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 39 Directors Report continued Simon Jeffreys Simon Jeffreys joined the TEMIT Board on 15 July 2016 and became Chairman of the Audit Committee on 13 July 2017.
Simon has been a non-executive Director of St James Place plc since 2014 and is Chair of their Audit Committee and a member of their Remuneration and Risk Committees.
Simon is on the Board of Directors and chairs the audit committee of SimCorp A S since 2011 and is Chairman of Henderson International Income Investment Trust.
He was previously Chief Administrative Officer for Fidelity International and for most of his professional life was a partner in , where he was the global leader of the firms investment management and real estate practice.
Simon is currently Chairman of The Aon UK Limited Board where previously he served as Chairman of The Audit Committee between May 2009 and November 2015.
Simon was also a Senior Advisor of the Wellcome Trust, having been that organisations Chief Operating Officer from 2009 to 2014.
Fees for the year 44,700: beneficial interest 5,392 shares.
Gregory E Johnson Gregory Johnson was appointed to the Board on 12 December 2007.
He is the Chairman of the Board and Director of Franklin Resources, Inc. and serves as the Chief Executive Officer of the company.
Mr. Johnson serves as a trustee, director or officer on a number of the companys subsidiaries and fund boards.
He joined Franklin Resources in 1986 and has held numerous roles within the company.
Fees for the year nil: beneficial interest nil shares.
40 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Directors Report continued The terms and conditions of the Directors appointments are set out in their Letters of Appointment, which are available for inspection on request at the registered office of the Company and at the AGM.
Board Changes and Succession Planning Peter Harrison and Christopher Brady both served on the Board from 2007 until their retirement on 13 July 2017.
Hamish Buchan, the Senior Independent Director, is retiring at the conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
Beatrice Hollond will become Senior Independent Director following the conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
Charlie Ricketts will join the Board at the conclusion of the AGM, subject to shareholder approval.
He is an experienced investment professional with a wealth of investment management, marketing and corporate broking experience.
Board Committees The Audit Committee comprises Simon Jeffreys Chairman, Hamish Buchan, David Graham and BeatriceHollond.
The formal Report of the Audit Committee is on pages 57 to 61.
The Management Engagement Committee comprises Paul Manduca Chairman, Hamish Buchan, David Graham, Beatrice Hollond and Simon Jeffreys.
The role of the Committee is to review the performance of, and the contractual arrangements with the Manager.
The Management Engagement Committee has undertaken a formal investment review of TEMITs portfolio management during the year.
The review considered investment strategy, investment process, performance and risk, and was carried out through meetings between the Management Engagement Committee and members of the investment and risk management teams of the Manager.
The Nomination Committee comprises Paul Manduca Chairman, Hamish Buchan and Beatrice Hollond.
The role of the Committee is to review regularly the Board structure, size and composition and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments that seem appropriate, to consider the rotation and renewal of the Board, approve the candidate specification for all Board appointments, approve the process by which suitable candidates are identified and short-listed, and to nominate candidates for consideration by the full Board, whose responsibility it is to make appointments.
The Committee also considers the effectiveness of individual Directors and makes recommendations to the Board in respect of re-elections.
The Committee keeps under review the balance of skills, independence, knowledge of the Company and experience and length of service of the Directors.
When the composition of the Board requires review, female candidates will be encouraged to apply and progress will be actively monitored in relation to diversity.
An external search consultant will be used to assist with the selection of candidates in relation to new appointments.
The Committee periodically reviews the level of Directors fees relative to other comparable companies and in the light of the Directors responsibilities.
In doing so, the Committee will access independent research and may obtain advice from external sources.
The Chairman of the Nomination Committee will attend the Companys AGM and will be prepared to respond to questions which may be raised by shareholders on matters within the Nomination Committees responsibilities.
A copy of the terms of reference for the Audit Committee, Management Engagement Committee and Nomination Committee are available to shareholders on the TEMIT website www.
co. uk or upon request via Client Dealer Services using the contact details provided on the inside back cover of this report.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 41 Directors Report continued The Board The primary focus of the Directors at regular Board meetings is the consideration of investment performance and outlook, market activity, discount control mechanisms including share buy backs, gearing, marketing, shareholder profile, investor relations, peer group information, review of top risks and investment risk reporting, regulatory updates, corporate governance and industry issues.
Further details of the Directors responsibilities can be found in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 62.
In addition to the primary focus of the Board, the following important matters were considered at Board meetings during the year: Lead Portfolio Manager change: Introduction of treasury shares: Review of three year marketing plan and contribution to marketing costs from the Manager: Agreement reached with the Manager on a revised management fee: Introduction of interim dividends: and Introduction of stock lending.
Board Evaluation The Board undertakes an annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors including the Chairman.
The Board has also considered the independence of each Director.
In 2017, TEMIT engaged Lintstock Ltd to facilitate an evaluation of the performance of the Board of Directors.
Lintstock is an advisory firm that specialises in Board reviews and provides no other services to the Company.
The first stage of the review involved Lintstock engaging with the key project sponsors to set the context for the evaluation and to tailor the survey content to the specific circumstances of the Company.
All Board members were then invited to complete an online survey addressing the performance of the Board, its Committees, the Chairman and the Manager.
The anonymity of the respondents was ensured throughout the process in order to promote an open and frank exchange of views.
Lintstock subsequently produced a report addressing the following areas of performance: The composition of the Board was assessed, and Board members were asked to identify the key attributes that should be prioritised in future Director appointments: The relationships and dynamics between Board members were reviewed, as was the engagement between the Directors and the Manager: The management and focus of the Board meetings was considered, and the Board members views as to areas on which the Board spends too much, or too little, time were identified: The performance of the Board in overseeing the overall strategy was addressed, as was the effectiveness with which the Board monitors Company performance, risks to the Company and succession matters: 42 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Directors Report continued The performance of the Manager and the support they provide to the Board was considered: and The members of the Board also identified the top priorities for improving the Boards performance over the coming year.
The output of the Review was discussed at a subsequent Board meeting and, as a result of the exercise, the Board agreed to continue its focus on succession planning for Directors, and review the scope of support provided from the Manager.
The Chairman confirms that, following performance evaluation, each Directors performance continues to be effective and they demonstrate commitment to their role.
Formal performance evaluations will continue to take place at least annually.
Directors Conflicts of Interest The Companys Articles give the Directors authority to approve conflicts and potential conflicts with the Companys interests, where appropriate.
There are safeguards which apply when Directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict and these have been operated effectively.
Firstly, only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to make the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The Company maintains a register of Directors conflicts of interest which have been disclosed and approved by the other Directors.
Directors are reminded at each Board meeting to disclose any conflicts not previously disclosed.
Gregory Johnson is not present when the performance of the Manager and Investment Manager are considered.
Indemnification and Insurance The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with each of the Directors.
These are qualifying third party indemnity provisions and are in force as at the date of this report.
This information is disclosed in accordance with Sections 236 2 and 236 3 of the 2006 Act.
The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against the Directors.
The Company Principal Activity and Investment Company Status The Company is a public limited company in terms of the Companies Act 2006 and is an investment company under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006. www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 43 Directors Report continued The Company has been accepted as an approved investment trust by HM Revenue & Customs for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 April 2012, subject to continuing to meet the eligibility conditions of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and the ongoing requirements of The Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011.
The Directors are satisfied that the Company intends to direct its affairs to ensure its continued approval as an investment trust.
The Company is an Alternative Investment Fund AIF under the European Unions Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
Results and Dividends The capital gain for the year was 204.2 million 2017: gain of 680.4 million and the revenue profit was 44.1 million 2017: 19.0 million.
The full results for the Company are disclosed in the Income Statement on page 70.
The Directors propose an ordinary dividend of 15.00 pence per share 2017: 8.25 pence and, if approved by shareholders at the AGM on 12 July 2018, the dividend will be payable on 19 July 2018 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 15 June 2018.
Gearing As part of the Companys investment objective and policy, the Company may borrow up to 10% of its net assets.
On 31 January 2017, the Company entered into a three year, 150 million, unsecured, multi-currency, revolving loan facility with The Bank of Nova Scotia, London Branch.
Under the facility, up to 150 million may be borrowed with drawings available in pounds sterling, US dollars and Chinese renminbi CNH.
The maximum amount of CNH which may be drawn down is the equivalent of 30 million.
The Company has no other debt.
The Manager has been granted discretion by the Board to draw down the debt as investment opportunities arise, subject to overall supervision by the Board.
At the year end, 49.5 million and USD 133.3 million 95.1 million had been drawn down and are repayable within one year 2017: CNH 214.1 million and USD 73.3 million 24.9 million and 58.5 million respectively.
Financial Share Capital Changes in the share capital of the Company are set out in Note 10 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
44 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Directors Report continued Share Buy Backs The Board is once again seeking shareholder permission to continue its programme of share buy backs as outlined on page 51.
A key point in the Investment Managers mandate is to take a long-term view of investments and one of the advantages of a closed end fund is that the portfolio structure is not disrupted by large inflows or outflows of cash.
However, the Board and the Investment Manager recognise that the returns experienced by shareholders are in the form of movements in the share price, which are not directly linked to NAV movements, and the shares may trade at varying discounts or premiums to NAV.
Many shareholders, both professional and private investors, have expressed a view that a high level of volatility in the discount is undesirable.
A less volatile discount, and hence share price, is seen as important to investors.
For this reason, TEMIT uses share buy backs selectively with the intention of limiting volatility and where it is in the interests of shareholders.
2018 2017 Shares bought back and cancelled during the year 3,705,033 16,395,704 Proportion of share capital bought back and cancelled 1.3% 5.5% Shares bought back and placed into treasury during the year 5,956,611 Proportion of share capital bought back and placed into treasury 2.1% Total share capital bought back 9,661,644 16,395,704 Total cost of share buy backs 72.5m 89.4m The benefit to NAV 10.3m 13.7m The benefit to NAV 0.4% 0.8% Auditor The Audit Committee has recommended that Deloitte LLP, appointed in 2009, be reappointed as the Companys auditor.
Deloitte LLP has expressed a willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution proposing their reappointment will be submitted at the AGM.
Further details on the assessment of the auditor can be found within the Report of the Audit Committee on page 60.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant information of which the Companys auditor was unaware and that each Director had taken all steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves appraised of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor was notified of that information.
This confirmation is given, and should be interpreted in accordance with, the provision of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 45 Directors Report continued Substantial Shareholdings As at 24 May 2018 and 31 March 2018, the Company had been notified that the following were interested in 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company.
Name Number of shares 24 May 2018 % City of London Investment Management Company Limited 33,661,234 12.5 Lazard Asset Management LLC Group 25,368,504 9.5 Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 17,233,887 6.4 Old Mutual Plc 13,343,118 5.0 Rathbone Brothers PLC 10,396,884 3.9 Equiniti Investment Account 7,936,684 3.0 Name Number of shares 31 March 2018 % City of London Investment Management Company Limited 34,784,442 12.8 Lazard Asset Management LLC Group 27,256,475 10.0 Old Mutual Plc 19,061,343 7.0 Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 18,523,449 6.8 Rathbone Brothers PLC 10,394,852 3.8 Equiniti Investment Account 8,291,208 3.0 Principal Service Providers Alternative Investment Fund Manager, Secretary and Administrator Franklin Templeton International Services S. r. l. is the Alternative Investment Fund Manager, Secretary and Administrator with the role of investment management delegated to Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML.
Portfolio Managers from TAML form part of the wider Franklin Templeton Emerging Markets Equity group FTEME.
The main secretarial duties involve compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations which the Company must observe.
The annual ad valorem fee rate for the services provided by FTIS, including investment management, risk management, secretarial and administration services, was 1.1% of shareholders funds to 30 June 2017.
With effect from 1 July 2017 the annual ad valorem fee paid to FTIS was reduced to 1% of shareholders funds up to the value of 2 billion and 0.85% of shareholders funds above 2 billion.
With effect from 1 July 2018, the annual AIFM fee will be reduced to 1% of net assets up to 1 billion and 0.85% of net assets above 1 billion.
The agreement between the Company and FTIS may be terminated by either party, given one years notice, but in certain circumstances the Company may be required to pay compensation to FTIS of an amount up to one years fee.
No compensation is payable if at least one years notice of termination is given.
Details of the Remuneration Policy of the Alternative Investment Fund Manager and amounts attributable to the Company are available to existing shareholders upon request at the registered office of the Company.
46 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Directors Report continued The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of investment management services to the Company on an ongoing basis, and a formal review is conducted annually by the Management Engagement Committee, which consists solely of Directors independent of Franklin Templeton.
Gregory Johnson is not present when the Managers and Investment Managers performance is reviewed.
When assessing the performance of the Manager and Investment Manager, the Board believes it is appropriate to make this assessment over a medium to long-term timeframe, which is in accordance with the long-term approach taken to investment.
In the opinion of the Directors, the continuing appointment of FTIS is in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole.
Depositary and Custodian J. P. Morgan Europe Limited performs the role of depositary for the Company and is responsible for the provision of depositary, custodial and settlement services.
The depositary agreement may be terminated by either party giving the other 90 days notice.
A detailed list of service providers, along with addresses, can be found in the General Information section on page 94.
Corporate Governance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board is accountable to the shareholders for good governance and this statement describes how governance principles have been applied.
Association of Investment Companies Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code The Board considers that reporting against the principles of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, will provide helpful information to the shareholders.
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2018, the Company complied with the provisions of the AIC Guide and AIC Code.
A statement explaining TEMITs compliance with the AIC Code principles can be found at www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 47 Directors Report continued Additional Information for New Zealand Shareholders As a result of a requirement for Overseas Issuers listed on the New Zealand Stock Exchange, the following should be noted by New Zealand shareholders: The corporate governance rules and principles in TEMITs home exchange jurisdiction of the United Kingdom may materially differ from the New Zealand Stock Exchange NZX corporate governance rules and the principles of the NZX Corporate Governance Code: Investors may find more information about the corporate governance and principles of TEMITs homeexchange in the United Kingdom in the above Corporate Governance statement and online at www.
cfm: and The Company relies on the Financial Markets Conduct Overseas FMC Reporting Entities Exemption Notice 2016, issued by the New Zealand Financial Markets Authority, which exempts it from certain financial reporting obligations under the Financial Markets Conduct Act 2013.
Schedule of Reserved Matters The Board has formally adopted a Schedule of Reserved Matters, which details the matters which the Board has agreed are specifically reserved for their collective decision.
These matters include, inter alia, approval of the Half-Yearly and Annual Financial Statements, recommendation of the dividend, approval of any preliminary results announcements of the Company, approval of any proposed changes to the Companys investment objective and or policy, appointment or removal of the Companys Manager or Investment Manager, gearing, Board membership and Board committee membership and any major changes to the investment objective, philosophy or policy of the Company, other than any such changes delegated to the Investment Manager under the Investment Management Agreement.
The day to day investment management of the portfolio of the Company is delegated to the Investment Manager, which manages the portfolio in accordance with the investment objectives of the Company as set by the Board.
Environmental, Social and Governance Details of the Companys approach to environmental, social and governance issues can be found on page 14.
Activities in the Field of Research and Development The Company does not undertake activities in the field of research and development.
Institutional Shareholder Voting and Engagement As an institutional investor, the Company recognises its responsibility that the companies in which it invests should aspire to appropriate levels of corporate governance.
As a matter of policy, the Company aims to utilise its votes in shares held in the relevant underlying portfolio companies at the general meetings of these companies.
48 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Directors Report continued The Company has engaged with the Investment Manager in relation to its approach to the Stewardship Code the Code.
The Company and the Investment Manager generally support the Principles of the Code as outlined below.
On-going monitoring of investee companies and dialogue with management are fundamental to the Investment Managers investment approach.
The strategy on intervention with investee companies is dealt with on a case-by-case basis and is usually a judgement made by the Investment Manager based on the research done on each investee company for the investment decision making process.
In all cases, the Investment Manager holds regular review meetings with the senior management of investee companies.
At the same time, there may be instances in which activism is not consistent with the Investment Managers fiduciary duty.
For example, in the process of company research and monitoring, a significant problem or risk may be identified, and the Investment Manager may decide it is better to sell a position than to seek to undertake a lengthy engagement with management.
The Investment Manager has adopted proxy voting policies and procedures which cover voting guidelines, processing and maintenance of proxy records and conflicts of interest.
Summary information on the exercise of proxies is reviewed quarterly by the Board.
Voting records for the Company detailing the proxies voted for investee companies are not currently published.
The Company considers that there is limited demand for such detailed disclosure and therefore the administrative burden and expense is not justified.
Risk Management Objectives and Policy The Company invests in equities and other investments for the long term to achieve its objective, as stated on page 8.
This creates potential exposure to the risks as stated on pages 12 and 13.
Further details on the AIFMD risk disclosures can be found on the Companys website.
Internal Control Details of the Companys system of internal controls can be found on pages 59 and 60. www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 49 Directors Report continued Annual General Meeting The AGM on Thursday 12 July 2018, will be held at Stationers Hall, Ave Maria Lane, London.
Ordinary Business It is proposed to receive and adopt the Directors and Auditors Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2018.
It is proposed to declare an ordinary dividend of 15.00 pence per share, payable on 19 July 2018 to shareholders on the register as at close of business on 15 June 2018.
It is proposed to elect Charlie Ricketts as an independent non-executive director with effect from the conclusion of the AGM on 12 July 2018.
He has over 30 years experience within the investment company sector.
Until 2014, he was the head of investment funds at Cenkos Securities plc, providing equity capital markets services to the fund management industry and to investment trust companies.
He was previously a managing director of UBS Investment Bank and was then head of investment companies.
In 2014 MrRicketts founded Crix Capital Limited, a consultancy, enterprise philanthropy and venture funding business.
Heis also a non-executive director of Edinburgh Dragon Trustplc, CEO of Carefreebreaks and Chairman of Privatus Club.
It is proposed to re-elect each of the other current Directors with the exception of Hamish Buchan, who will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM.
It is proposed to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor and to authorise the Directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Special Business The Special Business to be dealt with at the forthcoming AGM of the Company is: i Authority for the Allotment of New Shares The resolutions to allot shares are set out in resolutions 12 and 13 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
These resolutions, if passed, will give your Directors power to allot for cash equity securities of the Company and or to sell equity securities held as treasury shares up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 3,354,093 being an amount equal to 5% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 24 May 2018 as if Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act did not apply this section requires, when shares are to be allotted for cash or shares held as treasury shares are sold, that such shares first be offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings of shares, this entitlement being known as pre-emption rights.
The authorities contained in resolutions 12 and 13 will continue until the AGM of the Company in 2019 and your Directors envisage seeking the renewal of this authority in 2019 and in each succeeding year.
Your Directors will only issue new shares other than in accordance with pre-emption rights at a price above the prevailing net asset value per share.
50 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Directors Report continued ii Authority to Purchase Own Shares At the AGM of the Company held on 13 July 2017, a Special Resolution was passed authorising the Company to purchase its shares in the market, a maximum of 14.99% of the shares in issue on 13 July 2017 or 42,105,217 shares, whichever is lower, up to the conclusion of the AGM in 2018.
The present authority expires at the end of the AGM on 12 July 2018.
The Directors are seeking renewal of the authority to purchase the Companys shares in the market, being a maximum of 14.99% of the shares in issue on 12 July 2018 or 40,222,277 shares, whichever is the lower, at the 2018 AGM.
This is set out in resolution 14 of the notice of the AGM.
Any shares purchased pursuant to this authority may be cancelled or held in treasury pursuant to the Companies Acquisition of own shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003.
Purchases will only be made for cash at a cost which is below the prevailing net asset value per share.
Under the rules of the UK Listing Authority, the maximum price which may be paid is the higher of: a 5% above the average market value of the shares for the five business days before the purchase is made: b t he higher of the last independent trade price and the highest current independent bid price on the London Stock Exchange: and c The minimum price payable for the shares will be the nominal value of 25 pence per share.
The authority to purchase shares whether for cancellation or to be held in treasury will only be exercised if to do so would be in the best interests of shareholders generally and would result in an increase in net asset value per share for the remaining shareholders.
The purpose of holding some shares in treasury is to allow the Company to re-issue those shares quickly and cost-effectively, thus providing the Company with greater flexibility in the management of its capital base.
Whilst in treasury, no dividends are payable on, or voting rights attach to, these shares.
Other than in accordance with a dispensation from the UK Listing Authority, no shares will be purchased by the Company during periods when the Company would be prohibited from making such purchases by the rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The Directors envisage seeking the renewal of the relevant authority in 2019 and in each succeeding year.
iii Notice period for general meetings At the AGM of the Company held on 13 July 2017, a Special Resolution was passed authorising the Company to call general meetings other than Annual General Meetings on 14 days clear notice, up to the conclusion of the AGM in 2018.
The Directors are seeking renewal of the authority to call general meetings other than Annual General Meetings on 14 days clear notice, up to the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2019.
This is set out in resolution 15 of the notice of the AGM.
This resolution is required to reflect the implementation of the EU Shareholder Rights Directive which requires that all general meetings must be held on 21 days notice, unless shareholders agree to a shorter notice period.
The Directors only intend to call a general meeting on less than 21 days notice where the proposals are time sensitive and the short notice would clearly be an advantage to the shareholders as a whole.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 51 Directors Report continued The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will also be required to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Directive before it can call a general meeting on 14 days notice.
Recommendation The Directors believe that all of the resolutions proposed are in the best interests of the Company and the shareholders as a whole, and recommend that all shareholders vote in favour of all the resolutions.
The results of the votes on the resolutions at the AGM will be published on the Companys website www.
Going Concern The Companys assets consist of equity shares in companies listed on recognised stock exchanges and in most circumstances are realisable within a short timescale.
Having made suitable enquiries, including considerations of the Companys investment objective, the nature of the portfolio, net current liabilities, expenditure forecasts and the principal risks and uncertainties described within the Annual Report, the Directors are satisfied that the Company has adequate resources to continue to operate as a going concern for a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements and for the foreseeable future and, as such, a going concern basis is appropriate in preparing the Financial Statements.
By order of the Board Paul Manduca 5 June 2018 52 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
