Corporate governance Directors report The Directors present their report, together with the audited accounts Major shareholders for the 52 weeks ended 24 February 2018.
Information provided to the Company by major shareholders pursuant to the FCAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR are published via a Dividends Regulatory Information Service and are available on the Companys website.
Reflecting Tescos improved performance and the Boards confidence The Company had been notified under Rule 5 of the DTR of the following in its future prospects, on 4 October 2017 the Company announced interests in voting rights in its shares as at 24 February 2018 and as at the the restoration of its dividend and on 24 November 2017 paid an interim date of this report: dividend of 1.0p per ordinary share this follows payment of no dividend % of total voting % of total voting in the 52 weeks ended 25 February 2017 and 27 February 2016 and rights as at rights as at the payment of a dividend of 1.16p per ordinary share in the 53 weeks ended 24 February 2018 date of this report 28 February 2015.
The Board expects a broadly one-third, two-thirds split BlackRock, Inc 6.63 6.64 between the interim and final dividend and is intending to pay a final dividend GIC Private Limited 3.08 3 for the 52 weeks ending 24 February 2018 of 2.0p per ordinary share Norges Bank 5.96 4.99 subject to shareholder approval, with dividends expected to grow from Schroders plc 4.99 4.99 2017, with the aim of achieving a target cover of approximately two times earnings per share over the medium term.
Articles of Association Certain nominee companies representing our employee benefit trusts hold The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by special shares in the Company in connection with the operation of the Companys resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
share plans and evergreen dividend waivers remain in place on shares held Directors and their interests by them that have not been allocated to employees.
The biographical details of the current serving Directors are set out Share capital and control of the Company and significant agreements on pages 28 and 29.
The Directors who served during the year were: Details of the Companys share capital, including changes during the John Allan: Mark Armour: Steve Golsby: Byron Grote: Dave Lewis: Mikael year in the issued share capital and details of the rights attaching to the Olsson: Deanna Oppenheimer: Simon Patterson: Alison Platt: Lindsey Pownall Companys ordinary shares are set out in Note 28 on page 126.
In accordance and Alan Stewart.
The interests of Directors and their immediate families with the terms of the cash and share merger with Booker Group plc in the shares of Tesco PLC, along with details of Directors share options, approved by shareholders on 28 February 2018 the Merger, Tesco PLC are contained in the Directors remuneration report set out on pages issued 1,547,854,846 ordinary shares on 5 March 2018 to holders of 45 to 64.
Booker Group plc ordinary shares.
On 5 March 2018 Stewart Gilliland and Charles Wilson were appointed to No shareholder holds securities carrying special rights with regards to the Tesco PLC Board.
Except for the Lock Up Agreement described At no time during the year did any of the Directors have a material interest further below, which the Company has entered into with Charles Wilson, in any significant contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
CEO UK & ROI, there are no other restrictions on voting rights or the transfer A qualifying third party indemnity provision as defined in Section 234 of the of securities in the Company and the Company is not aware of any agreements Companies Act 2006 is in force for the benefit of each of the Directors and between holders of securities that result in such restrictions.
the Company Secretary who is also a Director of certain subsidiaries of the On 27 January 2017, Charles Wilson entered into a Lock up Agreement as part Company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office, to the of the Merger under which he agreed not to subject to certain customary extent permitted by law.
In respect of those liabilities for which Directors carve-outs dispose of his holding of 24,533 ordinary shares in the Company.
may not be indemnified, the Company maintained a Directors and Officers In an extension to the Lock up Agreement, Charles Wilson recorded his liability insurance policy throughout the financial year.
intention not to dispose of the entire 113,675,542 ordinary shares in the Employment policies Company he received as a Booker shareholder pursuant to the Merger without Our employment policies are regularly reviewed to ensure they are simple, Tescos consent during the lock-up period of five years from 5 March 2018. helpful and trusted to enable an honest and transparent employment The Company was authorised by shareholders at the 2017 AGM to purchase culture.
We are continuously focused upon strengthening our policy position its own shares in the market up to a maximum of approximately 10% of its in order to maintain this vision and culture.
Much of our focus over the past issued share capital.
No shares were purchased under that authority during year, has been placed upon removing complexity and hierarchy from our the financial year.
The Company is seeking to renew the authority at the policies to create more clarity and fairness for our colleagues.
As we forthcoming AGM, within the limits set out in the notice of that meeting continue to transition towards more enabling technology, our focus remains and in line with the recommendations of the Pre-emption Group.
on how we can make our policies and the processes that sit within these more accessible to our colleagues.
This enables self-service, and provides Shares held by the Companys Share Incentive Plan Trust, International our colleagues with direct access to the information they need to help and Employee Benefit Trust, Employees Share Scheme Trust and Tesco Ireland support them at work.
Share Bonus Scheme Trust rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
Voting rights and rights of acceptance of any offer relating We recognise that in order to drive our business forward we must respond to the shares held in these trusts rests with the trustees, who may take to colleague feedback.
Therefore, we continue to work towards improving our account of any recommendation from the Company.
Voting rights are not communication to colleagues to ensure they are engaged with the decisions exercisable by the employees on whose behalf the shares are held in trust.
we make, and so we can respond to their feedback.
We also continue to work together with our recognised trade union in the UK, Usdaw, to ensure our The Company is not party to any significant agreements that would take policies are right for our business and that they support the employment effect, alter or terminate following a change of control of the Company.
needs of all our colleagues.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or officer that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from Our Equal Opportunities, Diversity and Inclusion policies support managers a takeover, except that provisions of the Companys share plans may cause and colleagues in creating a diverse and inclusive culture where everyone options and awards granted under such plans to vest on a takeover.
Our policies demonstrate our commitment to providing equal opportunities to all colleagues, irrespective of age, disability, gender, marriage Share forfeiture and civil partnership, pregnancy or maternity, race, religion or belief, sex, The Company implemented a share forfeiture programme following or sexual orientation.
We offer a range of colleague networks to maintain the completion of a tracing and notification exercise to any shareholders a culture of inclusivity, including: Out at Tesco: Women at Tesco: Black Asian who had not had contact with the Company over the past 12 years, in Minority Ethnic Network: Armed Forces Network: and Disability Network.
accordance with the provisions set out in the Companys Articles.
Under We are proud to be a Disability Confident Employer as part of the UK the share forfeiture programme the shares and dividends associated with Governments Disability Confident scheme, a Global Diversity champion shares of untraced members were forfeited, with the resulting proceeds with Stonewall and a gold member of the UK Governments Armed Forces transferred to the Company to use for good causes in line with the Groups Covenant.
This demonstrates Tescos commitment to ensuring we create corporate responsibility strategy.
During the period, the Company received an environment where all colleagues have the opportunity to get on.
3m proceeds from sale of untraced shares and 2m write-back of unclaimed dividends, which were reflected in share premium and retained earnings.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 65 Directors report continued We actively encourage colleagues to become involved in the financial Events after the balance sheet date performance of our business through a variety of share and bonus schemes.
On 5 March 2018 the recommended share and cash merger with Booker Group plc completed, following shareholder approval on 28 February 2018 All of these components are intrinsically linked to our Little Helps Plan, the Merger.
The proposed Merger was announced by the Company on more information on this can be found on pages 16 to 21 or on 27 January 2017 and received regulatory approval from the Competition www.
and Markets Authority on 20 December 2017.
More information on the Political donations Merger can be found on pages 7, 15 and in Note 35 on page 131.
The Group did not make any political donations 2016 17: nil or incur any Directors statement of disclosure of information to the auditor political expenditure during the year 2016 17: nil.
Having made the requisite enquiries, the Directors in office at the date Compliance with the Groceries Supply Chain Practices Market Investigation of this Annual Report and Financial Statements have each confirmed that, Order 2009 and the Groceries Supply Code of Practice the Code so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined The Code regulates aspects of the commercial relationship between the by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Groups auditor is largest 10 grocery retailers in the UK and their suppliers of grocery products, unaware, and each of the Directors has taken all the steps he she ought establishing an overarching principle that retailers must deal with their to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant suppliers fairly and lawfully.
Specific supplier protections under the Code audit information and to establish that the Groups auditor is aware of include the obligation for agreements to be in writing and copies retained, that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in reasonable notice to be given of changes to the supply chain or reduction in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. the volume of purchases, and a number of provisions relating to payments Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information by suppliers, including obligations for retailers to pay suppliers without delay Where this document contains forward-looking statements, these are made and a prohibition on certain types of payments, such as those for shrinkage.
by the Directors in good faith based on the information available to them at the Retailer compliance with the Code is overseen by the Groceries Code time of their approval of this report.
These statements should be treated with Adjudicator GCA, Christine Tacon.
We continue to engage constructively and caution due to the inherent risks and uncertainties underlying any such positively with the GCA and her office and are working together, in particular forward-looking information.
The Group cautions investors that a number on her Top 5 Priorities.
of factors, including matters referred to in this document, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking Our Product Change Programme began in 2015, and we continue to transform statement.
Such factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed our commercial model.
Code compliance is at the heart of this to ensure under Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 22 to 25. compliance is built into our teams mindset and ways of working.
We are implementing simpler, fairer and more transparent operations, systems Neither the Group, nor any of the Directors, provides any representation, and processes, making compliance with the Code easier and enabling all assurance or guarantee that the occurrence of the events expressed or parties to focus on the customer.
implied in any forward-looking statements in this document will actually occur.
Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking Our management are chosen for how they perform their roles and are statements.
The Group undertakes no obligation to publicly update or committed to ensuring Code compliance.
We train colleagues across our revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new Product and other functions in the UK and in Tesco Bengaluru on their information, future events or otherwise.
In this financial year, we trained 212 new starters and 1,622 colleagues received updated e-learning which is supplemented Additional disclosures where required with face-to-face training sessions.
In addition, 5,264 office Other information that is relevant to the Directors report, and which colleagues have completed their annual Code of Compliance Declaration, is incorporated by reference into this report, can be located as follows: and those colleagues who work with grocery suppliers have also completed Pages a declaration to confirm they have complied with GSCOP during 2017 18.
Future developments 1 to 25 These changes are having a positive effect on our relationships with Research and development 9 suppliers.
In the GCAs annual supplier survey in 2017, Tesco remained Greenhouse gas emissions 21 the most improved retailer, with 53% of suppliers reporting an improvement Financial instruments and financial risk management 110 to 117 in how we operate and 92% of our suppliers recognising that we comply Corporate governance report 26 to 44 consistently well or mostly well with the Code.
The results of our own supplier survey, conducted twice each year, also reflect this marked Disclosures required pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.
4R can be found on the improvement in how our suppliers view their relationship with Tesco.
following pages: Despite inflationary challenges, suppliers to our UK grocery business Pages once again rated their overall satisfaction with Tesco very highly Statement of capitalised interest 94 and 101 78.2% in February 2018.
Allotment for cash of equity securities 126 This year, 14 Code-related complaints were raised by suppliers.
As at Waiver of dividends 65 24 February 2018, we had resolved 11 of the concerns following further The Company has chosen, in accordance with Section 414 C 11 of the discussion between the buying team and the relevant supplier, and in Companies Act 2006, and as noted in this Directors report, to include five of the cases, between the Code Compliance Officer and the supplier.
certain matters in its Strategic report that would otherwise be required Of the three remaining complaints to be resolved, two were resolved to be disclosed in this Directors report.
The Strategic report can be found shortly after the year end, and a formal dispute has been raised in on pages 1 to 25. one matter.
By order of the Board Going concern and longer term viability statement The Directors consider that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to remain in operation for the foreseeable future and have therefore continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Robert Welch financial statements.
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Group Company Secretary Directors to assess and report on the prospects of the Group over a longer 10 April 2018 period.
This longer term viability statement is set out on page 25.
66 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018
