Group Chief Executives statement continued Good.
In our most recent anonymous Supplier Viewpoint reduce our costs by 1.5bn, generate 9bn survey, 83% of our UK & ROI suppliers say they of retail cash from operations and improve are treated fairly, and 94% say we pay promptly operating margins to between 3.5% and 4.0% and for the second year running, we topped the by 2019 20. independently-run supplier Advantage Survey.
By maintaining a disciplined approach to capital, By growing our business with our closest product and further reducing our debt already down partners, we have been able to launch new and from 8.5 bn in 2014 15 to 2.6 bn today we exclusive products for our customers, and can continue to strengthen our balance sheet support our suppliers to invest in innovation.
and return to investment grade credit metrics.
This year we have worked with our partners to launch new products including our Wicked Our underlying philosophy for creating sustainable Kitchen vegan range in the UK, Eat Fresh produce value for shareholders places increasing focus UK food market: brand in Malaysia, and an extended Free From on cash profitability, free cash flow and food consumed in home range in Central Europe.
One example of particularly close partnership is An important driver of this growth will come 110bn our Tesco Sustainable Dairy Group, which has now from the benefits of our merger with Booker, paid an extra 300m to farmers above the market which we completed on 5 March 2018.
The price of milk since it launched helping them to combined business allows us to access new UK food market: manage the volatility in milk price experienced growth areas, and provide food wherever it is food consumed out of home by the dairy industry.
The group also incentivises prepared or eaten in home or out of home.
our farmers to focus on quality, sustainability and productivity and following this success, we have As a result of the merger, I am also delighted to 85bn set up similar groups for other agricultural products welcome Charles Wilson to the Executive team including potatoes, lamb, poultry and eggs.
and Board as our UK & ROI CEO, responsible for both retail and wholesale.
Im also pleased that 25 of our largest food suppliers have agreed to join us in tackling food A sustainable business waste, by committing to targets on waste, It is critically important that as our business delivers publishing their data, and acting to stop good growth, we do so in a way which is sustainable.
In October 2017, we published our Little Helps Shareholders Plan, which sets out how we will: With our business growing again, we resumed the payment of dividends to our shareholders this year create a business where colleagues can get after a three-year absence while we stabilised on, whatever their background: our business.
help our customers make healthier choices More detail on our performance, including and enjoy good quality, sustainable products, statutory results, can be found in our We remain firmly on track to deliver the mediumat affordable prices: and Financial review on page 12. term ambitions we set out in October 2016: to help make sure no food that could be eaten is wasted, anywhere in our supply chain.
6 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 73538 Tesco AR18 Text pages Bk 180420 HR.
The combined Tesco and Booker business allows us to bring together the retail and wholesale expertise of our two businesses, and access new opportunities for growth.
Together we employ over 310,000 colleagues in the UK, serve 117,000 independent retailers, 441,000 catering businesses, 641,000 small businesses, and work with over 7,000 suppliers.
Through our merger, we will bring benefits to customers, suppliers, colleagues and shareholders: We will delight consumers with better availability of quality food at attractive prices across retail and eating out locations, and serve better the faster growing out of home food market.
We will help independent retailers, caterers and small businesses by further improving choice, price and service, with enhanced digital and delivery service options.
And for our suppliers, we will create a broader market opportunity, with strong growth prospects and a clear opportunity to develop better own brand and fresh ranges.
As our two businesses join forces, we are already beginning to deliver benefits.
Importantly, there is no lengthy integration process, as we want to keep the complementary skills of retail and wholesale in our business, and start accessing growth opportunities as quickly as possible.
We have made good progress in all of these areas this year, and you can read more on pages 16 to 21 of this report.
Im particularly proud of our efforts to stop good food going to waste in the UK we have donated 19 million meals from surplus this year to help feed people in need, with a further 2 million and 25 million meals from our businesses in the Republic of Ireland and Central Europe respectively.
Looking ahead With our business focused on growth, we will continue to deliver on the same plans for Tesco our six strategic drivers that have served us well in our turnaround so far.
At the same time, we will begin to deliver the substantial synergies that our merger with Booker unlocks: bringing benefits to consumers and colleagues, creating a wider market opportunity for our suppliers and new career opportunities for our colleagues as well as accelerating the growth of our combined business for shareholders.
In what has been a very significant year, I am grateful to every colleague in our business for For example, our trial of a new Chef Central format is well underway, with everything they have done to keep serving a first store in Bar Hill, Cambridge selling products in bulk to professional shoppers better.
caterers and the public alongside our existing Tesco Extra store.
And, where its right for our customers, we are offering catering-format products in a It is their dedication and talent which drives all number of Tesco stores too.
of our plans, and I look forward to continuing our work together as we grow the UKs leading These are just the early stages of the many exciting opportunities in front food business.
As we look ahead, our combination of businesses uniquely positions us to better serve the large and growing food market in the UK.
Dave Lewis Group Chief Executive 7 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 73538 Tesco AR18 Text pages Bk 180420 HR.
indb 7 20 04 2018 15:42 The six strategic drivers An update on our six strategic drivers.
Our six strategic drivers will create long-term value for all of our stakeholders.
A differentiated Reduce operating costs Generate 9bn cash brand by 1.5bn from operations A strong and differentiated brand creates We continue to simplify our business and reduce Our focus on free cash generation continues, long-term value for every stakeholder in our costs, with in-year savings of 594m and 820m and Retail cash generated from operations business.
Our purpose, to serve shoppers a little of savings to date towards our 1.5bn ambition.
increased by 495m to 2,773m this year, driven better every day, is at the heart of what our brand by improved profitability and strong working stands for.
We have reviewed every aspect of our operation capital management.
to identify opportunities for savings with a Over the last year, we have continued to build particular focus on our store operating model, One example of our work is in reducing trust, and have seen a 5 point improvement where we have delivered 541m of savings: stockholding, by improving the way we receive in customer recommendations of our brand.
logistics and distribution, with 104m of savings: deliveries from our suppliers.
and goods not for resale, where we have made We continue to focus on products and services savings of 174m.
To minimise our environmental impact, and which make the Tesco offer unique, and this year reduce transport costs, we order full trucks we have relaunched our core and finest food We continue to encourage a cost-conscious of products from suppliers whenever we can ranges, as well as introducing new brands which culture, finding savings so that we can reinvest which sometimes means rounding up an order.
are exclusive to Tesco, such as our Hearty Food for the benefit of customers.
Co. ready meals, and our Fox & Ivy homeware.
However, by analysing our orders forensically, We have also simplified the shopping experience we have been able to sort stock between trucks Food quality is a particularly powerful driver of for customers, at the same time as reducing and identify where we can eliminate a truck.
supermarket choice, so strengthening customer costs, for example by increasing availability of our This removes unnecessary journeys for our perceptions of our food is a priority.
Our Food Scan As You Shop self-scan handsets now in suppliers, and allows us to take out unnecessary Love Stories campaign has continued this year, over 500 UK stores and beginning to roll out in rounded stock.
celebrating the food our customers love to make, Central Europe and making till receipts optional for the people they love and helping increase in our smaller stores, which has generated savings Because we are ordering only whats needed customer perceptions of quality at Tesco, up 2.7 of around 3m.
to ensure great availability, our customers can points year-on-year.
buy what they want, and we can order less.
We have also made strong progress in reducing But the way customers feel about our brand is the costs of procuring goods and services not defined by more than just our products: its also for resale, finding synergies across the Group.
about how we respond to the issues that matter In particular, we have improved our services in to them, from healthy eating to reducing plastic facilities management, freight and media services, packaging and the value that Tesco creates while also delivering savings of 50m.
In May 2017, we held our first ever health month for colleagues and customers, including helpful little swaps with products that are lower in saturated fat, salt and sugar, and recorded our highest ever score for customers saying that Tesco helps them lead healthier lives.
8 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 73538 Tesco AR18 Text pages Bk 180420 HR.
Maximise the mix to achieve Maximise value Innovation a 3.5% - 4.0% margin from property To achieve our 3.5% - 4.0% margin ambition by Our property portfolio across the Group is To serve our shoppers a little better every day, our 2019 20 financial year, we continue to build significant, and we are looking at opportunities its important we listen and respond to their needs, sustainable profitability across our businesses, to better use our space for the benefit of with innovation across every aspect of our offer, channels and product ranges.
By carefully customers, while also releasing value where and a strong pipeline of ideas to come to market.
managing the combination of volume, mix and its the right thing to do for our business.
cost-effectiveness in our business, Group We have innovated in our product ranges for operating margin for this year was 2.9% Over the last three years, we have released example, with the launch of our exclusive Wicked up 57 basis points.
a cumulative 1.4bn of value from property Kitchen range of plant-based dishes, including proceeds, at the same time as increasing new ingredients and exotic preparations such In Asia, our margin has grown to 6.0%, as we our proportion of freehold property in the as carrot pastrami and eryngii mushroom have stepped back from unprofitable bulk selling UK & ROI from 41% to 52%.
The range responds to increasing in Thailand.
This was a deliberate decision that we demand for vegetarian and vegan food, and since took at the start of the year, allowing us to focus In the UK, we are exploring a small number its January launch has proved extremely popular on serving our core retail customers better, and of opportunities to work with a third-party to with customers.
re-develop our store sites in high-value locations.
Our Hackney store in London is one such example, As customers look for increasingly convenient In our online business, we are improving the where we have sold the site for a mixed-use options to do their shopping, this year we became economics of our offer, while giving customers development allowing us to release value, while the first retailer in the UK to offer same-day greater choice and flexibility.
For example, we still retaining a store on the new site and with grocery deliveries nationwide, and in London have extended our delivery saver subscription continuity of trade throughout.
through our Tesco Now app we can deliver service, to introduce new monthly plans offering within an hour.
a great value option to our most loyal customers.
We can also create value for our customers by We have also extended our Click & Collect options using space in new ways, as we repurpose space And at Tesco Bank, our award-winning Tesco including same-day collection with slots at a in our larger stores and this year, we have Pay digital wallet continues to prove popular range of prices so that customers can choose the repurposed 1.1m sq.
In Central Europe, with customers, with over 450,000 downloads service most convenient to them.
we have worked with partners to bring a new offer of the app.
to customers in a number of our stores and this year, across the region, we opened ten shop units with H&M, and three with Decathlon.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 9 73538 Tesco AR18 Text pages Bk 180420 HR.
