Little Helps Plan Working together to make a big difference.
Our approach Every little help makes a big difference is our third value and emphasises our belief that small actions can add up to make a big difference.
Our Little Helps Plan identifies the most pressing social and environmental challenges facing the business, our customers and our communities, and outlines our commitments to help tackle these.
People The Little Helps Plan outlines how Tesco works in partnership with others, The 440,000 colleagues who work for us around including suppliers, NGOs, governments and other retailers, to make a the world are at the forefront of serving our positive contribution and work towards shared global ambitions.
We want to give them a great experience of working at Tesco and be The plan builds on the progress we have made so far and covers three areas a place where everyone can get on, whatever core to the long-term success of our business: people, products and places.
To do this, we are investing in training so colleagues Our Three Pillars are supported to develop their careers and to build skills for their future.
We are committed to building an inclusive culture and ensuring these opportunities are available to all colleagues.
We are also trialling a number of innovative solutions that will offer colleagues greater flexibility over their own work schedules.
Our target To help our colleagues succeed by providing them with the flexibility, skills and reward they need to get on.
People Products Places In October 2017, we shared targets and actions under each of these three pillars.
More information on these can be found at www.
The Little Helps Plan covers our retail businesses in the UK, Republic of Ireland, Central Europe and Asia.
However, with the majority of our customers being in the UK, implementation of the plan and reporting will begin with the UK business.
We have committed to sharing our progress along the way and will next update in October 2018.
Accountability for the Little Helps Plan is led at an Executive level by Jane Lawrie, Group Communications Director, and at the Board level by Dave Lewis, Group Chief Executive.
Our Corporate Responsibility Committee, chaired by Lindsey Pownall, Non-executive Director, governs the plan.
More information on the activities of the Corporate Responsibility Committee can be found in the Corporate governance report on page 39.
For the full list of our targets and actions see our Little Helps Plan at www.
16 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 73538 Tesco AR18 Text pages Bk 180420 HR.
indb 16 20 04 2018 15:43 Strategic report Products Places Foundations Sourcing We are proud to be a valued part of over 6,000 Underpinning all the pillars of the Little Helps Our customers should have peace of mind that communities around the world and want to help Plan are a number of areas where it is vital to do the products that they buy at Tesco are sourced them thrive.
We bring social and economic the right thing.
It remains a priority for us to ensure with respect for both the environment and the benefits through the local people we employ, our products are safe, that we have a strong people who make or grow them.
Building strong, the local businesses we work with and the local health and safety culture for customers and trusted relationships with our suppliers plays a projects we support.
colleagues, and that we stay on track with our key role in achieving this.
ambitious plan to become a zero-carbon business.
We support causes important to colleagues and Health customers.
We deliver this through our community We recognise that these areas and strong Our customers and colleagues tell us that they donation programmes, strategic partnerships corporate governance are equally important to want to make healthier choices, but sometimes it with charities and support for food banks.
ensuring our business is having a positive impact can be difficult.
We want to make it easier to lead a on society.
They are core expectations and are healthier life and we are focused on offering simple, Our target embedded in the way we do business.
practical actions that lead to sustainable changes.
To help our local communities thrive by positively contributing both socially and economically.
Packaging We know packaging plays an important role in preserving and protecting products but we are taking action to reduce its overall impact on the environment.
We are working with the industry to develop a closed loop system which can be applied to all key packaging materials.
Food waste We have a responsibility and commitment to lead reduction of food waste from farm to fork.
Through our Group Chief Executives Chairmanship of the international Champions 12.3 coalition, we are committed to accelerating progress towards the UN Sustainable Development Goal target to halve per capita global food waste by 2030.
Our targets To help make sustainable products accessible and affordable for all.
To support all of our colleagues to live healthier lives and help our customers make healthier food choices every time they shop with us.
To ensure we never use more packaging than is needed, and that what we do use is from sustainable sources and goes on to be reused or recycled.
To help halve global food waste, farm to fork, by 2030.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 17 73538 Tesco AR18 Text pages Bk 180420 HR.
indb 17 20 04 2018 15:43 Little Helps Plan continued Products shopping baskets outside of seasonal changes.
In 2017 18, the 10 million tonnes of For colleagues we have given out free fruit and food sold in the UK retail operations Sourcing with care offered mini health checks throughout our health generated 73,340 tonnes 0.7% of In our UK supply chains, we are prioritising the events.
In 2017 18 we also made mental wellbeing surplus.
53,126 tonnes 0.5% was wasted, environmental and social risks associated with 20 training available for all colleagues and brought which we sent for energy recovery.
Of this, of our most important products and ingredients together a group of colleague Health Heroes to just 19,898 tonnes 0.2% was safe for human from beef and coffee, to wild fish and cotton.
share their stories and inspire others to make consumption.
In September 2017 we also To view the full top 20 list and some of the actions healthier choices.
shared our 2016 17 food waste data for the we are taking, visit www.
Republic of Ireland and Central Europe for the In January 2018, we announced a first time.
The page opposite gives a breakdown groundbreaking new five-year strategic Collaboration with suppliers, industry organisations, on our food surplus and waste in all these partnership with the British Heart government bodies and civil society is vital for us markets for 2017 18.
Foundation, Cancer Research UK and Diabetes to make progress.
The aim of the partnership is to help reduce In 2016, we made the commitment that no food For example, we know that soil the risk of heart and circulatory disease, cancer that is safe for human consumption will go to degradation is a key issue facing and diabetes.
The partnership will support waste from our UK retail operations by the agricultural products and the colleagues, customers and their families to end of 2017 18.
We have worked hard to deliver environment.
We analysed the most vulnerable make sustainable lifestyle changes and adopt our target through the launch of new industry regions we sourced from and in 2017 we healthier habits.
Surplus food safe for humans started a new project in partnership with the is offered to local charities through Community Broads Authority and with the support of the For more information visit Food Connection.
Food not taken by charities Rivers Trust, National Farmers Union NFU and www.
is offered to colleagues through our colleague the Environment Agency.
To raise awareness of shops which have been rolled out to all stores.
the impact of water run-off with potato growers We send any suitable remaining surplus to animal in East Anglia, we tested new technologies that Packaging feed.
We have achieved huge progress in ensuring help retain valuable top soil and reduce the We continue to make changes to our packaging more good food goes to charity and we are now amount of fertiliser entering local waterways.
to help reduce our impact on the environment.
introducing a further programme of work to ensure Working with partners, we will share the 87% of our Own Brand packaging by weight is no food safe for human consumption goes to waste.
learnings in other key sourcing regions.
Our other markets share the same ambition We have made significant changes This year, as part of our human rights due diligence and food redistribution programmes are now to the packaging of our wet wipes, approach, we have engaged stakeholders and in all stores in the Republic of Ireland and all resulting in a 20% reduction in the other businesses to further understand the risks hypermarkets in Bangkok and Malaysia.
In Central material used and thereby removing 57 tonnes of forced labour in palm oil supply chains.
100% Europe over 600 stores out of a total 961 are of plastic.
This material saving is enough to of the palm oil used in our Own Brand products in already donating surplus food and all remaining make over 10 million more packs.
the UK is certified by the Roundtable on Sustainable stores will be donating by 2020.
Palm Oil but we want to take further action to mitigate the social challenges associated with We recognise that we can do more in partnership We are also working in partnership with our palm oil production.
Our engagement has helped with government and industry to help establish suppliers to offer customers the food they love us identify and understand the areas of greatest a robust, closed loop approach to recover and with less waste.
risk, and we are working collaboratively through reuse all key packaging materials.
We have three the Consumer Goods Forum to tackle this strategic priorities to help reduce packaging In 2017 18, we introduced resealable challenge as an industry.
waste and boost recycling across the UK: salad bags across our most popular salad lines and became the first UK Visit www.
Materials and design: In collaboration with supermarket to start selling perfectly ripe green for more information and our suppliers we are reducing packaging and satsumas and clementines that stay fresher for www.
com modernslavery restricting the number of materials we accept longer.
In Central Europe, we introduced our for our latest Modern Slavery Statement.
so that less packaging is used and packaging is Perfectly Imperfect range which has helped easier to recycle.
save over 6,000 tonnes of wonky fruit and A healthier place to work and shop 2.
Recovery and recycling: We believe a holistic vegetables from going to waste.
For many years weve worked hard to help approach is required to create an integrated colleagues and customers make healthier national recovery and recycling system.
We are also continuing to work With 25 of our largest suppliers, we have We support developing a cost-effective with our suppliers to reduce the amount of sugar, announced a joint commitment to adopt Deposit Return System DRS as one aspect fat and salt in thousands of products.
In Central UN Sustainable Development Goal target 12.3, of this approach.
Europe in 2017 we reviewed 120 Own Brand soft measure and publish food waste data for their 3.
Changing customer behaviour: Once consistent drinks and introduced a new standard to limit own operations and act to reduce food waste farm recycling infrastructure is in place, we can the sugar to less than 1 teaspoon per 100ml.
We are planning to build on this work over help customers recycle more with simple, This follows the UK business which, by November the coming year across more of our supply chains clear information.
2016, had reduced the sugar in all Own Brand soft and communicate with customers on how they can drinks to below the threshold for the government For more information visit reduce food waste in the home.
Weve also helped increase consumption www.
To view further analysis of fruit and vegetables by introducing new, great of all our food waste figures visit value ranges such as Farm Brands and Perfectly Tackling food waste www.
Our Free Fruit for Kids initiative Five years ago, we made a commitment to lead on remains popular in the UK and since 2016, we reducing global food waste in our own operation, have given out 50 million pieces of free fruit in supply chains, and in our customers homes.
Food waste is a global challenge and through our international markets and Dave Lewiss In May 2017 we held our first ever in-store health Chairmanship of the international Champions 12.3 event in the UK.
As part of this we reduced the coalition, we are committed to driving progress price of 200 healthier products and highlighted towards the UN Sustainable Development Goal in-store and online products which are lower in target to halve per capita global food waste sugar, fat or salt.
As a result, we saw the biggest by 2030. monthly improvement in the health of our customers 18 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 73538 Tesco AR18 Text pages Bk 180420 HR.
indb 18 20 04 2018 15:43 Strategic report Food surplus total of food not sold 2017 18 sales tonnage vs surplus tonnage Not to scale UK Ireland Central Europe Total food sales Total food sales Total food sales 10,023,559 557,317 3,227,655 tonnes tonnes tonnes Total food surplus Total food surplus Total food surplus 73,340 tonnes 7,762 tonnes 51,579 tonnes 2017 18 food surplus safe for human consumption tonnes 337 7,975 Colleague 10,688 shops Donated 10,639 19,898 Animal 2,510 feed 11,169 Donated Animal 976 3,520 feed Donated Disposal Disposal Disposal Disposal energy recovery and waste management.
Food waste food surplus wasted 2017 18 food waste as % of sales 0.5% 1.2% 1.2% a 2017 18 food waste by category % do not total 100% due to rounding 2% 2% 2% 5% 3% 5% 5% 6% 7% 8% 31% 34% 35% 7% 10% 53,126 6,786 38,054 10% tonnes tonnes 8% tonnes waste waste waste 11% 10% 15% 15% 16% 25% 26% Bakery Beers, Wine and Spirits Dairy Grocery Impulse Meat, Fish and Poultry Prepared Foods Produce KPMG LLP were engaged to provide independent limited assurance over the selected food waste data highlighted in this report with a using the assurance standard ISAE 3000.
KPMG has issued an unqualified opinion over the selected data.
KPMGs full assurance statement is available at: www.
a Total food waste is made up of both food safe for human consumption and food that is not safe for human consumption which has been disposed of.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 19 Little Helps Plan continued People Places Tesco is an important part of the town, with four large and Colleagues have told us how important flexibility In 2017 18 we have continued to support and certainty are in order for them to reach their communities through our community donation seven convenience stores in ambitions both inside and outside of work.
We have established programmes and around the area.
Were 2017 18 we started to trial a new app in the UK in the UK Bags of Help, Republic of Ireland that allows colleagues to see their shifts, manage Community Fund and Central Europe You one of the biggest employers overtime and request holiday.
In time the app will Choose, We Help.
All of these programmes in Oldham and have become also give the option to swap shifts, request shift put the power in the hands of our customers changes and even take shifts in different stores to choose the local projects that Tesco supports an integral part of the providing them with genuine flexibility and financially.
In Central Europe one in every four community by taking part control over their hours.
We have committed customers voted in You Choose, We Help.
to rolling out this app in all our markets and have Through these programmes we have distributed in many charitable projects.
already started to introduce a simplified version over 51m and supported more than 24,000 in our Asian stores.
Marie Toora Store Manager, Oldham Chadderton Superstore Our UK apprenticeship programme aims Wherever we operate we also work closely with to give over 1,000 colleagues, of all ages food banks and local charities to help feed people and all levels of experience, the in need in local communities.
In 2017 18 we donated The biggest advantage of opportunity to continue their education and the equivalent of 46 million meals to help feed You Choose, We Help is the build skills for their future.
With technology people in need across the UK, Republic of Ireland, transforming society, we are also developing and Central Europe through our food surplus close relationship we develop a training programme to ensure that all our redistribution programmes.
In January 2018, with local communities.
Local colleagues have the digital competence and all our stores in Malaysia also participated in a confidence to succeed.
campaign which enabled customers to donate people decide which of the food to 100 local charities supporting vulnerable nominated projects should families and homeless people.
In Thailand, Inclusivity and creating a culture where everyone customer fundraising meant that underprivileged receive grants.
has equal opportunity remains integral to our children were able to have nutritious lunches business.
In January 2018 we pledged support to throughout February 2018.
Urszula Winiewska the UN standards promoting the rights of Lesbian, Manager of Moesz wicej Poland beneficiary For more information visit Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Intersex LGBTI www.
More recently we signed up to the 30% Club, demonstrating our commitment to having strong female representation within our senior leadership team by 2020.
The ratio of male to female colleagues at 2017 18 year-end is outlined in the table below.
Further analysis of our gender pay gap can also be found in the Corporate governance report on page 47 or online.
For more information visit www.
Gender diversity based on actual year-end headcount Male Female Board of Directors 10 77% 3 23% Senior managers Directors 353 75% 117 25% Senior managers Directors and managers 2,646 63% 1,524 37% All employees 189,097 43% 251,561 57% 20 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 73538 Tesco AR18 Text pages Bk 180420 HR.
indb 20 20 04 2018 15:43 Strategic report Foundations to investments in energy efficiency, has enabled including health and safety, information security, us to reduce our net carbon intensity per sq.
In February 2018, we refreshed Climate change retail and distribution floor space by 6% compared all our communications on the Code and held an In May 2017, we announced the new science-based with last year, and 15% since 2015 16. internal campaign to encourage colleagues to targets on the right, which are aligned with the speak up if they have any concerns the Code Paris Climate Agreement recommendation of a Our targets is not being followed.
They will Reduce absolute carbon emissions from our also enable us to meet our ambition to become operations from 2015 16 levels: 35% by 2020, To support this culture, we also provide an a zero-carbon business by 2050.
60% by 2025 and 100% by 2050. independent and confidential whistleblowing service Protector Line that enables our Source 65% of our electricity from renewable Our carbon footprint is calculated according to colleagues, suppliers and their staff around sources by 2020 and 100% by 2030. the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and our net carbon the world to raise concerns.
We use e-learning footprint in 2017 18 was 3.4 million tonnes of to support compliance with the Code and Anti-bribery and fraud CO e. For our own operations absolute carbon anti-bribery and anti-fraud training is included 2 We are committed to maintaining the highest emissions we achieved a 13% reduction compared in our annual refresher training for all relevant standards of ethics and integrity in the way we to last year and 26% compared to 2015 16.
Everyone in the business must comply do business around the world.
We adopt a zero us achieve our new targets, we have committed with the Code and we have implemented annual tolerance approach to bribery and fraud at Tesco to source 100% of our electricity from renewable Code compliance declarations which are reviewed and expect our business partners to do the same.
In 2017 18, 55% of our electricity by our Group Risk and Compliance Committee.
across the Group was from renewable sources Our Code of Business Conduct outlines our most and in the UK we have already switched to 100% For more information visit important legal obligations and the policies that renewable purchased electricity, supported by www.
guide the conduct of all our colleagues in areas renewable energy certificates.
ft. of stores and DCs 2 KPMG LLP were engaged to provide independent limited assurance over the selected greenhouse gas emissions data highlighted in this report with a using the assurance standards ISAE 3000 and 3410.
a Tesco uses the market-based method for calculating Scope 2 emissions for our total emissions to account for our efforts in generating and purchasing low carbon energy.
The location-method impact is provided for disclosure only and all intensity, net and gross emissions shown are calculated using the market-based method.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 21 73538 Tesco AR18 Text pages Bk 180420 HR.
