Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 PROGRESS AGAINST STRATEGY CARE Customer care is at the heart of our strategy and one of the biggest opportunities we have to differentiate a Thomas Cook holiday from the competition.
Our aim is to provide our customers with This year we have substantially improved the This year we increased the proportion a personalised holiday experience that insight we have into our customers holiday of complaints received in destination to cannot be replicated elsewhere, driven experiences, and the tools that help us act on 55 percent, giving us time to resolve the by the highest level of customer care at feedback to make sure our customers have issue while our customers are on holiday.
every stage of their holiday.
the best possible time on holiday with us.
This means more customers come home happy, improving satisfaction scores and We know that satisfied customers are more We launched a new customer feedback helping us to spend less on customer likely to book again with Thomas Cook, and management tool, InMoment, across the relations in our source markets.
that returning customers take higher-value Group see case study holidays.
This gives holidays at a reduced cost of sale.
Driven by us better insight than ever before into how OUR FOCUS FOR 2019 our organisational values of we put our we can give our customers the best possible heart into it, wear their flip flops and were holidays.
It enables us to immediately identify We will further develop InMoment and C-View one Thomas Cook, customer satisfaction, issues and quickly improve where we need to give ourselves an even more detailed view encapsulated in the measurement of net to demonstrate the level of care that our of our customers to help us improve their promoter score NPS, is a primary metric customers rightly expect from us.
holidays by focusing on what matters most against which we manage and incentivise Following a successful trial over winter to each individual holidaymaker.
2017 18, we rolled out C-View, our customer We want to become more digital in relationship management tool, to nearly all destination through improvements to OUR PROGRESS of our 130 destinations.
C-View gives our our companion app and travel guide so it teams a 360-degree view of our customers, IN 2018 becomes the quickest and easiest way including booking history, customer service for our customers to get the most out of We have seen a mixed picture on Group NPS enquiries and holiday preferences.
This ranges from information in 2018, which is down 0.8 points year-onanother tool to help us better understand about local attractions and help in booking year.
We know that our airline has one of the our customers and give them a more excursions, to getting in touch with our reps. biggest impacts on overall customer NPS.
The disruption across the aviation sector and We will also focus on improving the way Our 24-Hour Hotel Satisfaction Promise the operational challenges presented by our we support our customers in cases where is now fully implemented across our core growth in capacity in the past 12 months had their flights are delayed.
By offering more portfolio of hotels, giving an additional a dampening effect on overall NPS.
The hotel information earlier when we know disruption reassurance of quality and service.
We have accommodation score is up two points, may affect customers, we can minimise also continued to increase the proportion demonstrating the work weve done through the inconvenience we know it can cause of complaints that we receive in resort our quality improvement in destination and totheir holiday.
before customers return home, through our stringent approach to the hotels that we better education of our teams in resort include in our core portfolio.
NET PROMOTER SCORE 2.0 -2.9 -0.8 Accommodation NPS Airline NPS Group NPS 2017: 34.0 2017: 27.3 2017: 45.2 18 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CASE STUDY OUR HOLIDAY APP NICK GOW APP PRODUCT MANAGER As our customers move online in all aspects of their lives, so must we adapt our approach to make sure the care that were famous for is available seamlessly, wherever our customers spend their time.
To that end, weve taken a big leap this year in how our holiday companion app can help our customers feel the fullbenefit of travelling with Thomas Cook.
We want the app to be the first place customers turn to because its the quickest and easiest way to get in touch with us, in a way that adds to the expertise of our teams inresorts on a device that we know our customers already use frequently.
In total the app has been downloaded 3.1 million times and has an app store ratings of 4.4 on Android and 4.3 on iPhone.
This summer, 40 per cent of July departures from the UK used the app for their holiday.
Through the app we helped get our customers excited with a holiday countdown and destination weather forecast, gave hotel and resort information and offered a range of pre-bookable excursions or flight extras.
For the journey, customers could checkin via the app and keep up to date with flight and transfer information.
A big focus this year has been around becoming digital in destination, and making the knowledge and support of our reps available to our customers via the app.
Once in resort, our app content changes, offering maps and points of interest.
We have also embedded a live chat function so theres someone on hand to help.
At our own-brand hotels, we have a holiday planner that lets customers book spa treatments or local excursions directly to make sure customers can fit everything in for the whole family.
After the holiday, our app helps us to maintain a close relationship with customers throughout the year.
Weve added a holiday wishlist that links to customers accounts on mobile or desktop to inspire next years holiday choice.
Customers can also search for holidays within the app and weve started to personalise this content for customers across our markets, learning what our customers want fromtheir interactions with us.
Weve got big plans for next year and were testing tools all the time to make sure were there for our customers whenever they want us to be, making holidays even better in person or in our app.
19 Strategic report Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 PROGRESS AGAINST STRATEGY CONTACT The way we interact with our customers, in person and online, is the best opportunity we have to develop a relationship that can last a lifetime.
Whether through inspiring online This offsets a slight reduction in controlled Our Group-wide Focus on Families project content, expert travel advice and ondistribution in the UK as a result of our online helped increase sales by improving demand advice whenever its needed, store closure programme which reduced the search filters that families tend to use, we are building seamless contact our retail estate from 692 to 593 in the year.
and increasing the flexibility of the room with our customers throughout their In our Nordic markets, we further increased searches.
This work helped to double yearholiday journey.
controlled distribution to over 92 per cent.
on-year online revenue for family bookings and increased conversion by 95 per cent.
Our strategy is to increase the number of Strategically, weve made more progress customers who book directly with Thomas to become a truly omni-channel business.
OUR FOCUS FOR 2019 Cook, with a focus on digital channels where We relaunched MyAccount, our single hub our cost of sale is lower.
At the same time, for customers to access all their holiday We aim to put in place a full self-service both online and through our agents and information.
In the UK, 72 per cent of online proposition for all of our holiday extras, partners, we want to make it easier for our customers now log in and use MyAccount, across online checkout and the holiday customers to book all of the services and helping to improve ancillary sales conversion companion app to help customers make holiday extras which help to give customers by 12 per cent.
themost of travelling with Thomas Cook.
Weve also rolled out our web platform in Well further improve search across our Belgium and the UK with the new vision to platforms, with better product availability OUR PROGRESS delight our customers.
This has allowed us online and results that are more to optimise a number of key areas of the IN2018 individualised to our customers, based on website to support our strategy.
We have improved algorithms and machine learning.
Online sales increased in all segments this improved our ancillaries proposition both preyear, and we again delivered very strong and post booking, as well as improving site On mobile, well build on the great progress growth in the UK, up almost 30 per cent speed and functionality, driving a 34 per cent weve made in conversion this year up 23 per year-on-year.
Germany increased by almost increase in revenue this year.
cent by improving site speed and simplifying 25 per cent and our Airline by 17 per cent.
The changes have also enabled strong This contributed to a 12 per cent increase in growth of family bookings through our In October, we announced a reorganisation in web sales overall.
Online now accounts for website by improving search and filter the UK business to create a Chief of UK Retail 48 per cent of bookings, versus 22 per cent that makes booking family holidays easier, and Money role, filled by our Chief Financial inretail and 30 per cent through third parties.
resulting in 98 per cent growth year-on-year.
This structure We also increased the proportion of bookings aims to reinvigorate Thomas Cooks UK retail The Companion app named the Travel Guide we took via our own distribution channels estate and strengthen its offer of travelin Germany has now been downloaded controlled distribution by 1.2 percentage focused financial services products.
We want it to be the easiest points to 70 per cent this year.
We made good way for our customers to get in touch with progress in Germany in particular, where we us, as well as help them to personalise their have increased our franchise agreements holidays both before they leave and while in with agency partners.
destination see case study on page 19.
INSPIRING OUR CUSTOMERS 1.2ppts 12% Controlled distribution Web sales 20 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CASE STUDY GROUP HOTEL CONTENT DANIELE MERCANTE GROUP HEAD OF CONTENT The hotel is increasingly important for customers when choosing their holiday.
Almost half our customers say that hotel design matters more to them than five years ago and 30 per cent of UK customers say the hotel is more important than the destination when choosing their holiday.
This summer, we had 186 own-brand hotels and over 3,000 hotels in our selected portfolio.
It is critically important that we have a simple process to gather and display the relevant, and accurate details about these hotels to customers, in a way which both informs and inspires them.
Historically, each market gathered information and content on our hotels individually.
This replicated cost and allowed inconsistency across the Group.
We wanted to take a new, Group-wide approach which would harness the firsthand expertise of our people in resort to gather the best content for our hotels and present it to our customers.
We also wanted to simplify the way we display the hotel information, imagery and video on our websites to improve website performance and customer experience.
To do that we created the MAKIS project MAKe It Simple.
Thanks to this work we now have a common page size and template design in the UK, which is mobile-friendly, easier to search and better at delivering relevant information to customers.
The pages can also be updated quickly and easily, so if a rep reports a change in the hotel information in resort, the web page is updated on the same day.
The new designs make it easier for customers to find and choose the best hotel to suit the holiday they want and at the same time, weve made efficiency savings which reduce complexity in the business.
In the next 12 months we will roll this out to our other source markets.
By taking a digital first approach that has brought togetherthe online and offline teams across various markets, we have reduced areas of overlap and the number of people needed to carry out the work.
Most importantly, the newpage layout has seen customers spend double the amount of time on our hotel pages and has led to a significant drop in the amount of people navigating away all contributing to the improved conversion were achieving online across the Group.
21 Strategic report Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 PROGRESS AGAINST OUR STRATEGY HOLIDAYS Naturally, our holidays are the primary focus of all that we do at Thomas Cook.
At the heart of our offering, we want to create a portfolio of trusted, high-quality hotels which provide excellent value for money.
These hotels, combined with the In addition, we continue to automate our OUR FOCUS FOR 2019 reliability and service of our airline complementary hotel business, which offers and our teams in destination, make customers a wider range of hotel options We will continue to consolidate the number up our holiday offer one where outside of our core portfolio, primarily via of direct hotel contracts we hold as we we aim to differentiate ourselves ouragreements with Expedia and Webjet.
benefit from the increased choice which our from the competition, improve partnerships with Sunhotels and Expedia As a result of this work, we removed a loyalty and attract new customers bring, allowing us further to automate our further 900 direct hotel contracts in 2018, through recommendation.
helping to free up resource for our people Our strategy is to streamline our business to focus on where we can make the biggest We will continue our move to in-source our around a core portfolio of 3,150 hotels where difference to customers, whilst still providing on-the-ground agents that arrange our we can have a greater influence over the our customers with choice and being relevant customers personalised holiday experience customer experience.
This approach also to them all year round in spite of our sun and in the Caribbean, and setting up a joint allows us to develop deeper relationships beach focus.
venture destination management company with hoteliers to better leverage our scale in Thailand with Asian Trails.
By owning or The concentration of hotels in our core and improve the returns we generate for controlling our in-destination agents, we can portfolio means that now 80 per cent of the business, while enabling a simpler, improve the quality and consistency of our revenue from our differentiated hotels moreefficient IT and systems landscape.
operations, and improve compliance to make is generated from our top 1,000 hotels sure everything we offer meets the quality by volume.
This means we have greater and assurance standards that our customers OUR PROGRESS allocations and greater influence on the expect from Thomas Cook.
IN 2018 As we continue to manage our hotel portfolio We also continue to share more hotels We continued to reduce the number of and remove hotels that do no meet our acrossour source markets, increasing this directly contracted hotels in our core standards we expect our accommodation to 43 per cent, compared with just seven portfolio, with the aim of driving higher NPS to improve.
volumes of guests into fewer hotels where we have greater influence on the customer In destination, we have made good progress experience and the commercial relationship consolidating our source market operations with the hotelier.
to improve the consistency and quality of the care we provide our customers.
Our Nordic in-Destination Management team is now fully integrated with the teams for Continental Europe and the UK under one management team.
OUR HOLIDAY PERFORMANCE -2.0% -1.4% Differentiated holidays Own brand holidays gross profit gross profit 22 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CASE STUDY I NM O ME N T CHRISTIAN LANG GROUP HEAD OF CRM & CUSTOMER & MARKET INSIGHT This year we took a big leap forward in our ability to analyse and act on customer feedback through the introduction of InMoment, our Group-wide customer feedback management tool.
Built specifically for Thomas Cook, it compiles the extensive data from all of the customer surveys we conduct across our markets at various points of our holidays from postbooking to thereturn home and presents it in a way that helps the business take the right action to improve our holidays for customers.
Critically, the tool identifies the aspects of our customers holidays that have the biggest impact onoverall satisfaction be that the hotel restaurants, the flight or the quality of the rep service we provide.
Anyone at Thomas Cook can use the tool to check, in real-time, our performance and its already proving its worth for more than 1,300 people in a wide range of teams for its actionable insights at an operational level.
Our hotel quality managers base detailed quality improvement plans around the data: our reps and destination managers can adapt their approach to customerinteraction within hours of receiving feedback: and our customer experience teams in our source markets analyse it on a strategic level to identify focus areas to make the biggest improvements.
Crucially, our community of own-brand hoteliers also use the tool to carry out their own root-cause analysis and make sure their hotels reflect Thomas Cooks customer ethos in all that they do.
This year, accommodation NPS improved by two points, building on last years increase of 0.3 points.
Next year well continue to improve the way we work for customers, as more and more colleagues use the system in their everyday roles, and we continue to get better at capturing our customers views.
We also want to increase the number of hoteliers who can access InMoments insight, so that more customers who take a Thomas Cook holiday benefit from the way weve put customer feedback at the heart ofour business.
23 Strategic report Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 PROGRESS AGAINST OWN-BRAND STRATEGY HOTELS Own-brand hotels are the cornerstone of our holiday strategy.
By offering our customers an experience that is unique to Thomas Cook, we can achieve higher margins and deliver better customer satisfaction.
We aim to grow and improve our We continue to grow our portfolio of hotels, OUR FOCUS FOR 2019 portfolioof own-brand hotels.
We opened By offering distinctive brands tailored 11 hotels for summer 2018, including our first Rolling out up to 10 new Cooks Clubs within to the diverse needs and tastes of Cooks Club, in Crete.
We now have 20 hotels our portfolio is a key priority, as we develop holidaymakers across our source due to open by the end of 2019, including up at scale our new concept after a very markets we know we can attract more to 10 new Cooks Clubs.
We will also remove positive first summer in 2018.
We also have of our existing customers to choose nine hotels which did not meet the quality two new Casa Cook properties due to open, ourhotels, and attract new customers expectations we set.
including a 189-room fund-owned hotel in toThomas Cook.
In all, we will open at least 20 new Strategically, the biggest step forward has properties next year.
Our Hotels and Resorts division now operates been establishing and growing our hotel as a hotel company within Thomas Cook fund, Thomas Cook Hotel Investments, which Many of the changes we made in the Group, focused around hotel management, we announced in September 2017.
The fund, a organisational setup of Hotels and franchising, and sales and distribution.
joint venture with Swiss-based hotel property Resortswill bear fruit next year, including Through our hotel fund, established this year development company LMEY Investments, a strengthened sales team to make sure in partnership with LMEY, we are growing a now has five properties on Rhodes, Crete, we are maximising all opportunities for portfolio of owned and managed hotels to mainland Spain and a development property distribution, including our tour operators, deliver better returns for the Group.
in Ibiza to open in summer 2019.
The properties non-competitive third-party tour operators, will be managed and operated by our Hotels direct sales or through our Expedia agreement.
OUR PROGRESS We intend to put a greater focus on bringing The fund has subsequently signed purchase managed properties into our portfolio, IN 2018 options on two hotels in Mallorca and is where we can better control the customer We have continued to expand and strengthen in ongoing discussions for a number of experience and significantly improve the our Hotels and Resorts division so that we additional properties.
returns for the business from each hotel in now have almost 40,000 rooms on sale in the portfolio.
We have recently agreed our first tranche 47destinations across our eight hotel brands.
of debt funding of 40 million, which will We anticipate at least five property This makes us one of the largest sun and allow us to grow the fund and accelerate acquisitions via our hotel fund, Thomas Cook beach hotel operators in Europe.
the growth of managed own-brand hotels Hotel Investments, as we secure further This year we have increased the sales of generating greater returns for the business.
funding for hotel developments across our holidays to own-brand hotels by 14.5 per cent, The fund will continue to pursue additional key destinations.
achieving growth from across all segments, sources of funding to drive additional growth.
notably the UK where we have grown sales by 20 per cent.
GROWING OUR OWN BRAND HOTELS 40m 12 14.5% Funding secured Own-brand hotels Sales of holidays to opened this summer Own-brand Hotels 24 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CASE STUDY COOKS CLUB REMO MASALA CREATIVE DIRECTOR, HOTELS AND RESORTS In 2016 we launched Casa Cook to fill a niche in the travel industry and broaden our appeal among people who may not have thought a package holiday was for them.
The success of our first two hotels shows we achieved our aim, but the challenge we faced was turning Casa Cooks eclectic, boutique style into a hotel brand we could roll out at scale at a price point to attract a wider audience.
To meet that aim we launched a new hotel brand Cooks Club that would share the same design-led ethos as the Casa Cook brand, but focus only on the things that matter to a new generation of traveller.
The first hotel was to open in June in Hersonissos, Crete where we could transform an existing traditional beachside holiday resort hotel.
We wanted Cooks Club to be simple by design, reflecting the way accommodation and dining out across our major cities has been transformed with a more casual experience while maintaining quality.
The 148-room hotel had a great first summer season with occupancy levels at more than 93 per cent and the average daily room rate was up 40 per cent on the previous year.
The new brand also enabled us to reach an entirely new audience.
Almost 75 per cent of customers this year were new to Thomas Cook.
Our plans to scale our Cooks Club brand are well on track.
Next summer will open up to ten new Cooks Club hotels in some of our most popular destinations, including Spain, Turkey, Italy, Egypt and Greece.
In total well have more than1,500 rooms available in Cooks Club hotels.
A small number are refurbishments of existing ownbrand hotels but the majority are new to Thomas Cook, representing good progress in our aim to grow our portfolioof own brand hotels.
Replicating the style of our first Cooks Club across ten hotels next summer to build a consistent brand that has mass appeal to a new generation of travellers is no small task.
But theres no question of the scale of the opportunityit presents.
25 Strategic report Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 PROGRESS AGAINST OUR STRATEGY AIRLINE Our strategy for the Airline is to profitably grow as a leading European leisure airline with a reliable, customer-focused service that takes advantage of its relationship with our holiday business while actively developing its own distribution channels.
We continuously review our cost These two new AOCs allowed our Group We grew by more than 75 per cent in the UK, structure to compete in a tough market, Airline to profitably grow capacity by 10 and maintained our high conversion rates in as well as aiming to improve the per cent this summer, gain market share in our Nordic companies.
We also signed our reliability and operational performance Germany and UK, and expand the number first agreement to provide our Airshoppen of our pan-European fleet to create a ofroutes itflies by more than 70. service to a third-party airline.
compelling customer proposition to short At the same time as growing our capacity haul and long haul leisure destinations.
PRIORITIES FOR 2019 and top-line, we continued our efficiency programme, removing a further 31 million Next year, our priority will be operational OUR PROGRESS in cost through further synergy potentials stability, After a year of strong growth in a and savings across the Group Airlines IN 2018 disrupted European airline market, we are including the launch of these two operating focusing on our operations to create the 2018 has been a strong year of growth in airline platforms.
best travel experience with minimal delays, the Airline, despite the disruption across We further developed our strategic a true customer-focused service and a European aviation.
We very deliberately partnership with the Canadian airline Air great product.
positioned the business to take advantage Transat.
From Winter 2018 19, 10 short haul of the growth available following the highWe will achieve through a number of aircraft from our fleet will operate for the profile exit of competitors in Germany and measures, including moving to an all-Airbus winter season in Canada, in exchange for the UK.
fleet in the UK and operating our Boeing four long haul aircraft.
This will help us to aircraft in Germany, as well as increasing the Strategically we have made further good better balance the inverse seasonal nature number of aircraft we retain as operational progress to build a single airline that benefits ofour businesses.
reserve, in order to better manage disruption.
from its relationship with the Group Tour At the same time, we increased the number Operator while taking advantage of the We will continue to expand the number of of interline agreements we have with other opportunities of its owndistribution channels interline agreements we have with partner airlines to offer customers connecting flights which contributes 55 per cent of revenue.
airlines to increase the breadth of our offer either before or after a Thomas Cook flight.
We effectively added a new airline to our These include Air Europa in Spain, Loganair Group in the Balearics, giving us greater inScotland, and Alaska Airways and JetBlue We will also seek to grow sales internationally, operational flexibility at a very competitive in North America.
as we take advantage of the opportunity cost base, see case study.
We also added we have in our destination markets, and via Our pre-order on-board duty free offer anotherAir Operating Certificate in Germany, partner airlines, to attract more international Airshoppen has delivered good results acquired from Air Berlin in January to customers to ThomasCook Group Airline.
this year as we seek to become a leading facilitate further growth for Condor.
OUR AIRLINE PERFORMANCE 0.2% 0.5% 5ppts Yield Load factor Group Airline own distribution 2017: 147.4 per seat 2017: 89.7% 2017: 50% 26 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CASE STUDY THOMAS COOK AIRLINES B A L E A R I C S PAUL HUTCHINGS GROUP DIRECTOR OF AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS Over the last five years weve been transforming our airline from four national airlines into one Group Airline with shared management, operations and infrastructure.
To get the best of our pan-European airline, we wanted to increase its flexibility and give ourselves the ability to move aircraft and capacity between our three main source markets in Germany, the UK and Scandinavia.
To help achieve this, we took a decision last year to launch abrand new airline within the Group Airline structure, based in Majorca, called Thomas Cook Airlines Balearics.
By moving a number of our aircraft into this new unit, we could deploy them to our source market airlines based on seasonal and operational requirements and reduce our reliance on partner airlines during the high season.
It also means wed be able to scale up in peak season to best serve our customers whilst retaining strong control of our product and quality.
We chose Palma as the base for the new airline because of its central location among our destination and source markets, the existing infrastructure we have on Majorca and the competitive cost position from which to build.
Our plan is to grow our fleet in our Balearics operating unit.
As we grow, we can at the same time, further support our agreement with Canadian airline Air Transat to exchange aircraft, taking advantage of the different seasonality of the leisure market in each country, means we can manage our fleet even more efficiently.
After seven months of preparatory work, and in record time, the new Balearics airline was awarded its Air Operators Certificate on 20th March 2018 and its first commercial flight took off from Hannover to Palma fide Mallorca on 24 March 2018.
We operated more than 1,900 flights in the summer to support our German airline Condor, with over 100 new colleagues.
This winter three aircraft will operate again in Germany and three will operate in the UK, allowing aircraft to be released for our partnership with Air Transat in Canada.
Next summer well base six aircraft in Germany to support the Condor operation.
This new airline marks further progress in our ambition to profitably grow our airline, with the right cost structure, as one leading European leisure carrier which supports our tour operators while competing wing-to-wing with the low-cost carriers.
27 Strategic report Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 PROGRESS AGAINST STRATEGY SERVICES Our ability to personalise our holidays and flights is a key differentiator of our business.
By offering our customers a pick and mix approach to the holidays and flights we sell, we can give customers a more bespoke experience, generating higher customer satisfaction and better returns for the business whileattracting more customers to package travel.
Within this services strategy sits our Both of these are showing good results OUR PRIORITIES financial services division, Thomas Cook as customers recognise these hassle-free Money.
By combining our heritage of add-ons as a means of improving their FOR 2019 travel money and the trust in our brand holiday experience.
We plan to launch Express check-in, which with innovative products that make it We began to implement a yield pricing will allow customers to by-pass reception easier for our customers to plan, save, strategy on some of our holiday services, check-in when they arrive in destination.
borrow and spend their holiday money, which means prices for airline seats and we have a sizeable growth opportunity We will roll out our yield pricing across more latecheck-out fluctuate according to demand.
of our holiday services throughout the year.
This allows customers to take advantage where there is reduced demand, and for In the same way, we want to introduce OUR PROGRESS ustoimprove sales across the year.
HotelShop, which will allow us to offer more personalised services together with partner IN 2018 We made good progress in 2018 with our hotels, like espresso machines or champagne financial services division: Thomas Cook This year we continued to increase revenue on arrival.
This will generate more income for Money, launching two new products in the UK per passenger from sales of additional both Thomas Cook and hoteliers while giving that combined the heritage and trust in the holiday services, while also introducing new customers more opportunity to personalise Thomas Cook brand with the latest technology.
innovative products which demonstrate the their hotel stay.
A new pre-paid travel card called Lyk replaced benefit of travelling with a full-service holiday Thomas Cooks existing cash passport offering We have made changes to the management company like Thomas Cook.
lower fees and more benefits for customers.
of our UK retail network which will We achieved this primarily through In the travel insurance space, we launched strengthen the relationship between this improvements in the way customers are able Roam, a simpler way to buy and personalise important distribution channel and Thomas to purchase these so-called ancillary services the insurance for your holidays.
Cook Money, allowing us to reinvigorate online, particularly in the UK.
By bringing sales of financial services products to the These products were created for the digital more products online and improving our prelarge customer base that regularly use our world but are also being implemented in departure customer communication, weve network of UK travel agents.
our retail network to maximise our offering generated four per cent more revenue across to our high-street customers, as they are the Group.
compelling propositions for our travel agents In the course of 2018, we rolled out two to sell.
The division has also grown its innovative products which captured the business-to-business partnerships including imagination of our customers across the InterMundial and Revolut for travel insurance.
Group Choose your Room and Choose Your In total, there are more than three million Favourite Sunbed.
customers who use Thomas Cook for holiday money or travel insurance.
INCREASING PROFIT FROM HOLIDAYEXTRAS 0.63 Ancillary gross profit per customer 28 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CASE STUDY C H O O S E YOUR ROOM CHRISTIAN FUNK GROUP COMMERCIAL DIRECTOR The package holiday of today is very different to what it used to be.
Gone are the days of one-size-fits-all package holidays as customers now rightly expect choice in all aspects of their holiday.
Adapting to meeting travellers increasingly sophisticated needs is essential to attracting more customers to holiday with us.
In the 2018 Holiday Report, almost 70 per cent of customers told us they want to personalise their hotel stay.
We know that the location of a hotel room within the building can have a big impact on what kind of holiday our customers have.
For some, this means close to the gym for a convenient morning workout, for others, a couple of steps from room to pool makes for the best stay while many want to be tucked away in a quiet corner to enjoy the tranquility of a mountain view.
To address this clear customer need, last year we launched our new Choose Your Room service, allowing customers to select specific hotel rooms before they leave for their trip based on their personal preferences, for 30 a booking.
We initially rolled this out to 50 hotels and in summer 2018 we extended it to 270 hotels, including 140 of our own-brand hotels.
The service is available to customers via an email invitation before their stay in a participating hotel to choose a specific room.
Customers are directed to a digital booking journey that displays the hotel maps and floor plans so they can decide which room suits them best.
The uptake weve seen this year has shown how popular the concept is.
Around 20 per cent of customers who receive the offer have chosen their room, and weve taken more than 15,000 bookings.
We know our customers see the Choose Your Room service as a key differentiator that sets Thomas Cook apart as a holiday company, giving them a degree of personalisation many would not expect from a package holiday.
By innovating with services like Choose Your Room which combine the choice and flexibility of independent travel with the peace of mind and expertise of our tour operating heritage, we can give more holidaymakers a reason to travel with Thomas Cook.
29 Strategic report Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 PROGRESS AGAINST STRATEGY PARTNERSHIPS Our strategy to focus our business where we can make the biggest difference to customers is supported by a series of partnerships which help us to maintain a broad offer tocustomers at the lowest possible cost.
This partnership approach also allows us We have also signed two agreements with OUR PRIORITIES to tap into new opportunities for growth developers to launch our first own-brand by leveraging our brand strength and hotels in China taking advantage of the fastFOR 2019 expertise in travel.
growing Chinese domestic tourism market.
In China, we will continue to focus on our These include 200 room Sunwing family own digital channels to increase direct resorts in Jaishan and Henhyang.
This includes improving our In July we launched our new city-break and mobile platform and developing the potential IN 2018 hotel-only offering in the UK and Nordic of Chinas largest social media platform Our joint venture partnership with Fosun in markets, as part of our strategic alliance WeChat as a distribution channel for our China has had a strong year, both in trading with Expedia Group, and we have since holidays.
We will also look to sign more terms and in building the foundations from rolled it out to Belgium, the Netherlands own-brand hotel management agreements which it can grow to become comparable in and France.
The new areas on our website, as we take advantage of the potential in size to our other key source markets.
powered by Expedia technology, have made domestic tourism.
a strong start, with conversion improving We built on our partnership with Alibaba, Next year we will continue to roll out our by three times.
Together with our strategic the worlds largest online marketplace, to Expedia alliance across all of our markets hotel sourcing partnership with Webjet, this increase the number of holidays we sell on within the scope of the agreement.
We will has led to a 58 per cent increase in overall its travel division Fliggy by over ten times also begin to take advantage of Expedias bed bank bookings as we complete the year-on-year, helping us to further leverage distribution channels to sell our own hotel outsourcing of our complementary holidays.
Alibabas large customer base of more than product where it supports our tour operators 600 million active users in China.
As we increasingly focus our business on trading position.
our core sun and beach holiday offering At the same time, we are building out where we can make the biggest difference our own digital distribution platform to for customers, and earn higher returns, we help us grow our direct customer base.
have also been able to create efficiency The partnership we have at a Group level savings in other areas of our business.
with Sunhotels is now integrated with our At thesame time, our partnerships enable Chinese platform, along with a number of usto offer a much greater choice of hotels other bed banks, creating a fully automated toour customers.
30 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CASE STUDY EXPEDIA PARTNERSHIP JOSHUA AVALO HEAD OF PROGRAMME MANAGEMENT, DIGITAL GROWTH In 2016 we signed a ground breaking strategic alliance with Expedia to transform the way we produce and sell the hotels which sit outside of our core portfolio.
We launched the service to customers in August 2018 in the UK and Nordics, and we have since rolled it out to Belgium, the Netherlands and France.
Powered by Expedia, the city-break and hotel-only sections of these websites as well as in our retail network now provide a range of city and domestic hotels to give our customers a wider choice of short breaks or secondary holidays.
We only offer hotels which have met our health and safety standards, and customers still receive Thomas Cooks dedicated 24-hour Connected Service customer support.
We have seen a strong start to bookings.
Since its launch in August, conversion rates are three times better and we have seen double and treble digit growth in bookings in some markets compared with our former city-break and hotel-only offer.
Its allowed us to remove significant cost from our operations as we reduce the number of hotels we directly contract, and we are well on track to hit the targeted savings for the year.
As an additional benefit, our agreement also allows us to distribute our own hotel product via Expedia.
Launching first in the UK, this additional distribution channel will improve the flexibility and scale benefits of our tour operator while reducing operational risk in the allocations that we secure with hoteliers.
Together with our agreement with Webjet, which provides a range of sun and beach hotels to complement our core portfolio, the Expedia alliance has allowed us to automate our complementary hotel business and reduce the number of direct contracts we hold.
This means we can simplify our systems and technology landscape and focus on where we can make the biggest difference all, while increasing the choice for customers.
