Governance Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OTHER DISCLOSURES SHARE CAPITAL POWERS OF DIRECTORS The Company has the following three classes of shares in issue: The powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles.
The Directors were authorised at the 2018 Annual General Meeting to allot shares Number of shares equal to approximately one-third of the Companys issued share in issue at 30 September capital as at 6 December 2017 or two-thirds in respect of a rights Name 2018 issue.
The Directors were also given the power to allot Ordinary Shares for cash up to a limit representing approximately 10 per cent Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each 1,535,851,316 ofthe Companys issued share capital at 6 December 2017 without Deferred Shares of 0.09 each 934,981,938 first offering them to existing Shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings however more than five per cent can only be used Deferred Shares of 1 each 50,000 inconnection with an acquisition or specified capital investment.
Ordinary Shares In accordance with its Articles, the Company has granted third-party The Ordinary Shares carry the right to the profits of the Company indemnities, to the extent permitted by law, to each Director and the available for distribution and to the return of capital on a winding up Group Company Secretary, which were in force during the financial of the Company.
The Ordinary Shares carry the right to attend and year and up to the date of signing this report.
The Company also speak at general meetings of the Company, each share holds the maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance.
The Ordinary Shares are admitted to the premium segment of the Official List and to trading on the London Stock SHARE TRANSFER RESTRICTIONS Exchanges Main Market.
The Companys Articles are designed to ensure that the number of the Companys shares held by non-EEA nationals does not reach a level Employees who hold shares under the Thomas Cook BAYE or vested which could jeopardise the Companys entitlement to continue to hold shares under any of the Companys executive share plans, are sent a or enjoy the benefit of any authority, permission, licence or privilege Form of Instruction by the relevant trustee in respect of any general which it, or any of its subsidiaries, holds or enjoys and which enables meetings of the Company, so that they may instruct the Trustee to an air service to be operated each an Operating Right.
In particular, vote on their behalf.
EC Council Regulation 1008 2008 on the licensing of air carriers Deferred Shares requires that an air carrier must be majority-owned and effectively Both classes of Deferred Shares carry no right to the profits of the controlled by EEA nationals.
On a winding up, the holders of the Sterling-denominated The Articles allow the Directors, from time to time, to set a Permitted Deferred Shares would be entitled to receive an amount equal to the Maximum on the number of the Companys shares which may capital paid up on each Sterling-denominated Deferred Share and the be owned by non-EEA nationals at such level as they believe is in holders of the Euro-denominated Deferred Shares would be entitled compliance with the Operating Rights, provided that the Permitted to receive an amount equal to the capital paid up on each EuroMaximum shall not be less than 40 per cent of the total number of denominated Deferred Share only after the holders of the Ordinary issued shares.
Shares and Sterling-denominated Deferred Shares have received, in aggregate, the amounts paid up thereon.
The holders of both classes The Company maintains a separate register the Separate Register of Deferred Shares are not entitled to receive notice, attend, speak or of shares in which non-EEA nationals, whether individuals, bodies vote whether on a show of hands or on a poll at general meetings of corporate or other entities have an interest such shares are referred the Company.
to as Relevant Shares in the Articles.
An interest in this context is widely defined see below.
The Directors may require relevant ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION members or other persons to provide them with information to The Companys Articles of Association the Articles may only enable them to determine whether shares are, or are to be treated be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of as, Relevant Shares.
If such information is not provided, then the Shareholders.
The Articles are available on the Companys website at Directors will be able, at their discretion, to determine that shares www.
to which their enquiries relate be treated as Relevant Shares.
Registered Shareholders will also be obliged to notify the Company if they are aware either a that any share they hold ought to be treated as a Relevant Share for this purpose or b that any share they hold which is treated as a Relevant Share should no longer be so treated.
In this case, the Directors shall request such information and evidence as they require to satisfy themselves that the share should not be treated as a Relevant Share and, on receipt of such evidence, shall remove particulars of the share from the Separate Register.
If the Directors determine that such action is necessary to protect any Operating Right due to the fact that an Intervening Act an Intervening Act being the refusal, withholding, suspension or revocation of any 85 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Operating Right or the imposition of materially inhibiting conditions The Directors shall publish, from time to time: or limitations on any Operating Right in either case, by any state or information as to the number of shares particulars of which have regulatory authority has taken place or is contemplated, threatened been entered on the Separate Register: and or intended, or the aggregate number of Relevant Shares is such any Permitted Maximum that has been specified.
that an Intervening Act may occur or the ownership or control of the Company is such that an Intervening Act may occur, the Directors may, The Directors may not register any person as a holder of shares among other things: unless such person has furnished to the Directors a declaration, together with such evidence as the Directors may require, stating identify those shares that give rise to the need to take action and a the name and nationality of any person who has an interest in any treat such shares as affected shares Affected Shares see below : such share and, if the Directors require, the nature and extent of such or interest or b such other information as the Directors may from time set a Permitted Maximum on the number of Relevant Shares that to time determine.
may subsist at any time which may not, save in the circumstances referred to below, be lower than 40 per cent of the total number The Directors may decline to register any person as a Shareholder of issued shares and treat any Relevant Shares in excess of this if satisfactory evidence of information is not forthcoming.
Permitted Maximum as Affected Shares see below.
The Directors Existing holders of shares will be recorded on the Special Register may serve a notice an Affected Share Notice in respect of any unless and until they have certified, to the satisfaction of the Affected Share.
An Affected Share Notice can, if it so specifies, Company, that they are EEA nationals.
have the effect of depriving the registered holder of the right to A person shall be deemed to have an interest in relation to attend, vote and speak at general meetings which they would ThomasCook Group plc shares if: otherwise have had as a consequence of holding such shares.
Such an Affected Share Notice can, if it so specifies, also require such person has an interest that would subject as provided below the recipient to dispose of the Affected Shares so that the Relevant be taken into account, or which they would be taken as having, in Shares will then cease to be Affected Shares within 21 days or determining for the purposes of Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006 such longer period as the Directors may determine.
The Directors whether a person has a notifiable interest: or are also given the power to sell such Affected Shares themselves they have any such interest as is referred to in Part 22 of the where there is non-compliance with an Affected Share Notice at the Companies Act 2006, but shall not be deemed to have an interest best price reasonably obtainable at the relevant time on behalf of in any shares in which their spouse or any infant, child or stepchild the Shareholder.
or, in Scotland, pupil or minor of theirs is interested by virtue of that relationship or which they hold as a bare or custodian trustee In deciding which shares are to be dealt with as Affected Shares, under the laws of England, or as a simple trustee under the laws of the Directors, in their sole opinion, will determine which Relevant Scotland, and interest shall be construed accordingly.
Shares may give rise to the fact of risk of an Intervening Act occurring and, subject to any such determination, will have regard to the As at 30 September 2018, 611,360,726 Ordinary Shares 39.81% were chronological order in which particulars of Relevant Shares have been, held on the Separate Register.
or are to be, entered in the Separate Register unless to do so would, PROVISIONS OF CHANGE OF CONTROL in the sole opinion of the Directors, be inequitable.
If there is a change The Company has in place i a 875 million revolving credit facility in any applicable law or the Company or any subsidiary receives any and bonding and guarantee facility the Facilities Agreement and ii direction, notice or requirement from any state or regulatory authority, 100 million of annual rolling bilateral funding from one of its insurance which, in either case, necessitates such action to overcome, prevent providers the Bilateral Agreement.
The Facilities Agreement provides or avoid an Intervening Act, then the Directors may either: that, on any change of control of the Company, the lenders under lower the Permitted Maximum to the minimum extent that they the Facilities Agreement are obligated to negotiate for a period not consider necessary to overcome, prevent or avoid an Intervening exceeding 30 days, unless extended by agreement for a further period Act: or not exceeding 30 days terms for continuing the facilities but, where resolve that any Relevant Shares shall be treated as Affected agreement on new terms cannot be reached, any such lender is Shares.
The rights of the Directors referred to above apply until entitled to: i receive a repayment of amounts owing to such lender: such time as the Directors resolve that grounds for the making of a ii cancel all of its commitments under the Facilities Agreement, and determination have ceased to exist, whereupon the Directors must or iii under certain conditions demand immediate credit support.
The Bilateral Agreement provides that, on a change of control of the Company, the lender is entitled to examine its willingness to provide The Permitted Maximum is currently set at 45%.
This Permitted credit so that any continuation of the facility can be adapted to the Maximum may be varied by the Directors.
If the Directors resolve changed situation.
to vary the Permitted Maximum to deal with shares as Affected Shares or relax the ownership limitations, they shall publish in at least one national newspaper in the UK and in any other country in which the shares are listed notice of the determination and of any Permitted Maximum.
86 Governance Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Company also has outstanding 750 million 6.25 per cent EMPLOYEE DISCLOSURES guaranteed notes due 2022.
On the occurrence of certain change of Disclosures in respect of employee involvement can be found on control events relating to the Company, each holder has the option pages 34 to 37 and 74 to 75. to require the Company to repurchase all or any part of the holders As explained on page 35 the Company has in place various local notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 101 per cent of the principal policies in respect of Diversity and Inclusion, which will be brought amount plus accrued and unpaid interest.
together under a Group-wide Diversity and Inclusion Framework The Companys subsidiary, Thomas Cook Finance 2 plc, has in early 2019.
The Companys overall position on the employment of outstanding 400 million 3.875 per cent guaranteed notes due 2023. disabled colleagues is that the Company will never discriminate on the On the occurrence of certain change of control events relating to the grounds of disability.
Full and fair consideration is given to applications Company, each holder has the option to require Thomas Cook Finance received by those with disabilities based on their skills and experience 2 plc the issuer of these notes to repurchase all or any part of the for the role.
Those with disabilities within the organisation are holders notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 101 per cent of the provided with appropriate learning and development, training courses, principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest.
career development and promotion opportunities, with care taken to ensure that these are made fully available.
If a colleague was to POLITICAL DONATIONS become disabled during their employment, reasonable adjustments The Company did not make any political donations during the financial would be made to support the colleague to ensure that they are year 2017: nil.
retained in the business with the appropriate support and or training provided for them to continue in their role, or if appropriate an MAJOR SHAREHOLDINGS alternative role within the business.
The table below shows notifications of major shareholdings received by the Company in accordance with rule 5 of the Disclosure Guidance FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS and Transparency Rules: Disclosures about the Groups use of financial instruments can be Percentage Percentage found on page 52 of the Financial Review.
Voting of issued Voting of issued rights reported capital % rights capital % NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT INDEX as at 30 as at 30 as at 28 as at 28 September September November November The below tables set out where information in relation to the Name 2018 2018 2018 2018 following matters can be found: Invesco Ltd 214,653,617 13.97 217,668,340 14.17 Matter Page reference FPI UK Limited Fosun 200,547,137 13.06 200,547,137 13.06 Environmental matters Sustainability section on pages 38 to 41 Standard Life Colleagues People section on pages 34 to 37 Aberdeen 112,373,327 7.32 112,373,327 7.32 Social matters Sustainability section on pages 38 to 41 Marathon Asset Human rights Page 41 of the Sustainability section Management LLP 77,257,909 5.03 77,257,909 5.03 Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery People section on pages 34 to 37 The Capital Group 80,539,797 5.24 76,787,697 4.99 Orbis Holdings Limited 76,633,091 4.99 76,633,091 4.99 The Strategic Report and Directors Report comprising pages 2 to 87 BlackRock, Inc. 115,490,266 7.51 Below 5% Below 5% have been approved and are signed by order of the Board by: DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION UNDER ALICE MARSDEN LISTING RULE 9.8.
4 GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY There is no information to be disclosed under Listing Rule 9.8.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 28 November 2018 Information in respect of greenhouse gas emissions have been Registered office included in the Sustainability section of the Strategic Report on 3rd Floor, South Building page39.
