Our business model Creating consistent and long-term value for key stakeholders.
Key resources How we and relationships create value Employees Technology and innovation We employ 28,700 people globally We seek to improve the quality of existing across our 114 manufacturing locations, products and processes and introduce new at our global and regional technical fluid handling products through innovation and applications centres and at our and investments in new technology.
Customers Our products are sold to all major global OEMs.
We have deep customer relationships with senior purchasing, engineering and management teams.
Market leadership Our highly engineered products, long-term customer relationships, employees and global Suppliers footprint, including China, combine to make the We purchase raw materials from suppliers Group highly competitive while delivering strong including resin, steel and aluminium as well financial returns.
as sub-component parts used in production.
Sourcing is dependent on available quality, supply and location.
In some instances, our suppliers are directed and mandated by the OEMs.
Technology We have made and continue to make significant investment in development Manufacturing of our products and manufacturing Our competitive global footprint with regional processes and protecting related manufacturing and small assembly facilities intellectual property in our major markets.
located near OEM assembly plants has been established to deliver quality products, efficient manufacturing, optimised capital allocation and Governance minimised freight costs.
We are subject to a variety of laws, rules and regulations in connection with our global operations.
We are committed to ensure that we maintain compliance.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 16 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information How we Stakeholders create value who benefit Shareholders We aim to generate progressive shareholder returns in the long-term.
Global market and technology leadership Employees We employ 28,700 people in 28 countries and aim to ensure we have a skilled and motivated workforce.
Profit growth Strong cash generation Customers We provide value to our customers through our leading technology, strong reputation for quality and manufacturing capabilities.
We support OEMs to meet increasing regulated emissions and fuel economy requirements globally.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17
