Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited Directors and Directors interests financial statements for the Group for the year ended The Directors who served the Company during 2018 and at the 31 December 2018.
The Directors report comprises pages 63 date of this report are listed on pages 38 to 39, which include to 64 and the sections of the Annual Report incorporated by brief biographical details.
Their remuneration and interests in reference as set out below, which taken together contain the the share capital of the Company are set out in the Report on information to be included in the Annual Report, where Directors Remuneration on pages 53 to 62. applicable, under Listing Rule 9.8.
The following Board changes have occurred during the year: Board membership pages 3839 Dividends page 63 Director Date of appointment Elaine Sarsynski 14 August 2018 Directors long term incentives page 60 Corporate governance report pages 3652 The Company has adopted best practice guidelines and the 2016 Future developments of our business pages 1819 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Executive and Non-Executive and the Group Our Strategy Directors will offer themselves for election and re-election Employee equality, diversity and pages 6364 respectively at each Annual General Meeting apart from Neil involvement Carson who will not seek re-election at the AGM.
Post balance sheet events page 129 Information to the independent auditor page 64 Details of the Directors service contracts, letters of appointment Subsidiaries pages 135138 and interest in the shares of the Company are shown in the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 53 to 62.
General information Substantial shareholdings The Company was incorporated and registered in England and As at 19 March 2019, the following interests in 3% or more Wales on 22 January 2015 as a limited company with the name of the Companys ordinary share capital had been notified to Omega Holdco II Limited and with registered number 09402231. the Company: It is domiciled in England and Wales.
On 27 September 2016, the Company changed its name to TI Fluid Systems Limited and on Percentage 18 October 2017 the Company was re-registered as a public Shareholder Number of shares held % company limited by shares with the name TI Fluid Systems plc.
BC Omega Holdco Ltd 282,303,985 54.30 The Company is premium listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Companys registered address is 4650 Kingsgate, Oxford Liontrust Special Situations Fund 19,074,844 3.67 Business Park South, Cascade Way, Oxford OX4 2SU.
Franklin UK Mid Cap Fund 15,212,630 2.93 Share capital Details of the Companys share capital are set out on page 111.
Directors indemnity The Companys Articles of Association provide, subject to the Results and dividends provision of UK legislation, an indemnity for Directors and officers of the Company and the Group in respect of liabilities The results for the year are set out in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income on page 77.
The Directors recommend they may incur in the discharge of their duties or in the exercise of their powers, including any liability relating to the defence of a payment of a final dividend of 5.94 euro cents per share on 31 May 2019 subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting any proceedings brought against them which relate to anything done or omitted, or alleged to have been done or omitted, by on 16 May 2019 with a record date of 26 April 2019. them as officers or employees of the Company and the Group.
Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in place in respect of all the Companys Directors.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 63 Directors report continued Directors powers Independent Auditors As set out in the Companys Articles of Association, the business The Auditors,  LLP, have indicated their of the Company is managed by the Board who may exercise all willingness under section 489 of the Companies Act 2006 to powers of the Company.
continue in office and a resolution that they be re-appointed will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Our people The Groups policy is to consider all job applications on a fair Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of basis free from discrimination in relation to age, sex, race, this Annual Report confirms that: ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation or disability not related to job in so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit performance.
Every consideration is given to applications for information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and employment from disabled persons, where the requirements of the Director has taken all the steps necessary to be aware the job may be adequately covered by a disabled person.
Where of any relevant audit information and to establish that the existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
wherever practicable to provide continuing employment under normal terms and conditions and to provide training and career This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance development wherever appropriate.
with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its By order of the Board employees and encourages the development of employee involvement in each of its operating companies through formal Matthew Paroly and informal meetings.
It is the Groups policy to ensure that all Company Secretary employees are made aware of significant matters affecting the 19 March 2019 performance of the Group through the operation of employee forums, information bulletins, informal meetings, team briefings, internal newsletters and the Groups website and intranet.
Key performance indicators Details of the Groups key performance indicators can be found on page 20.
Principal risks and uncertainties Details of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group can be found in the Strategic Review on pages 21 to 23.
Financial instruments An explanation of the Groups treasury policies and existing financial instruments are set out in Note 1.10 on pages 87 to 89 and Note 3 on pages 95 to 96 of the financial statements.
Annual General Meeting A separate notice convening the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held at The May Fair Hotel, Stratton Street, London W1J 8LT on 16 May 2019 will be sent out with this Annual Report and Accounts.
Corporate Governance The Companys statement on Corporate Governance can be found in the Corporate Governance report on pages 36 to 52.
The Corporate Governance report forms part of this Directors report and is incorporated into it by cross reference.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 64
