Key strengths Global market leader with strong market positions and above-market revenue growth.
Global market leader with strong Revenue by region market positions and above-market revenue growth Customer, platform, regional and product diversity 3,473m Leading supplier of brake and fuel lines, 6.
5. with approximately 34% share of the 4. global brake and fuel line market and #1 3. market position globally Leading supplier of plastic fuel tanks, 1.
Europe and Africa 1,398.6m with approximately 15% of the global 2.
North America 971.9m plastic fuel tank market 3.
South Korea 213.6m Embedded, long term global customer 5.
Other Asia Pacific 144.0m relationships and strong close 6.
Latin America 70.1m engineering collaboration provide 2. business award opportunities Products typically single-sourced for life of programme Competitive global manufacturing footprint with flexible cost structure and approximately 69% of employees Revenue by customer located in low-cost countries.
Strong customer relationships and global low cost footprint 12.1.
Highly diversified customer base Facilities in every major automotive 1.
Volkswagen 10% Low cost footprint includes regional 11.
FCA 9% manufacturing centres and assembly 5.
Ford 9% 10. locations in close proximity to 6.
Renault-Nissan 8% 3. customers and provides logistics 7.
Toyota 5% Significant amount of revenue 10.
BMW 4% generated from global OEM platforms 8.
Other OEMs 17% i. e. platforms produced in three or 12.
Well positioned through the global 6. manufacturing footprint to cost effectively expand fluid handling content, business and infrastructure Revenue by division to OEMs transitioning to the HEV and EV market Locations predominantly managed by local nationals with strong stakeholder 2 relationships and performance 1.
Divisions responsibility Technology leader in highly engineered automotive fluid systems Award-winning product innovations and 1.
Fluid carrying systems 58% technologies aligned with automotive 2.
Fuel tank and delivery systems 42% industry megatrends of emissions regulations and fuel efficiency Working closely with customers on design and engineering capabilities to 2. maximise product development TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 04 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Extensive knowledge of materials and Long established presence in China manufacturing processes together with Operated in China for over 30 years optimal level of vertical integration Wholly-owned business supplying Industry recognised innovation awards both global and local OEMs for plastic fuel tank technologies e. g. 19% of 2018 revenue from operations pressurised fuel tanks for HEVs in China with 16 manufacturing Successfully secured design, locations engineering and supply of thermal Key contributor to our consistent above management products for EVs with high market growth volume global leading OEMs with a combination of traditional and Our locations: lightweight material, including nylon Baoding Nanjing Well positioned for growth in thermal Beijing Qinhuangdao management systems for HEVs and Changchun Shanghai EVs with global multi-layer nylon line Changshu Shenyang capabilities Chongqing Tianjin Dongguan West Shanghai Management team with deep Fuzhou Wuhan automotive experience and long track Guangzhou Yantai record of strong revenue growth, profitability and cash flow generation History of achieving leading financial metrics: Revenue growth above vehicle production growth: Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBIT, Adjusted Net Income: Adjusted Free Cash Flow Strong industry reputation for technology innovation and product quality Financial discipline in quoting new contracts and capital allocation Continuous focus on business improvement efficiencies and fixed costs Significant growth opportunities aligned with electrification including our strength in thermal management Opportunity to increase content per vehicle in growing HEV and EV markets compared to our content on more traditional internal combustion engine ICE vehicles Ability to leverage pressurised fuel tank and thermal technology for HEVs Potential addressable market could increase substantially with EV market development as this would typically require battery, chassis, electric motor and electronics thermal management heating and cooling in addition to traditional passenger cabin heating and cooling lines Well positioned for growth in thermal management for HEVs and EVs due to: HEVs and EVs require more fluid handling content than ICE vehicles We have existing know how and capabilities so no additional research and development cost Our developed technology in nylon lines with significant weight savings over aluminium and rubber Existing nylon extrusion capabilities and capacity in each major region OEM relationships and competitive global footprint HEV and EV business wins validating successful strategy Tianjin, China Fuel line assembly TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 05 Strategic report 08 Chairmans statement 10 Chief Executive Officers statement 14 Our markets 16 Our business model 18 Our strategy 20 Key performance indicators 21 Principal risks and uncertainties 24 Corporate responsibility 26 Financial review 32 Going concern and viability statement TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 06 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Indiana, USA Brake line forming TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 07
