50 Governance report Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 Index of Disclosures Leadership Accountability Compliance with the Code The Board reviewed the principles The Board, led by the Chairman, is responsible The Board is responsible for determining and provisions of the UK Corporate for the long-term success of the Company.
the nature and extent of the principal risks Governance Code 2016 the Code The Board provides entrepreneurial it is willing to take in achieving its strategic and its compliance with the Code leadership and constructive challenge to objectives and oversees the risk management executive management who run the business.
and internal control systems in place with the throughout 2018. support of the Audit and Risk Committees.
The Role of the Board p58 Following this review, the Board is Division of Responsibilities p58 Financial and business pleased to confirm that throughout reporting p74 The Chairman p58 the year ended 31 December 2018, the Risk management Non-executive Directors p58 Company has fully complied with the and internal control p75 Code.
A copy of the Code can be found Audit Committee and auditors p72 on the Financial Reporting Council FRC Effectiveness website, www.
uk and further information on compliance with the The Board is comprised of Non-executive Remuneration Code can be found in this index.
and Executive Directors with a diverse set of skills, experience and backgrounds.
Executive Directors remuneration has been They each receive a comprehensive designed to promote the long-term success The new Corporate induction and continued support from of the Company and no Executive Director Governance Code the Company Secretary to enable them is involved in deciding his or her own The intention is to comply with the to carry out their duties effectively.
UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 The level and components Composition of the Board p62 2018 Code for the year ending of remuneration p85 Appointments to the Board p62 31 December 2019.
The Group will report Procedure p80 Commitment p62 on its compliance with the 2018 Code in Development p63 its 2019 Annual Report and Accounts.
Diversity p70 A copy of the 2018 Code can be found Information and support p63 on the FRCs website, www.
Evaluation p64 Re-election of Directors p71 Engagement with stakeholders The Board considers the views of its shareholders and other key stakeholders when making decisions and meets with shareholders from time to time to discuss key issues.
Dialogue with key stakeholders p66 Constructive use of general meetings p66 TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018
