16 Strategic report Strategic pillars Our strategy Our strategic purpose is to provide access to dynamic and efficient markets that enhance the flow of capital, energy and commodities around the world.
Looking forward, the Group is focused on significantly enhancing the value of our combined pools of liquidity.
At the heart of everything we do is a focus on our customers and how best we can help them.
As a result we are committed to enhancing our services, refining the quality of our market insights and also strengthening our platforms and venues to enable us to achieve, maintain, or extend our market leadership positions.
To create long-term value, we have established four strategic pillars as the foundation to deliver our strategic objectives.
These strategic pillars are: to build and sustain our technology offering: enhance our operational excellence: develop our people: and diversify our customer base and range of services.
Technology Operational excellence People Diversify Our strategic pillars Build and sustain our technology offering we seek to Enhance our operational excellence we aim to Develop our people we aim to provide a respectful and Diversify our customer base and range of services we continue to achieve a solid level of investment in IT development that have effective operational capabilities, systems, enjoyable workplace for our colleagues that supports innovation, add new customers in all our divisions taking advantage of the will position us at the forefront of the industry.
processes and decision-making hierarchies in place high performance and continuing personal and professional shifts that are taking place in our industry.
to ensure that we can operate effectively and development.
We use our technological capabilities to build superior We develop new products and nurture new markets to meet our responsibly, and at the same time deliver platform technologies, analytical tools and provide our We place great emphasis on conduct that promotes and protects customers evolving preferences.
customers with a wider choice of ways to transact with us the integrity of the markets we operate in and the services we We add new services to capture more points in our customers combined with greater efficiency and ease.
We understand the role our support functions play provide our customers.
execution chain, which will optimise the depth, durability and in our ability to service our clients well in an We invest in infrastructure to give us resilient foundations We focus on greater coordination and teamwork across our business value of our relationships.
and a strong, secure and scalable backbone from which to divisions so that we are better able to service our customers.
Priorities in 2019 Continue to integrate our application estate, reducing Continue investment in our Belfast centre.
Continue to refine our proposition to our staff to attract, develop Develop our Institutional Services division to add more products platform duplication and simplifying workflows.
This will and retain the best people.
and services as well as targeting larger buy side institutions.
Automate post-trade processes to reduce the risk of provide us with the capacity to invest in new technological error and eliminate duplication.
Refresh and reinforce our conduct and culture agenda across Ensure we properly understand and are remunerated for the usage developments.
that our Data & Analytics clients enjoy from our products and Harmonise more of our support function processes Strengthen our corporate security by implementing a services.
Look to add more products and services.
and policies across the Group and deliver a more Modernise our governance and committee structures to improve wide-reaching cyber security programme.
Expand our Client Relationship Management function to cover all divisions and regions.
Invest in our risk and control functions to ensure they are fit for purpose.
KPIs 2 4 2 4 5 2 5 1 3 4 see pages 18 and 19 Associated Adverse change to regulatory framework.
Adverse change to regulatory framework.
principal risks Failure to respond to client requirements.
Failure to respond to client requirements.
Failure to retain and recruit talent.
Deterioration in the commercial environment.
see pages 40 to 43 The impact of Brexit.
Failure to respond to client requests.
Cyber security and data protection.
Failure to protect proprietary data.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 17 Our strategy Our strategic purpose is to provide access to dynamic and efficient markets that enhance the flow of capital, energy and commodities around the world.
