108 Governance report Directors Report The Directors present their report together with the audited consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018.
As permitted by legislation, the following statements required under company law, the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules, Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules are set out elsewhere in this Annual Report and are incorporated into this report by reference: Disclosure Location Board of Directors Board of Directors pages 54 and 55 Results for the year Consolidated Income Statement page 120 Dividends Strategic report page 1 DTR 7 Corporate Governance Statement excluding DTR 7.2.
6, Corporate governance report page 50 which is covered by this Directors Report Directors share interests Directors Remuneration Report page 92 Financial instruments Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements pages 132 to 135 Viability statement Strategic report page 37 Going concern statement Strategic report page 37 Principal risks and uncertainties Strategic report pages 40 to 43 Human rights and equal opportunities Strategic report page 46 Related party transactions Note 36 to the Consolidated Financial Statements page 174 Business activities and performance Strategic report pages 4 to 5 Financial position Strategic report pages 21 to 36 Key risk analysis Strategic report pages 40 to 43 Loans and other provisions Notes 3 and 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements pages 136 and 155 Issued share capital Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements page 162 Future developments Strategic report pages 6 to 13 Statement of Directors responsibility Page 112 Listing Rule 9.8.
4 disclosure The trustee of the Employee Benefit Trust waived its rights to receive dividends on shares held by them.
Information regarding long-term incentive schemes is contained within the Directors Remuneration Report pages 80 to 107 and incorporated into this report by reference.
Otherwise than as indicated, there are no further disclosures to be made under Listing Rule 9.8.
Post balance sheet events There have been no significant events between 31 December 2018 and the date of approval of this Annual Report which would require a change to or additional disclosure in the Annual Report.
Directors Each of the current Directors is included in the Biographies section of the Annual Report, set out on pages 54 and 55.
Each of these Directors served throughout the year except for Michael Heaney who was appointed on 15 January 2018 as a Non-executive Director, Lorraine Trainer who was appointed on 1 July 2018 as a Non-executive Director, Nicolas Breteau and Robin Stewart who were appointed on 10 July 2018 as Executive Directors, and Philip Price who was appointed on 3 September 2018 as an Executive Director.
John Phizackerley and Carol Sergeant also served as Directors during the year, stepping down on 9 July 2018 and 31 December 2018 respectively.
Richard Berliand was appointed to the Board on 19 March 2019 as a Non-executive Director.
Directors conflicts The Directors are required to notify the Company of any potential conflicts of interest that may affect them in their roles as Directors of TP ICAP.
All potential conflicts of interest are recorded and reviewed by the full Board at least annually.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 109 Directors indemnity arrangements The Company maintains liability insurance for its Directors and officers, and to the extent allowed by law and the Companys Articles of Association, the Company provides a standard indemnity against certain liabilities that a Director may incur in their capacity as Director of the Company.
The liability insurance provided to a Director does not provide cover in the event of dishonest or fraudulent activity.
The principal employer of the Tullett Prebon Pension Scheme has given indemnities to the Directors who are trustees of that Scheme.
Appointment and replacement of Directors With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association the Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders and were last amended at the Companys AGM in May 2017.
At each AGM, all the Directors who held office on the date seven days before the Notice of that AGM must retire from office and each Director wishing to continue to serve must submit themselves for election or re-election by shareholders.
Share capital and control The Company has one class of ordinary shares, which carry no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
The voting rights of the ordinary shares held by the Tullett Prebon plc Employee Benefit Trust 2007 are exercisable by the trustees in accordance with their fiduciary duties.
The right to receive dividends on these shares has been waived.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in Note 29 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Restriction on transfer of securities and voting rights There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, both of which are governed by the provisions in the Articles and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights, nor are there any arrangements by which, with the Companys co-operation, financial rights carried by securities are held by a person other than the holder of those securities.
Powers of the Directors As granted by shareholders at the 2018 AGM, the Directors have the authority to allot shares and to buy the Companys shares in the market.
At the last AGM, resolutions were passed to authorise the Directors to allot up to a nominal amount of 92,355,445 subject to restrictions specified in the relevant resolutions and to purchase up to 55,413,267 ordinary shares.
These authorities are set to expire so similar authorities will be proposed at this years AGM.
At the date of this Annual Report, no shares had been purchased in the market under the authority granted at the 2018 AGM.
The allotment and buy-back authorities will expire at the conclusion of the 2019 AGM or, if earlier, on 1 July 2019 unless renewed before that time.
Further powers of the Directors are described in the Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board, which is available on the Companys website.
Significant agreements and change of control The Companys banking facilities give the lenders the right not to renew loans and to cancel commitments in the event of a change of control.
The Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to change of control, subject to the satisfaction of relevant performance conditions and pro-rata for time, if appropriate.
The Company is not aware of any other significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, nor any agreements with the Company and its employees or Directors for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
com 110 Governance report Directors Report continued Research and development The Group uses various bespoke information technology in the course of its business and undertakes research and development in order to enhance that technology.
Employees The Group is an inclusive employer, and considers diversity to be of utmost importance.
We give full and fair consideration to applications we receive from disabled persons, and support those unfortunate to incur a disability whilst employed at the Group.
All opportunities of career progression and development, including promotions and training, are equally applied to all employees.
All employees with information of concern to them and factors affecting the Groups performance through emails and our regular Groupwide newsletter, The Wire.
The Group consults employees, taking into account their views in the Boards decision making processes, using surveys to encourage employee involvement in the Companys performance.
Under the new workforce engagement initiative Lorraine Trainer, Edmund Ng and Michael Heaney have been commissioned to represent the Board in engaging with the workforce in EMEA, Asia Pacific and the Americas respectively.
For more information, see page 57.
Substantial shareholders As at 31 December 2018, and at the date of this Annual Report, the following table shows the holdings of the Companys total voting rights attached to the Companys issued ordinary share capital, that have been notified to the Company in accordance with DTR 5: 31 December 18 March 2018 % 2019 % Schroders plc 16.24 16.34 Jupiter Asset Management 8.57 8.57 Liontrust Asset Management 5.07 5.07 Silchester International Investors LLP 5.04 5.04 Blackrock, Inc. 4.85 4.85 Greenhouse gas emissions TP ICAP, as an office-based business, is not engaged in activities that are generally regarded as having a high environmental impact.
However, the Board has agreed that it will seek to adopt policies to safeguard the environment to meet statutory requirements or where such policies are commercially sensible.
The Group continues to report its carbon footprint according to best practice principles, reporting on scope 1 and scope 2 emissions.
The estimated Group greenhouse gas emissions for 2017 and 2018 are set out below: Tonnes of CO e 2 2018 2017 Combustion of fuel, vehicles, fugitive emissions scope 1 2,693 3,377 Purchased electricity scope 2 10,889 10,722 Total 13,583 14,099 Total emissions per employee 2.8 2.7 TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 111 The emission statistics were calculated by Anthesis Consulting Group.
The analysis included all material sources of emissions for which the Group is directly responsible.
Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions including those from combustion of fuels and owned vehicles.
Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions resulting from electricity purchased for office buildings.
The estimate covers all TP ICAP operations that are consolidated in the financial statements.
Data was collected for the Groups representative sites of different sizes in each region representing approximately 56% of the total TP ICAP recorded emissions.
This data was then used in an extrapolation exercise to estimate the consumption across the rest of the Groups global operations.
Data was also collected for the Groups managed or owned transport activity.
This activity data was then converted to greenhouse gas estimates using the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2017 and the International Energy Agencys Overseas Electricity factors for overseas electricity consumption.
Political donations It is the Companys policy not to make cash contributions to any political party.
However, within the normal activities of the Group, there may be occasions when an activity might fall within the broader definition of political expenditure contained within the Companies Act 2006.
During 2018, no political donations were made by the Group 2017: nil.
Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors Statement regarding their responsibility for preparing the Annual Report is set out on page 112.
Auditor Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Disclosure of information to the auditor Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the Director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Annual General Meeting The AGM of the Company will be held at 12.45pm on 15 May 2019.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are set out in a separate Notice of Meeting together with explanatory notes set out in a separate circular.
The Notice of Meeting will be sent to all shareholders entitled to receive such notice.
Only members on the register of members of the Company as at close of business on 13 May 2019 or two days before any adjourned meeting, excluding non-business days will be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM.
Any proxy must be lodged with the Companys registrars or submitted to CREST at least 48 hours, excluding non-business days, before the AGM or any adjourned meeting thereof.
Resolutions dealing with the authority to allot shares, the new Directors Remuneration Policy, the new LTIP Scheme, disapplication of pre-emption rights, authority to buy back shares and to convene general meetings other than annual general meetings on no less than 14 days notice will be put to the AGM as special business.
Richard Cordeschi Group Company Secretary 19 March 2019 www.
