14 Strategic report Market factors Market factors, implications and our response Our business is influenced by a number of external factors.
A summary of some key market factors which currently affect TP ICAP and are expected to continue in the coming years, is set out below: Market factor Description Implications for TP ICAP TP ICAPs response Competitive TP ICAP has a wide range of local Recent years have seen a TP ICAP has adopted a proactive approach environment and regional competitors, and a competitive environment to client engagement, and has focused on smaller number of international in which some rivals have the organisation becoming a more attractive competitors.
discounted heavily to retain place to work for all its employees.
and win new business, as well as offering significant remuneration packages to attract new staff.
Regulation TP ICAP operates under the The trends in global regulation We continue to invest in our risk and jurisdiction of a number of place an additional resource and compliance frameworks and in our staff different regulators.
The overall cost requirement on TP ICAP.
to ensure we have the right skills to advise trend globally continues to be and direct our business on the implications They also increase the chance towards increasing levels of of the changing regulatory environment.
of regulatory action being faced regulatory oversight.
by the Group, as well as greater levels of scrutiny.
Technological Technological advances Technology has the potential We will continue to maintain the amount advances potentially enable a new to provide both positive and of investment we make in technology generation of competitors negative outcomes to the upgrades, and over time this will likely to disrupt existing players.
Improved technology increase as a proportion of revenues.
allows us to enhance the services Advances in technology bring We will seek to partner with companies we provide to clients, improving changes in how our clients who specialise in technology to improve efficiency and profitability.
It businesses are run and in the the time-to-market of new functionality.
also presents challenges if the risks they face.
Similar matters Groups technology strategy is We are developing a high-quality directly impact our own business.
not in line with overall market development expertise in-house in our Belfast developments.
Centre which will complement our teams in all our major offices, to roll out enriched platforms quickly to our front office, support staff and clients.
Big data Significant volumes of data can Much of the data we have We will develop ourselves or partner selectively developments be collected and analysed far gathered in the past and with specialist companies that can assist us to more quickly and cheaply than present could now be developed develop and launch tools that enable us to use in the past.
Combined with into products in a way that was our extensive library of data, supplemented artificial intelligence tools, this not possible or cost effective in with other sources, to improve and increase the can enable deeper and faster the past.
products and services we provide our brokers market and behavioural insights and clients.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 15 Case study: Technology Technology has changed the way our industry operates.
Technology has changed the way our Pure electronic businesses have increased industry operates and opened up new overall during the year.
We now have opportunities for us to interact with clients.
electronic revenues in Rates Interest Rate Swaps, Forward Rate Agreements, Repo, As the worlds largest interdealer broker, we Gilts, Inflation, US Treasuries, Credit Bonds, already offer a broad range of hybrid and Credit Default Swaps and FX Nonpure electronic solutions, but to enhance our Deliverable Forwards.
clients experience even further, we continue to look for new ways to innovate across our Working with our partners in the fintech and four business divisions.
innovation space has allowed us to introduce tools such as LiquidityChain, offering access In 2018, we successfully deployed our Volume to pools of bond liquidity, and the launch of Matching technology to new products our artificial intelligence prototype with Glia globally, including Singapore Dollar Swaps, Ecosystems in the Energy & Commodities New Zealand Dollar Electricity Auctions and division.
We continue to develop more functionality within this software, with the We also renamed tpMatch, our global objective to enrich our clients experience and post-trade risk mitigation service, to optimise liquidity provision.
We have invested MatchBook which forms part of Risk in other hybrid technologies such as our Management Services.
This Forward Rate Global Trading Network and Nova Matching Agreement and Non-Deliverable Forward Engine, which is based and developed in our matching algorithm continues to reduce Belfast office, to enhance the efficiency and fixing risk exposures and grow the business effectiveness of our business and to improve through further technical solutions aimed the customers work flows.
at solving our TP ICAP clients risk concerns.
