TR Property pp24-32 08 06 2018 14:20 Page 26 Key Performance Indicators The Board assesses the performance of the Manager in meeting the Trusts objective against the following Key Performance Indicators KPIs : KPI Board monitoring and outcome l The Board reviews the performance in detail at each meeting and Net Asset Value Total Return discusses the results and outlook with the Manager.
Outcome The Directors regard the Companys net asset value total return performance in comparison 1 Year 5 Years with the benchmark as being an overall NAV Total Return Annualised 15.5%16.1% measure of value delivered to the Benchmark Total Return shareholders over the longer-term.
Annualised 10.2% 11.9% NAV Total Return is calculated by re-investing the dividends in the assets and the Company from the relevant ex-dividend date.
Dividends are deemed to be re-invested on the ex-dividends date.
l The Board reviews statements on income received to date and Delivering a reliable dividend which income forecasts at each meeting.
is growing over the longer term Outcome The principal objective of the Company is 1 Year 5 Years a total return objective, however, the fund manager aims to deliver a reliable dividend Compound Annual Dividend with growth over the longer-term.
Growth 16.2% 11.8% Compound Annual RPI 3.3% 2.3% The final dividend in the time series divided by the initial dividend in the period raised to the power of 1 divided by the number of years in the series.
l The Board takes powers at each AGM to buy-back and issue The Discount or Premium at shares.
When considering the merits of share buy-back or which the Companys shares trade issuance, the Board looks at a number of factors in addition to the compared with Net Asset Value short and longer-term discount or premium to NAV to assess Whilst expectations of investment whether action would be beneficial to the shareholders overall.
performance is a key driver of the share price Particular attention is paid to the current market sentiment, the discount or premium to the net asset value of potential impact of any share buy-back activity on the liquidity of an investment trust over the longer-term, the shares and on Ongoing Charges over the longer-term.
there are periods when the discount can Outcome widen.
The Board is aware of the vulnerability of a sector-specialist trust to a change of 1 Year 5 Years investor sentiment towards that sector, and Average discount 5.6% 5.2% the impact that can have on the discount.
Total number of shares repurchased Nil 525,000 Average daily discount throughout the period of share price to capital only NAV.
TR Property Investment Trust 26 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT TR Property pp24-32 08 06 2018 14:20 Page 27 Key Performance Indicators continued KPI Board monitoring and outcome l Expenses are budgeted for each financial year and the Board Level of Ongoing Charges reviews regular reports on actual and forecast expenses The Board is conscious of expenses and aims throughout the year.
to deliver a balance between excellent service and costs.
Outcome 1 Year 5 Years The AIC denition of Ongoing Charges includes any direct property costs in addition Ongoing charges excluding to the management fees and all other performance fees 0.65% 0.72% expenses incurred in running a publicly listed Ongoing charges company.
As no other investment trusts hold excluding Performance Fees and 0.61% 0.67% part of their portfolio in direct property they Direct Property Costs either hold 100% of their portfolio as property securities or as direct property, in l The ongoing charges are competitive when compared to the peer addition to Ongoing Charges as dened by group.
the AIC, this statistic is shown without direct property costs to allow a clearer comparison of overall administration costs with other funds investing in securities.
The Board monitors the Ongoing Charges, in comparison to a range of other Investment Trusts of a similar size, both property sector specialists and other sector specialists.
l The Board reviews financial information and forecasts at each Investment Trust Status meeting which set out the requirements outlined in Section 1158.
The Company must continue to operate in order to meet the requirements for Section l The Directors believe that the conditions and ongoing 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010. requirements have been met in respect of the year to 31 March 2018 and that the Company will continue to meet the requirements.
