qxp 08 06 2018 14:21 Page 7 Managers Report that the value of prime shopping centres are on a downward glide path which is being smoothed by a lack of market transactions allowing independent valuers multiple reporting periods to get to the current market values.
It is now merely a matter of time.
Sharp eyed investors will notice that we have acquired a holding in Hammerson.
This occurred just a few days before the year end and was Marcus Phayre-Mudge MRICS entirely driven by our expectation of corporate activity which Fund Manager I will explain later.
Intu which we do not hold once again won the prize for poorest performing UK stock with a total return of 20.6%.
Negative investor sentiment towards this Performance particular sector is geographically agnostic and European The Net Asset Value total return for the year of 15.5% was names also suffered regardless of whether they are well run ahead of the benchmark total return which was 10.2%.
The businesses exposed to premier malls Unibail or own Chairman has already commented on the 25.5% share secondary malls and lack management skills Wereldhave.
price total return driven by a further reduction in the level of Set against our retail underweight, the industrial and the discount between the share price and the net asset logistics subset remains our largest collective overweight value.
and was a key performance driver.
More on this subject The growth in net assets was primarily driven in the first half later in the report.
by our continental European stocks.
They began to benefit Politics continued to have an impact.
The result of the from both improving economic data and a broad UK election last June reverberated through the market expectation that the largest Eurozone economies of France leading to relative underperformance of the UK property and Germany would both gain from a new political order stocks versus their Continental cousins in the first half of the Macron and an older one Merkel.
The London centric businesses both large caps such the second half of the year were much closer with the UK as Landsec as well as the specialist developers such as component of the benchmark slightly outperforming, 4.1% Great Portland Estates suffered from the ongoing concern in GBP versus Europe ex UK returning just 2% in EUR.
that rental growth would reverse as London employment However the funds relative outperformance of the levels particularly in financial service related businesses benchmark was not primarily driven by geographical focus dropped.
we were in fact overweight in the UK throughout the year Given the underperformance of the UK, the funds but by subsector exposure and stock selection particularly overweight to that region as mentioned earlier, requires an amongst our small caps.
In summary, our exposure to alternative sectors The resounding theme of the period, which I agged at the such as student accommodation, self storage, healthcare, interim stage, and one that continues to be the case today budget hotels, index-linked and secure income has is the huge divergence of performance and investor increased materially alongside an increased exposure to sentiment between sectors.
The most extreme of these South East ex London ofce markets.
Virtually all of these deserve to be highlighted early in this report as they were investments exceeded the benchmark return with the primary drivers of performance.
strongest performances from CLS Holdings 36.8%, , McKay Securities 36.2% and Safestore 33.4%.
Retail property remains deeply unpopular whilst the other side of the online, omni-channel retailing phenomenon, Property Investment Markets namely warehousing, continues to experience stellar returns.
In the UK our principal retail exposure was through Capital continues to ow into the asset class.
Investors Capital & Regional, whose centres focus on a local remain focused on income even as we move to a world of catchment and where rents remain affordable.
While the tightening monetary policy and a reduction in unorthodox stock underperformed the broader index it was the best stimulus the ECB reduced their bond buying from 60bn performing UK retail stock.
We remain rmly of the view to 30bn in October.
Bond yields rose over the period but TR Property Investment Trust 7 TR Property pp01-17.
qxp 08 06 2018 14:21 Page 8 Managers Report continued the 10 year Bund peaked in February at 76bps.
Three It remains our central concern that these reduced quarters of 1% for 10 years and your money back not transaction volumes, particularly in retail, are holding back adjusting for ination doesnt seem very appealing when the downward adjustment to prices which the independent the German economy is expected to grow at 2.5% this year valuers need to make.
They continue to cite lack of IMF forecast.
Hence investors continue to seek evidence when producing independent valuations, whereas alternatives.
the equity market already knows the direction of travel and has the shopping centre owners standing at discounts of Even London where rental growth is subdued and the between 15% Unibail and 45% Intu to their last economic outlook uncertain international capital ows have reported asset values.
held yields at historically low levels, albeit this capital is focused on prime assets.
Knight Frank calculated that last Ofces year 83% of all London ofce transactions were from overseas investors, totalling over 14bn.
Transaction levels JLL report that Central London take up at 11.3m sq ft was were 33% higher than the previous year although the some 11% ahead of 2016 and comfortably ahead of gures were skewed by the two largest deals ever longer term averages.
Those most concerned about the 20 Fenchurch St the Walkie Talkie and 122 Leadenhall likely impact of Brexit may be surprised to read that Street the Cheesegrater.
This agents confidence for next Q4 2017 was the strongest quarter of the year for City take year is underpinned by the fact that a third of all buyers for up with the full year gure at 6.2m sq ft, 15% ahead of the assets over 100m were making their first foray into the 10 year average.
The West End equivalent gure was London market.
The pool of potential purchasers appears 4.4m sq ft, the highest since 2007.
The UK capital remains a gateway for new investors Before we subject the Brexit bears to a tirade about Project and the uncertainty of Brexit doesnt seem to bother those Fear we need to dig into the data.
The exible ofce space with a much longer investment horizon.
operators led by WeWork accounted for 28% of all take up in the last quarter and 20% of the 2017 gure.
Whilst all Markets which continue to see rental growth driven by this ofce space is part of the take up data it does then a positive demand supply imbalance such as require real businesses to ll it who might otherwise take industrial warehousing, residential Germany, Spain, more traditional longer leases elsewhere.
We must also Sweden, and ofces in Paris, Madrid, Stockholm and most remain cognisant of the fact that traditional financial services major German cities have all experienced further yield are not increasing their headcount.
The loosely described compression and elevated transaction levels.
creative industries continue to increase their proportion of take up and rents remain most stable in their preferred UK industrial transactions reached a 7.5bn record with an locations of City fringe and Mid Town, also known as the acceleration in Q4 which saw 2bn traded.
However this huge growth in serviced ofces report that average industrial yields tightened by 0.29% to skews the data.
5.5%, another record, and are now lower than the equivalent for all retail property.
Investors, quite rightly, were concerned that the inevitable slowdown in employment growth ahead of the conclusion However, for assets which are experiencing serious of the Brexit negotiations would meet an increase in the downward pressure on rents and deep structural challenges supply of new developments which were commenced we have seen a collapse in transaction volumes.
Shopping before the Referendum vote was even a twinkle in UKIPs centre sales volumes fell to 2.2bn the lowest level since eye.
It is pleasing to report that whilst 2017 development the depth of the recession in 2009.
Many of these transactions were acquisitions by local authorities using completions were the third highest on record, this new cheap finance from the Public Works Loan Board.
This supply was quickly absorbed with new build vacancy at cohorts spending across all sectors exceeded 1.8bn in 0.6% less than half the 10 year average.
Their motivation is often merely edged up from 4.8% to 4.9% in the City whilst being unchanged in the West End at 4.4%.
Development broader than merely financial returns as they seek to improve their own local retail environments which have completions scheduled for 2018 and 2019 are ahead of suffered from under investment.
long term averages but then the 2020 delivery is TR Property Investment Trust 8 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT TR Property pp01-17.
qxp 08 06 2018 14:21 Page 9 Managers Report continued signicantly lower than average.
We would characterise this Retail prole as a healthy but contained level of space completion.
The retail sector continues to suffer from structural headwinds and retail property landlords remain out of Paris continues to enjoy the recovery in tenant demand favour.
In some instances poor management decisions which we wrote about last year.
Total take-up for 2017 principally around too much leverage will continue to reached 2.6m sq m, 15% ahead of the 10 year average compound the pain of falling asset values and anaemic and the highest level seen since 2007 and Q1 2018 has rental growth.
Retailers of all shades are focusing their matched this pace.
Incentives continue to fall particularly in capital expenditure online not on stores.
Almost every the more central locations.
Vacancy levels remain historically retailer must continue to rationalise their physical store low in the prime CBD Paris Centre West at 2.9% estate.
Many observers believe this just means a compared to a 10 year average of 5%.
La Defense is concentration of location and larger units.
Our view is that it broadly in line with its long run average of 7.3%.
The issue is much more nuanced and there is a place and a price for local everyday shopping.
Landlords and valuations are has always been around supply and whilst there are adjusting to these lower rental levels.
In fact it is the rents in 30 projects due for completion in 2018, over half of these many prime centres which are becoming increasingly are in the centre of Paris which has been starved of unaffordable as retailer margins continue to be squeezed.
modern, high quality space due to planning and historic Lord Wolfson, the veteran retailer and CEO of Next building constraints.
By way of example, CLS Holdings we commented that he expects, on average, all lease renewals hold 5% of the company will shortly complete a going forward to be renegotiated at c25% below current 2,000sq m ofce close to Place des Victoires in the 1st Arr.
The current values of most centres are at in Paris and had little difficulty letting the building ahead of yields implying growth which doesnt exist.
Of the estimated 1.8m sq m to be delivered The moderately good news is that supply has all but dried over the next 3 years, 50% is already pre-let.
up, particularly in the UK.
Bracknell and Oxford were enhancements of existing schemes and both badly needed A similar theme runs across all the major cities of Europe in wealthy catchments.
Continental Europe has been slow to with employment growth translating into falling vacancy.
reduce supply but it is now happening.
Cushman report Subdued levels of speculative development reect the 1.2m sqm of new space in H1 2017, down 11% from ongoing reluctance of banks to provide risk capital and this H1 2016.
They estimate a calendar year decline of 16%.
generates the virtuous circle of tenant demand meeting modest supply.
The lack of market evidence due to the expectation gap between buyers and sellers, which is so apparent in the UK, Madrid and Barcelona despite the disruption caused by the is also a feature across Europe with investment volumes Catalonian separatist movement have both experienced below average.
However there has been more evidence of a strong recovery in take up which has absorbed significant international and institutional capital continuing to pay vacancy and driven rents higher.
Madrid CBD saw rents 8% record yields for prime assets, particularly city centre as evidenced by Eurocommercials sale of 74 rue fide Rivoli, higher as incentives drop to pre-crisis levels and take up Paris at an initial yield of 3.0% and their purchase of reached 560,000 sq m, 30% higher than 2016.
With new Woulwe, a shopping centre outside Brussels for 468m at space delivery at just 1.5% of current stock further rental a yield of 4.0%.
Both occupiers and landlords are still grappling with the According to JLL, Germanys 7 top cities collectively reached longer term ramications of digital sales penetration.
The an all time high take up of 4.2m sq m beating the previous UK remains the bellwether with the highest level of online 2016 record by 7%.
Vacancy at 4.7% is the lowest in penetration.
A year ago I commented that online sales as 15 years.
Once again supply is anaemic with lower levels of a percentage of all sales has reached 15%, the ONS update new space delivery in 2017 than in 2016.
The top performer for March 2018 is 17.4%.
It is also interesting to note that in terms of rental growth was, again, Berlin 11% but online sales of food as a % of total sales have grown Stuttgart, Munich and Hamburg also all saw 4.0%.
much more slowly from 5.3% to 5.4% over the period.
TR Property Investment Trust 9 TR Property pp01-17.
qxp 08 06 2018 14:21 Page 10 Managers Report continued Not all retailers have been able to successfully navigate warehouses across Europe primarily to serve as last mile these difficult times and the headline news in the UK centres for its Prime service.
They remain the largest around administrations and retailers restructuring lease acquirer of logistics space across Europe as the ability to provide same day delivery is rolled out beyond the largest obligations through CVAs creditor voluntary arrangements has been a blizzard of household names New Look, cities in the UK to those in France, Italy, Spain, Germany Carpetright, Byron Burger, Brantano, Jones the Bootmaker, and the Netherlands.
Multiyork, House of Fraser and Toys R Us to name a few.
The CVA structure is a useful tool for tenants.
It enables Residential them to extract themselves from underperforming stores or In the interim report I wrote at length about the attractions to rebase rents back to market levels with the threat of of the private rented sector PRS and those attributes bankruptcy and therefore an empty store as the remain in place.
Following the 250m IPO of PRS REIT in alternative and less palatable course of action for a landlord.
May 2017, the company raised almost the same again in further primary issuance in February this year, such is the Distribution and Industrial demand for the asset class.
The optimistic expectations for this sector and our Meanwhile, the Central London prime residential market overweight position have, if anything been exceeded.
Last continues to deate under the weight of changes to stamp year I gave a range of statistics on the rate of rental growth duty, capital gains and second home taxation as well as the and further yield compression.
These rates have been inevitable expectation that continental European buyers will matched or surpassed with MSCI IPD reporting a total defer investment decisions until they see the outcome of return of 19.6% for 2017.
However, whilst investors have the Brexit negotiations.
piled into the sector, actual take up when Amazons market share is stripped out is just in line with the 5 year average.
Elsewhere in Europe we continue to see strong The last five years have seen extraordinary rates of growth performance from the German listed residential businesses.
in take up and that was at an unsustainable pace.
What is These companies are effectively PRS businesses on a grand encouraging and the rationale for further investor interest scale.
The largest, Vonovia, now has 350,000 apartments has been the pace of rental growth.
According to LSH, rents following its acquisition of Buwog.
Employment levels are at in the UKs 60 key markets increased on average by 4.9%.
record highs in Germany and wage growth is assured which Their 5 year projections average 3.5% pa versus that for all helps investors feel confident that tenants can continue to UK Property of sub 2%.
Lack of availability remains the key.
pay rents which are rising at c3% per annum.
The threat to logistic networks posed by Brexit has deterred The only other weak residential market, besides London, is speculative development.
UK wide availability has fallen to Stockholm.
It had enjoyed stellar growth over the previous an all time low.
10 years however the Riksbanks macro prudential tools The situation across Europe is much the same.
Segros Q1 aimed at limiting borrowing and lowering mortgage 2018 trading statement included a series of record breaking thresholds have nally begun to bite and Swedish house statistics on leasing, take up and pre-lets.
They operate prices have corrected 10% over the last year and even across 6 European countries alongside the UK and it is very more in prime Stockholm.
encouraging to see tenant demand across all countries and types of assets bigbox, last mile urban locations as well as Debt and Equity Markets traditional industrial users.
Whilst their ERV Estimated I commented in the Interim on the amount of capital raised Rental Value was fastest in the UK 3.9%, Germany and in the UK over the previous 12 months 2bn and the Italy both recorded 1.9% on top of further overall yield second half of the period saw an acceleration in that rate compression.
CBRE recorded the strongest growth in Spain with a further 2bn raised in the final six months of the with one year growth of 5% in Madrid and a staggering financial year.
The previous period had been marked by 8.7% in Barcelona.
a large number of IPOs focused either on assets with Amazon continue to be at the forefront of this land grab.
In secure income social housing, healthcare, supermarkets April 2017, it announced that it was seeking 1,300 or industrial warehousing, the secteur du jour.
The Trust TR Property Investment Trust 10 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT TR Property pp01-17.
qxp 08 06 2018 14:21 Page 11 Managers Report continued participated in a number of the former but none of the and Hammerson all of whom are focused on the two latter.
Our industrial exposure is focused on businesses markets which investors are least enthused about, namely which already own the assets and the development retail and Central London ofces.
The second half saw opportunities as opposed to investing in blind pools of a recovery in sentiment towards Central London ofces with cash seeking to acquire in an increasingly heated Derwent London, Great Portland and British Land all rallying environment.
The laggard was Landsec which has record low leverage and is clearly positioned for a bear market.
In the latter part of the year, the largest raisings were from existing businesses with strong managements and we Hammersons performance would have been closer to added to our holdings in Secure Income REIT who raised Intus -20%, if it wasnt for the approach from Klepierre 315m, Shaftesbury 265m, Unite 169m and Assura which resulted in the Hammerson share price rallying 24% 173m.
The largest raise was Civitas 350m a business in the last two weeks of the financial year.
For those readers investing in social housing let to a range of housing who havent been following this corporate finance calamity associations.
We did not invest and recently one of the the briefest of summaries is as follows.
In December, smaller associations has run into financial difficulties.
Hammerson and Intu announced that they reached agreement for Hammerson to acquire Intu with a mix of Our largest single participation which was detailed in the shares and cash.
By mid March the share prices of both Interim was Supermarket Income REIT which raised companies had fallen 20% from their 31st December 100m in July and followed that with a small additional 2017 closing prices.
Investors did not like the deal.
We anticipate further raisings and 16th March the Board of Hammerson confirmed remain keen for this business to grow.
in response to press speculation that Klepierre had Equity capital markets were also busy across Europe with approached them with an indicative offer of 615p a total of 3.3bn raised.
Spain and France dominated the subsequently increased to 635p.
The Hammerson Board leader board with Colonial, the Paris and Madrid ofce rejected both bids out of court stressing its desire to owner raising 670m to acquire Axiare and Merlin adding continue with the Intu merger.
Klepierre walked away and 150m to acquire more Madrid ofces.
The largest pan then on 18th April Hammerson announced that they no European raising was by the Paris ofce specialist Gecina longer wished to pursue the deal with Intu citing changes in who raised 1.0bn to acquire Eurosic.
In 20 years of working on the Trust I can Paris portfolio is now twice the size of its nearest rival.
safely say that Ive never seen anything quite like this saga.
The only thing we can be sure of is that this is not the end It was also another busy year in the debt capital markets.
the year to March 2018, pan European property companies raised 22.8 bn exceeding the prior years gure of The sorry story of Hammerson, Intu and Klepierre 19.3bn.
Companies continue to take advantage of cheap temporarily overshadowed the much larger piece of retail debt and in many cases have retired existing expensive landlord corporate activity the takeover of Westeld by debt.
Whilst there is a short term cost of this strategy we Unibail for a mix of cash and shares.
Again investors are welcome managements desire to secure longer term nervous about this transaction with concerns focused on nancing at historically record low pricing.
price, post transaction leverage and the lack of synergies with Unibail buying into a completely new market in North Property Shares America.
Unibails 12 month total return was a poor 10.5% and the stock stands at a discount to its asset value At the interim, I reported the stark gap in performance a position it hasnt been in since the Global Financial Crisis between Continental Europe and the UK which had in 2008 9.
The share price weakness in shopping centre reached nearly 6% in local currency terms.
The second half landlords was universal and whilst well run businesses such saw the gap narrow with the twelve month performance of Continental Europe reaching a total return of 10.3% as Unibail did suffer, those with poorer balance sheets and weaker managements experienced a rout with Wereldhave in EUR versus 6.6% for the UK in GBP.
The down 17.4%, Deutsche Euroshop returning 18.6% and underperformance in the UK in the first half was driven by weakness in the largest companies.
None of these are held by the Trust.
TR Property Investment Trust 11 TR Property pp01-17.
qxp 08 06 2018 14:21 Page 12 Managers Report continued As expected the strongest performances came from the focused stocks suffered with Hufvudstaden central industrial and logistics players with Segro, the outstanding Stockholm retail and ofces the only negative performer in performer returning 35.4% with Londonmetric the region returning 4.1%.
Tritax Bigbox, the purest play on logistics real estate Investment Activity underperformed the wider UK sector with a return of just Turnover purchases and sales divided by two totalled 4.3%.
This business is externally managed and the 370m or 31.2% of the average assets over the period management team are incentivised to grow the portfolio.
almost exactly in line with the 31.6% in the previous They have been extraordinarily successful at exceeding all 12 months.
This heightened level of activity over the last expectations on that metric with nine capital raises since two years reects the amount of corporate activity in our June 2014.
However the share price return this year reects universe through primary issuance and follow on raisings, the fact that what is good for the management team may secondary placings and merger activity.
Real estate equities well not be good for investors.
Quite simply they raised too have remained a popular source of income and raisings much capital and took too long to invest it, all against the have enabled large wealth managers to participate fully in backdrop of a market which is becoming increasingly some relatively small companies.
However, we are confident that they have now learnt the requirement for capital discipline and their latest The funds overall geographical positioning between the UK raise was much more modest.
and Continental Europe did not change markedly over the period with exposure to UK equities being 33.4% of assets German residential businesses returned to the top of the up from 31.3% a year earlier.
As I commented earlier our performance league table with the Berlin focused small cap, traditional retail exposure in the UK, for almost the entire ADO Properties returning 37.3% whilst the larger names, period, has been through Capital & Regional and NewRiver Deutsche Wohnen, LEG and Vonovia all returned between Retail, as opposed to Intu and Hammerson.
The latter continued its acquisition spree increase our overall exposure to retail through investing in with the purchase of Buwog, the listed Austrian residential the IPO of Supermarket Income REIT.
Unlike virtually all developer and owner.
The Trust had a significant holding in Buwog and the deal announced in November was at a other retailing, the execution of omni-channel food retailing remains technically difficult.
Consumers want the choice of 20% premium to the undisturbed price.
Germany now going to the store, click & collect or home delivery and accounts for almost a third of all Eurozone economic output.
High employment has resulted in wage ination a decade on from the launch of Tesco.
com the major which is positive for all residential rental businesses where operators appear to have settled on using the existing store tenant affordability is crucial as rents continue to rise.
network to execute home delivery.
Tesco currently use approximately 330 of their 750 stores for home delivery Spain continues to be a bright spot as its economy and have only 6 pure online fullment only dark stores.
This year saw further M&A This REIT aims to acquire only omni-channel stores, activity with Colonial buying Axiare for 1.5bn whilst ie those which are dominant enough to survive and thrive Hispania one of our largest overweight positions received as the major supermarket operators delivery network a bid from Blackstone, who have recently acquired a 16% evolves.
They have raised 120m and acquired four stores, position from a founder investor.
We consider the offer with an average lease length of 18 years let to Tesco and from Blackstone at 17.45 per share to be insufficient.
The stock has a dividend yield of Hispanias total return for the year was 32.5% with the 5.5%.
Further capital raises will be supported particularly stock currently slightly higher than the offer price.
Merlin, the given the ination linked leases.
The strategy of increased largest listed owner of ofces in Madrid and Barcelona also exposure to secure, longer leases which have an element of enjoyed a strong year returning 21.6%.
ination hedging has seen increased investment in The Nordics were a microcosm of sector performance.
City healthcare through Assura and Primary Health Properties, PRS see below and student accommodation through centre ofce owners, Fabege Stockholm and Entra Oslo Unite.
I added to our position in the appropriately named performed well returning 26.9% and 17.9% respectively, whilst the logistics focused Catena returned 28.2%.
Retail Secure Income REIT participating in the 315m raise to TR Property Investment Trust 12 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT TR Property pp01-17.
qxp 08 06 2018 14:21 Page 13 Managers Report continued acquire a portfolio of long let budget hotels and the for Hammerson was a mix of cash and shares and the Manchester Arena leisure complex.
share price plunged as investors realised how much paper might need to be issued.
With that saga temporarily in I maintained our Central London ofce positioning through abeyance the shares have recovered.
Great Portland, Derwent London and Workspace.
As detailed earlier global investors continue to buy Our large exposure to warehousing and industrial has been London commercial property and whilst equity prices are well agged over several years.
The top performing stock in discounting the potential issues of an unruly Brexit the this subsector was Argan, the specialist French logistics reality has been much more solid tenant demand than developer owner which returned 37.6%.
All these stocks performed well in the second with a market cap of 700m is 50% owned by its founder half.
However the real winners were our two businesses and his family.
For the first time this year it raised capital focused on suburban markets CLS Holdings and McKay through buying property with newly issued shares which the Securities, both returning over 36%.
The former sold its property vendor then sold into the market.
We acquired Nine Elms development site to an Asian buyer at 15% of these new shares lifting our holding to nearly 3% a significant premium to book, reinvesting the proceeds in of the company.
Such has been the investor demand for a German ofce portfolio whilst the latter announced the this asset class, the warehouse industrial companies were pre-let of its 58,000 sq ft Lombard St development before always amongst the top performers in every region.
Both management teams are to be example in Belgium, Warehouses fide Pauw returned 20.6% congratulated on derisking almost their entire respective whilst the EPRA Belgium Index returned just 5.3%.
In development programmes just as we enter the next stage Sweden, the national index returned 15.6% but Catena of the Brexit negotiations.
Although Central London commercial values have remained The largest geographical underweights remain Switzerland robust over the period, the residential market hasnt.
Capital and Belgium and collectively stocks in both regions & Counties, the owner of the huge Earls Court development underperformed the wider index.
It could have been a much greater fall were it not for the success of its Covent Garden Revenue and Revenue Outlook retail estate.
Our residential exposure is focused on PRS We reported strong growth in earnings at the interim stage, the private rented sector through our investment in The driven by a combination of weaker sterling in the first half of PRS REIT and Telford Homes.
The latter is a London the year in comparison to the same period of the prior year, developer focused on affordable units average apartment plus the receipt of a significant withholding tax reclaim.
We price 550k who have markedly increased their exposure expected earnings in the second half to be more on a par to PRS development.
with the prior year and this has indeed been the case.
The over exposure to European retail countering our Overall this led to a 16.2% year on year increase in underweight in the UK was a mistake.
Whilst the share of earnings.
Over a five-year period earnings have grown by online sales as a percentage of all retail sales is far below 96.14%.
that of the UK, sentiment towards all retail property There have been a number of factors contributing to this weakened over the year.
At the Interim, I highlighted that growth, most property companies have retired and I had consolidated our exposure into four businesses, renanced debt over this period and as interest rates have Unibail and Klepierre focused on prime and Mercialys and Eurocommercial in the sub-regional space.
The exit from fallen signicantly they have received a strong boost to their revenue accounts from much lower finance costs.
This Citycon Finland, Wereldhave Netherlands, France and process has broadly been completed.
Corporate activity has Spain and Deutsche Euroshop Germany was the correct led to an increase in the number of special one-off strategy.
In the second half I reduced exposure to Klepierre based on valuation and the companys reluctance to sell its distributions as have changes in dividend payment long tail of higher yielding, secondary assets where such schedules.
In the last two years the weakening of sterling disposals would damage earnings in the short run but has had a material impact as our earnings from continental create a better portfolio for the longer term.
Klepierres offer Europe have been worth more in sterling terms.
TR Proper TR Property Investment T ty Investment Trust rust 1 13 3 TR Property pp01-17.
qxp 08 06 2018 14:21 Page 14 Managers Report continued The withholding tax reclaim received this year boosted expiry and the tenant was not in occupation.
The sale was earnings by around 0.67p per share after paying the concluded 2.6% ahead of the September 2017 valuation and 8.6% ahead of the March 2017 valuation.
The sale of professional fees in connection with the reclaim and this is not expected to be repeated.
We continue to make reclaims our ofce building in Wimbledon, for 5.8m, was reported at the Interim and completed as expected in November in countries where appropriate but the more recent distributions were received after the equivalent tax 2017.
Whilst the rationale for the sale of Plymouth was the conclusion of an asset management initiative the rent transparent vehicles had been established in many other review in line with the business plan, the sale of countries and therefore the amounts we can attempt to Wimbledon was an opportunity to crystallise profit at reclaim are much smaller.
a specic point in the market without the need to commit The underlying message is that this rate of earnings growth further capital on a risky planning application.
is not likely to continue.
The debt renancing and At the Colonnades the lease to the restaurant operator, restructuring of the last five to ten years has strengthened Babaji was completed following the successful appeal balance sheets and we feel optimistic about earnings from against Westminster Councils refusal to grant planning these companies but further growth has to be generated permission to amalgamate the two units.
In addition, we let from underlying rental growth.
A recovery in sterlings Unit 2 to a high-end gym operator, 1Rebel, for their fortune would have a well-agged detrimental impact on 4th opening in London.
They have completed their t out our earnings.
This leaves two areas of vacancy Without any currency impact, our earnings may be slightly at the Colonnades: the final and smallest retail unit and the lower in the forthcoming year because the revenue account public house.
Between them they account for the vacancy will not have the benefit of the one-off items we saw in the rate of 5.8% for the property.
Following another protracted year to March 2018. planning application with Westminster City Council we have nally received planning consent to split the ground oor pub and the 1st oor 3 bed at.
We can now proceed with Gearing and Debt the faade improvements, internal alterations on the ground Gearing increased a little over the year ending the period at oor as well as the comprehensive refurbishment of the 14.6%.
As a reminder, our property portfolio represents just at.
over 7% of our investment exposure and this is ungeared, so the gearing against our equity portfolio is quite modest.
In the summer we concluded the letting of two industrial As set out in the Chairmans statement, both our loan units at Ferrier Street, Wandsworth, taking the estate to full facilities were renewed and we are also in conversation with occupancy.
In addition, we have successfully secured a other suitable providers.
We are keen to spread the risk of change in the local planning policy to a more mixed use our debt portfolio and are happy to have a number of designation.
We continue to develop our proposals for the sources, including the ability to invest through CFDs.
redevelopment of the site, in consultation with Wandsworth Council and envisage submitting a planning application in the next 9 months.
Direct Physical Portfolio The physical property portfolio produced a total return of Regulation 14.6% for the twelve months to March 2018 with an income return of 3.5% and a capital return of 11.1%.
This This is not a regular heading in my Report but the weight of compares well to the total return from the IPD All Property new regulation over the last year warrants comment.
Index of 11.3% which comprised a higher income return of The Chairman has referred to MiFID II and the PRIIPS 5.4% but lower capital return of 5.5%.
regulation in his report so I will not expand on that much During the year the Trust completed the sale of two here other than to endorse that we welcome the statement properties.
An industrial unit in Plymouth was sold for from the AIC on KIDs.
There has been widespread concern 4.3m following the settlement of the August 2016 rent across the Investment Trust industry that the investment review at a 14.4% uplift to the previous passing rent.
The performance scenarios which are based on short-term asset, the smallest in the portfolio, had 3.5 years to lease recent performance may indicate over optimistic future TR Property Investment Trust 14 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT TR Property pp01-17.
qxp 08 06 2018 14:21 Page 15 Managers Report continued returns and this is particularly pertinent after the sustained broad to provide effective probabilities.
We remain wary period of strong positive performance that we have seen particularly for London ofces and retail.
Our additional over recent years.
The AIC warn that KIDs will encourage exposure over the year has been to alternatives and longer investors to buy high, sell low.
Due to the way the forecast dated indexed income from a variety of property types.
This returns have to be produced, KIDs will suggest to investors is set to continue.
that after a sustained bull market they will get higher returns Across Europe we have an opportunity to remain more in the future and after a sustained bear market, that optimistic, particularly given Mr Draghis recent dovish investors will get lower future returns.
They have called on remarks.
Here we continue to focus on those sectors with the FCA to take steps to protect consumers.
We hope that the strongest rental growth prospects and we believe that the FCA will be quick to respond but in the meantime the the divergence in performance will persist.
We continue to Board and the Manager are keen to ensure the investors avoid businesses which appear attractively priced but which understand the nature of this document.
ultimately have weaker or potentially negative earnings More recently, GDPR General Data Protection Regulation growth.
Economic growth across the region remains robust.
which came into effect on 25th May is an extension of the Ofce rents are rising in every dominant city across the Data Protection Directive setting out a more rigorous data Continent, in stark contrast to Central London.
protection regime, placing more obligations on controllers Two final investment themes to highlight.
M&A activity has and processors of personal data and providing more rights increased over the last year.
Real estate can of course be for data subjects.
The Company has taken steps to comply owned publicly or privately way more in the latter.
Private with this new regulation and has ensured that third party companies can afford higher debt levels away from public suppliers are also compliant.
market scrutiny and we may well nd that, fuelled by the ongoing availability of cheap leverage, we see more Outlook businesses taken private.
The acquisition targets are likely to A year ago my outlook projection was positive based on the be those cheaper and higher yielding businesses.
Generally fact that property is a pro-cyclical asset class with a core not the ones the Trust owns at this point in the cycle.
As economic growth returns market rents Whilst I have highlighted the political backdrop, particularly rise, subject to the levels of supply of available property.
We in the UK, we also consider the lack of progress in the also expected bond yields to rise as Europe began the development of a banking union across the Eurozone as process of normalising base rates.
In the Interim in a potential existential issue.
The European Union still has November, I highlighted that only those markets with rental much more harmonisation to complete amongst the growth would outperform rising bond yields and we remaining 27 countries and the initial further reform therefore expected the divergence in performance between impetus of the Macron presidency appears to have met property companies exposed to markets with growth and with resistance from the German Chancellor and her the rest to widen even further and that has been the case.
Such issues as the ongoing indebtedness The last quarter of the financial year proved investors are of Greece and the Italian banks bad debts continue to quickly spooked if monetary tightening expectations are simmer in the background.
The ECBs careful and cautious brought forward faster than expected.
However, in the last progress in moving from quantitative easing to monetary few weeks we have had sight of the Q1 economic data as tightening is proceeding at an appropriate pace and real well as central bank commentary from both the Bank of estate continues to look attractive against long duration England and the European Central Bank.
Both are again xed income alternatives.
erring on the side of caution amidst signs of a slowing in the rate of growth, although it remains positive.
This deceleration has been most abrupt in the UK as it moved from the top of the European growth table to the bottom Marcus Phayre-Mudge with only Italy below us such is the Brexit drag with Fund Manager investment and consumer confidence weakening.
Our one 6 June 2018 year outlook for the UK remains jaundiced by the political back drop and the range of negotiated outcomes is still too TR Property Investment Trust 15
