qxp 08 06 2018 14:21 Page 4 Chairmans Statement Investors demand for the underlying assets has remained strong with the exception of retail property which faces structural challenges which are unlikely to abate soon.
This steady investment demand has even been the case with central London ofces where overseas capital in particular, has been prepared to look beyond Brexit uncertainty.
Although our physical portfolio is a small part of the Trust, it has had a very good year with returns matching the strength of the equity portfolio.
Our managers have taken advantage of strong demand for industrial and well located suburban ofces by selling in Plymouth and Wimbledon.
Interestingly, one of these assets had less than four years Hugh Seaborn on the lease and the other was a development Chairman opportunity, both providing useful indicators of the markets optimism for future tenant demand.
Introduction It has been a very good year for the Trust.
Performance NAV and Share Price performance has been strong in both absolute and relative terms and As mentioned earlier the NAV total return was a healthy we have enjoyed healthy revenue growth.
15.5%, well ahead of the benchmark at 10.2%.
The share The Net Asset Value NAV total return at 15.5% was well price total return was higher at 25.5% as the discount ahead of the benchmark at 10.2%, and results in a between the share price and the asset value narrowed five-year cumulative total return of 111.16%.
Coupled to materially from 10.7% to 3.2% over the year.
this revenue has increased by 16.2% for the year.
More detail and commentary on performance is set out in Although the first half of the year saw the sector benefit the Managers Report.
from healthier economic growth and improved political stability the overriding theme is that particular sub-markets have provided growth across all geographical regions and Revenue Results and Dividend these include logistics, industrial and rented residential.
As Earnings per share for the full year increased by 16.2% to a result, the Trust has benefited from increased exposure 13.22p per share.
Most of the increase occurred in the not just in continental Europe, but in the UK as well, as first half of the year.
We reported a 22.8% increase in some of the sectors with potential such as self-storage and revenue at the interim stage while second half revenue student accommodation, are only available in the UK.
The attraction of the property sector is its ability to deliver As set out in the Interim Report, first half earnings were reliable and predictable earnings.
Where businesses are enhanced by a significant withholding tax reclaim and growing their earnings faster than ination without increasing risk, they are attracting strong share price weaker Sterling when compared to the same period in the performance.
This coupled to an expectation of higher previous year.
The second half did not have the benefit of ination as Europe inches towards normalising monetary this one-off item and the Sterling Euro rate was stable conditions, has led our manager to increase exposure to compared to the previous period.
companies offering more index linked income and longer underlying leases, most particularly in the UK where the The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 7.55p expectation is of slower rental growth.
per share resulting in a total dividend for the year of 12.20p, 16.2% ahead of the 2017 full year dividend of 10.50p per share, matching the growth in earnings.
Share price discount to capital only NAV.
TR Property Investment Trust 4 STRATEGIC REPORT
