qxp 08 06 2018 14:20 Page 45 Report of the Management Engagement Committee Management Engagement Committee Chairman: Mr Seaborn Key Responsibilities l Monitor and review the performance of the AIFM and Portfolio Manager: l Review the terms of the Investment Manager Agreement: l Annually review the contract of terms and agreements of each external third party service provider: and l Review, on an annual basis, the remuneration of the Directors.
In addition to the Investment Management role, the Board has delegated to external third parties the depositary and custodial services which include the safeguarding of assets, the day to day accounting, company secretarial services, administration and registration services.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration of the quality of the services offered, including the control systems in operation insofar as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The MEC determines and approves Directors fees following proper consideration, having regard to the level of fees payable to non-executive Directors in the industry generally, the role that individual directors full in respect of Board and Committee responsibilities and the time committed to the Companys affairs.
For further details please see the Directors Remuneration Report on page 48 to 49.
The MEC meets at least on an annual basis, towards the end of the financial year and last met in March 2018.
Activity during the year At the MEC meeting in March 2018, the Committee reviewed the overall performance of the AIFM and Portfolio Manager and considered both the appropriateness of the Managers appointment and the contractual arrangements including the structure and level of remuneration with the Manager.
In addition to the reviews by the MEC, the Board reviewed and considered performance reports from the Portfolio Manager at each Board meeting.
The Board also received regular reports from the Administrator and Company Secretary.
The Board believe that the Managers track record and performance remains outstanding.
As a result, the MEC confirmed that the AIFM and Portfolio Manager should be retained for the financial year ending 31 March 2019.
A summary of the significant terms of the Investment Management Agreement and the third party service providers who support the Trust are set out below.
During the year the MEC also reviewed the performance of all their third party service providers including BNP Paribas, Link Company Matters, Computershare, both the Companys brokers and PwC as tax advisors.
The Portfolio Manager provides regular updates on the performance of all third party providers during the year and attended this part of the MEC Meeting.
The MEC confirmed that they were satisfied with the level of services delivered by each third party provider.
TR Property Investment Trust 45 TR Property pp33-58.
qxp 08 06 2018 14:20 Page 46 Report of the Management Engagement Committee continued Management Arrangements and Fees On 11 July 2014, the Board appointed F&C Investment Business Limited as the Alternative Investment Fund Manager in accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive with portfolio management delegated to the Investment Manager, Thames River Capital LLP.
The significant terms of the Investment Management Agreement with the Manager are as follows: Notice Period The Investment Management Agreement IMA provides for termination of the agreement by either party without compensation on the provision of not less than 12 months written notice.
Management Fees The fee for the period under review was a xed fee of 3,195,000 plus an ad valorem fee of 0.20% pa based on the net asset value determined in accordance with the AIC method of valuation on the last day of March, June, September and December, payable quarterly in advance.
The fee arrangements have been reviewed by the Board for the year to 31 March 2019.
For this period the xed element of the Management Fee will be 3,565,000.
This is a larger than usual increase and worthy of further comment.
It arises from a combination of the increased costs of compliance and research for the manager as a result of MIFID II referred to elsewhere in this Annual Report.
On a like for like basis assuming an identical net asset value for the period as the prior year resulting in the same ad-valorum fee this will represent an increase of 6.7%.
However, the net cost increase to the Trust is expected to be under 3% after taking account of commission savings which will be made on transaction costs in the capital account.
The Board continues to consider that the fee structure aligns the interests of the shareholder and the manager as well as being highly competitive.
The fee arrangements will continue to be reviewed on an annual basis.
Performance Fees In addition to the management fees, the Board has agreed to pay the Manager performance related fees in respect of an accounting period if certain performance objectives are achieved.
A performance fee is payable if the total return of adjusted net assets after deduction of all Base Management Fees and other expenses, as dened in the IMA, at 31 March each year outperforms the total return of the Companys benchmark plus 1% the hurdle rate : this outperformance expressed as a percentage is known as the percentage outperformance.
Any fee payable will be the amount equivalent to the adjusted net assets at 31 March each year multiplied by the percentage outperformance, then multiplied by 15%.
The maximum performance fee payable for a period is capped at 1.5% of the adjusted net assets.
However, if the adjusted net assets at the end of any period are less than at the beginning of the period, the maximum performance fee payable will be limited to 1% of the adjusted net assets.
If the total return of shareholders funds for any performance period is less than the benchmark for the relevant performance period, such underperformance expressed as a percentage will be carried forward to future performance periods.
If any fee exceeds the cap, such excess performance expressed as a percentage will be carried forward and applied to offset any percentage underperformance in future performance periods.
TR Property Investment Trust 46 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE TR Property pp33-58.
qxp 08 06 2018 14:20 Page 47 Report of the Management Engagement Committee continued In the event that the benchmark is exceeded but the hurdle is not, that outperformance of the benchmark can be used to offset past or future underperformance.
These amounts can be used for offset purposes only and therefore cannot have the effect of creating a fee in a year where a fee would not otherwise be payable or increasing the fee in that year.
At 31 March 2018 there is a carry forward of outperformance of 1.8% 2017: 1.8%.
No fee will be payable unless the adjusted net assets outperform the hurdle rate, after taking into account any accumulated percentage underperformance brought forward at the beginning of the financial year.
Total fees paid to the Manager in any one year Management and Performance Fees may not exceed 4.99% of Group Equity Shareholders Funds.
Total fees payable for the year to 31 March 2018 amount to 1.2% 2017: 0.6% of Group Equity Shareholders Funds.
Depository Arrangements and Fees BNP Paribas was appointed as Depository on 14 July 2014 in accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
The Depositorys responsibilities include: cash monitoring: segregation and safe keeping of the Companys financial instruments: and monitoring the Companys compliance with investment and leverage requirements.
The Depository receives for its services a fee of 2.0 basis points per annum on the first GBP 150m of the Companys assets, 1.4 basis points per annum on assets above GBP 150m and below GBP 500m and 0.75 basis points on assets above GBP 500m.
Review of Third Party Providers Fees Custody and Administration Services are provided by BNP Paribas and Company Secretarial Services by Link Company Matters.
The fees for these services are charged directly to the Company and separately disclosed in the accounts.
Hugh Seaborn Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee 6 June 2018 TR Property Investment Trust 47
