Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 The Board of Directors Stuart Chambers John Carter Tony Buffin Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Group Chief Operating Officer Nationality British Nationality British Nationality British Appointment Date Appointment Date Appointment Date 1 September 2017 Non-executive Director 1 July 2001 Executive Director 8 April 2013 Chief Financial Officer 7 November 2017 Chairman 1 January 2014 Chief Executive 1March2017 Chief Operating Officer Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Nominations Chairman Executive Chairman Executive Remuneration Stay Safe Stay Safe Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Stuart has extensive global executive John has extensive management and Tony is a qualified Chartered Accountant management and boardroom experience in-depth merchanting and construction and has a strong financial background across industrial, logistical and consumer experience as well as expansive and extensive retail experience.
He is currently Chairman of knowledge of the Travis Perkins Group.
to joining the Group Tony was CFO of Anglo American plc and a member of the John joined Travis Perkins plc in 1978 the Coles Group, the leading Australian UK Takeover Panel.
Stuart was Chairman as a Management Trainee.
With over 40 grocery retailer, where he was accountable of Rexam plc from 2012 to 2016 and years experience in the business, John for Finance, Property, IT, Strategy and the ARM Holdings plc from 2014 to 2016. has held various senior strategic roles Groups online, financial services and hotel He served as a Non-executive Director in Sales, Marketing and Operations and businesses.
Prior to this Tony was the CFO on the Boards of Tesco plc, Tesco Bank, has managed sector-leading functions and then CEO of the Loyalty Management Manchester Airport Group, Smiths Group such as Procurement, Supply Chain, Group and held senior finance roles at plc and Associated British Ports International Sourcing and Category The Boots Group plc.
Tony has been a Holdings plc.
During his career John has Non-executive Director on the Dyson included 10 years with Shell and 10 years headed up the integration of key strategic Shareholder Board since 2013. with the Mars Corporation.
Stuart then acquisitions for the Group including joined Pilkington plc in 1996, where he Keyline in 1999, Wickes in 2005 and BSS was appointed Group Chief Executive Group in 2010.
Pilkington was acquired by Director of McCarthy & Stone plc.
Nippon Sheet Glass in 2006 and Stuart became Group Chief Executive of the new combined group until 2010.
56 Governance and Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Alan Williams Ruth Anderson Coline McConville Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Nationality British Nationality British Nationality Australian Appointment Date Appointment Date Appointment Date 3 January 2017 24 October 2011 1 February 2015 Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Executive Audit Chairman Remuneration Chairman Nominations Audit Stay Safe Nominations Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Alan is a qualified Accountant and Ruth is a Chartered Accountant and Coline has a wealth of international Treasurer and in addition to having has extensive financial and taxation experience with a background in a strong finance background, he has experience as well as strong boardroom management, marketing and media extensive experience in leading strategic and audit committee experience.
Ruth has as well as extensive remuneration and initiatives, mergers and acquisitions, held a number of positions in KPMG UK boardroom experience.
Coline is currently integration and business transformation.
from 1976 to 2009, being a member of a Non-executive Director of TUI AG, Prior to joining the Group, Alan served as its Board from 1998 to 2004 and Vice Inchcape plc, Fevertree Drinks plc and CFO at Greencore Group plc for 6 years.
Ruth is a 3i Group plc and was formerly a Alan also previously worked at Cadbury Non-executive Director of Ocado plc and Non-executive Director of UTV Media plc, plc in a variety of financial roles in the UK, The Royal Parks, which is a charitable Wembley National Stadium Limited, France and the USA.
public corporation, and a trustee of the Shed Media plc and HBOS plc and a charity The Duke of Edinburghs Award.
global advisor and Director of Grant Thornton International Limited.
Prior to that Coline was Chief Operating Officer and Chief Executive Officer Europe of Clear Channel International Limited.
She holds an MBA from Harvard Business School where she was a Baker Scholar.
57 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Pete Redfern Christopher Rogers John Rogers Non-executive Director Senior Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Nationality British Nationality British Nationality British Appointment Date Appointment Date Appointment Date 1 November 2014 1 September 2013 1 November 2014 Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Stay Safe Chairman Audit Audit Nominations Nominations Nominations Remuneration Remuneration Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Pete has extensive financial, operational Christopher has extensive financial, John has extensive finance, strategy, and management experience as well operational and retail experience and digital online, property and retail as strong construction and property expertise in corporate governance and experience.
John is currently Chief expertise.
Pete is a Chartered Surveyor, strategic planning.
Chris is currently Executive Officer of Sainsburys Argos as well as a Chartered Accountant and Interim Executive Chairman of Walker and a member of the J Sainsburys is currently Chief Executive of Taylor Greenbank plc until a new chief executive plc Board and Sainsburys Bank plc Wimpey plc.
He was previously Chief is appointed, a Non-executive Director of Board.
Prior to his appointment as CEO Executive of George Wimpey plc and Vivo plc and Kerry Group, and a visiting of Sainsburys Argos, John was Chief prior to that, successively held the fellow at Durham University.
Prior to this, Financial Officer of J Sainsbury plc for six posts of Finance Director and Chief Chris was a Director of Whitbread plc years and during his career at Sainsbury Executive of George Wimpeys UK from 2005 to 2016 where he served as he also held the posts of Property Housing business.
Pete is also a Trustee Group Finance Director from 2005 to Director, Director of Group Finance and of the homelessness charity Crisis and 2012 and Managing Director of Costa Director of Corporate Finance.
Before Chairman of the Youth Adventure Trust.
He was Group joining Sainsburys, John held a variety of Finance Director of Woolworth Group financial, operational and strategy roles.
plc and Chairman of the Woolworth Entertainment businesses from 2001 to 2005 and previously held senior roles in both finance and commercial functions in Comet Group plc and Kingfisher.
