Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Simplifying our Group to create value In December 2018 the Group laid out its strategic vision to deliver best-in-class service to trade customers through businesses with clear competitive advantages in their markets.
Rationale for change The Groups strategy is designed to deliver profitable growth businesses and the ongoing growth of Toolstation are of through market outperformance, building on the momentum particular note.
in the Contract Merchanting businesses, the continuing strong Profits have not grown as fast and the Group has not growth in Toolstation and the reinvigoration of our market-leading demonstrated the expected operational leverage.
in part to external reasons including flat market volumes The Group has delivered good sales growth, with all businesses and internal factors including cost levels being increased to contributing at some point during the five year cycle.
In the current challenging market environment consistent contributions from the Groups Contract Merchanting the Group must simplify to increase agility and reduce cost.
Positive long-term drivers The Group has grown and Focus on advantaged and short-term challenges become more complex positions in key areas Ageing and underinvested Strong sales growth over Portfolio has many businesses building stock in the UK theperiod with #1 or #2 market positions Increasing willingness Profits have not grown at the Group needs to be to use trade professionals same rate as sales more focused Market disruption from Costs have grown too Concentrate time newentrants quickly significant investments and capital on in a low growth environment leadership positions EU referendum outcome has impacted consumer Capital allocation has Exploit business scale rather and business confidence provedchallenging than Group scale The outcome of this is that the Group needs to be more focused: benefits from the overall size of the Group and instead to ensure on key markets, on leading businesses and on more selective that the businesses are focused on generating competitive opportunities.
The Group needs to focus less on extracting advantage based on their own scale.
8 Strategic report Consumer confidence Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Our markets UK annual UK homeAverage age of UK 70 159k 90k household formation building shortfall residential property years Fundamentals 110 5 The fundamental long-term growth drivers of the Groups business remain robust, with a continued shortage of 105 0 housing in the UK and underinvestment in the maintenance and improvement of the UKs existing ageing housing stock.
100 -5 Current conditions In the short-term market conditions remain uncertain, 95 -10 impacting secondary housing market transactions and consumerconfidence.
-15 90 2015 2016 2017 2018 Sources: GfK Consumer Confidence Index, HMRC seasonally-adjusted UK property transactions Market channels The markets addressed by the Groups businesses have grown period with marginal volume growth as the economy slowed after at an estimated compound annual rate of 4% over the last five the EU Referendum in June 2016. years.
This growth however can be divided into two periods, Within the overall market, the channel mix has changed as with significant volume growth from 2013 to mid-2016 as the different models emerge and customer preferences drive change.
economy recovered from the global financial crisis, followed by a Market channel mix Anticipated market direction Where Group businesses operate 58bn General Merchants Retail Fallin iven DIY move 1 4 to DIFM and competitor activity Retail 1 23% Pure Play Online 2 Limited future ains iven recent 4% di culties of some players Fixed Price Operators 3 4% Specialist Merchants Pure Play Online Clearer rowth trajectory 2 5 4 General Merchants 22% Growth in independents, re ionals and Travis Perkins Specialist Merchants 5 28% Clearer rowth trajectory Direct to site Remains an important part Fixed Price Operators 19% of our addressable market 3 via merchant Source: Travis Perkins plc 2018 estimates Retail Trade formats New models The proportion of the market supplied Offsetting the decline of retail is a New business models have also by retail channels has decreased as growth in trade formats, both generalist prospered.
Fixed Price Operators consumers increasingly prefer Do It and specialist.
Merchant sectors have including Toolstation have grown For Me DIFM solutions and the performed well general, specialist impressively and offer enhanced market has been disrupted by the and direct to site via merchant, with propositions to customers, including impact of the Bunnings purchase Travis Perkins Group businesses well extended hours and extensive ranges and disposal of Homebase.
Trade customers continue with high availability and competitive challenging conditions our Wickes to perform well, with large customers fixedpricing.
business has performed well relative in particular providing a slightly larger to its market.
9 Monthly property transactions 000 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Group strategy clarifying our purpose Following a comprehensive review the Board concluded that the purpose of the Group is to provide best-in-class service to trade customers.
To deliver this the Group will focus on serving trade customers through advantaged businesses in attractive markets and will simplify the Group to reduce complexity and drive growth in shareholder returns.
Two major themes Developing businesses that are well placed to Simplify win in their markets Focus on the Group the trade Positioning the Group for enhanced returns and long-term growth Focus on trade The heritage of the Travis Perkins Group is serving UK trade Primaflow F&P and some have a strong majority of customers and this represents the majority of the Groups activity trade customers but will serve consumers when requested today.
Generalist and specialist merchants continue to see the e. g. Travis Perkins.
Two businesses are particularly noteworthy: largest share of industry growth, with returns remaining resilient Toolstation is reported as part of our Consumer division over time.
Whilst trade customers are becoming increasingly today, however Toolstation is a majority trade business with demanding of the quality of service they receive, they still place approximately 70% of its sales going to trade customers considerable value on a convenient, reliable and competitive supply relationship that supports growth of their businesses.
Wickes is a minority trade business with approximately 70% of its sales going to non-trade customers.
Its sales are evenly All of the Groups businesses serve trade customers to a greater split three ways, between kitchen and bathroom sales to or lesser extent.
Some are entirely focused on trade customers homeowners, DIY sales and trade sales due to the markets and products served e. g. Keyline and Trade is the Groups heartland Margins more resilient in trade Trade cycle is more predictable Customers demand competitive prices but still recognise value of good service DIY customers moving to DIFM: trade channels are filling the gap Digital is an untapped opportunity in trade markets: potential to differentiate Majority Minority trade trade 100% trade 10 Strategic report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Delivering best-in-class services to trade customers The Group is dedicated to delivering fantastic service to our customers and to continuously improving its customer offer to ensure that the business continues to grow.
Deep understanding of customer needs Development of advantaged business models Significant effort is made to understand and meet customer The Groups businesses generally hold a #1 or #2 position in needs.
The most important need articulated by our trade their markets and capitalising on the competitive advantages customers is a deep relationship with their channel of choice.
of our businesses is vital to the Groups economic success.
This is often a personal relationship but increasingly digital Thisincludes: relationships are becoming important.
The Group will be the empowerment and incentivisation of colleagues and monitoring and listening to customer requirements to ensure businesses to outperform the market that their needs continue to be met.
Teams that love selling and serving customers are vital to the success of theGroup.
leveraging infrastructure to provide nationwide networks and optimised supply chains Delivery of leading propositions innovations in technology that drive efficiency and accuracy All elements of the Groups proposition are subject to continuous review to ensure they remain relevant in dynamic markets.
The capabilities of the Group deliver a meaningful difference Value, Range, Service and Convenience are blended in different across all points of the value chain.
proportions across the Groups businesses to deliver propositions that are market-leading and promote performance ahead of the market average.
Optionality around Wickes In the short-term management is focused on strengthening the As it is a predominantly consumer-focused business, the Board performance of Wickes in a market environment with significant will review the options for maximising the value of Wickes in the challenges.
It is important that Wickes continues to capitalise medium-term.
on its clear competitive advantages in the DIY, small trade and Kitchen & Bathroom markets, with an aim to return to profitable growth.
Recovery and response Capitalise on Exploit medium-term to market environment advantaged model opportunities Significant competitor disruption, Best-value price model Advantage as sole provider especially pricing of end-to-end K&B service Customer base split Ongoing customer shift between trade and DIY Use experience to extend from DIY to DIFM DIFM service beyond K&B Efficient network of Growing market share of right-sized stores Greater focus on fixed price operators customer inspiration Tight SKU count in store, Tactical trading extended online range Leverage digital strength plan underway Digital leadership Extend trade offer Review of the options to maximise value in the medium-term 11 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Simplifying the Group Six key priorities 1.
Overhead cost reduction Simplifying the Group to improve returns Creating a more focused Group 1.
Sale of the Plumbing & Heating division Focusing on trade will clarify the purpose of the Group.
In The Plumbing & Heating transformation programme has a challenging market environment, it is important that the delivered significant success in improving the performance of the Groups purpose is clearly and tightly defined.
This will facilitate division, and the Board has decided that this is the right time to faster decision making and allow prioritisation decisions to be explore the potential sale of the division.
This will facilitate more made more efficiently, including the allocation of capital to focused management attention and capital deployment in higher businesses which will deliver the strongest returns and enhance returning areas of the Group and creates significant opportunities shareholdervalue.
to simplify and reduce costs.
Preparing for divestment requires a substantial amount of separation work, with activities expected to be successfully completed in the first half of 2019.
Close consultation with customers, suppliers and colleagues will ensure that this is a smooth process with due consideration given to the requirements of all.
Simpler IT operating model Common IT platform underpinning common practices across Bespoke Standalone generalist and specialist merchants platform retail system The Groups technology strategy is centred on the simplification Toolstation will remain on the bespoke platform that is central to of the IT operating model.
This involves aligning the merchanting its successful model.
Wickes will separate as part of the broader businesses around common practices and shared technology to strategy and will be based on a standalone retail platform.
deliver both operational benefits and efficiency.
This technology strategy is based on annual IT capital spend of 40-50m over the next three years.
12 Strategic report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Benefits of simplification 4.
Overhead cost reduction Capital allocation is a key role of the Group centre.
The Group Significant work was undertaken in 2018 to reduce overheads, has high-performing management teams with plans to grow and with annualised cost savings of 20m in General Merchanting sustain their businesses, including many investment opportunities and 18m in Wickes already announced.
These have helped that are worthy of support.
The challenge this presents across a to reduce the overhead cost to sales ratio, which increased in broad Group is one of too many mouths to feed, and simplifying 2016 and 2017 as the Group invested behind a plan predicated the Group will enable management to act with greater discipline on a growing economy in a market environment with restricted in allocating capital to the opportunities with the best strategic fit volume growth.
that deliver the highest returns.
The priorities are: Overhead cost to sales ratio Continued investment in the Toolstation and specialist 25% 24.2% merchanting businesses 23.8% 23.5% 23.3% 23.3% 23.1% 23.3% 24% Re-allocation of capital within the General Merchant business to ensure an efficient and high-performing branch estate 23% 22% Overall future capital expenditure will be lower than in recent years.
Faster decision making 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Clarifying the purpose and reducing the scale of the Group will speed up decision making.
Closer proximity of management to Simplification of the Group will facilitate further reductions in businesses and to the Groups customers, will make the Group above-branch and distribution costs.
The Group is targeting more nimble and better able to respond in adynamicmarket.
additional annualised cost savings of 2030m.
which will underpin earnings progression and drive operating cost leverage.
Improving returns Sales Profit Cash flow Continued sales growth in Stable gross margin at a Group Disciplined capital expenditure Toolstation and the specialist level, with modest medium-term that prioritises growth in trade merchanting businesses gross margin decline driven by sales businesses and supports mix and some price investment Toolstations expansion Return to market outperformance offset by the sale of P&H in General Merchanting as the Self-funded property investment strategy develops, momentum Cost reductions further improve Stable working capital builds and selective investments the ratio of overheads to sales are made Significant free cash flow Sales momentum and operating generation over the medium-term cost leverage create sustainable operating profit growth Generating returns from property Property book value to market value The Group operates from over 2,000 trading locations and successful management of the property portfolio is a core capability of the Group.
Securing the best sites tailored to the specific needs of the Groups businesses is a key pillar in delivering the Groups strategicobjectives.
The expertise in the purchase, development and recycling of Property NBV Estimated market value freehold assets generates considerable value for the Group, with investments fully financed by disposals and delivering sustainable 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 annual profits of around 20m.
13 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Focus on improving performance General Merchanting The General Merchanting division is a powerful driver of profit merchant business with flexibility on pricing and branch stock and cash generation within the Group.
The management team and lower administrative burdens will enable them to focus more has a clear plan to improve returns by rebalancing decisionclosely on to the customer and to win in their local market.
making and empowering branch managers and local sales A greater focus on effective recycling of capital gives additional teams.
Ensuring branch managers are at the heart of our opportunities to enhance growth and returns.
Retuning the engine Winning share in a flat market Clear focus on the needs of the general builder: building on existing key relationships Exploit the advantages and delivering services tailored to local requirements of the merchant business Utilise key supply chain and supplier relationship economies of scale Rebalance the business to ensure quick and efficient decisions are made locally to win Ensure the right balance and retain business between central control Empower branch managers to make the right price and range decisions quickly to ensure and local empowerment their customers receive exceptional service and attention Improve price perception by investing selectively in key categories and customers Address customer Address concerns on price consistency and focus on delivering consistent prices to customers needs on pricing across all sales channels Capitalise on research insight into share of wallet trends by customer type to grow through Win a greater share smarter ranging, service and pricing of wallet from customers Take opportunities to consolidate clustered small branches into trading hubs designed to increase local share of business and and improve efficiency Recycle capital Recycle capital from the forced closure of the Tilbury range centre into trading space, to enhance growth local stocking points and selective credit extension Rebalancing the business Central Control Operational and business support Focus on economies of scale Local Empowerment where achievable Disciplined capital allocation Branch managers at the heart of merchant Reduced costs above-branch business closer to the customer Efficient operating model Winning the best builders in town Empowered to make faster decisions in the interests of the customer Incentivised to grow sales and profits Encourage flexibility on pricing and stock 14 Strategic report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Contract Merchanting The Contract Merchanting businesses are well placed to continue developing a high-performing and efficient branch network.
their outstanding performance, growing both sales and returns Ensuring that product ranges meet customer demands and for the Group.
Strategic plans build on recent success, enhancing maintaining an excellent level of customer service fulfilment will the strength of existing customer relationships and specialist sustain the strong relationships between colleagues, customers propositions, sharing best practice between businesses and and suppliers which is key to achieving continued growth.
Focused account Leverage technical expertise Account management management excellence Everyday range extension Customer Range and depth of stock Range extension to insulation Delivery fulfilment OTIF and proposition and fixings Civils and drainage focus Heating, Ventilation New customers New customers & Air-conditioning Relocations to larger, lower Maintain leadership Selective branch openings Network cost sites Earlier tracking of large projects Digital enhancement to customer journey Best practice Improved fleet efficiency Tool hire growth Toolstation The Toolstation model has a competitive advantage in its market delivering attractive returns and market outperformance, and serves as a platform for growth in the UK and Europe.
the strategy is to continue to invest in network expansion in the Customer needs are well understood and are met by a leading UK, the development of the newer European businesses and proposition based on value and availability.
With the business continuous improvement of the proposition.
The Toolstation model Customer need Proposition Advantaged model Low cost, capital light Value Fixed low prices Price leadership Small shops Simple fit out Wide in-shop range 12,000 products in store Open source IT Range Trade quality 3,000 online extension 100% availability c. 98% availability Unique stock depth Fast in-store service Serviced in 3 minutes Formulaic efficiency Online product search Online & catalogue Service Uniform shop range Trade credit Trade credit card In shop logistics Long opening hours c. 90 hours per week Auto-replenishment Delivery flexibility Free delivery 10 Auto-ranging Convenience Shops nationwide 330 branches Click & Collect C&C time 10 minutes Intuitive systems 15
