Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Directors report For the year ended 31 December 2018 The Directors present their annual report and audited accounts for Board of Directors the year ended 31 December 2018.
The Corporate Governance report on pages 59 to 65 forms part of the Directors Report.
The names of the Directors at 31 December 2018 together with their biographical details are set out on pages 56 to 58. Business review All of these Directors held office throughout the year.
The Executive Directors have rolling 12 month notice periods in A review of the Groups position, developments, activities in the their contracts.
The Non-executive Directors do not have service field of research and development and future prospects can be contracts.
In the light of the results of the formal evaluation of found in the Strategic Report on pages 4 to 53.
Whilst the Group their performances described on page 63 and due to the skills operates predominantly in the UK, it does have a small number and experience that each Director brings to their role, the Board of branches in the Isle of Man and the Republic of Ireland and its concluded that each Directors contribution is, and continues to associate company Toolstation Europe has 40 branches in The be, important to the Companys long-term sustainable success.
Directors conflicts of interest Information to be disclosed under LR 9.8.
4R None of the Directors had an interest in any contract to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries was a party during the year.
Listing Page The Company has undertaken to comply with best practice on rule Detail reference approval of Directors conflicts of interests in accordance with 9.8.
4R 1-2 5-11 14 Not applicable the Companys Articles of Association.
Under the Companies Act 2006 a Director incentive schemes must avoid a situation where he or she has, or can have, a direct 9.8.
4R 12 Dividend waiver 143 or indirect interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the Companys interests.
The disclosable interests of Directors 9.8.
4R 13 Dividend waiver 143 at 31 December 2018 including holdings if any, of spouses and of children aged under 18 are contained in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 72 to 89.
92 Governance and Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Directors indemnities Balance sheet and post balance sheet events Article 141 of the Companys Articles of Association permits the The balance sheet on page 107 shows the Groups financial Company to indemnify any person who is or was a Director of position.
No important events have occurred since the balance the Company or of any associated company in respect of any sheet date.
liability incurred in relation to the affairs of the Company or any associated company to the extent the law allows including in Principal risks and uncertainties connection with any associated companys activities as trustee A review of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties is set out of an occupational pension scheme.
The Company maintains in the strategic report which can be found on pages 34 to 41.
Directors and Officers liability insurance which gives appropriate cover for legal action brought against its Directors.
The Company Financial risk management has granted indemnities to its Directors and Directors of Details of the Groups approach to capital management and associated companies to the extent permitted by law and these the alleviation of risk through the use of financial instruments remained in force in the year ended 31 December 2018. are given in the Financial Review on pages 28 to 33.
Specific quantitative information on borrowings and financial instruments Greenhouse gas emissions reporting is given in notes 20 and 26 on pages 145 to 147 and 152 to 155 Details of the Groups greenhouse gas emissions can be found in of the financialstatements.
the Environmental report on pages 50 to 53.
Substantial shareholding Results and dividends As at 31 December 2018, the Company had been notified The Group results for the year ended 31 December 2018 and of the following interests amounting to 3% or more of the voting dividends for the year ending 31 December 2018 are set out in the rights in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: income statement and note 19 respectively on pages 106 and 144.
The final dividend will be paid on 17 May 2019 to those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 5 April 2019.
Indirect Not disclosed Less than 5% Harris Associates L. P. Indirect 12,689,670 5.04 Investec Asset Management Indirect 12,741,837 5.05 OppenheimerFunds, Inc.
Indirect 12,381,080 4.91 Sanderson Asset Management LLP Indirect 12,321,382 4.89 Sprucegrove Investment Management Ltd Not disclosed 12,006,659 4.76 TIA-CREF Investment Management Teachers Advisors, Direct 10,475,466 4.16 LLC Nuveen Asset Management, LLC Between 31 December and 25 February 2019, the following notifications were received by the Company: Number % TIA-CREF Investment Management Teachers Advisors, Direct 10,337,496 4.10 LLC Nuveen Asset Management, LLC Close company status The close company provisions of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 do not apply to the Company.
Employees ensuring that employment decisions are based on ability and Statements on employee matters are contained in the section of potential regardless of gender, race, colour, ethnic origin or the annual report entitled Our People on pages 42-44. sexual orientation, age or disability.
In particular, applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully and Details of the number of employees and related costs can be fairly considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the person found in note 34 to the financial statements.
In the event of a member of staff becoming disabled, The Company is committed to equality of opportunity and every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the recognises the benefit of diversity within its workforce.
Its Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is approach to the matter of diversity is set out in the Nominations the policy of the Company that the training, career development Committee report on pages 90 to 91 and in the section of and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be the annual report entitled Our People on pages 42 to 44. identical to that of other employees.
The Company has an equal opportunities policy aimed at 93 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 The Groups policies and practices have been designed Share capital and change of control to keep employees informed on matters relevant to them as employees through regular meetings and newsletters.
As at 31 December 2018 the Company had an allotted and fully Employee representatives are consulted regularly on a wide paid share capital of 252,143,923 ordinary shares of 10 pence range of matters affecting their interests.
To achieve a common each, with an aggregate nominal value of 25,214,392 including awareness of the financial and economic factors affecting the shares owned by the Travis Perkins Employee Share Ownership performance of the Group, employees are briefed on the Groups Trust.
The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock financial performance and strategy.
This is carried out through Exchange.
All the shares rank pari passu.
emails, webcasts and personal briefings which take place during half year and full year results announcements.
All employees The rights and obligations attaching to the shares are set out in with more than three months service are eligible to participate the Companys Articles of Association.
Fully paid shares in the in the Companys Sharesave and Buy As-You-Earn plans.
Details Company are freely transferable.
There are no persons that hold can be found in the Directors Remuneration report on page 77. securities carrying special rights with regard to the control of the Company.
Details of the structure of the Companys share capital Modern slavery and changes in the share capital during the year are also included The Group recognises the harmful impact that Modern Slavery in note 17 to the financial statements.
and human trafficking has on society and is committed to As at 31 December 2018 the Travis Perkins Employee Share eliminating this criminal activity from the business and supply Ownership Trust owned 3,803,841 shares in the Company chain.
The Group produces a slavery and human trafficking 1.5% of issued share capital for use in connection with the statement each financial year.
The latest statement is available on Companys share schemes.
Any voting or other similar decisions the Groups corporate website www.
co. uk relating to those shares would be taken by the trustees, who may take account of any recommendation of the Company.
There Political donations are no restrictions on voting rights attaching to the Companys The Group has a policy of not making donations to political ordinary shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements parties.
The Group did not give any money for political purposes between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on nor did it make any donations to political organisations or the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
independent candidates or incur any political expenditure during the year.
The rules governing the appointment and replacement of Board members and changes to the Articles of Association accord Auditor with usual English company law provisions.
The powers of the KPMG LLP, appointed in 2015, is the Companys auditor at the Companys Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of date of this report.
Resolutions will be proposed at the Annual Association.
In particular, the Board has the power to issue shares General Meeting to re-appoint KPMG LLP as the Companys and to purchase the Companys own shares and is seeking auditor and to authorise the Audit Committee to fix the renewal of these powers at the forthcoming Annual General auditorsremuneration.
Meeting in accordance with the restrictions and within the limits set out in the notice of that meeting.
Statement on disclosure of information There are a number of agreements to which the Company is a party that may take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of to the auditor control following a takeover bid.
None of these agreements is considered significant in the context of the Company as a whole.
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of The Company does not have agreements with any Director or this report confirms that: employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit employment resulting from a takeover except that provisions of information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the Companys share schemes and plans may cause options and awards granted to employees under such schemes and plans to the Director has taken all reasonable steps that they ought to vest on a takeover.
have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the The Directors Report has been approved by the Board of Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Directors and is signed on its behalf by: This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s. 418 of the Companies Robin Miller Act2006.
Company Secretary & General Counsel 25 February 2019 94 Governance and Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Shona Brock - Toolstation, Banbury 95
