Strategic Report Managers Report Delivering Growth Through Asset Management We are delighted to have successfully completed this strategic asset management initiative for the Company.
This new 15-year lease to Amazon has increased and lengthened the income profile and enhanced the value of this well located asset.
We look forward to continuing to work closely with this key customer in order to help them meet their fulfilment requirements.
Colin Godfrey, Fund Manager 44 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Repositioning our Value Add assets to Foundation During 2018, we delivered two key asset management initiatives welcoming Amazon to our Chesterfield asset and retaining Kelloggs as valued Customer at our Trafford Park asset.
Together the repositioning of these assets successfully strengthened and lengthened the Groups income stream, increasing the passing rent by nearly 20% whilst delivering a capital value increase of over 13%.
A new 15-year lease During the year, we agreed a new lease with Amazon for a 15-year term from November 2018: the new rent represents a significant increase over the previous level and is reviewed to CPI on a five-year basis between a cap and collar.
Prior to the re-letting we committed to refurbishment works to enhance the quality of the property.
The lease surrender from Tesco and reletting to Amazon successfully repositioned this asset from Value Add to Foundation.
Lease renewal for a 10-year term In 2018, we were delighted to retain a valued Customer by completing a new 10-year lease with Kelloggs at our Trafford Park asset.
As part of the negotiation the annual rent was increased by 20% to 1.8 million pa.
This commitment demonstrates the strategic importance of this facility to Kelloggs supply chain and the quality of the location.
The lease renewal successfully repositioned this asset from Value Add to Foundation.
Highlights Above left: Petrina Austin, Tritax Partner and Head of Asset 2 Management and Sustainability Key initiatives across c. 800,000 sq ft at the Amazon, Chesterfield Big Box where the fit out is underway.
0.70m Above and right: Kelloggs, Trafford Park, Manchester.
Added to the passing rent 14.9m Increase in capital values Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 45
