Strategic Report Managers Report Delivering the Groups Asset Management Strategy We continued to successfully implement the Groups asset management strategy in 2018, delivering valuable initiatives that have helped to strengthen or lengthen the Groups income whilst realising significant capital value appreciation.
Key achievements included settling 11 rent reviews, completing a building extension, a lease surrender and re-letting, and a lease extension.
Petrina Austin Partner, Head of Asset Management and Sustainability Strong Customer relationships efficiencies within existing buildings.
These initiatives can help We want the Group to be our Customers landlord of choice for Customers to mitigate the effects of potential changes to border Big Box logistics property.
We aim to develop strong relationships controls or delays in their supply chains.
The portfolio consists of with the Groups Customers, so we understand their occupational assets with the resilience to meet evolving Customer requirements requirements and commercial objectives.
This helps us to identify either on a temporary or permanent basis.
asset management opportunities that support our Customers businesses, enhance the quality of the Groups income and increase Sustainability is of increasing importance to Customers, as they look capital values.
to fulfil their corporate social responsibility CSR commitments.
An ongoing priority is working closely with our in-house property As we have grown in scale, further acquisitions have allowed us to management team and sustainability consultants to review the welcome new Customers and also strengthen our relationships with potential for green initiatives at the Groups assets.
These can existing Customers, creating the future opportunity to perform asset reduce costs for Customers, whilst improving the properties management initiatives with one Customer across multiple assets.
Similarly we have been reviewing the opportunity to work with our Customers on charitable engagement Customer engagement Key themes for 2018 to help bring environmental and social benefits to the communities In addition to our regular programme of Customer engagement, where the Group owns assets.
More information on these initiatives we have been in active discussions with a number of Customers can be found in Our Sustainable Approach on pages 54-57. as they plan for the potential impact of Brexit.
This includes managing Customer applications for alterations to properties, Repositioning our assets from Value Add to Foundation to accommodate additional temporary storage space for more There are opportunities to add value to assets across all of our domestic inventory or the expansion of automation for improved investment pillars see page 45, but particularly for Value Add The Groups Asset Management Highlights in 2018 11 0.91m 2.04m 1 Rent reviews settled across Increase in rent from Increase in annual rent 4.97m sq ft reviews settled in 2018 1 Includes all 2018 asset management initiatives and rent reviews.
40 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 For Our Sustainable Approach, see pages 54-57 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION assets.
Such assets comprise good quality buildings which are Our proactive asset typically let to financially sound Customers and offer the potential management approach for us to apply our asset management expertise in order to enhance Our approach to asset management aims to income and or capital value through lease re-gears extending create value throughout the asset lifecycle.
unexpired lease terms, amendments to the existing leases varying the rent review terms, physical improvements building Sector specialism We draw on our unique knowledge and of extensions or agreeing new lettings.
For some assets such sector insight to identify assets where we initiatives can change the pillar categorisation from Value Add to can add value through asset management.
Market intelligence Our extensive network of relationships Amazon, Chesterfield A new 15-year lease: On acquisition in with agents and consultants, plus in-house March 2014, we had categorised our Chesterfield asset as Value research, ensure we have up-to-date market Add, owing to the lease having a relatively short unexpired term of intelligence.
Upon acquisition we were aware that the In-house expertise tenant, Tesco, intended to vacate the property but could not do so We have a team-based approach, combining quickly.
Tesco operated from the property for a further four years dedicated internal asset and property before vacating, at which time we negotiated a surrender of the management and development expertise.
This completed at the end of March 2018.
We immediately entered into a 12-month occupational licence Financial due diligence We rigorously analyse Customers financial with Amazon and subsequently agreed a new lease with Amazon strength before the Group acquires an asset for a 15-year term from November 2018: the new rent is subject and continue this scrutiny throughout the life to legal confidentiality but represents a significant increase over of the lease.
the previous level, and is reviewed on an indexed-linked five-year basis.
Prior to the re-letting we committed to refurbishment works Business plans We create asset management plans for to improve the quality of the property.
This lease surrender and reevery asset in the portfolio and analyse the letting has repositioned this asset from Value Add to Foundation.
opportunity on an income and capital basis.
Kelloggs, Trafford Park, Manchester Lease renewal for a new Ongoing risk analysis We conduct a rigorous risk analysis for each 10-year term: The Group acquired the asset in August 2016, with an property every year and health check it unexpired lease term of approximately 18 months, as we believed monthly.
there was a strong possibility of negotiating a lease re-gear with Kelloggs owing to the importance of the building in their supply Customer relationships We regularly meet and build relationships chain and the quality of the location.
Shortly after our acquisition with local and national Customer contacts.
of the investment we engaged with Kelloggs to understand its This is fundamental to unlocking asset future distribution requirements and develop a property solution.
In March 2018, shortly before the expiry of the original lease term, we completed a new 10-year lease with Kelloggs.
As part of the negotiation the annual rent was increased by 20% to 1.8 million pa. Future proofing assets and enhancing value When acquiring assets for the Group, one of our key considerations is the potential for physical improvements.
We typically acquire assets that are well configured with low site cover, to allow for occupational flexibility as a Customer may need to extend a building or alter its layout as its occupational requirements evolve.
Through our specialist knowledge and experience, we can often suggest practical solutions.
These initiatives aim to grow the Groups income and ensure that its assets are resilient and can adapt to Customer demands.
DSG, Newark: During the year, further option agreements were entered into which provide the Group with the potential to acquire a substantial area of land adjoining its existing property asset, which is currently leased to DSG.
Master-planned scheme designs have been drawn up by architects and discussions are progressing with Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 41 Strategic Report Managers Report Delivering the Groups Asset Management Strategy the local planning authority in respect of the potential for obtaining enabled Royal Mail to introduce a new welfare facility in this planning permission over the optioned land.
The cost of the removal was negotiated as an expense planning consent, this initiative could offer the opportunity of of the vendor.
developing new buildings on a pre-let basis and or extending the Companys existing property.
Marks & Spencer, Castle Donington: Another notable event during the year saw us complete a licence with Marks & Spencer at Castle Tesco, Middleton: Tesco has substantially refurbished the Groups Donington allowing rail freight operators to begin using the buildings asset at Middleton and is undertaking a marketing exercise, with a dedicated rail freight terminal.
This facility is now operational, view to assigning the lease or sub-letting the property.
We continue demonstrating the commitment of M&S to the property and endorses to work closely with this Customer and its agent, and monitor our original strategy of acquiring a multi-modal property.
progress and assist with enquiries proactively.
Capturing reliable and balanced income growth New Look, Newcastle-under-Lyme: In September 2018, the The Groups assets have a balance of rent review types and 78,604 sq ft extension to New Looks unit at , providing the opportunity to increase rental income each Lyme reached practical completion which led to the rent increasing year, supporting the Groups earnings and ambition to provide by 0.42 million pa. As noted in last years report, the lease was shareholders with a progressive dividend.
extended by 12 years as part of our negotiation of the property extension and the rent increased as part of an early settlement of The rent reviews which were settled in 2018 included: two the rent review by 0.21 million pa.
The initiative generated a yield outstanding open market rent reviews which were carried over from on cost of 8.4%.
The design of the extension is not bespoke to 2015 and 2017 due to elongated negotiations as described in more New Looks operations and in the event that an alternative occupier detail below, and nine rent reviews across a variety of review types leased the unit, the extended footprint is likely to be beneficial.
which had review dates during 2018.
There were three open market New Look remains in occupation and monthly in-advance rents rent reviews which were not settled and remain outstanding, two of have been received on time and are up to date.
We continue to which had review dates in 2017 and one in 2018.
These will continue work closely with this occupier and regularly meet with New Looks to be progressed during 2019, together with the rent reviews which finance director.
Royal Mail, Atherstone: At the time of our acquisition our surveys The 11 rent reviews which were settled in 2018, as described above, highlighted the existence of underground fuel tanks which we reflected 19.5% of the total December 2018 portfolio income negotiated to have removed.
These works have now been completed, across 4.97 million sq ft of floor area, adding 0.91 million per reducing the potential environmental contamination risk associated annum to the passing rent, which produced a 3.00% increase in with the continued existence of these redundant vessels.
This has those rents reviewed.
Our portfolio balanced rent reviews by type 37% 11% 45% 7% Open market rent reviews Fixed uplift rent reviews RPI CPI linked Hybrid These track the rents achieved Fixed rent reviews provide These provide inflation Hybrid rent reviews can be an on new lettings and rent reviews certainty of income growth and protection, via to CPI or RPI.
They amalgam of the other types, for of comparable properties in the are set between either 2% pa or are all subject to a maximum instance to the higher of open market, offering the potential 3% pa increases.
Fixed uplifts cap, varying between 2.5% market rents or RPI potentially to capture the recent and are reviewed on either an annual and 5% pa.
Some benefit from subject to a cap and collar.
Such continued healthy rental growth basis, or on a five-yearly basis.
a collar, varying between 1% arrangements provide enhanced of Big Box logistics.
and 2% pa, providing a minimum income growth potential.
level of growth which can be exceeded by inflation.
Most are reviewed five yearly annualised compound growth, but some are reviewed annually.
Calculated as a percentage of contracted rental income.
42 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Open market rent reviews: Four open market reviews were If we were to analyse the rent reviews on an annualised basis the completed across 1.9 million sq ft, two of which have been under annual equivalent increase to the passing rent across all the rent negotiation from previous years Kuehne Nagel, Dove Valley reviews reflects 2.0% pa. Park and Tesco, Chesterfield, outstanding from 2017 and 2015 respectively.
Combined, these four reviews resulted in an increase In addition to the rent reviews there were three further asset of 3.4% over a five-year period, adding 0.31 million pa to the management initiatives which increased the income of the Group passing rent.
These initiatives related to agreeing a new lease with Amazon at Chesterfield at a rental level in excess At the year end, there were three unsettled open market rent of the 2015 rent review, agreeing a lease extension with Kelloggs reviews Tesco, Goole: Tesco, Middleton: Next, Doncaster.
Once at Trafford Park, which was ahead of the previous passing rent an open market rent review is agreed, the Customer is responsible the tenant was paying, and completing the 78,604 sq ft extension for paying back-rent from the rent review date, together with interest at New Look.
Collectively these initiatives increased the previous thereon.
passing rent across these three assets by 20.1% and enhanced the capital value of these assets by 14.97 million.
Fixed uplift rent reviews: There were two annual fixed rent reviews completed across 0.9 million sq ft. which were both subject to a 3% Across all asset management initiatives rent reviews, lease annual increase.
This increased the rent by 0.19 million pa. re-gears and building extensions the annual passing rent increased by 2.04 million or 1.6% on a like-for-like basis across 46 assets, There was one five-yearly fixed rent review completed which reflected during 2018. a 13.1% increase across this period, increasing the rent by 0.06 million pa which equates to an annual equivalent increase of 2.6%.
RPI CPI linked: Four rent reviews which are annually reviewed to inflation indices were conducted during 2018.
One was reviewed to the Consumer Price Index CPI capped at 3.5% pa, whilst the others were pegged to the Retail Price Index RPI of which two were capped at 2% pa and one at 3% pa.
The combination of these inflation-linked rent reviews led to an increase in rental income of 0.35 million pa equivalent to a 2.44% increase in the rents for these reviewed properties.
Understanding the five-year cycle of open market rent reviews Open market rent reviews use comparable The majority of open market rent reviews mid-2017 may have experienced 2.5 years evidence from transactions of other similar take place every five years and are pegged of no rental growth followed by 2.5 years of properties in a similar geographic area and to the rent prevailing in the market for a positive rental growth.
It follows, therefore, close to the subject rent review date.
comparable property as at the rent review that prospects for capturing higher levels date.
When assessing rental growth over of rental growth are likely to improve as we Typically, the landlord and tenant will each the five-year period the reference point move towards 2020, assuming that rental appoint a rent review surveyor to negotiate is the passing rent, which will typically growth remains positive in the interim.
in line with the clauses set out in the lease.
have been set five years earlier.
During the In a market which is witnessing rising rents intervening period rents in the market may these negotiations can be protracted as have been subject to different dynamics, both parties have different agendas.
If ie they may have reduced, increased or the new rent cannot be agreed between stayed static at different points in time.
both parties, then the negotiations may For example, the logistics market did not be referred to a third-party arbitrator or start to witness clear rental growth until late independent expert to determine the new 2014 early 2015, since then rental growth rent.
Having a third-party determine the has remained positive.
Consequently, appropriate rent can take further time.
a property subject to a rent review in Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 43
