Strategic Report Managers Report Delivering Solutions for our Customers Above: aerial view of site Above and left: Kelloggs, Trafford Park, for Howdens II and III with Manchester groundwork underway.
Opposite: Petrina Austin, Tritax Partner Left: superstructure of buildings and Head of Asset Management and with Howdens I in background.
Sustainability at the Amazon, Chesterfield Big Box where the fit out is underway.
Right: Interior and exterior the Chesterfield Big Box.
38 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Leading funder in the UK Big Box market The seven pre-let forward funding projects added to the portfolio in 2018, mean that the Group has now undertaken a total of 16 forward funded prelet developments, making it the leading funder in the UK Big Box market over the last five years.
Securing new high-quality assets and Customers By developing buildings on a pre-let basis we aim to add new modern investments and Customers to the portfolio.
We work collaboratively, with Customers delivering high quality and sustainable real-estate solutions that support their business objectives.
Acquiring prime, attractively priced assets We acquire forward funded pre-let developments at an attractive discount to market levels when compared to existing income producing investment properties.
As at the year end, nine pre-let developments had successfully reached practical completion, with an average purchase yield of 5.5%.
This compares to an average valuation yield for a strong covenant on a 15-year term of 4.5% as at 31 December 2018 source: CBRE.
Developing modern sustainable assets We work closely with our Developer Partners to ensure that our assets are constructed using state of the art design and materials and incorporate initiatives such as low carbon technologies.
The success of these initiatives are evaluated in the BREEAM rating achieved.
By GIA, 78% the five forward funded pre-let developments that became operational during 2018, achieved a rating of Very Good, with the remaining 22% securing the higher Excellent rating.
Following the successful completion of the first Howdens building, which Benefiting local communities the Company agreed to forward fund in September 2015, we are delighted to be investing in the second phase Once operational, Big Boxes are important for of Howdens' two new distribution job creation, with some multi-level facilities centres.
Once completed, these three employing several thousand local staff.
We also high specification facilities totalling seek to work with our Customers to actively 1.6 million sq ft will provide Howdens support local communities and charities through with a 'centre of excellence' for its volunteering, sponsorship and charitable national supply chain operations.
Colin Godfrey, Fund Manager Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 39
