STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Governance How we Govern the Company The Companys success is based upon the effective implementation of its strategy by the Manager and third-party providers.
The Companys culture is set by the leadership of the Board, cascaded down to the Manager.
Board meetings Representatives of the Manager attend the Board meetings together During 2018 we held nine scheduled Board meetings of which with the Company Secretary.
Representatives of the Companys one was a strategy meeting plus further ad hoc meetings to deal other advisers are also invited to attend Board meetings as required, with transactional and other specific events such as equity raises, particularly representatives from, Jefferies: Financial Advisers, Akur debt financing and the db symmetry acquisition.
The table below Limited and Lazard & Co Limited and Legal Advisers, Taylor Wessing LLP.
shows each individual Directors attendance at the scheduled Board Attendance at Board meetings and Committee meetings meetings during the year.
Attendance at Committee meetings is during the year ended 31 December 2018 shown in the respective Committee reports.
All Directors are expected to devote sufficient time to the Companys affairs to fulfil their duties as Directors and to attend all The Board meetings follow a formal agenda, which is approved by the scheduled meetings of the Board and of the Committees on which Chairman and circulated by the Company Secretary in advance of they serve.
Where Directors are unable to attend a meeting, they will the meeting to all the Directors and other attendees.
At each Board provide their comments on the Board papers received in advance of meeting every agenda item is considered against the Companys the meeting to the Chairman who will share such input with the rest strategy, its Investment Objectives and its Investment Policy.
of the Board and the Manager.
A typical agenda includes: Due to the significant number of additional ad hoc meetings during a review of investment performance: the year it was not necessary for all the Directors to attend each a review of investments and divestments and asset management meeting, provided that such meetings were quorate which was initiatives in progress: the case across all meetings held.
The Nomination Committee is satisfied that all the Directors, including the Chairman, have an update on investment opportunities available in the market and how they fit within the Companys strategy: sufficient time to meet their commitments.
a review of the Companys financial performance: Attendance at scheduled Board meetings during 2018: a review of the Companys financial forecast, cash flow and ability Board meetings Board meetings to meet targets: eligible to attend attended a review of the Companys financial and regulatory compliance: Meetings held 9 9 updates on Shareholder and stakeholder relations: Sir Richard Jewson 9 9 updates on the Companys capital market activity: and Jim Prower 9 9 specific regulatory, compliance or corporate governance updates.
Susanne Given 9 8 We are kept fully informed of potential investment opportunities, along Aubrey Adams 9 9 with wider property market intelligence, through the Board papers prepared by the Manager.
Board papers are disseminated to the Richard Laing appointed 16 May 2018 6 6 Directors via a secure online platform for reasons of efficiency and cyber Mark Shaw resigned 1 February 2019 9 6 security.
The online platform is also used to store relevant Company documentation, as it provides us with quick and secure access.
A Director has a duty to avoid a situation in which he or she has a direct or indirect interest that may conflict with the interests of the All decisions to invest in or divest of property are made by the Manager following a recommendation of the Investment Committee Company.
The Board may authorise any potential conflicts, where appropriate, in accordance with the Articles of Association.
Where and discussions with us.
The Manager provides a detailed acquisition paper to us on any selected potential acquisition and notifies us a potential conflict of interest arises, a Director will declare their interest and not participate in the decision-making in respect of the when an offer is made for and accepted on a site, and also regularly updates us on the progress of the transaction.
An initial development relevant business.
appraisal is presented to us upon acquisition of development land and regular updates are provided thereafter.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 79 Governance How we Govern the Company Strategy controlled development of new assets which we expect will Our 2018 strategy meeting focused on assessing whether the maintain the high quality of our portfolio and support future returns.
Company followed its overarching strategy set in 2017 and reviewed Furthermore, the ability to make limited investments in speculative where changes should be made to ensure the long-term success development activity will give the Company additional flexibility to of the Company.
We believe that the Company is fulfilling its either source development opportunities at an earlier stage or allow strategic objectives, as demonstrated by the acquisition of eight us to bring a new development to the market, both of which have the new Big Box investments in 2018 including seven pre-let forward potential to deliver enhanced returns for Shareholders.
funded developments and three new tenant relationships, with an aggregate purchase price commitment of approximately Therefore, in November 2018, the Company sought, and received, 641.5 million funded through a mix of new equity and debt.
As Shareholder approval at a General Meeting to change its Investment at 31 December 2018, the Companys property portfolio was let Policy to increase the maximum exposure limit to land or options or pre-let to 39 institutional tenants.
There was also progress with over land from 10% of Net Asset Value to 15% of Gross Asset Value the Companys prime London distribution development site at calculated at the time of investment, of which up to 5% of gross Littlebrook, with detailed planning permission being secured for the assets may be invested in speculative development activity.
proposed development of a 450,000 sq ft logistics facility across phase 1 of the site.
This change in Investment Policy enabled the Company to acquire an 87% economic interest in db symmetry in February 2019.
We resolved that the Company should continue to aim for growth db symmetry owns one of the UKs largest strategic land portfolios and diversification of its property portfolio by tenant, asset and for the development of Big Box real estate assets and related geography in order to deliver further value to Shareholders.
This acquisition will provide the Company with Companys focus remains on the acquisition of let or pre-let Big Box the potential to add approximately 38.2 million sq ft of new logistics assets.
However, given the current dynamics of the logistics market, and Big Box assets to its portfolio over the short to long term.
with strong demand but limited supply of suitable assets, we felt The acquisition was funded by a fully underwritten equity issue that our strategy would best be achieved through the increased of 250 million which also completed in February 2019.
80 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Key activities of the Board during 2018 Q1 Q3 Issuance of a Trading Statement: Approval of Interim Property valuation: Approval of 2017 financial results and fourth interim dividend Approval of Interim results: declaration: Quarterly review of corporate governance compliance, Group Consideration of an equity raise for Q2 2018: activity and depositary report: Quarterly review of corporate governance compliance, Group Dividend declaration in respect of Q2 2018. activity and depositary report.
Q2 Q4 Nomination Committee review and appointment of Korn Ferry Amendment to Companys Investment Policy: to search for a new Non-Executive Director: please refer to the Second half yearly principal risk review and consideration of risk Nomination Committee Report, pages 86-87: appetite: Raised gross proceeds of 156 million through a placing: Approval of the updated Financial Prospects, Positions and AGM: Procedures document: Dividend declaration in respect of Q1 2018: Review of corporate governance compliance, Group activity and depositary report: Principal risk review and consideration of risk appetite: Review of Moodys confirmation rating of Baa1: Appointment of Richard Laing as Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee: Dividend declaration in respect of Q3 2018: Quarterly review of corporate governance compliance, Group Entered into a 250 million short-term unsecured banking facility activity and depositary report.
with a syndicate of existing relationship lenders: Agreement to issue 400 million of unsecured fixed rate loan notes in US private placement: Extension of 350 million of the Companys revolving credit facility for one year to December 2023: Consideration and due diligence of the db symmetry acquisition: Consideration of an equity raise for Q1 2019. https: tritaxbigbox.
co. uk about #corporate-governance https: tritaxbigbox.
co. uk news-media See Chairmans Governance Overview, pages 72-74 See Audit & Risk Committee Report, pages 90-93 See Nomination Committee Report, pages 86-87 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 81
