Strategic Report Going Concern and Viability The Strategic Report describes the Group financial position, cash The assumptions underpinning these forecast cash flows and flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities.
The Group currently covenant compliance forecasts were sensitised to explore the has substantial headroom against its borrowing covenants, with a resilience of the Group to the potential impact of the Groups Group LTV of 27.3% as at 31 December 2018. significant risks, or a combination of those risks.
The Group also benefits from a secure income stream from leases The principal risks on pages 62-67 summarises those matters that with long average unexpired terms, which are not overly reliant on could prevent the Group from delivering on its strategy.
A number any one tenant and present a well diversified risk.
The Groups cash of these principal risks, because of their nature or potential impact, balance as at 31 December 2018 was 48.33 million, of which could also threaten in the Groups ability to continue in business in 47.37 million was readily available.
It also had undrawn amounts its current form if they were to occur.
under its debt facilities of a further 479.00 million excluding the Private Placement as noted below.
The Group had capital The Directors paid particular attention to the risk of a deterioration commitments totalling 371.08 million.
The Group had seven assets in economic outlook which would impact property fundamentals, under construction at the year end.
including investor and occupier demand which would have a negative impact on valuations, and give rise to a reduction in A significant part of the Groups borrowings are on an unsecured the availability of finance.
Following the recent acquisition of db basis, providing the Group with a deeper pool of liquidity and with symmetry, the Board also paid attention to the impact of either more flexibility over its arrangements.
During the year the Group a delay to the receipt of planning permission or the risk of not issued its debut Loan Notes in the Private Placement market, achieving planning consent across a number of schemes.
The totalling 400 million, split across nine-year and 11-year maturities.
remaining principal risks, whilst having an impact on the Groups The Group also exercised an extension option over its 350 million business model, are not considered by the Directors to have a unsecured RCF, extending the maturity of this facility by 12 months reasonable likelihood of impacting the Groups viability over the to December 2023.
This assisted the Group in maintaining its five-year period to 6 March 2024. weighted average maturity across its borrowings of 8.7 years excluding the 250 million unsecured RCF which was cancelled The sensitivities performed were designed to be severe but on 28 February 2019 as at 31 December 2018 2017: 8.9 years.
plausible: and to take full account of the availability of mitigating As a result, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to actions that could be taken to avoid or reduce the impact or manage its current and future financial commitments and other occurrence of the underlying risks: business risks.
Downturn in economic outlook: key assumptions including Following the year end the Group raised 250 million of equity occupancy, void periods, planning risk, rental growth and yields through a heavily oversubscribed Open Offer.
This equity was raised were sensitised to reflect reasonably likely levels associated with in order to facilitate the completion of the db symmetry acquisition an economic downturn.
which owns one of the UKs largest strategic land portfolios for the development of Big Box real estate assets and related logistics Restricted availability of finance: Following the extension of the facilities.
The total consideration in respect of the 87% economic 350 million RCF by 12 months, and ignoring the 250 million interest that the Group has acquired in db symmetry was short-term RCF which was cancelled on 28 February 2019, 322.72 million, of which 270.13 million was funded with cash and the Group does not have a significant refinancing event occurring with the remaining 52.59 million funded via the issue of shares in until December 2023.
This facility does, however, still have a further the Company.
one-year extension option, which if exercised and approved by the lenders would extend the maturity of the facility until December The Directors believe that there are currently no material 2024.
Regardless of the extension of the facility, financing is uncertainties in relation to the Company and the Groups ability to arranged in advance of expected requirements and the Directors continue for a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval have reasonable confidence that additional or replacement debt of the Company and the Groups financial statements.
The Board is, facilities will be put in place.
Furthermore, the Group has the ability therefore, of the opinion that the going concern basis adopted in the to make disposals of investment properties to meet the future preparation of the Annual Report is appropriate.
financing requirements under the DBS business plan.
Assessment of viability Viability Statement The period over which the Directors consider it feasible and Having considered the forecast cash flows and covenant appropriate to report on the Groups viability is the five-year period compliance and the impact of the sensitivities in combination, the to 6 March 2024.
This period has been selected because it is the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the period that is used for the Groups medium-term business plans and Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as individual asset performance forecasts.
they fall due over the period ending 6 March 2024.
68 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018
