Governance Effectiveness Strong governance enables the Board to pursue the Companys strategic objectives and helps to safeguard the continued success of the Company for its Shareholders and other stakeholders.
Board refreshment, including the Chairmans succession We appointed Lintstock to undertake an externally facilitated Board to determine the process for identifying a suitable candidate to evaluation for 2017 and again for 2018.
Lintstock has no other take over the role of Chairman, in anticipation of the eventual connection with the Company apart from conducting the Board retirement of Sir Richard Jewson KCVO, JP.
The 2017 Board evaluation provided a benchmark for the 2018 Board evaluation and enabled Lintstock to understand 2.
Developing Director engagement and dynamics to clarify the Board, the relationships between the Directors and between the expectation for meeting attendance in a period of high the Board and the Manager, the Company Secretary and other activity, especially during transactions, and to maintain and key stakeholders to the Company, as well as the Companys encourage open and robust debate in meetings.
Meeting management to review the structure and timing The 2017 Board evaluation took the form of a questionnaire which of Board meetings with the potential of transitioning to a was sent to each of the Directors and one key representative of cycle of fewer meetings, with the allocation of more time to the Manager.
It contained a section designed specifically as an each meeting.
As a result of the action points from the 2017 Board evaluation, we have recruited two new Non-Executive 4.
Strategic Oversight to monitor closely the Companys Directors see the Nomination Committee Report on pages 86-87 strategic position in the market, particularly in light of the for more information, and reviewed our strategy, a key product of recent change in Investment Policy and the acquisition of which was the change of the Investment Policy in November 2018 db symmetry Ltd in February 2019 and the delivery of the see page 20 for more details.
The Company Secretary regularly Littlebrook project.
reviews the length of the Board packs to ensure that they are not too voluminous, while remaining comprehensive.
Led by Jim Prower, the Senior Independent Director, the NonThe 2018 Board evaluation was more comprehensive than the Executive Directors met without the Chairman present to appraise 2017 Board review, starting with questionnaires sent to all the the Chairmans performance.
The Chairmans review was very Directors and three key representatives of the Manager.
This was positive and the other Directors appreciated that he had played followed by individual interviews with the Directors and the Manager an influential role during a period of significant expansion of the representatives.
We were asked to consider: Board composition and Company and concluded that he had continued to chair the Board Expertise: Board Dynamics: Management and Focus of Meetings: of the Company effectively.
Board Support: Board Committees: Strategic Oversight: Risk Management and Internal Control: and Succession Planning.
We considered succession planning for the Company and felt that a focus for 2019 will be to determine the timing of the appointment of a new Chairman and the process for identifying a successor The outcome of the 2018 Board evaluation was positive, displaying to the role in order to facilitate an orderly transition to take place.
a strong working relationship with the Manager.
The Board is We will also continue to monitor and evaluate Board composition to undergoing a transition in its membership which is expected to bring ensure we have a diverse and relevant range of skills and expertise, a fresh perspective to the oversight of our fast growing business.
particularly in the fast evolving technology sector.
The Board met in February 2019 to discuss Lintstocks 2018 Board Evaluation Report and the following top priorities for change over 2019 were identified.
For the Nomination Committee Report, see pages 86-87 84 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 For Our Investment Policy, see Our Objectives and Strategy on pages 20-21 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Director training programme We recognise that it is essential to keep abreast of regulatory and compliance changes.
Accordingly, a bespoke training programme is agreed with the Chairman and arranged for us each year.
In 2018, the training programme included a site visit to the Littlebrook site in May and a session on the changes in the 2018 Corporate Governance Code, provided by the Companys lawyers, Taylor Wessing LLP.
We also received formal training sessions from some of the Companys external service providers as well as the Managers Head of Compliance and the Head of Research.
The 2018 Board evaluation confirmed that the training programme is well structured and highly informative and a valuable asset to the Directors.
In addition to the bespoke training programme, each Director is expected to maintain their individual professional skills and is responsible for identifying any individual training needs to help them ensure that they maintain the requisite knowledge to be able to consider and understand the Companys responsibilities, business and strategy.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who manages the Companys governance procedures, and the Manager.
The Directors are also entitled to take independent advice at the Companys reasonable expense at any time.
The Company maintains Directors and Officers Liability Insurance, which gives appropriate cover for legal action brought against its Directors.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 85
