STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Who we are Who we serve Tritax Big Box REIT is a Real Estate Investment Trust.
Our Our Customers are some of the biggest names in logistics, shares have been listed on the London Stock Exchange since manufacturing, consumer products, retail and automotive.
December 2013 and are included in the FTSE 250 Index.
We build long-term, mutually beneficial relationships with them, to enhance their business and ours.
What we do Our vision Tritax Big Box REIT is the UKs leading investment company focused on larger scale logistics real estate.
We own the We are the UKs pre-eminent owner of Big Boxes.
We aim to largest and most modern portfolio of these assets in the own and deliver the best logistic assets in the best locations UK.
We have assembled a portfolio unmatched in quality in providing our Customers with premises within which they can the UK quoted real estate sector.
We invest in, and actively adapt and grow their businesses efficiently, profitably and manage, income-producing assets, land suitable for logistics sustainably.
development and pre-let forward funded developments.
We follow a core-plus strategy, in which Foundation assets Our culture provide our core, low-risk income, and Value Add assets, Growth Covenant assets and strategic land including limited In our market we have built a reputation of trust and reliability.
speculative development offer the potential for enhanced We have a forward-thinking, entrepreneurial culture, which returns.
This strategy supports our objective of delivering enables us to move rapidly when attractive opportunities secure, attractive and growing dividends whilst capturing present themselves.
We combine this with a rigorous capital growth for our Shareholders.
approach to due diligence, controls and governance, designed to protect the interests of our Shareholders.
Why we do it We invest in real estate that is central to modern logistics.
Our properties are critically important to our Customers long-term strategies, helping them to improve their operational efficiencies, generate cost savings and fulfil rapidly growing e-commerce sales.
Strong demand driven by structural change and limited supply, both occupationally and for investment stock, make our subsector one of the most exciting in UK real estate.
We look to take advantage of these dynamics by applying our sector-leading expertise, to deliver attractive total returns for Shareholders.
