Governance Management Engagement Committee Report Dear Shareholders, The Management Engagement Committees role is to review the In 2018 the Committee focussed on conducting performance of the Manager and the Companys main service a detailed review of the services provided by the providers and to recommend the re-tender of their appointments Companys key suppliers and recommending which for consideration by the Board.
The Committee is also responsible suppliers are to be re-tendered.
The Committee also for overseeing any amendments to the Investment Management continued to monitor and evaluate the performance Agreement IMA.
We met once in the year ending 31 December 2018 to review Susanne Given, Chair of the Management Engagement the Companys relationships with its main service providers, their Committee performance and the terms of their appointment, and to review the Companys relationship with the Manager, the Managers Membership performance and the terms of the Managers appointment.
I also Susanne Given Chair met independently with representatives of the Manager to discuss 1 Sir Richard Jewson, Jim Prower, Aubrey Adams, Richard Laing, the re-tender process and management of suppliers.
2 Alastair Hughes We reviewed the performance of the Manager and, together with the Key areas of focus for 2018 Manager and the Company Secretary, all of the Companys corporate Implementation of the re-tender schedule commencing with advisers and principal service providers.
This included an assessment the re-tender of the Company Secretarial function and CBRE.
of the ongoing requirement for the provision of such services, the fees paid to and the performance of such advisers and service providers Annual review of each service provider to ensure the quality of service and value for money for Shareholders.
and additional added value given by the Manager and the Companys service providers and advisers, and whether additional services were Meeting attendance register required.
The review was for the 12-month period ended 30 June 2018, thereby allowing the Committee to refer to figures reviewed by Person Meetings eligible to attend Meetings attended the Auditor in its assessment of performance.
Susanne Given 1 1 Sir Richard Jewson 1 1 Under the terms of the IMA, the Board has delegated day-to-day responsibility for running the Company to the Manager, including Jim Prower 1 1 sourcing of investment opportunities in line with the Companys Aubrey Adams 1 1 Investment Policy, responsibility for investment and divestment decisions made in accordance with the Companys Investment 1 Richard Laing 1 1 Policy, asset management of the existing portfolio, negotiation 1 Richard Laing was appointed to the Management Engagement Committee of debt facilities within the parameters of the Companys policy on 16 May 2018. on gearing and liaising with the Companys advisers on equity 2 Alastair Hughes was appointed to the Management Engagement Committee on 1 February 2019. fundraisings.
All of the Companys subsidiaries and therefore all of its assets are wholly owned and controlled by the Company as at 31 December 2018 and the Board exercises direct control in respect of the Groups holdings.
The IMA establishes that responsibility for investment and divestment decisions is delegated to the Manager in accordance with ESMA guidance as to the interpretation of the rules under the AIFMD.
Investment and divestment decisions must be made in accordance with the Companys Investment Policy and the Board remains responsible for ensuring this is the case.
The Board continues to review all investment and divestment decisions as well as the Asset Management Policy established by the Manager.
94 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Management Engagement Committee Report To ensure open and regular communication between the Manager evaluation of the various CSR initiatives which it is progressing and the Board, the Manager is invited to attend all Board meetings and developing.
to update the Board on the Companys investments and discuss the general market conditions and the financial performance and Suppliers strategy of the Company.
Details of the Companys performance in Following an extensive review and full analysis, we agreed with the 2018 have been set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1-69.
Manager that the performance of the Companys current service providers for the past year continued to be satisfactory, and in The Manager several cases exceptional, and, in accordance with the Managers The Manager has adopted a focused approach to investing, with recommendation, that each, other than the Registrar, Link Asset the Company acquiring eight new Big Box investments in 2018 Services see below, be retained until the next review.
We did not including seven pre-let forward funded developments, with an suggest any material changes to the engagement terms of the aggregate purchase price commitment of 641.5 million.
At the end remaining advisers or service providers.
of March 2018, the Manager negotiated a surrender of the Tesco lease, without premium, and immediately entered into a 12-month Our review did not reveal any material weaknesses in the advice and occupational licence with Amazon.
A new lease with Amazon was support provided to the Group.
We are satisfied that the Company subsequently arranged for a 15-year term from November 2018. is benefiting from added value in respect of the services it procures.
The Manager further engaged with Kelloggs US-based property However, in order to ensure that the Company continues to team to understand its future distribution requirements and develop receive the very best service and value from its service providers, a property solution at our asset in Manchester.
In March 2018, shortly the Management Engagement Committee has recommended a before the expiry of the original lease term, a new 10-year lease with schedule of re-tendering to the Board which sets out a timetable Kelloggs was completed, repositioning this asset from Value Add to for each professional appointment to be re-tendered.
For further information please refer to page 45.
The Committee recommended to the Board that the Company The Manager also secured planning permission for phase 1 of Secretarial function be re-tendered in 2018 to ensure that the the Companys prime London distribution development site at Company follows best practice corporate governance at all times.
Littlebrook, Dartford, comprising the proposed development of Following consideration of a number of third-party service providers, a 450,000 sq ft logistics facility.
it was concluded that the Company Secretarial role would remain with the Manager but that the Manager would seek to appoint a The Company is currently seeking an occupier for this unit.
In the full time company secretarial team.
A number of candidates for the second half of the year, the Manager started negotiations with role were interviewed by the representatives of the Manager and the owners and management of db symmetry to acquire an 87% the Board with the appointment of a Company Secretary and an economic interest in the company.
db symmetry owns one of Assistant Company Secretary being made in October 2018.
DMJ the UKs largest strategic land portfolios for the development Recruitment assisted the Manager in the recruitment process.
of Big Box real estate assets and related logistics facilities and is DMJ Recruitment does not have any existing relationship with the independently valued at 372.75 million.
The acquisition completed Company or the Manager.
CBRE, the Companys valuer, was also re-tendered in 2018.
As part The Committee also reviews the Managers culture and resourcing.
of the re-tender exercise we invited CBRE, Savills PLC, Cushman The Manager increased the number of employees in 2018 to ensure Wakefield Inc. and BNP Paribas Real Estate S. A. to submit proposals that the Company is well serviced, including the appointment of to undertake the Companys bi-annual portfolio and acquisition a Legal Counsel, a Company Secretary, an Assistant Company valuations.
All providers were requested to submit proposals on Secretary and a Head of Financial Modelling and Portfolio Analytics.
the same scope of appointment including, amongst other items: We are confident following our review that the Manager continues example template reports to be provided to the Company: the to provide excellent service to the Company which represents fair number of property inspections to be carried out per annum: value for money to the Companys Shareholders.
the cost of building survey measurements: the cost of access to in-house research: the ability to rely on information provided by This year we asked the Manager to review its cyber security third parties such as: Reports on Title, Building and Environmental systems and controls.
The Manager commissioned PwC to perform surveys, Plans and Agent particulars : and the CVs of personnel a cyber security review and risk assessment.
PwC engaged with regularly involved.
All of these factors were assessed together with the Manager to map out potential risks and vulnerabilities together the fees proposed.
with benchmarking good practice recommendations.
Following the review, the Manager implemented the recommendations The Manager completed a SWOT analysis on all four providers and and conducted site visits to critical suppliers to the Company to selected CBRE as the most suitable candidate, on the basis that test physical and data security.
The Manager also improved its they have the most focussed and detailed knowledge of the Big IT security by introducing multi-factor authentication and regular Box logistics subsector with a highly experienced and dedicated security testing.
As part of its commitment to cyber security, the valuation team.
Although their annual fee scored higher than the Manager is re-tendering its IT function with a particular focus on others, it was not significantly out of line with the other providers, cyber security and encryption technology.
For the year 2019, who were regarded as having significantly less experience in the we will be asking the Manager to focus on the formal and public subsector.
Importantly for the Company, the retender exercise Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 95 Governance Management Engagement Committee Report allowed the Company to re-negotiate and reduce the fee basis On 29 March 2018, the Company issued 594,559 Ordinary Shares originally agreed with CBRE at the Companys IPO in December in respect of the net cash amount, relating to the six months to 2013 when the scale of the Company was an unknown factor.
The issue price was 139.90 pence per Ordinary Share, equivalent to the prevailing and latest published audited basic Following the Committees recommendation, the Manager invited NAV of 141.50 pence per Ordinary Share less the interim dividend of Computershare Investor Services Plc, Link Asset Services and Equiniti 1.60 pence per Ordinary Share, for which the shares did not qualify, Group plc to tender in April 2018 for the role of the Companys Registrar.
paid to Shareholders on 29 March 2018 for the period between Following a rigorous assessment of services offered, experience, 1 October to 31 December 2017. efficiency and pricing, Computershare Investor Services plc were appointed and a letter of termination served on Link Asset Services.
On 8 October 2018, the Company issued 676,451 Ordinary Shares Following a successful migration process, the shareholder register in respect of the net cash amount, relating to the reinvestment and was transferred to Computershare in February 2019. the management fee for six months to 30 June 2018.
The issue price was 143.815 pence per Ordinary Share, equivalent to the latest Management fee prevailing unaudited basic NAV of 145.49 pence per Ordinary Share Under the terms of the IMA, the Manager is entitled to a less the interim dividend of 1.675 pence per Ordinary Share, for management fee in consideration for its services.
This is payable which the shares did not qualify, paid to Shareholders on 9 August in cash by the Company each quarter and is calculated as a 2018 in respect of the period from 1 April to 30 June 2018. percentage of the Companys Net Asset Value NAV, disregarding cash or cash equivalents.
The fee is payable in arrears.
If the Group Following these issues of Ordinary Shares and the Open Offer of buys or sells any assets after the date at which the relevant NAV Ordinary Shares in February 2019 in which the Manager and some is calculated, the NAV is adjusted pro rata for the net purchase or members of its staff participated, the Manager had the following sale price, less any third-party debt drawn or repaid while remaining beneficial interests as at the date of this report: capped at NAV.
Percentage of issued The management fee as a percentage of NAV is as set out below: Tritax Partner or Number of share capital as at person closely associated Ordinary Shares 6 March 2019 Mark Shaw 1,197,897 0.070% NAV Relevant percentage Up to and including 500 million 1.0% Colin Godfrey 1,163,760 0.068% Above 500 million up to and including 750 million 0.9% James Dunlop 1,101,399 0,065% Above 750 million up to and including 1 billion 0.8% Henry Franklin 825,200 0.048% Above 1 billion up to and including 1.25 billion 0.7% Bjorn Hobart 120,610 0.007% Above 1.25 billion up to and including 1.5 billion 0.6% Petrina Austin 100,523 0.006% Above 1.5 billion 0.5% Tritax Management LLP 94,008 0.006% Staff of Tritax Management LLP 200,137 0.012% During specified periods after publication of the Companys Annual Total 4,803,534 0.282% or Interim Results the members of the Manager and relevant employees and or their connected parties are obliged to use 25% This figure comprises Ordinary Shares issued to staff at Tritax Management LLP of the management fee net of any VAT, personal taxation liabilities under the terms of the Investment Management Agreement and at IPO, and does not include other shares that may have otherwise been acquired by any staff members.
and dealing costs, including stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax the net cash amount, to subscribe for Ordinary Shares in the Term Company Management Shares.
The price will be equivalent to The earliest termination date of the IMA is 31 December 2021. the prevailing NAV per share, adjusted for any dividend declared In order to terminate on that date, 24 months notice of termination after the NAV per share is announced.
Where this would result in would need to be given by either party by 31 December 2019.
Ordinary Shares being issued at a price above the prevailing share Thereafter either party can terminate the IMA by giving at least price, the Companys Broker will be instructed to acquire Ordinary 24 months notice.
The provisions allowing the parties to terminate Shares in the market for those persons, to the value as near as without notice in certain circumstances, including material breach possible equal to the net cash amount.
The Management Shares and or loss of key personnel, remain in place.
may be issued to any members of the Manager or, at the discretion of the Manager, to any employee of the Manager.
See Strategic Report, pages 1-69 96 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 See Audit & Risk Committee Report, pages 90-93 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Conflict management The IMA contains restrictive conflict provisions and the Manager is not permitted in any circumstance to manage another fund with an exclusive investment strategy focusing on distribution or logistics assets in excess of 300,000 sq ft located within the UK.
The Manager is permitted to acquire and manage UK distribution or logistics assets which provide less than 300,000 sq ft of accommodation on behalf of other funds subject to certain caveats designed to ensure that any assets which may be of interest to the Company are offered to the Company in priority to other funds managed by the Manager.
We will review the continuing appointment of all of the Companys principal service providers and the performance of the Manager on an annual basis and ensure they are in the best interests of Shareholders as a whole.
Susanne Given Chair of the Management Engagement Committee 6 March 2019 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 97
