STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Board Approval of the Strategic Report Board approval of the Strategic Report The Strategic Report was approved on behalf of the Board by: Sir Richard Jewson KCVO, JP Chairman 6 March 2019 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 69 Governance 70 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Governance Chairmans Governance Overview 72 Nomination Committee Report 86 Key Board statements 73 New appointments 87 Statement of Compliance 74 Policy on tenure and succession planning 87 Board diversity and inclusion 87 Application of the Principles of The 2016 AIC Code 75 Accountability 88 Internal controls review 88 Leadership 77 AIFM Directive 88 The Board 77 Depository Statement 89 Committees 77 Our Governance Structure 78 Audit & Risk Committee Report 90 The Manager 78 Committee membership and terms of reference 91 How we Govern the Company 79 Meetings 91 Board Meetings 79 Risk management and internal controls 91 Attendance at Board meetings and Financial reporting and significant judgements 91 Committee meetings 79 Valuation of property portfolio 92 The Board of Directors 82 Valuation of interest rate derivatives 92 Effectiveness 84 Fair, balanced and understandable financial Board performance and evaluation 84statements 92 External Auditor 93 Management Engagement Committee Report 94 Management fee 96 Terms 96 Conflict management 97 Relations with Shareholders and Stakeholders 98 Investor relations 98 Site visits 98 Annual General Meeting AGM 98 Public communications 98 Directors Remuneration Report 99 Annual statement 99 Directors Remuneration Policy 99 External advisers 99 Annual report on remuneration 99 Statement of voting at general meetings 99 Total Shareholder return 100 Directors shareholdings 100 Other items 100 Directors Report 101 Responsibilities Statement 104 Independent Auditors Report 105 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 71 Governance Chairmans Governance Overview The Companys culture of strong corporate governance is integral to the Companys growth, its long-term success and the implementation of its strategy.
Strong performance, underpinned by our belief in effective strategy meetings to consider the Companys strategy and a corporate governance, has been the foundation of our business number of ad-hoc meetings to consider specific issues, discuss the since the Companys launch in 2013.
The Companys culture future of the Company, its market and its Customers.
Further detail supports open and robust debate, promoting decisions made to on the Board and strategy meetings can be found on pages 79-80. secure the Companys long-term and continuing success.
This section of the Annual Report focuses on our compliance with the Directors corporate governance principles and highlights the key governance In line with our structured approach to succession planning, the events of 2018.
Company appointed a new Non-Executive Director, Richard Laing, formerly of CDC Group plc and fide La Rue plc, in May 2018.
Richard 2018 was a busy year filled with new achievements, including: an has taken over as Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee from Jim oversubscribed equity fundraising of 156 million in April: a change Prower and is also a member of the Management Engagement and to our Investment Policy to allow more investment into land assets the Nomination Committees.
Alastair Hughes, formerly of Jones and the ability for limited speculative development which received Lang LaSalle Inc. was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Shareholder approval in November: a well supported US private Director on 1 February 2019.
Alastair is a member of the Audit & placement which was agreed in November: and the negotiation Risk, Management Engagement and Nomination Committees.
Mark of the Companys acquisition of an 87% economic interest in Shaw retired from the Board on 1 February 2019 having served as db symmetry, enabled by a further equity fundraising of 250 million a Non-Executive Director since the Companys inception over five which completed in February 2019. years ago.
I would like to thank Mark on behalf of the Board for his valuable contribution over that time.
The Board now comprises six Strong governance independent Non-Executive Directors.
Further details can be found Tritax Management LLP the Manager acts as the Companys in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 86-87.
Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM for the purposes of the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Directive AIFMD and as As in 2017, Lintstock Limited Lintstock conducted the Board such the Board has delegated authority to the Manager to conduct evaluation in 2018.
Further information on the 2018 evaluation can portfolio and risk management services on behalf of the Company.
As a Board, we continue to benefit from our Whilst the Manager has the ultimate responsibility to make the final bespoke professional development programme, further details of decision over portfolio and risk management services, the Board which can be found on page 85. actively discusses potential investments and divestments with the Manager and ensures ongoing compliance with the Companys Shareholder and stakeholder communications Investment Policy and Investment Objectives.
This complies with The Company has continued to develop its relationships with the latest European Securities and Markets Authority ESMA Shareholders and other stakeholders, and I was pleased to run guidelines published on 16 November 2016 in respect of the another series of Chairmans lunches which were insightful and correct interpretation of the AIFMD and ensures that the Company beneficial and were well received by attendees.
Colin Godfrey, continues to adopt best governance practice.
together with the Companys Broker, Jefferies International Limited Jefferies, undertook further extensive international roadshows As well as regular Board meetings which consider Company this year covering the United States, Continental Europe and South business in light of its strategy, we continue to meet for dedicated East Asia in addition to the more regular Shareholder and analyst 72 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Key Board statements Requirement Board statement Where to find further information Further details are set out on Going concern basis The Board is of the opinion that the page 68 of the Strategic Report.
going concern basis adopted in the preparation of the Annual Report is appropriate.
Annual review of systems of risk A continuing process for identifying, Further details are set out in management and internal control evaluating and managing the risks the Accountability on page 88-89 of Company faces has been established this Governance Report.
and the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control systems.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Directors confirm that to the best Further details of the fair, balanced of their knowledge the Annual Report and understandable statement and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, can be found in the Audit & Risk balanced and understandable and Committee Report on provides the information necessary for pages 90-93.
Shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Appointment of the Manager The Directors consider the continuing Further details are set out in the appointment of the Manager on Management Engagement the terms agreed in the Investment Committee Report on Management Agreement dated pages 94-97.
11 September 2017 to be in the interests of the Companys Shareholders as a whole.
Robust assessment of the principal The Audit & Risk Committee and the Further details can be found in Our risks to the business model, Board undertake a full risk review twice Principal Risks and Uncertainties future performance, solvency and a year where all the principal risks and on pages 60-67 of the Strategic liquidity of the Company uncertainties facing the Company Report.
and the Group are considered.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 73 Governance Chairmans Governance Overview engagement following the publication of our financial results and Audit & Risk Committee in respect of the Companys corporate activity, including both debt Jim Prower stepped down as the Chair of the Audit & Risk and equity fundraisings.
In particular, we consulted with a significant Committee and Richard Laing assumed this role upon his proportion of our institutional Shareholder base ahead of the appointment in May 2018.
In line with the Companys commitment proposal to amend our Investment Policy in order to ensure that this to managing risk, the Audit Committee has changed its name to the proposal was supported by Shareholders.
Capital markets Risk The Company undertook a successful equity fundraising in April We assessed, through the Audit & Risk Committee, the principal risks 2018, raising approximately 156 million through a placing of facing the Group, its risk appetite and mitigating factors put in place Ordinary Shares.
In December 2018, the Company entered into an in respect of those risks.
The Audit & Risk Committee has delegated agreement with a number of new institutional investors for a private responsibility for managing internal risks and for establishing placement of 400 million of new senior unsecured loan notes, appropriate procedures in respect of financial and internal risks to comprising two separate tranches, with 250 million maturing in the Manager.
The management of these risks is reviewed by the February 2028 and 150 million maturing in February 2030.
The Board on a half yearly basis.
We consider the risks the Group faces funds were drawn down in February 2019 and 250 million was at each Board meeting and the longer-term outlook at the strategy used to immediately redeem the short-term, unsecured, revolving meetings.
The Audit & Risk Committee considers the principal risks credit facility we had secured in October 2018.
This allowed the in depth twice a year, along with an assessment of whether the risk Company to commit to a number of forward funded investments has heightened or reduced during the previous 12 months.
towards the end of the year.
The Company also exercised an extension option falling due under the 325 million revolving credit Sir Richard Jewson KCVO, JP Chairman facility, which extended this facility by 12 months to December 2023.
6 March 2019 Moodys reaffirmed the Companys investment-grade credit rating of Baa1 during the year.
These debt financing activities helped 1 maintain the maturity of the Companys borrowings at 8.7 years, as at 31 December 2018.
1 Excluding the 250 million RCF, which was redeemed on 28 February 2019.
Statement of Compliance The Company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code: The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to: however, we, as the Board of the Company, have considered The role of the Chief Executive: the principles and recommendations of the 2016 AIC Corporate Governance Code for Investment Companies AIC Code.
The Executive Directors remuneration: AIC Code addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate The need for an internal audit function.
Governance Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to For reasons set out in the AIC Code, and in the UK Corporate the Company.
Governance Code, we do not consider these provisions relevant to the Company.
The Company is an externally managed investment We believe that reporting against the principles and company, with all of the day-to-day management and administrative recommendations of the AIC Code which incorporates the functions outsourced to third parties and no executive directors or UK Corporate Governance Code, provides better information employees.
We have, therefore, not reported further in respect of to Shareholders.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the The AIC Code can be found at: AIC Code as set out on pages 75-76 and the relevant provisions https: www.
co. uk  of the UK Corporate Governance Code except where set out in this section.
For Audit & Risk Committee Report, see pages 90-93 74 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018
