Strategic Report Why Big Boxes?
We believe that the Big Box logistics sector is one of the most exciting asset classes in the UK property market.
Here we explain why Big Boxes are highly attractive to occupiers and investors alike.
Big Boxes are at the heart of modern logistics Demand for logistics space is strong Big Boxes are large logistics facilities that can be a strategic Demand for Big Boxes comes from three main sources: conventional necessity for their occupiers.
They are typically located near and online retailers, third-party logistics companies 3PLs, and motorways or major roads enabling occupiers to deliver efficiently other companies such as manufacturers.
to several major towns and cities.
They are also often near rail freight hubs, airports or ports and act as the breakdown point for bulk These occupiers need Big Boxes for three primary reasons: deliveries arriving by cargo ship.
Their locations therefore allow for efficient stocking and onward distribution.
To improve their operational efficiency, by centralising dispersed distribution frameworks into fewer, larger facilities.
This Big Boxes have increased in size both laterally and vertically.
The allows them to optimise their supply chains, staffing and stock consequent increased volume of space provides flexibility, allowing management, and benefit from economies of scale and automation.
for the installation of high racking or mezzanine floors which can These efficiencies are crucial to protecting profitability in an double or triple the operational floorspace.
The buildings are increasingly competitive environment.
also becoming smarter, with occupiers increasingly investing in advanced technology systems that allow them to stock and retrieve 2.
To meet the requirements of a fast-evolving retail market products rapidly and automatically.
This high level of automation and in particular to fulfil e-commerce sales, which are growing is usually only found in larger modern logistics buildings and the relentlessly.
The UK is one of the most advanced e-commerce occupiers investment can exceed the cost of the building itself.
Big Boxes are essential for fulfilling orders, handling returns, coping with surges in demand for example, around events such as Black Friday and meeting consumer expectations for ever-faster delivery.
To meet their sustainability objectives, by occupying assets that are constructed using state of the art design and materials and incorporate initiatives such as low carbon technologies that not only minimise their environmental footprint, but ensure that natural resources are consumed as efficiently as possible.
10 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 For further information, see The Logistics Property Market, pages 16-17 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The supply of Big Boxes is constrained Market dynamics are favourable for landlords Land which can accommodate Big Boxes is scarce in key locations.
The supply and demand imbalance described adjacent is highly The scale of Big Boxes and the traffic movements they generate can favourable for asset owners.
The scarcity of available units, coupled present planning challenges and it can take years to achieve the with the substantial investment occupiers make in automation required consents.
Big Boxes also require a large local labour pool, and fitting out, mean that they are willing to sign long leases with as they can employ more than 3,500 people during peak periods.
High demand and constrained supply They also have substantial power and infrastructure requirements, have resulted in attractive rental growth in recent years, with rising adding further complexity to site identification and delivery.
labour and construction costs now also feeding into rents.
This provides secure and growing income for us.
These factors mean that Big Box supply remains thin.
Occupiers looking for a suitable building may therefore need to pre-let an Big Boxes also tend to be resilient.
In the event of a vacancy, asset either prior to or in the course of development, creating high-quality and well located real estate is likely to let quicker, opportunities for investors to forward fund these developments and to a higher-calibre occupier, at a higher rent, and with lower obtain brand new assets on long leases to high-quality tenants.
18% 51% 61% UK Online sales represented 18% of 51% of UK consumers say that they Online spending on Black Friday has total annual retail sales for the year to prefer to shop online rather than grown from 33% in 2014 to 61% of total 1 2 2 December 2018 in store sales in 2018 1.49bn 11% 26% Online retail sales on Black Friday The growth in e-commerce has increased E-commerce is expected to grow to 26% 2 4 in 2018 totalled 1.49 billion parcel delivery volumes by 11% in by 2022 2017-18 compared to 2016-17, reaching 3 a total of 2.4 billion items 1 Source: ONS.
3 Source: Ofcom Annual monitoring update on the 11 2 Source: EmpathyBroker 26 07 2018. postal market Financial year 2017-18.
