Governance Accountability The Board is responsible for delivering robust and sustainable value to its Shareholders by setting strategic objectives and working to achieve them.
Undertaking robust assessments of the risks which the Group faces and effectively managing those risks is a key responsibility of the Board.
The main risks identified as the most relevant to the Company are set out on pages 62-67 of the Strategic Report.
Internal controls review The Board confirms that, in accordance with the AIC Code, it has The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for maintaining established a continuing process for identifying, evaluating and the Companys system of internal control and risk management in managing the risks the Company faces and has reviewed the order to safeguard the Companys assets.
The Companys internal effectiveness of the internal control systems.
control processes are designed to identify, manage and mitigate the financial, operational and compliance risks that are inherent to Robust assessment of risks the Group.
The safeguards and systems in place are designed to The Board also confirms that it conducts a robust assessment of manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business the risks to the business model, future performance, solvency and objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, liquidity of the Company twice a year.
The Manager is asked to assurance against material misstatement or loss.
analyse and report on the risks which the Company may encounter on specific transactions including, for example, an adverse decision The Board and the Manager have together reviewed all financial regarding the development of a forward funded asset at the performance and results notifications.
Non-financial internal planning stages or a sudden change in market conditions before the controls include the systems of operational and compliance controls launch of an equity raise or debt issue.
We then consider each risk in maintained by the Companys administrator, Link Asset Services the turn, probing the Managers assumptions and analysing whether the Administrator, and by the Manager in relation to the Companys risk factors attributed to each individual risk are fair and accurate, business, as well as the management of key risks referred to in the and the effect of any mitigating factors.
We also consider this as Strategic Report.
part of our biannual risk review and at each strategy meeting and challenge the Manager to review actively the risks it includes.
We have contractually delegated responsibility for administrative and accounting services to the Administrator and for company AIFM Directive secretarial services to the Manager.
These entities have their own The AIFMD became part of UK law in 2013.
It regulates AIFMs internal control systems relating to these matters, which we have and imposes obligations on managers who manage alternative reviewed as part of the Companys Financial Position and Prospects investment funds AIFs in the EU or who market shares in AIFs to Procedures document, which was reviewed, updated and approved EU investors.
Under the AIFMD, the AIFM must comply with various in December 2018 to better reflect the operations of the Company.
organisational, operational and transparency obligations.
The Financial Position and Prospects Procedures document is reviewed, updated and approved by the Audit & Risk Committee The Manager is authorised by the FCA as an AIFM and provides annually.
all relevant management and advisory services to the Company, including regulated activities.
The Manager is responsible for making Internal control assessment process investment and divestment decisions in respect of the Companys The Board regularly monitors the effectiveness of the Companys assets as part of its regulatory responsibility for the overall portfolio internal controls and ensures their adequacy.
This includes and risk management of the Company.
This is in line with published reviewing reports from the Auditor details of which are included ESMA guidance on the application of the AIFMD.
in the Audit & Risk Committee Report, regular reports from the Company Secretary outlining corporate activity within the Group AIFM remuneration policy applied by the Manager and outlining the Companys compliance with the AIC Code and As a full scope AIFM, the Manager must apply a remuneration policy proposed future initiatives relating to the Companys governance in line with its business strategy, objectives, values and interests, as and compliance framework.
We also receive quarterly compliance well as those of the AIFs it manages or its investors.
The policy must reports prepared by Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP see include measures to avoid conflicts of interest.
page 89 for further information and review the formal risk assessment conducted by the Audit & Risk Committee twice The Managers partnership board therefore meets at least a year.
Further, we actively consider investment opportunities, twice a year to discuss the remuneration of its entire staff.
Staff asset management initiatives, debt and equity fundraisings and are remunerated in accordance with their seniority, expertise, other financial matters against the requirements of the Companys professional qualifications, responsibilities and performance.
Investment Objectives and Investment Policy.
They are paid salaries in line with market rates and, in profitable 88 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Depository Statement Established in 2013, Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP is an FCA We work with the Manager in discharging our duties, holding formal regulated firm that works in conjunction with the Manager and the meetings with senior staff on a quarterly basis and submit quarterly Company to act as depositary.
Consisting exclusively of qualified reports to the Manager and the Company, which are then presented and trainee accountants and alternative specialists, the entity to the Board of Directors, setting out our work performed and the represents net assets of US$50 billion and we deploy our services corresponding findings for the period.
to over 90 alternative investment funds across various jurisdictions worldwide.
Our role as depositary primarily involves oversight of the In the year ended 31 December 2018 our work included the review control environment of the Company, in line with the requirements of one equity and two management share issues, seven investment of the AIFMD.
property acquisitions, three third-party financing arrangements and four property income distributions.
Based on the work performed Our cash monitoring activity provides oversight of all the Company during this period, we confirm that no issues came to our attention held bank accounts with specific testing of bank transactions to indicate that controls are not operating appropriately.
triggered by share issues, property income distributions via dividend payments, acquisitions and third-party financing.
We Joe Hime Head of Depositary review whether cash transactions are appropriately authorised and For and on behalf of timely.
The objective of our asset verification process is to perform Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP, London, UK a review of the legal title of all properties held by the Company, 6 March 2019 and shareholding of special purpose vehicles beneath the Company.
We test whether on an ongoing basis the Company is being operated by the Manager in line with the Companys prospectus, and the internal control environment of the Manager.
This includes a review of the Companys and its subsidiaries decision papers Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP is a limited liability partnership and minutes.
registered in England and Wales with registered number OC388007.
years, awarded a discretionary bonus from a bonus pool worth, in allocate a proportion of the Management Shares to key members of aggregate, at least 5% of the Managers profits.
The discretionary staff, which it has once again done in respect of both management bonus may consist of cash or Ordinary Shares in the Company share issues in 2018. allocated to certain members of staff out of the Management Shares which form part of the management fee payable to the Antibribery and corruption Manager see below.
This means that staff remuneration is The Board has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and is predominantly fixed and the variable element is determined by the committed to carrying out business fairly, honestly and openly.
Managers overall profitability, rather than the performance of a In considering The Bribery Act 2010, at the date of this report, the particular AIF.
Board had assessed the perceived risks to the Company arising from bribery and corruption and identified aspects of the business, The Managers Partners are entitled to their partnership share of its which may be improved to mitigate such risks.
The Manager actively profits and losses.
None of the Partners are entitled to additional reviews and monitors perceived risks.
Responsibility for anti-bribery partnership drawings that depend on the performance of any AIF and corruption has been assigned to the Head of Compliance within managed by the partnership.
The Partners remuneration therefore the Manager.
depends on the Managers overall profitability, rather than the performance of any AIF.
This ensures that the Partners have a The Manager maintains a risk register, where perceived risks and vested interest in ensuring the Manager remains financially sound.
associated actions are recorded and this is regularly shared with the Board for approval.
The annual fee paid by the Company is based on a percentage of its NAV, as set out in the Management Engagement Committee Report, pages 94-97.
In addition, the Managers Partners are required to invest 25% of that fee net of tax and certain other costs, as described on page 96 in the Companys Ordinary Shares Management Shares.
Management Shares are subject to a 12-month lock-in period.
This aligns the interests of the Managers Partners with the strategy and interests of the Company and its Shareholders.
The Managers Partners are within their rights to See Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties, pages 60-67 See Management Engagement Committee Report, pages 94-97 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 89
