Strategic Report Managers Report Delivering Growth Colin Godfrey speaking with stakeholders at a site visit to Littlebrook, Dartford.
This was another strong year for the Group as we successfully delivered the dividend and total return targets set by the Company.
We raised further equity and built upon our established debt platform, to support the Groups growth and improve the capital structure.
This was deployed to acquire attractive assets, primarily forward funded pre-let developments, further diversifying the portfolio while enhancing the outstanding quality of the Groups properties, Customers and rental income stream, allowing us to increase our dividend target to 6.85p for 2019.
Colin Godfrey Fund Manager Delivering secure and growing income The Group is well positioned for further income growth.
At the year The Groups portfolio produces a diversified, robust, long-term end, its contracted annual rent roll was 161.12 million, up 27.9% income stream with opportunity for growth, secured by an on the 125.95 million at 31 December 2017.
This compares with 2 exceptional Customer base.
The portfolio comprised 54 incomean Estimated Rental Value ERV for the portfolio of 169.8 million, producing assets at the year end, let to 39 different Customers.
as independently assessed by CBRE.
This implies that the Groups We added three new Customers during the year and strengthened rental income would increase by 5.4% if all the properties in the our relationships with a number of existing Customers, in particular portfolio were re-let as at 31 December 2018 and were settled at Amazon and Howdens, by acquiring further assets that they will CBREs ERVs.
The portfolio ERV increased by 0.6% on a like-for-like occupy.
The calibre of the income stream is demonstrated by 81% basis during 2018. of our Customers or their parent companies being members of major stock market indices in the UK, Europe or USA, many of which Through careful selection, we have ensured that the timings of rent are well known domestic and worldwide brands.
reviews across the portfolio are balanced, supporting both the potential for annual income growth and our progressive dividend At 31 December 2018, the WAULT across the portfolio had policy over the next few years.
Rent reviews typically take place increased to 14.4 years 31 December 2017: 13.9 years, ahead of every five years but the Group also benefits from some annual fixed 1 the Groups target of at least 12 years.
At the year end, just 9.3% and inflation-linked reviews.
In 2018, 19.5% of the Groups rental of rents were from leases which are due to expire within five years, income that was subject to review, was settled.
A further 17.7% is with 49.1% of rents coming from leases with 15 or more years due for review in 2019.
Further information on rent reviews can be to run.
The Groups core Foundation assets, which comprise found in the Asset Management section on pages 40-45.
76.5% of the portfolio by value had a WAULT of 16.5 years at 31 December 2018.
1 This includes two outstanding rent reviews from 2017 and 2015: Kuehne Nagel, Dove Valley Park outstanding from 2017 and settled in July 2018 and Tesco 2 Includes 54 assets held at 31 December 2018, excludes strategic land at 22 Chesterfield outstanding from 2015 and settled in February 2018.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 39 Customers contracted 161.12m Annual rent roll 2 100% Let or pre-let 14.4yrs Portfolio WAULT 12.1% Total return in 2018 Delivering capital growth A diverse portfolio The portfolio was independently valued by CBRE as at 31 December Our Customers can be identified on the following page.
They 2018 at 3.42 billion including forward funded development operate in a diverse range of sectors, as shown in teh pie chart commitments 31 December 2017: 2.61 billion market value or below.
Notebly our exposure to non-food traditional retail has fair value under IFRS 13 in accordance with the RICS valuation decreased whereas online retail representation has increased Global Standards 2017.
This represents the aggregate of individual significantly over 12 months.
property values, with no premium or discount being applied for a collective portfolio.
A diverse customer base % During 2018 property values increased by 169.51 million or 5.0%, inclusive of assets acquired in the year.
The like-for-like valuation Food Retail,.
% increase on assets held throughout the year, comprising 46 income Online Retail,.
% producing assets and strategic land at Littlebrook, was 121.68 Other Retail,.
The eight assets acquired during the year, which Homeware & DIY Retail,.
% had an aggregate purchase price of 641.46 million, were valued Food Production,.
This represented an Automotive Manufacturing,.
% Consumer Goods increase of 47.83 million or 7.5%, excluding purchasing costs and Manufacturing,.
Total capital growth across the portfolio of Electricals Manufacturing,.
% 810.97 million or 31.1% during the year, excluding purchasing costs, Post and Parcels,.
% was funded by a combination of new equity and debt.
% Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 23 Strategic Report Managers Report Delivering Growth Our portfolio by investment pillar by valuation % Building a balanced portfolio The Groups portfolio contains a good balance of Foundation assets, which provide its core low-risk income, Value Add assets which offer 2% Foundation assets opportunities to add value through asset management and Growth Value Add assets 6% Covenant assets which provide the opportunity for capital growth Growth Covenant assets through improving Customer accounts.
Strategic land provides the 15% Strategic land scope for enhanced capital returns.
At the year end, Foundation assets made up 77% of the portfolio by valuation, with Value Add and Growth Covenant assets making 77% up 15% and 6% respectively.
Strategic land comprised around 2% of the year-end valuation.
For more information, please see our Assets Acquired in 2018 section on page 32.
Investment discipline Our acquisitions have been carefully selected to provide a diversified, complementary and balanced portfolio.
We buy for value: the Purchase yield vs valuation yield % story behind our purchases is as much about the assets that we do not buy as those that we do.
Every asset acquired by the Group.
is valued higher than the price paid upon acquisition and since.
our IPO we have delivered asset capital growth of 607.85 million.
in our view helps support outperformance.
some of the key metrics that make up our DNA enhancing a naturally depreciating WAULT, maintaining high calibre Customers.
to underpin the quality of our rental income and maintaining the.
modernity of our real estate.
All of these features are inherent within.
forward funded pre-let developments and that is why we have Period purchase yield increasingly focused on this area for stock delivery.
Cumulative purchase yield Valuation Yield Excludes Littlebrook, Dartford Source: Tritax A record year for pre-let developments Our sector relationships, knowledge and ability to appraise opportunities and make decisions quickly, combined with the Our Customers The logos above represent either the tenant, guarantor, parent or brand name.
Trade marks appearing in this page are the property of their respective owners.
24 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Groups strong financial position, have enabled us to build an period.
Since the year end, one further pre-let forward funding unrivalled track record of performance when forward funding completed on time and budget, let to Eddie Stobart at Midlands developments.
This makes the Group a partner of choice for Logistic Park, Corby.
developers and occupiers, enabling us to acquire forward funded pre-let developments for the Group at an attractive discount to The developments acquired in 2018 are all proceeding well.
We market levels for existing income producing investment properties.
work with experienced developers, who have an established track record with substantial experience in the market and have delivered Our expertise in this field and track record of performance are millions of square feet of logistics space.
appealing to both developers and major companies seeking occupational certainty.
We work collaboratively, delivering Strategic land Littlebrook, Dartford real-estate solutions that support the business objectives of our Littlebrook has the potential to become one of Londons largest Big Customers.
In particular we have focused on the highly influential Box logistics parks and is in a core last mile location on the edge of e-commerce component of the retail sector in 2018 committing London and inside the M25.
It has strong road and port connectivity to the delivery of four facilities for Amazon one existing asset and and can support the potential development of approximately three forward funded pre-let developments.
1.6 million sq ft of logistics buildings, including several Big Boxes and some smaller urban logistics facilities.
By developing buildings The seven pre-let forward funding projects added to the portfolio in on a pre-let basis we aim to add new high-quality investments and 2018 mean that the Group has now undertaken 16 forward funded Customers to the portfolio over the coming years, while minimising pre-let developments, making it the leading funder in the UK Big risk.
We are targeting a yield on cost for phase 1 of more than 6.5%.
Box market over the last five years.
Nine of these developments had successfully reached practical completion at the year end, Following receipt of planning consent on phase 1, which comprises with an average purchase yield of 5.5% and a WAULT at the point 450,000 sq ft, we commenced a marketing campaign for the of practical completion of 21 years.
This compares to an average proposed development: which is attracting a healthy level of enquiries.
valuation yield for a strong covenant on a 15-year term of 4.5% as at 31 December 2018 source: CBRE.
On each of these properties Littlebrook demonstrates our ability to acquire strategic land for the Company additionally receives income during the construction the Group at prices that represent value for Shareholders.
16 pre-let forward funded developments 1 2 9 5.5% 23.5% 21yrs completed developments average purchase gross uplift on acquisition weighted average totalling 4.5m sq ft yield for the nine price term at practical completion built to order completed assets Development time line: seven assets under construction Acquisition price m Howdens II, Raunds 71.20m Howdens III, Raunds 32.50m Eddie Stobart, Corby 81.80m Amazon, Darlington 120.26m Amazon, Haydock 68.71m Bosch, Corby 89.33m Amazon, Durham 141.55m 2018 2019 2020 2021 1 Excluding Eddie Stobart Limited, Corby which completed in February 2019.
2 23.5% gross uplift prior to deducting purchase costs but inclusive of project 25 enhancement costs.
Strategic Report Managers Report Delivering Growth Including demolition costs, we estimate that the total cost for the The Strategic Rationale for db symmetry developable area at Littlebrook will be approximately 0.90 million In our first full year of trading in 2014 we purchased 12 investments: to 0.95 million per acre.
This compares favourably with prices one was a forward funded pre-let development and 11 were of approximately 3.00 million per acre in two comparable land existing investments where a tenant was already in occupation transactions during 2018. standing assets.
In 2018 we purchased eight investments: one was a standing asset and seven were forward funded Change in Investment Policy pre-let developments.
Early on we used research, contacts and The change to the Investment Policy, as discussed in the Chairmans knowledge to acquire attractively priced assets and gain an earlyStatement on pages 6-7 and the Objectives and Strategy section mover advantage.
As the market matured, we saw less value in on pages 20-21, will enable us to acquire further sites for the Group.
existing investments and greater value in pre-let forward funded We and the Board believe that in order to maintain the quality developments.
We therefore concentrated our focus on developer of the portfolio and future returns, investment opportunities are relationships.
These transactions provided some of the strongest increasingly likely to come from the development of new assets.
Customer financial covenants, brand new buildings which have At the same time, we will focus on ensuring that the Company has helped maintain the modernity of our portfolio and the longest the potential to continue to reward Shareholders through growth market leases, thereby supporting our WAULT.
They have also been 1 in the dividend.
the most rewarding financially, delivering 8.64% gross annualised capital growth, compared to our standing assets which have grown 1 Acquisition of db symmetry by 7.63%.
In February 2019, we acquired 87% of db symmetry, a specialist industrial logistics developer which controls one of the UKs largest Our team has significant development experience and is well strategic land portfolios.
The remaining 13% was retained by connected in the development community.
In the market, the existing management who are incentivised to deliver the Companys development landscape had been changing.
This followed a change to our Investment Policy at losing out in competition for logistics investments, turned which was approved by Shareholders in the year.
to development joint ventures CBREGI with Prologis, or the acquisition of a developer platform GLP acquiring Gazeley and This acquisition includes both consented and strategic optioned Segro buying out Roxhill.
Consequently, very little, if any of the land, offering the Group phased access to deliver a potential pre-let stock from those developers will be offered to the market 38.2 million sq ft of logistics assets across key locations in the UK since the investments will be retained by the investment partner.
over the course of the next 10 years.
This is likely to have the effect of reducing the number of high quality DBS, Biscester, phase 1, comprising 163,130 sq ft. 26 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 1 Includes project enhancement costs excluding purchase costs.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION pre-let development opportunities available to purchase in the Five sites are owned, two are subject to development management future and increasing competition for them.
agreements providing fees and or profit share, whilst 19 are controlled under option agreements and a further three which are Our thought process had been similar.
Many of the best quality not expected to be for logistics.
The attraction of this arrangement investments had already been bought and yields continued is that the initial purchase price is significantly lower, thereby to tighten for standing assets, a trend which we know cannot reducing cash drag and minimising the impact on our earnings, but continue for the longer term.
Following extensive research and we benefit from control over a much larger land bank than would be debate we decided that the acquisition of land suitable for logistics possible given the level of initial investment that we have made.
development would allow the Group to capture value at the two major inflection points: i upon achieving planning and: ii on securing Of course, in order to acquire sites following receipt of planning a pre-let.
Our first land purchase was Littlebrook and to date that and to fund the construction of pre-let developments, we will need has performed well, is on time and within budget.
capital, and, in addition to debt, this is likely to require some equity raises over the course of the 10-year business plan.
We do, however, Having researched the market we identified db symmetry as the expect to fund a significant element of this requirement from sales remaining major logistics developer of scale with a geographically of assets and the recycling of proceeds to fund the acquisition of diverse portfolio in the UK and respected management team.
suitable pre-let investments created by db symmetry.
The objective The rationale was simple: capture a high-quality land bank and is to typically sell investments at yields of 4%-5% and reinvest the development expertise to internally deliver long-term high-quality proceeds into db symmetry with a target yield on cost of 7%-8%.
product for the Group, tightly controlling speculative exposure and db symmetry presents an exceptional and potentially transformational limiting this to smaller scale buildings, with a focus on pre-let forward opportunity when combined with our current business.
This strategy is designed to maximise return are in strong locations and can provide best-in-class investments, whilst minimising risk.
allowing us to maintain the high quality that our portfolio is known for.
It can deliver both significant capital growth and longer-term income The construct of the transaction also doesnt fundamentally change growth to support our aspirations for attractive dividend growth.
the DNA of our business: protecting our shareholder dividend yet providing long-term potential for growth in our earnings.
We believe that this is possible following the db symmetry transaction.
Opportunities for the year ahead 2018 was not kind to retail.
The pound devalued following the EU This in turn should see strong investment interest in the sector referendum in 2016, making imports more expensive.
This pressure continue, with the potential for further yield compression.
encouraged introspective examination of supply chain efficiency and the stronger retailers have been reacting by consolidating into Our business is now well set for the next phase of its life, supported and investing in larger, more efficient logistics facilities.
Others, by a high-calibre Board and Management team.
We have a healthy without such financial muscle or vision, and unable to increase level of opportunities to asset manage for value creation, particularly pricing, had been struggling for some time, and in some instances through the conversion of Value Add assets to Foundation assets.
It is likely that others will follow in 2019 Our pipeline remains strong with attractive opportunities to buy a good reason for landlords to focus on robust occupier covenants accretively and off market at attractive pricing, but looking forwards and quality real estate, characteristics of our portfolio.
we expect a lower level of external acquisitions.
Littlebrook is now well placed to secure a pre-let and there will be opportunities from Our market is not without risk, however.
Brexit is an obvious concern the newly acquired db symmetry portfolio to internally create highbut we are also keeping a close eye on the muted threat of taxation quality investments.
Our strategic development land will allow us to of e-commerce and business rates as well as interest rates and offer new hubs to our existing Customers and welcome new tenants gearing levels.
Fearing a Brexit without frictionless trade borders, to our portfolio.
We are well capitalised and whilst further equity will there have been recent examples of occupiers planning to hold be required to maximise value from this strategic land, we expect to more inventory domestically.
In my view, our sector proved almost immune to the negative effects of Brexit during 2018 with CBRE sell some of our assets and recycle the proceeds internally to fund reporting the highest ever level of logistics lettings in the UK.
2019 pre-let development at an attractive yield on cost.
may not be as strong, but we do expect occupational demand to remain robust, supporting a continued level of healthy rental growth.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 27 Strategic Report Managers Report RRiverRiver Delivering Logistics Development for London We anticipate being able to provide M additional new high-quality investments on a pre-let basis to the Companys portfolio over the coming years at an M M attractive yield on cost.
Our continuing M phased capital investment programme London will in time bring new jobs to the site as M well as the wider area.
Colin Godfrey, Fund Manager M M M 28 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION RRiverRiver Strategic land Littlebrook, Dartford Littlebrook has the potential to become one of Londons largest Big Box logistics parks, capable of delivering approximately 1.6 million sq ft of logistics buildings, including several Big Boxes and some smaller urban logistics facilities.
By developing larger scale buildings on a pre-let basis we aim to add new high-quality investments and Customers to the portfolio over the coming years, while minimising risk see page 20-21.
Assets that satisfy modern occupiers requirements Location: well placed for logistics Littlebrook is situated in a core last mile location benefiting from strong road and port connectivity.
It is strategically located inside the M25, close to the Dartford Crossing, with direct access for distribution across London and the South East.
Labour: ready and accessible labour supply Larger, increasingly automated Big Boxes can still require a large, appropriately skilled and affordable labour pool, employing several thousand people during peak periods.
Littlebrook, Dartford benefits from a local population that includes c. 222,900 people with qualifications relevant to logistics and 1,2 distribution.
Power: driving operational efficiency Modern Big Boxes typically use high levels of automation and complex technology to achieve efficiencies that are crucial to protecting the profitability of occupiers.
A Big Box can require as much as 6Mva at full capacity: the equivalent power required for up to 3,000 homes.
These large assets require sufficient levels of available power, increasingly supported by sustainable onsite generation initiatives.
Highlights 25 mins Journey time to central London 580,000 people 1 Active local labour market in Dartford Key Motorway A-Road Access road 11Mva Potential power capacity on site 1 Source: 2011 Census.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 29 2 NVQ Levels 1 and 2,. and other qualifications incl.
River Thames Strategic Report Managers Report Implementing the Groups Investment Policy Despite a competitive investment market, we maintained capital pricing discipline and led the sector in transacting eight outstanding and attractively priced deals in 2018.
These comprised seven forward funded pre-let developments and one standing investment.
All of these were off market, taking our overall portfolio acquisitions to 86% off market.
Our unique relationship-driven model continues to deliver value for our shareholders, with an average uplift on valuation of 7.5% across the eight new assets which were purchased at a blended NIY of 5.1%.
This accretive yield supports the Companys ability to grow its dividend.
James Dunlop Investment Director Disciplined capital allocation Maximising transactional efficiency Each of our 2018 acquisitions has enhanced the quality of the Acquiring forward funded developments helps to reduce frictional Companys portfolio.
In addition to broadening and deepening the costs significantly.
Acquisition costs in 2018 were 1.7% of the Companys Customer base, our eight acquisitions had an overall aggregate purchase prices, which compares very favourably with WAULT of 18.9 years at the year end.
The seven forward funded typical direct property purchase costs of c. 6.8%.
This low level pre-let developments are Foundation assets, with an overall WAULT of acquisition costs maximises value for our Shareholders and at practical completion of 19.6 years, which lengthens the average enhances the running yield of the investments.
When buying assets with shorter Forward funded pre-lets compound our relationship income, we target quality assets in good locations with strong driven model intrinsic value.
The standing investment we purchased is let to The common theme across the 2018 pre-let forward fundings is a pure-play online retailer: the building is versatile, modern, highthat they reflect either repeat business with existing developers specification and occupies a strategic North West location.
or further transactions with established Customers.
This has been It falls within our Growth Covenant investment pillar, had an a key focus for us and a strong source of capturing off-market unexpired lease term of 7.9 years at the year end and offers the opportunities.
We value our relationships, working collaboratively potential for attractive rental growth at the next open market rent with our delivery partners and demonstrating to them how our review in May 2021. knowledge and reliability in pre-let forward funded transactions can provide certainty, ensuring the timely delivery of assets to meet their business plans.
We have actively targeted key Customer relationships which seek long term, stable, supportive and innovative investment partners.
This has been one of the cornerstones of our investment strategy in 2018.
The Groups Investment Highlights in 2018 8 7.0m sq ft 18.9yrs Big Box assets Logistics space acquired in WAULT of 2018 acquisitions 641.5m successfully invested 2018 GIA 100% 5.1% of assets acquired Average NIY of eight Big off market Boxes acquired 30 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Strengthening relationships with our existing Customers During 2018 our acquisitions continued to diversify our high-calibre Customer base, but we also strengthened relationships with some of our existing Customers.
In particular, during the last three months, we focused on the highly Five Amazon Big Boxes influential e-commerce component of the retail sector committing to the delivery of three forward funded developments facilities prelet to Amazon.
Following these acquisitions and the letting of an existing asset, Amazon now occupies 4.9 m sq ft of high-quality 4.9m sq ft Big Box logistics space within our portfolio and represent 13.7% High quality logistics space across of the total contracted rent roll.
the UK Many operators still need to right size 17.1yrs to ecommerce.
There is a lot of portfolio WAULT across five Amazon assets engineering still required and this will mean new take-up Our five largest tenants Logistics Manager, February 2019 by contracted rent roll % Amazon.
By floorspace pure-play online retailers 1 Morrisons.
accounted for 32% of take-up during 2018 Howdens.
1 Source: CBRE Assets 100,000 sq ft and above Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 31 Strategic Report Managers Report Implementing the Groups Investment Policy Assets Acquired in 2018 Set out below are key details of the assets acquired in 2018.
Further information on all the Groups assets, including those purchased during the year, can be found on its website: https: tritaxbigbox.
Standing asset AO World, Crewe, Cheshire Announced: Jan 2018 Acquisition price: 36.10m NIY: 5.4% GIA: 387,666 sq ft Built: 2006 Lease expiry: Nov 2026 Pre-let forward funded developments Howdens II & III, Raunds, Amazon, Darlington, BSH Home Appliances Limited, Northamptonshire County Durham Corby, Northamptonshire Announced: Jan 2018 Announced: Jun 2018 Announced: Oct 2018 1 Acquisition price: 103.70m combined Acquisition price: 120.26 m Acquisition price: 89.30m NIY: 5.0% NIY: 5.0% NIY: 5.2% GIA: 657,000 sq ft & 300,000 sq ft Total GIA: 1,508,367 sq ft incl.
mezzanines : GIA: 945,375 sq ft Practical completion: expected Sep 2019 Ground floor area: 542,060 sq ft Practical completion: expected Aug 2019 Lease expiries: expected Sep 2049 Practical completion: expected Sep 2019 Lease expiry: expected Aug 2029 Lease expiry: expected Sep 2039 Eddie Stobart, Corby, Amazon, Haydock, Amazon, Durham, Northamptonshire Merseyside County Durham Announced: Feb 2018 Announced: Sep 2018 Announced: Dec 2018 1 Acquisition price: 81.80m Acquisition price: 68.71m Acquisition price: 141.55 m NIY: 5.0% NIY: 4.9% NIY: 5.25% GIA: 847,643 sq ft GIA: c. 361,092 sq ft Total GIA: 1,992,061 sq ft incl.
mezzanines : Practical completion: Feb 2019 Practical completion: expected Jul 2019 Ground floor area: 536,082 sq ft Lease expiry: Jan 2039 Lease expiry: expected Jul 2034 Practical completion: expected Jul 2020 Lease expiry: expected Jul 2040 32 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 1 Based on target commitment amount.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Post year end activity db symmetry acquisition Investing for future performance to DBS by the Company of 370 million, subject to certain On 19 February 2019, the Group completed the acquisition of an adjustments in respect of cash, debt, working capital, tax and other initial 87% economic interest in db symmetry Group Ltd DBS.
roots dating back to 1996, DBS has evolved to become a leading specialist logistics development company, with one of the UKs Seven schemes have planning consent.
Two of these are largest and geographically most diverse portfolios of strategic land development management agreements providing fees and or profit for the development of Big Box assets and related logistics facilities.
The five remaining schemes that are owned currently have planning consent.
On three of these schemes there are five buildings A financially attractive proposition under construction, as shown in the table below: We are targeting an average yield on cost of between 7% and 8% for the assets that the Group develops, which compares highly Estimated 3 Estimated potential rental favourably with the 4.4% valuation yield on the Groups portfolio Size completion income at the year end.
As such, we expect the DBS portfolio to contribute Location sq ft date m materially to the Groups ability to deliver strong earnings growth Doncaster 150,000 Jan 2019 0.80 and a progressive dividend, as well as significant valuation gains.
This will enhance the Groups ability to create value internally, with Bicester phase 1 163,130 Mar 2019 1.10 the recycling of capital from asset sales and redeploying this into Aston Clinton 83,000 Jul 2019 0.60 new developments.
Aston Clinton 55,000 Jul 2019 0.40 The acquisition gives the Group the opportunity to internally develop Aston Clinton 110,000 Jul 2019 0.80 and control the timed delivery of new Big Boxes on a scale it could not otherwise achieve.
It offers phased access to over 2,500 acres 561,130 3.70 of land or options over land, which is expected to deliver up to c. 38.2 million sq ft of Big Box and related logistic assets, spread These buildings are being constructed to institutional specifications across 26 schemes.
We have assumed a build-out rate of and are being marketed with a view to letting them during approximately 2.8 million sq ft each year to 2028. construction or shortly after completion.
Buildings will be developed primarily on a pre-let, forward funded The strategic land element of the portfolio primarily relates to basis for large scale logistics facilities.
Excluding the initial options over land.
Land options are legal agreements entered into acquisition price paid, if the current portfolio is fully built out it is between landowners and developers to secure exclusivity.
They estimated that the capital requirement would be in the order of are structured to allow the developer to work up planning on the 1.3 billion over a period of 10 years, net of an element of capital optioned land before having to acquire the freehold or leasehold recycling, to be funded by a combination of debt and equity.
Typically, once planning consent is achieved the developer Variations of this model could be adopted to reduce the capital has the ability to acquire that land at a 15-20% discount to the expenditure required.
open market value less costs incurred by the developer in securing planning and associated infrastructure.
This should enable the An exceptional portfolio Group to acquire the land at a significant discount to market value, The portfolio comprises: once planning consent is secured.
Our approach is to optimise the use of capital by minimising pre-planning capital commitments and New assets Number Net acres Sq ft m exposure to variable development costs, phase the draw down of capital, and avoid the impact of holding non-income producing 1 Consented developments 7 250 3.8 assets for an extended period.
2 Strategic land options 19 1,700 34.4 At Darlington, DBS secured a pre-let with Amazon which the Group Total 26 1,950 38.2 had already purchased as a forward funded development prior to the DBS transaction.
The portfolio is concentrated around the core logistics locations of the M1, the M40 and the North Wests prime M6 and M62 corridors, plus sites in the North East and South West, and was independently valued by Colliers International at 372.75 million as at 31 December 2018.
This supports the enterprise value attributed 1 Includes two schemes which are subject to development management agreements with DBS 2 Strategic land comprises schemes which are a benefiting from the right to receive fees and profit combination of options, rights to profit or overage overage on land owned by third parties.
Five schemes are subject to 50:50 joint 3 Including Littlebrook, Dartford: 4.5% NIY 33 subject to a 50:50 joint venture arrangement.
Strategic Report Managers Report Implementing the Groups Investment Policy Our established forward funded model DBS has master planned the use of each scheme to accommodate To minimise development risk, we will look to create high-quality, a variety of building sizes in order to appeal to a broad range of income producing investment properties for the Groups portfolio occupiers sometimes an initial planning requirement.
Whilst the by obtaining planning, securing an occupier and developing larger outline planning consent may be for a scheme which incorporates scale Big Box logistics assets only on a pre-let, forward funded basis.
a varying number of building sizes, this may be amended later, In doing so, we will seek to leverage the Groups strong relationships depending upon demonstrable demand.
with its existing Customers, helping to satisfy their demand for additional logistics space.
An example of this is already evident within the DBS portfolio.
Biggleswade benefits from detailed reserved matters planning Larger scale buildings are typically purpose built for an occupier consent for logistics uses in five buildings.
Subsequently, the entire following a pre-let, because there is limited supply of speculatively site has been pre-let to The Co-operative Group Limited, on a developed larger facilities.
These are usually regular in design new 20-year term.
Consequently, a reserved matters planning specification such that they are generally appealing to the application has been submitted for a new 661,000 sq ft regional occupational market.
Determination of the application is due at the end of Q1 2019.
The site totals 50 acres, is fully serviced and Speculative development and smaller format buildings development ready with new access, utilities and drainage.
Subject In November 2018, the Company amended its investment policy to to receiving detailed planning consent, we expect the building to allow for up to 5% of gross asset value to be invested in speculative reach practical completion in Q4 2020. development, without which the Group would have been unable to acquire an 87% interest in DBS.
There are five buildings currently Adding a highly experienced team under construction that have been commenced on a speculative In acquiring an 87% interest in DBS, the Group has also secured the basis.
In the future it is not our intention to speculatively develop services of a highly experienced team of 17 property professionals larger format Big Boxes, but from time to time, it may be desirable and a further 11 support staff.
Its senior management team, to speculatively build smaller buildings.
This is an accepted way of consisting of Richard Bowen, Henry Charman, Andrew Dickman marketing the site and demonstrating to potential occupiers who and Christian Matthews retained a 13% stake in DBS, through the can then see the quality of the buildings being constructed and issuance of B and C shares in Tritax Symmetry Limited, the Groups understand the access, orientation and infrastructure provision.
acquiring entity and holding company for DBS Tritax Symmetry.
The B and C shares are designed to incentivise the wider Symmetry Park, Biggleswade.
34 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 7-8% Target yield on cost Attractive target yield on cost across the DBS development portfolio 87% Initial economic interest Purchased interest in db symmetry 38.2m sq ft Potential delivery of logistics assets 0.7m sq ft Pre-let Pre-let secured to an institutional grade occupier for a 20-year term at Biggleswade DBS management team by aligning their interests with the rest of the Group.
The Group has acquired 100% of the A shares in Tritax Symmetry which convey rights to all income.
The team has a track record of successful land promotion and adding value across the development value chain.
They have delivered 13 million sq ft of commercial projects and achieved a 100% planning success rate on logistics land promoted.
The DBS land portfolio has been assembled over approximately a 10-year period.
The Group has experience of working with DBS, having recently funded the pre-let to Amazon at Darlington in June 2018, where DBS is acting as the developer.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 35 Strategic Report Managers Report Implementing the Groups Investment Policy Alignment with senior management of C Shares.
This incentivisation across the broader DBS The DBS senior management team have retained a 13% economic management team is designed to provide an alignment of interest interest in Tritax Symmetry, which equates to approximately within the wider DBS management and to stimulate succession 38.1 million as at the point of completion.
The DBS senior planning within DBS management.
management team have also received a further 6% in the form of share consideration in the Company, representing approximately Structure and corporate governance 17.56 million, further aligning their interests with the Groups overall The DBS management team have established a separate external performance.
management company DBS Symmetry Management Ltd DBS ManCo, which has contracted with Tritax Symmetry.
The DBS There are two forms of lock-in arrangement for DBS senior management team will develop the portfolio under an exclusive management under these two separate share holdings, as follows: Development Management Agreement with Tritax Symmetry.
This means that whilst the Group is able to continue to contract with 6% share consideration in the Company Share disposals can be multiple other developers, DBS is only permitted to contract with made equally over a five-year period, by disposing of up to 20% of the Group.
the share consideration, on an annual basis, from the end of year one, through to the end of year five.
The DBS management team will report directly to the Manager: the Manager will be responsible for portfolio and risk management.
13% economic interest Senior management have an option to The Manager will therefore retain control over all key decisions in put an element of their B and C shares in Tritax Symmetry to the respect of the portfolio, such as strategy, construction, letting, land Company, equivalent to 1.5% of their shareholding, exercisable on acquisition and disposals, and further land options.
The Manager will an annual basis from the end of year three, through to the end of interact and report to the Board in the normal way.
This is only on the basis that the DBS portfolio achieves a total return of 15% per annum on a cumulative basis.
The Manager will also approve the budget that is paid to DBS ManCo under the Development Management Agreement.
If this return hurdle is not met, then the particular shareholding rolls DBS ManCo will receive a fixed management fee of 4.8 million for to the next year when the test is assessed again.
At the end of the the year ending 31 December 2019, payable monthly in arrears.
year eight, any shares that have not been put onto the Company by The Manager has the ability to review the DBS management fee on DBS management can be put automatically by DBS management or an ad hoc basis.
The Manager will take responsibility for the management of The B and C shares are realised through either the payment of DBS investment assets and previously developed assets which cash to DBS management or the issue of shares in the Company to have been managed by DBS once they have reached practical DBS management, noting that at least 25% is payable in cash.
Any completion and have been let including any future asset management decision in terms of consideration split lies with the Company.
initiatives on these DBS investment assets, including any decision that is made to sell the DBS Assets into the open market.
The Company has also negotiated a position whereby up to 4% of the DBS senior management shares 13% are to be offered to the It is expected that a significant portion of DBS ManCo costs will be wider DBS management team, over time, through the further issue treated as development costs of new assets and capitalised.
The Group The Manager Tritax Big Box REIT plc Tritax Management LLP Full oversight Development % % % Management Agreement At PC Completed Tritax Symmetry Ltd DB Symmetry Existing Group developments Tritax Symmetry Management Ltd suitable for retention DBS ManCo % % DBS Management Team 36 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION There are no other fees, ie performance, acquisition, exit or property On 11 February 2019, the Company confirmed the issue of management fees, payable by the Group to DBS ManCo under the 192,291,313 New Ordinary Shares pursuant to the Open Offer, Development Management Agreement although certain benefits which was significantly oversubscribed.
Valid applications were are payable to senior management of DBS ManCo by virtue of the received for 152,562,386 New Ordinary Shares in respect of 13% economic interest in Tritax Symmetry.
Qualifying Shareholders Open Offer Entitlements which were satisfied in full.
Valid applications were also received for 204,679,211 The Group can decide whether or not to retain any suitable Excess Shares under the Excess Application Facility.
Any asset not suitable for the Group will back exercise was undertaken with respect to Excess Applications be sold to third parties and the capital recycled.
received which were allocated pro rata to Qualifying Shareholders applications under the Excess Application Facility, in accordance Acquisition consideration and future financing with the terms set out in the Prospectus.
Acquisition consideration Financing the business plan DBS was owned by DV4 Properties 60% and DBS Senior In addition to equity available from the Open Offer, the Group has Management and Brit Investments S. A.
A total of available debt capital to draw upon for near term commitments approximately 67.7 million had been advanced to DBS by DV4 to fund the development of the DBS portfolio.
Thereafter, further Properties by way of deep discounted bonds, which had been capital requirements will be from a combination of equity and debt.
used to fund land acquisitions, construction, developments and The Manager estimates that the funding requirement will be in the associated costs in relation to the DBS portfolio.
Under the terms of order of 100-200 million pa on the basis of 2.8 million sq ft being the Share Purchase Agreement, the Group procured the repayment developed each year.
This is likely to require the Group raising new of the deep discounted bonds at Completion.
equity, but the Manager intends to additionally fund growth in DBS from the sale of assets potentially a combination of existing Group Allocation of the consideration for the Acquisition on Completion investments and DBS assets.
was as follows subject to certain adjustments in respect of cash, debt, working capital, tax and other operational liabilities : Land and speculative development exposure On an ongoing basis we will closely monitor our exposure to land, approximately 202.4 million in cash paid in respect of 69.1% of options over land and speculative developments, to ensure that we the equity value of DBS, of which approximately 140.9 million remain within our Investment Policy parameters.
was paid to DV4 Properties and approximately 61.5 million was paid to DBS Senior Management and their related parties: Taking the December 2018 Statement of Financial Position, and adding the effects of the DBS acquisition, the Companys holdings approximately 38.1 million was paid through the issue of B and in land and options over land including our site at Littlebrook, C Shares in Tritax Symmetry in respect of 13% of the equity value Dartford represent 9.2% of gross asset value and speculative of DBS, issued to DBS Senior Management: and development constitutes 1.0%, therefore totalling 10.2% when combined, against overall gross asset value.
approximately 52.6 million was paid through the issue of new Ordinary shares in respect of 17.9% of the equity value of DBS, Dilutive impact of the transaction of which Consideration Shares representing 35 million were Whilst we did not want to raise equity at a discount to net asset issued to DV4 Properties and Ordinary Shares representing value, our share price did suffer in Q4 2018 from the political and approximately 17.6 million were issued to DBS Senior economic uncertainty which affected the UK REIT market more Management and Brit Investments S. A.
These shares were issued generally, principally driven by a lack of clarity over Brexit.
We on completion of the acquisition at 130p per share, equivalent to believe the DBS acquisition will add significant value to the Group, the issue price of Ordinary Shares issued under the Open Offer and therefore, concluded with the Board that it was in shareholders to Shareholders which was used to fund the acquisition and interests to proceed with the transaction rather than lose this unique are subject to lock up restrictions for a period of six months, an opportunity, notwithstanding the challenging macro environment.
orderly market arrangement for six months thereafter in respect This view was endorsed by Shareholders as evidenced by the of the shares issued to DV4, and for a five-year period in respect oversubscribed nature of the equity raise.
of the shares issued to DBS Management.
When adjusting for the issue of new shares pursuant to the Open Offer fundraising and the acquisition, which were issued at 130 pence per In order to fund the acquisition, and further investments in share, along with the relevant transactional and equity raise costs, accordance with the Groups Investment Policy, the Company raised the resultant dilution to the year-end NAV per share is estimated gross proceeds of approximately 250 million comprising a Placing to represent approximately 3.80p or 2.52%.
Management has and Open Offer, issuing 192,291,313 shares at a price of 130 pence identified value within the DBS portfolio which it believes will more each.
The Open Offer was fully underwritten.
than compensate for this NAV dilution in the near term.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 37
