Strategic Report The Logistics Property Market Our market continues to be characterised by several very positive attributes: Demand is being driven principally by occupiers seeking improved supply chain efficiency and consumer structural change is providing strong tailwinds in the logistics market.
In larger scale Big Box logistics properties, supply remains constrained.
Thriving demand continues Supply remains constrained During 2018, economic and political uncertainty did not dampen One indicator of subdued supply is the high level of purposeoccupational demand for UK Big Box logistics assets, unlike other built take-up, indicating a lack of readily available buildings of commercial property sectors.
Occupier demand remains strong appropriate quality in the right locations for occupiers to lease.
across all the main regional areas in the UK and take-up was at the The low level of supply encouraged an increase in speculative highest ever recorded level in 2018. development in 2018 but this accounts for only a small percentage Demand remains buoyed by companies striving to deliver cost of identified demand.
The supply of larger scale buildings is savings, economies of scale benefits and efficiencies which the expected to remain constrained because only a few developers are consolidation from disparate older logistics networks to fewer larger willing to take the level of risk in a single location.
volume, modern facilities can provide.
Demand is also supported by The planning system is long-term and naturally controls supply, the continued rise of e-commerce which typically requires larger, particularly in the larger building size categories.
There are a modern logistics facilities and commonly employs automation.
modest number of sites capable of delivering larger scale logistics Notably other retail, which includes high street retail, comprised buildings now or in the next few years and whilst further sites will only 10% of take-up in 2018. gain planning consent, we expect these to be limited in number.. UK new early marketed logistics availability UK logistics take-up by sector, % and prime rental growth Prime headline rental growth New early marketed availability PL Distribution, % Other Manufacturing, % Construction, % Motor Industry, % Food Industry, % Post and Parcels, % Online Retail, % Food Retail, % Other Retail, % Other, % Source: CBRE relates to units of more than, sq ft Source: CBRE relates to units of more than, sq ft Demand highlights in 2018 Supply highlights in 2018 Highest occupational take-up on record Demand continues to outstrip standing supply Occupational take-up of 100,000 sq ft units totalled Available supply of new and early marketed space over 31.5 million sq ft, according to CBRE.
100,000 sq ft currently represents 11.5 months supply based on five-year annual average take-up, according to CBRE.
63% of take-up was purpose built Occupiers continued to take Big Boxes predominantly on a Limited availability of units over 500,000 sq ft purpose built basis over 100,000 sq ft, driven by the lack of readily Availability of buildings over 500,000 sq ft remains limited and available modern, larger scale buildings.
represented just two months supply based on total 2018 take-up.
Diverse sector take-up Speculative development increased: A diverse range of occupiers took space in 2018: the largest Speculative development is modest in comparison to the last appetite was from internet retailers who accounted for 32% of speculative development cycle of 2005-2008 and remains largely floorspace over 100,000 sq ft. focused on smaller 100,000-300,000 sq ft buildings.
Big Boxes are getting bigger Occupier appetite for Big Boxes of more than 500,000 sq ft continues.
In 2018, this comprised 44% of total take-up over 100,000 sq ft. 16 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Rents continue to rise Investment interest remains keen Continued strong occupier demand and limited supply of quality Sustained rental growth is a feature of the logistics market that buildings have contributed to attractive levels of rental growth continues to attract investors, both domestic and overseas across all regions in recent years.
All regions across the UK have particularly following the devaluation of the pound in 2016. witnessed different levels of rental growth at different points of the With market dynamics favouring asset owners, investors have cycle depending on the supply and demand dynamic at any point in continued to allocate capital to logistics property, with total time, but the trend across all regions has been a positive trajectory investment in logistics property during 2018 totalling over since 2015.
4 billion which, although lower than 2017, was still one of the This theme has continued during 2018 but has been most acute highest recorded volumes on record.
in London, the South East and the South West, which has in part The level of investor demand has continued to put pressure on been due to scarcity of appropriate land supply and increasing land logistics property yields.
At the end of 2018, CBREs Prime Yield values and lack of supply.
Across the country, rents are expected to Series reported the prime logistics property yield to be 4.5%, continue to grow in 2019. maintaining the previous lowest reported level, but remaining at an attractive premium to 10-year government gilt yields.
UK prime logistics headline rental growth Prime distribution yields vs government bonds yields % Source: CBRE relates to units of more than 100,000 sq ft Annual Region growth rate Prime distribution yields UKyear government bond yields London M25 6.7% Rest of South East 11.1% South West 7.4% East Midlands 3.8% West Midlands 3.8% North West 3.8% North East & Yorkshire 2.4% Total 5.6% Source: CBRE relates to units of more than, sq ft What these market dynamics mean to the Group A range of businesses are demanding increasingly efficient buildings are not only more efficient, but also more flexible supply chains.
Set against this, built supply remains low, and we believe will benefit from longer-term resilience particularly for larger scale buildings, and this forces due to higher levels of tenant demand.
Our ability to occupiers to consider purpose-built facilities on a pre-let capture the current attractive levels of rental growth at basis.
Purpose-built facilities are not unduly specialist in rent review will increase as we leave behind the pre-2015 nature the dynamics of value and rent serve to encourage data, prior to which rental growth was unproven.
These a prospective tenant to accept a generically acceptable positive characteristics of our market continue to attract building specification that would be appealing to a wide a healthy level of investor appetite that is compressing audience if offered for re-letting.
These dynamics have benefited the Group since we have captured opportunities to deliver new, long-leased investments into our portfolio seven pre-let forward funded developments acquired in 2018.
Larger scale modern Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 17
