Strategic Report Our Business Model Our resources We own and manage high-quality Big Box logistics assets and land across We use the following resources to create value for Shareholders and other stakeholders: the UK, using the Managers experience and expertise to assemble and grow a well diversified portfolio, while prudently applying leverage to increase returns.
Financial capital How we work We are funded by Shareholders equity, thirdparty debt and recycled funds Sourcing investments We primarily source investments off market, enabling us to buy at attractive prices.
We undertake thorough due diligence on purchases but move fast and offer certainty of execution for vendors, making us the obvious choice for asset owners looking to sell.
This also helps us to achieve discounts to market pricing.
Physical assets We have an outstanding portfolio of Big Box logistics Buying and selling for value assets, as well as strategic We have a clear Investment Policy see page 20 but we are also land for development pragmatic and may acquire smaller properties to diversify by geography, building size and lot size, or assets with shorter leases if there is opportunity to create value by re-gearing or re-letting.
We seek quality and discount Relationships numerous opportunities that do not offer value for money or meet our We build mutually beneficial stringent criteria.
relationships with our Customers and draw on the Managers We intend to hold assets for the long term but we may sell if we have delivered extensive contacts with key the assets business plan and have the potential to reinvest the proceeds in a influencers across the subsector more attractive opportunity.
Developing The Managers relationships with developers enables us to invest in forward funded developments, through which we fund the construction of a Big Box People which has been pre-let to a specific tenant, thereby substantially reducing We have an experienced Board risk.
This results in lower transaction costs and enables us to source brand and a Manager with a highnew buildings for institutional Customers on long leases.
calibre and consistent team We can also acquire land which is suitable for development, allowing us to capture a greater share of the development profit.
This is likely to be an increasingly important source of new assets for our portfolio in the coming years.
We will continue to balance our investment in land carefully with the Reputation Our excellent reputation need to deliver secure and growing dividends to Shareholders.
and track record make us a partner of choice for vendors, Asset management developers and Customers Our assets are strategically important to our Customers.
We work with them to maximise their operational effectiveness, for example by extending buildings or adding mezzanine floors.
This encourages the signing of longer leases, to secure their investment in the building which in turn increases our revenue security and capital values.
The process also deepens our relationships with our Customers.
Expertise and knowledge Our purity of focus makes A small number of our assets fall within our Value Add investment pillar us experts in the logistics see page 20.
Where we buy properties with the potential to add value, subsector we look to turn them into Foundation assets through asset management.
18 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 For Our Objectives and Strategy, see pages 20-21 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The benefits of our business model for stakeholders 1 For Shareholders By acquiring high-quality properties with excellent Sourcing investments tenants and carefully managing our assets, we aim to deliver a robust, transparent, low-risk and growing Buying and selling rental stream, which supports a progressive target for value dividend.
Our asset selection and asset management add value to our investments, allowing Shareholders to benefit from attractive total returns.
2 3 4 Our REIT status protects the value we create for Shareholders, as we are not subject to corporation tax Funding developments Asset management on profits and gains in respect of our qualifying property rental business.
We also pay dividends that qualify as a property income distribution where possible, which offers tax advantages for certain UK investors.
For lenders Our sources of Our lenders benefit from having their interest serviced competitive advantage by regular and stable cash flows which are underpinned by some of the strongest covenants in logistics, The Manager manufacturing and retail.
Our long leases and future The Manager is our primary source of competitive advantage.
growth in income, through a combination of fixed, We draw on its expertise and its extensive agency, developer, indexed and open market reviews provide protection to vendor and occupier contacts, built up over many years.
where personnel changes are common, the consistency and high calibre of the Managers team helps us to maintain our relationships For 2019 we are targeting: and work on longer-term deals.
Speed and certainty of execution 6.85p The Managers expertise enables us to move fast by rapidly assessing opportunities, making decisions, performing thorough Progression over the 6.7p dividend per share due diligence and completing transactions.
We have never achieved in 2018 withdrawn from a proposed contract after agreeing terms and believe that our reputation is unrivalled in our market.
Quality 9% pa Our portfolio is weighted towards Foundation assets, which provide Total return our core income and do not need to be regularly traded.
This supports our returns by reducing our frictional costs, which can be as high as 8.5% when selling an asset and reinvesting the proceeds.
For Customers Our Customers benefit from occupying Scale Big Box logistics assets which are owned by a landlord As our portfolio grows, we benefit from economies of scale, knowledgeable in and committed to the sector and increased diversification by geography, tenant and building size, a strategically important to their businesses, helping larger list of contacts and a deeper pool of available capital, helping them to achieve cost savings and economies of scale, us to source further investments off market.
A larger portfolio also and to fulfil their rapidly growing e-commerce sales.
gives us greater insight into market developments, more control We aim to be our Customers preferred provider of over the evidence for rent reviews and lease renewals, and greater modern Big Boxes.
potential to create multi-asset initiatives with the same Customers.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 19
