Strategic Report Our Objectives and Strategy Objectives Our Acquisition Focus The assets we acquire typically fall under Our objectives reflect our aim of creating value for Shareholders.
one or more of our four investment pillars: Dividends The Company intends to maintain its progressive dividend policy during 2019 and Foundation thereafter.
Foundation assets provide the core, low-risk income that underpins our Total returns business.
They are usually let on long Our investment objective is to deliver a total return of at least 9% per annum over the leases to Customers with excellent medium term.
Total return is based on dividends paid plus growth in net asset value.
The buildings are Investment policy and operational strategy commonly new or modern and in prime In order to achieve our objectives, we implement the Investment Policy and locations, and the leases have regular operational strategy set out below.
upward-only rent reviews, often either fixed or linked to inflation indices.
Value Add These assets are typically let to Customers with good covenants Our Investment Policy and offer capital value or rental growth through lease engineering or Our Investment Policy is to invest primarily in Big Box assets, which typically: improvements to the property.
We do this using our asset management are let or pre-let to institutional-grade tenants, ideally businesses with good capabilities and understanding of growth potential: Customer requirements.
These assets are in the right locations in the UK, with good transport connections and are usually highly re-lettable.
workforce availability: are of the right size and age, and possibly with expansion potential, to meet the Growth Covenant requirements of major occupiers: These are fundamentally sound assets in good locations, let to Customers we have leases to institutional standards, with regular upward-only rent reviews and perceive to be undervalued at the point an unexpired lease length on purchase typically of at least 12 years, to provide long-term and secure income flows: and of purchase and who have the potential to improve their financial strength, such are strategically important to the tenant, as evidenced by extensive investment as young e-retailers or other companies in fitting out the unit or proximity to the tenants market and or other key with growth prospects.
offer value enhancement through yield compression.
We target assets which offer value to our Shareholders and usually have a geared yield range of approximately 5-7%.
We may make exceptions to our policy, where Strategic land we see an opportunity to deliver value for our Shareholders without significantly We will invest in land, primarily with a increasing the portfolios aggregate risk.
view to securing pre-let forward funded developments, although we may also The Investment Policy also allows us to invest in land, either on our own or in a joint undertake a modest amount of speculative venture with a developer or a prospective Customer, to assemble suitable sites for development.
The land we acquire can developments.
benefit from extant outline B8 planning consent over the whole or part of the site In November 2018, Shareholders approved the following amendments to the Policy: in order to minimise risk, but we may also the limit on exposure to land and options over land was increased from 10% of acquire land without planning consent NAV to 15% of gross asset value GAV, of which up to 5% may be invested in or options over land and undertake speculative development activity: and development management on behalf of third parties.
This approach allows us to own while Big Box assets remain our primary investment focus, we may from time to time develop or acquire other ancillary assets including, but not limited to, smaller completed assets in locations which might distribution warehouses or urban distribution or last mile hubs.
otherwise attract yields lower than we want to pay and can also deliver enhanced returns.
The benefits to Shareholders of these amendments are discussed in the Strategic Report on pages 1-69.
See Our Portfolio on pages 12-13 20 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our Operational Strategy To help us deliver long-term and sustainable returns to our Shareholders, we focus on the following strategic areas: Strategic area Progress in 2018 Priorities for 2019 Link to risk Manager and its The Manager continued to To ensure a low degree of staff We rely on the continuance relationships turnover, with continual staff strengthen its team during of the Manager Contract with a Manager the year, including expanding its training and development.
who has a knowledgeable Also to expand on our market company secretarial function and talented team, excellent and recruiting expertise in relationships for the benefit of market relationships with the stakeholders.
New owner owners, developers and and developer relationships agents, which all contribute secured in the year.
to delivering value to Shareholders.
Continue to place an emphasis Operational excellence We maintained our robust Use of floating rate debt on our robust operational cost cost control and benefited will expose the business Rigorously control costs controls, including keeping and deliver operational from economies of scale: to underlying interest rate our exposure to floating rate our total expense ratio as at movements efficiencies, without debt to a minimum, all of which compromising growth or 31 December 2018 was 13.7%.
support our policy to grow our reputation.
To maintain a strong Customers We successfully implemented Default of one or more relationship with our existing a range of asset management Customers Develop and maintain a customers, and to progress deep understanding of the initiatives, as described on any occupier requirements pages 40-45. businesses that operate in ensuring value accretion to our market in order to create shareholders.
Our asset acquisitions deepened our relationships with a number of existing Customers.
To operate within our leverage We raised 155.6 million of Our use of floating rate debt Capital risk management new equity, obtained a shortpolicy of up to 40% and to Achieve the right risk and will expose the business continue to support any future term 250 million debt facility to underlying interest rate return balance of equity and and issued 400 million of growth in the business with debt, to finance our business movements new and attractive capital.
loan notes through a private and enhance returns.
A lack of debt funding at placement see page 48.
This appropriate rates may gave us a conservative LTV of restrict our ability to grow 27.3% at the year end.
We must be able to operate within our debt covenants To formally contribute to We continued to work with None Corporate responsibility our Customers and developer sustainability evaluation Strive to meet our indices, such as GRESB, so as partners to improve property corporate responsibilities EPC ratings and achieve to demonstrate the Companys towards society and the inclusion of best practice BREEAM Very Good.
We have environment, in every part of achieved zero waste to landfill principles through the active our business.
where we have management responsibility for waste.
We have moved all electricity supplies where we have responsibility to green electricity tariffs.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 21
