GOVERNANCE OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION The Directors present their Annual Report and audited Substantial shareholdings financial statements for the Group for the year ended As at 12 February 2019, the Company had been notified in 31December 2018. accordance with the requirements of provision 5.1.
2 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Principal activities Transparency Rules of the following significant holdings Tullow is a leading independent oil and gas, exploration and intheCompanys ordinary share capital: production group, quoted on the London, Irish and Ghanaian % of issued stock exchanges.
The Group has interests in over 87 exploration capital as Number of at date of and production licences across 17 countries which are managed Shareholder shares notification as three Business Delivery Teams: West Africa, East Africa andNew Ventures.
Standard Life Aberdeen plc 98,717,668 7.09 Prudential plc group of companies 72,886,807 5.23 Strategic Report RWC Asset Management LLP 71,022,015 5.09 The Group is required by section 414A of the Companies Act 2006 to present a Strategic Report in the Annual Report.
This Majedie Asset Management Limited 29,209,276 3.20 can be found on pages 2 to 58.
The Strategic Report contains 1 IFG International Trust Company Ltd 38,960,366 5.98 an indication of the directors view on likely future developments in the business of the Group.
In addition, following the introduction 1.
Based on notification received 14 November 2006.
IFG is now known of the EU NonFinancial Reporting Directive, the Strategic as First Names Trust Company.
Report also provides direction on where information on the impact of activities on employees, social and environmental Shareholders rights matters, human rights and anticorruption and antibribery The rights and obligations of shareholders are set out in the matters can be found within the Annual Report and financial Companys Articles of Association which can be amended by statements, as well as a description of the Groups policies special resolution.
The rights and obligations attaching to the and where these are located.
The Corporate Governance Companys shares are as follows: Report on pages 60 to 106 is the corporate governance statement for the purposes of Disclosure Guidance and dividend rights holders of the Companys shares may, by Transparency Rule 7.2.
The Annual Report and Financial ordinary resolution, declare dividends but may not declare Statements use financial and nonfinancial KPIs wherever dividends in excess of the amount recommended by the possible and appropriate.
The Directors may also pay interim dividends.
Nodividend may be paid other than out of profits available Results and dividends fordistribution.
Subject to shareholder approval, payment The profits on ordinary activities after taxation of the Group or satisfaction of a dividend may be made wholly or partly forthe year ended 31 December 2018 was $85.4 million bydistribution of specific assets: 2017:loss of $175.3 million.
voting rights voting at any general meeting may be conducted by a show of hands unless a poll is duly demanded.
On a show A final 2018 dividend of US4.8c share $67 million payable of hands every shareholder who is present in person at a inMay 2019 has been recommended by the Board.
general meeting and every proxy orcorporate representative appointed by a shareholder andpresent at a general meeting Subsequent events has one vote regardless of the number of shares held by There has not been any event since 31 December 2018 that theshareholder or represented by the proxy or corporate has resulted in a material impact on the yearend results.
Ifaproxy has been appointed by more than one shareholder and has been instructed by one or more Share capital ofthose shareholders to vote for the resolution and by one As at 12 February 2019, the Company had an allotted and fully or more of those shareholders to vote against a particular paid up share capital of 1,393,724,251 ordinary shares each resolution, the proxy shall have one vote for and one vote with a nominal value of 0.10. against that resolution.
On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person has one vote for every share held by that shareholder and a proxy has one vote for every share in respect of which he has been appointed as proxy the deadline for exercising voting rights by proxy is set out in the form of proxy.
On a poll, a corporate representative may exercise allthe powers of the company that has authorised him.
102 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts A poll may be demanded by any of the following: a the Material agreements containing change of control provisions Chairman of the meeting: b at least five shareholders entitled The following significant agreements will, in the event of a to vote andpresent in person or by proxy or represented by change of control of the Company, be affected as follows: aduly authorised corporate representative at the meeting: to the extent that a change of control occurs as a result of c any shareholder or shareholders present in person or any person, or group of persons acting in concert as defined byproxy or represented by a duly authorised corporate in the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers, gaining control representative and holding shares or being a representative of the Company: in respect of a holder of shares representing in the aggregate not less than onetenth of the total voting rights of under the $2.4 billion or up to $2.9 billion in the event all shareholders entitled to attend and vote at the meeting: thatthe Company exercises its option to increase the or d any shareholder or shareholders present in person commitments by up to an additional $500 million and orby proxy or represented by a duly authorised corporate thelenders provide such additional commitments senior representative and holding shares or being a representative secured revolving credit facility agreement between, in respect of a holder of shares conferring a right to attend among others, the Company and certain subsidiaries of and vote at the meeting on which there have been paid up theCompany, BNP Paribas, Crdit Agricole Corporate sums in the aggregate equal to not less than onetenth of andInvestment Bank, Lloyds Bank plc, ING Bank N. V. the total sums paid up on all the shares conferring that right: DNB Bank ASA and The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited and the lenders specified therein: return of capital in the event of the liquidation of the Company, after payment of all liabilities and deductions the Company is obliged to notify the agent who taking priority, the balance of assets available for distribution notifiesthe lenders upon the occurrence of a change will be distributed among the holders of ordinary shares ofcontrol:and according to the amounts paid up on the shares held by if any lender so requires, it may cancel its commitments them.
A liquidator may, with the authority of a special immediately and demand repayment of all outstanding resolution, divide among the shareholders the whole or any amounts owed by the Company and certain subsidiaries part of the Companys assets, or vest the Companys assets of the Company to it under the agreement and any in whole or in part in trustees upon such trusts for the benefit connected finance document.
So long as such lender of shareholders, but no shareholder is compelled to accept states its requirement to be repaid within 20 business any property in respect of which there is a liability: days of being notified by the agent such period being control rights under employee share schemes the the notice period, the repayment amount will become Company operates a number of employee share schemes.
due and payable by no later than 10 business days after Under some of these arrangements, shares are held by the end of such notice period and, in respect of each trustees on behalf of employees.
The employees are not letter of credit issued under the agreement, full cash entitled to exercise directly any voting or other control cover will be required by no later than 10 business days rights.
The trustees will generally vote in accordance with after the end of such notice period: employees instructions and abstain where no instructions under the $63.6 million senior secured revolving credit are received.
Unallocated shares are generally voted at the facility agreement between, among others, the Company discretion of the trustees: and and certain subsidiaries of the Company and International restrictions on holding securities there are no restrictions Finance Corporation and the lenders specified therein: under the Companys Articles of Association or under UK the Company is obliged to notify the agent who notifies law that either restrict the rights of UK resident shareholders the lenders upon the occurrence of a change of to hold shares or limit the rights of nonresident or foreign control: and shareholders to hold or vote the Companys ordinary shares.
if any lender so requires, it may cancel its commitments There are no UK foreign exchange control restrictions on the immediately and demand repayment of all outstanding payment of dividends to US persons on the Companys amounts owed by the Company and certain subsidiaries ordinary shares.
of the Company to it under the agreement and any connected finance document.
So long as such lender states its requirement to be repaid within 20 business days of being notified by the agent such period being the notice period, the repayment amount will become due and payable by no later than 10 business days after the end of such notice period: www.
com 103 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION CONTINUED Material agreements containing subsidiaries of the Company and Deutsche Trustee change of control provisions continued Company Limited as the Trustee, the bondholders shall to the extent that a change of control occurs, in general have the right to require the Company to: i convert, in terms, as a result of i a disposal of all or substantially all accordance with a formula specified in the trust deed, the the properties or assets of the Company and all its restricted Convertible Bonds into preference shares in the Company, subsidiaries other than through a merger or consolidation which in turn will be exchanged by the Company for in one or a series of related transactions: ii a plan being ordinary shares: or ii redeem the Convertible Bonds at adopted relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the their principal amount, together with accrued and unpaid Company: or iii any person becomes the beneficial owner, interest at the date of the change of control event.
The directly or indirectly, of shares of the Company which grant Company is required to give the Trustee notice of the that person more than 50 per cent of the voting rights of occurrence of an event constituting a change of control theCompany: within five calendar days of the occurrence of such event, and the bondholders shall thereafter have 60 calendar days under an indenture relating to $650 million of 6.25 per cent in which to exercise the election referred to above.
If the Senior Notes due in 2022 between, among others, the bondholders elect to redeem the Convertible Bonds, the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company and Company is required to make payment of this amount Deutsche Trustee Company Limited as the Trustee, the 14business days after receiving notification of such election.
Company must make an offer to noteholders to repurchase all the notes at 101 per cent of the aggregate principal Directors amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest in The biographical details of the Directors of the Company at the event that a change of control of the Company occurs.
the date of this report are given on pages 60 and 61.
The repurchase offer must be made by the Company to allnoteholders within 30 days following the change of Details of Directors service agreements and letters of control and the repurchase must take place no earlier appointment can be found on pages 90 and 91.
Details of the than10 days and no later than 60 days from the date Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company therepurchase offer is made.
Each noteholder may take andin the Groups longterm incentive and other share option upthe offer in respect of all or part of its notes: and schemes are set out on pages 96 to 101 in the Directors under an indenture relating to $800 million of 7 per cent Remuneration Report.
Senior Notes due in 2025 between, among others, the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company and Directors indemnities and insurance cover Deutsche Trustee Company Limited as the Trustee, the As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under Company must make an offer to noteholders to repurchase whichthe Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, to all the notes at 101 per cent of the aggregate principal theextent permitted by the Companies Act 2006, against amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest in claims from third parties in respect of certain liabilities the event that a change of control of the Company occurs.
arising out of, orin connection with, the execution of their The repurchase offer must be made by the Company to powers, duties andresponsibilities as Directors of the allnoteholders within 30 days following the change of Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The Directors are also control and the repurchase must take place no earlier indemnified against the cost of defending a criminal prosecution than10 days and no later than 60 days from the date or a claim by the Company, its subsidiaries or a regulator therepurchase offer is made.
Each noteholder may take provided that where the defence isunsuccessful the Director upthe offer in respect of all or part of its notes: must repay those defence costs.
TheCompany also maintains directors and officers liability insurance cover, the level of which to the extent that a change of control occurs, in general terms, is reviewed annually.
as a result of: i any person or persons, acting together, acquiring or becoming entitled to more than 50 per cent of Conflicts of interest the voting rights of the Company: or ii an offer being made A Director has a duty to avoid a situation in which he or she has, to all of the Companys shareholders to acquire all or a or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly majority of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company may conflict, with the interests of the Group.
The Board requires or such offeror proposing a scheme of arrangement with Directors to declare all appointments and other situations regard to such acquisition, and thereby becoming entitled that could result in a possible conflict of interest and has toexercise more than 50 per cent of the voting rights of adopted appropriate procedures to manage and, if appropriate, theCompany : approve any such conflicts.
The Board is satisfied that there is under a trust deed constituting $300 million of 6.625 per cent no compromise to the independence of those Directors who guaranteed convertible bonds due in 2021 the Convertible have appointments on the boards of, or relationships with, Bonds between, among others, the Company, certain companies outside the Group.
104 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Powers of Directors Appointment and replacement of Directors The general powers of the Directors are set out in Article 104 The Company shall appoint disregarding Alternate Directors no of the Articles of Association of the Company.
It provides that fewer than two and no more than 15 Directors.
The appointment the business of the Company shall be managed by the Board and replacement of Directors may be made as follows: which may exercise all the powers of the Company whether the shareholders may by ordinary resolution elect any relating to the management of the business of the Company person who is willing to act to be a Director: or not.
This power is subject to any limitations imposed on the Company by applicable legislation.
It is also limited by the the Board may elect any person who is willing to act to be provisions of the Articles of Association of the Company and aDirector.
Any Director so appointed shall hold office only any directions given by special resolution of the shareholders until the next Annual General Meeting and shall then be of the Company which are applicable on the date that any eligible for election: power is exercised.
each Director is required in terms of the Articles of Please note the following specific provisions relevant to the Association to retire from office at the third Annual General exercise of power by the Directors: Meeting after the Annual General Meeting at which he or she was last elected or reelected, although he or she may Preemptive rights and new issues of shares the holders be reelected by ordinary resolution if eligible and willing.
of ordinary shares have no preemptive rights under the However, to comply with the principles of best corporate Articles of Association of the Company.
However, the ability governance, the Board intends that each Director will of the Directors to cause the Company to issue shares, submit him or herself for reelection on an annual basis: securities convertible into shares or rights to shares, otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme, the Company may by special resolution remove any Director isrestricted under the Companies Act 2006 which provides before the expiration of his or her period of office or may, by that the directors of a company are, with certain exceptions, ordinary resolution, remove a Director where special notice unable to allot any equity securities without express has been given and the necessary statutory procedures are authorisation, which may be contained in a companys complied with: and articles of association or given by its shareholders in there are a number of other grounds on which a Directors general meeting, but which in either event cannot last for office may cease, namely voluntary resignation, where all more than five years.
Under the Companies Act 2006, the theother Directors being at least three in number request Company may also not allot shares for cash otherwise than his or her resignation, where he or she suffers physical or pursuant to an employee share scheme without first making mental incapacity, where he or she is absent from meetings an offer on a preemptive basis to existing shareholders, of the Board without permission of the Board for six consecutive unless this requirement is waived byaspecial resolution months, becomes bankrupt or compounds withhis or her ofthe shareholders.
creditors or where he or she is prohibited bylaw from being Repurchase of shares subject to authorisation by a Director.
shareholder resolution, the Company may purchase its ownshares in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Encouraging diversity in our workforce Any shares that have been bought back may be held as Tullow is committed to eliminating discrimination and treasury shares or must be cancelled immediately upon encouraging diversity amongst its workforce.
Decisions completion of the purchase.
The Company received authority related to recruitment selection, development or promotion at the last Annual General Meeting to purchase up to a are based upon merit and ability to adequately meet the maximum of 138,913,807 ordinary shares.
The authority requirements of the job, and are not influenced by factors lasts until the earlier of the conclusion of the Annual such as gender, marital status, race, ethnic origin, colour, General Meeting of the Company in 2019 or 30 June 2018. nationality, religion, sexual orientation, age or disability.
Borrowing powers the net external borrowings of the We want our workforce to be truly representative of all sections Group outstanding at any time shall not exceed an amount of society and for all our employees to feel respected and able equal to four times the aggregate of the Groups adjusted to reach their potential.
Our commitment to these aims and capital and reserves calculated in the manner prescribed detailed approach are set out in Tullows Code of Ethical Conduct inArticle 105 of the Companys Articles of Association, and Equal Opportunities Policy.
unless sanctioned by an ordinary resolution of the We aim to provide an optimal working environment to suit the Companys shareholders.
needs of all employees, including those of employees with disabilities.
For employees who become disabled during their time with the Group, Tullow will provide support to help them remain safely in continuous employment.
com 105 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION CONTINUED Employee involvement and engagement We use a range of methods to inform and consult with employees about significant business issues and our performance.
These include webcasts, the Groups intranet and town hall meetings.
In 2019, we are implementing workforce advisory panels in conjunction with existing means to continue engaging with ourworkforce.
We have an employee share plan for all permanent employees, which gives employees a direct interest in the business success.
Political donations In line with Group policy, no donations were made for politicalpurposes.
Corporate responsibility The Group works to achieve high standards of environmental, health and safety management.
Our performance in these areas can be found on pages 42 and 43 of this report.
Further information is available on the Group website: www.
com, including archived copies of separate Corporate Responsibility Reports which were published in previous years.
Auditor and disclosure of relevant audit information Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors areaware, there is no relevant audit information as defined bysection 418 3 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditor is unaware and each Director has taken allsteps that ought to have been taken to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditor will be proposed at the AGM.
More information can befound in the Audit Committee Report on pages 70 to 76.
Annual General Meeting The Notice of Annual General Meeting will set out the resolutions to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Themeeting will be held on 25 April 2019 at Tullow Oil plcs Head Office, 9 Chiswick Park, 566 Chiswick High Road, London W4 5XT, from 12 noon.
This Corporate Governance Report which includes the Directors Remuneration Report and the information referred to herein have been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Adam Holland Company Secretary 12 February 2019 Registered office: 9 Chiswick Park 566 Chiswick High Road London W4 5XT Company registered in England and Wales No.
3919249 106 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Richard Mends is a Certified Equipment Operator working with Consolidated Shipping Agencies Ltd Conship in Takoradi, Ghana.
Conship is a Ghanaian company in the logistics and freight forwarding business.
Tullow is committed to supporting local businesses as part of our shared prosperity agenda.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Supplementary information Statement of Directors responsibilities 108 Five-year financial summary 164 Independent auditors report Shareholder information 165 for the Group and Company Licence interests 166 Financial Statements 109 Commercial reserves Group Financial Statements 117 and resources 170 Company Financial Statements 156 Transparency disclosure 171 Sustainability data 178 Tullow Oil plc subsidiaries 181 Glossary 184
