STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRS STATEMENT A CLEAR CASE DELIVERING FORINVESTMENT - Free cash flow generation from producing assets, which through VALUE FOR ALL investment replaces, builds and develops reserves and resources.
- Free cash flow used to lower STAKEHOLDERS debt, invest in assets and pay noless than $100 million individends each year.
- A multi-year exploration programme in emerging basins in both Africa and South America, as well as near-field exploration alongside existing assets inAfrica.
- Skilled and experienced people tohelp meet continued global demand for light oil.
- Established relationships helping to develop opportunities in Africa.
- An attractive partner for African governments and industry peers, due to our track record asan experienced low-cost upstream operator, with proven geological expertise.
- Aligned with our host countries social and economic goals and growth ambitions.
- Committed to creating shared prosperity for our host countries and shareholders.
- Operational management that meets the highest safety, security and environmental standards.
Tullow has long recognised that to be a successful company, particularly in Africa, we need to be aligned to each of our host countries social and economic growth ambitions.
Dorothy Thompson, Chair 6 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts I am excited to be taking on the role of Tullow Responsible operations Board Chair at this time of transition both for The Companys emphasis on high standards for Tullow and the sector.
As the world makes the health, safety and environmental performance transition to a lower carbon future, the oil and hasbeen evident in my visits to each of Tullows gasindustry faces unprecedented challenges and key locations.
Upholding these high standards is opportunities given the critical role that oil plays not only critical to our operational success, but to today in our energy supply.
My role as Chair is our reputation with investors and host countries tolead the Board to help navigate the Company and most importantly to ensuring our staff and through these transitions.
In June the Board contractors go home safely to their families at approved Tullows new strategy which addresses theend of each day.
During an informative and some of these challenges and targets attractive successful Board visit to Ghana in October, I visited opportunities whilst putting sustainability and the Jubilee FPSO offshore and experienced first progressive operations at the heart of how we hand how Tullow meets the requirements of its work.
There is strong support for Paul McDades policies and standards on safety, environment clear vision and growth agenda for the Company, andsocial performance.
including an unwavering commitment to creating sustainable value for our investors, our host Environmental stewardship governments and communities and opportunities I believe that Tullow has an important part to play for our talentedpeople.
as an oil company even as the world moves to a low-carbon future.
There is no question that the In July, I took over from Chair and Founder Aidan world needs to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Heavey, who has been the heart and inspiration However, the decades of investment that will be ofTullows story since the very beginning.
Aidan required to replace the installed base of assets provided me with great support and advice during consuming fossil fuels, against a backdrop of the transition of Chair responsibilities and I wish growing energy demand, means there will be a him the very best for thefuture.
continuing role for oil for some time to come.
While I am new to the oil industry, through my Climate change legislation will become an background in the power sector, including 12 years increasingly important factor in determining the as Chief Executive of one of the UKs largest power price of all fossil fuels and some of the industrys companies, I understand the imperative of providing resources may not achieve the commercial low-cost, reliable energy.
In my first six months as thresholds required to be developed.
We will Chair, I have developed my understanding of Tullows ensure our cost of supply is low to accommodate role in contributing to that need, as well as working climate taxes and we will work to minimise our with the Board to hone Tullows investment case own greenhouse gas emissions.
The priority for and growthstrategy.
both Tullow and our host governments into the next decade is to use the window of opportunity Values and culture presented by the discovery of oil to convert natural I was drawn to Tullow as a business because of resource wealth into shareholder value and theCompanys strong culture.
Tullow has long sustainable and inclusive economic growth recognised that to be a successful company, forAfrica.
particularly in Africa, we need to be aligned to eachof our host countries social and economic Shared prosperity growth ambitions.
Shared prosperity is not a marketing device for Tullow We recognise the importance of our people in but something deeply embedded in our culture theCompanys success.
Our desire to create a andthat is put into operation across the business.
stimulating, forward-thinking environment where We are known for our strong commitment to local our people can grow their careers and develop new participation in our supply chains, for supporting skills and expertise shows the high regard in which education and skills development in the countries employees are held, which in turn feeds their in which we work and for making sure that the motivation to drive the business future success.
infrastructure we need for our operations can beshared by the communities where we work.
Tullows zero tolerance of bribery and corruption Nevertheless, this is an area where we intend isan area where the Company has built a firm and tobemore ambitious going forward.
unwavering reputation locally and internationally.
During the year, the Board approved an updated Code of Ethical Conduct which, alongside our Values, provides clear guidance on the expectations and behaviour that are at the heart of our Companys culture.
com 7 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRS STATEMENT CONTINUED Equality and transparency The long-term Company strategy, which the Inclusion and diversity play a critical part in giving Boardapproved in June, includes our 2030 Vision us access to the talent we need to succeed.
We are and comprises four core focus areas: Oil, Africa, convinced that building a pipeline of African talent Sustainable and Progressive.
We have set new, will secure the necessary representation of Africans ambitious targets for 2019 for all aspects of our at senior leadership levels that is vital to Tullows business, but to accelerate momentum towards future success.
On my appointment as Chair of our vision, we have also set targets for considerable theNominations Committee, I began to work with step changes in creating a progressive and the Directors to evaluate the skills and experience sustainable business.
the Board needs to deliver our long-term strategy.
Paul explains our strategy in more detail in his Wehave set out more details of our approach to statement.
The Board also reaffirmed Tullows this area in the Nominations Committee Report.
commitment to being a balanced exploration, This will help us improve diversity further throughout development and production company, driving the organisation in a sustainable and meaningful growth through a combination of exploration manner and meet our targets for at least 20 per cent andM&A.
African representation and 30 per cent female representation on the Board by 2020.
My first few months as Tullows Chair have confirmed the real strengths of the business and I look forward Tullows investment case to leading the Board in implementing our strategy Tullow has made good progress through the recent and vision into 2019. challenging years and we are now looking forward Finally, and most importantly, I would like to thank and setting the framework for our future success.
all of Tullows people, who work tirelessly and give Our focus is on using our skills and experience to their very best to help make Tullow a success.
meet ongoing demand for light oil and on drawing on our history and established relationships to develop further opportunities in Africa.
We generate significant free cash flow from our production.
Our strategy is to sustainably grow this Dorothy Thompson production through adding and replacing our reserves Chair in existing assets, which have the potential to increase 12 February 2019 production by 60 per cent to 150,000 bopd, through infill drilling and new developments.
We have a multi-year exploration programme inattractive acreage in emerging basins in both Africa and South America as well as existing assets in Africa.
Our track record as a skilled and experienced low-cost upstream operator, as well as our deep and proven geological expertise, makes us an attractive partner for African governments and industrypeers.
We run our business in a financially disciplined way, managing our portfolio and risk in a way thatprotects value, all backed by operational management that meets the highest safety, security and environmental standards.
8 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Making sure that people go home safe and well both physically and mentally every day is a business priority and something we always strive for.
