STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICERS STATEMENT 2018 was another year of good financial delivery from Tullow.
We successfully delivered further A TRANSFORMED efficiency improvements having now reset the cost base of the business for the long term.
We grew our revenue and continue to generate significant free cash flow.
Thestrong set of results builds on BALANCE SHEET the good progress made in recent years, creating a solid financial platform for the business to grow from.
Wehave achieved our target to become a balanced self-funding E&P business, where our strong cash flow generation provides us with the financial flexibility toappropriately allocate capital to optimise our balance sheet, invest in our business and make returns to shareholders.
Delivering on our targets During 2018, we invested $423 million in the business, of which approximately half was directed to our high-return, immediate cash flow West Africa production portfolio.
This enabled us to grow production in Ghana and once again reverse the decline of our non-operated Central West Africa portfolio.
This investment, combined with sustained cost discipline and a higher oil price, resulted in the Group generating $1.9billion ofrevenue.
In parallel, our Group operating costs continued to track downwards with unit opex down by $1.1 boe year-on-year to $10.0 boe 2017: $11.1 boe.
Inother costs, our net G&A reduced to $90 million 2017: $95 million, and we saw a further reduction in our finance costs to $329 million 2017:$352 million as we continued to reduce absolute debt level and further optimise our capital structure.
The culmination of these outcomes was full-year EBITDAX of $1.6 billion 2017: $1.3 billion and freecash flow of $411 million 2017: $543 million enabling net debt to reduce to $3.1 billion and agearing level of 1.9x 2017: $3.5 billion: 2.6xrespectively.
2018 HIGHLIGHTS - The hard work to improve the balance sheethas resulted in the Boards decision topay shareholders a dividend of no less than $100million per year from 2019 and recommended a final 2018 dividend of US4.8c share, payable in May 2019.
Tullow moves into 2019 inamuch - Production performance was strong in 2018, at 90,000 boepd and production is forecast stronger financial position, able to togrow in 2019 to 94,000102,000 boepd.
invest in growth opportunities and - Full-year revenue of $1.9 billion and additional proceeds of $0.2 billion from restore returns to ourshareholders.
Les Wood, Chief Financial Officer - Strong free cash flow of $411 million, netdebt at year end of $3.1 billion and gearingof 1.9x.
32 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts One-off financial items in Ghana, increasing investment to sustain and 2018 was a year where we saw two significant grow our non-operated Central West Africa outcomes adversely impacting our financial results.
production, carefully control pre-FID spend in Firstly, we had a disappointing result from litigation Kenya, and take a modest step-up in exploration action regarding our rig contract and force majeure tocommence the high-impact drilling campaign claim of the Seadrill West Leo rig contracted back inGuyana.
This resulted in a net cash outflow from Finally, earlier this year we expressed our ambition Tullow of $208 million in the second half of the tomake returns to shareholders.
The Companys year, impacting our free cash flow.
In addition, robust financial and operational position, and our thecompletion of the Uganda farm-down to Total confidence in the sustainability ofour business, led and CNOOC was not completed by year end as us to announce the Boards decision toreinstate forecast, delaying the cash consideration due on the payment of a dividend from 2019.
We plan topay completion and reimbursement of capex spent in an ordinary dividend of no less than $100million the pre-close period.
While, of course, not what for the 2019 financial year and sustain this level wehad targeted, this is a timing effect and we orgreater in future years.
The confidence we have continue to work hard towards delivering this in the performance of the business and our strong transaction and supporting the Joint Venture financial results have also enabled us to recommend toachieve FID mid-2019.
a final 2018 dividend of US4.8c share $67 million that will be payable inMay 2019.
Strengthening our capital structure We continue to optimise our capital structure and Continued prudent approach akey activity in the first half of the year was the to cost discipline and risk management refinancing of one of our high-yield bonds.
We Our capital allocation framework is supported by successfully extended the maturity of our 2020 continued financial discipline.
I am very proud of bond out to 2025, and were able to upsize from the results of the substantial cost savings we have $650 to $800 million.
The bond was significantly made over the last three years.
We set ourselves a oversubscribed, reflecting the quality of our assets target inmid-2015 to remove $500 million of cash and our debt investors confidence in our future costs from the business and we exceeded this in delivery.
In the second half of the year we also took the middle of the year, achieving total savings the decision to cancel our $350 million undrawn ofover $700 million.
Another example is our residual Revolving Credit facility four months early, continued hedging policy, protecting ourselves given our strong headroom position.
TheGroup against the continued volatility of the oil price, but retains significant liquidity ofover $1billion, including also maintaining access to upside.
Our stronger free cash and headroom under the Reserves Based balance sheet was recognised by Standard & Poors, Lending RBL facility, and we have no near-term which raised our credit rating from B to B by the maturities.
We are now in a strong financial end of 2018 and Moodys Investors Service, which position with a simple, balanced capital structure.
upgraded Tullows corporate credit rating by one notch to B1.
We are determined to make sure that Outlining our capital allocation framework the financial discipline that has been instilled into During the year we laid out our capital allocation the business is retained.
We have three priorities for the use ofour capital: continued deleveraging, investing in Future outlook our business and shareholder returns.
While in We have made very good progress in 2018 to move recent years we have, rightly, focused primarily on Tullow from recovery to growth.
I believe that Tullow deleveraging, the balance sheet is now in a much moves into 2019 in a very robust financial position, stronger place.
The strong free cash flow we are able to further reduce our debt, invest in growth generating allows us to invest in our business opportunities and make returns to our shareholders.
andcontinue to strengthen our balance sheet, andcommit to shareholder returns.
Our growth prospects are underpinned by the solid adjusted EBITDAX generated by the business.
However, it is our intention to continue to drive down net debt to under$2billion and maintain leverage of 1x2x over time.
Les Wood We continue to have a portfolio that can operate Chief Financial Officer flexibly, being able to significantly reduce capex 12 February 2019 ifoil prices fell back to sustained low levels, but with opportunities to attract investment at the higher end.
In 2019, we expect to spend approximately $570 million that will see us invest in infill drilling www.
