GOVERNANCE EHS COMMITTEE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER The Committee works to enhance the Boards support and challenge with EHS through appropriate in-depth reviews of strategically important EHS issues for the Group.
The Committee has a forward-looking agenda and considers emerging risks that the business mightface in its operations.
Process safety continues to be a key focus area for the Committee.
In addition to monitoring process safety risk management across the Group, the Committee reviewed the Asset Integrity Strategy The Committee monitors the for the Jubilee and TEN facilities including key EHScontractual arrangements with Tullow as performanceand keyrisks that the theduty holder.
Companyfaces in relation to process As the Jubilee Turret Remediation Project progressed safety, occupational safety, security, towards a permanent solution in 2018, the Committee had an in-depth review oftheassurance processes health andenvironmental management.
Mike Daly, Chair of the EHS Committee TheCommittees environmental review in 2018 focused on the water delivery model for the Kenyadevelopment: the NewVentures business EHS readiness for new country entry:as well as operational readiness for both seismic and COMMITTEE MEMBERS Meetings attended exploration activities.
Mike Daly 3 3 The Committee in 2019 will expand its remit to Angus McCoss 2 2 include an overview of the broader strategic implementation ofTullows sustainability goals, Dorothy Thompson 2 2 including environmental stewardship and Anne Drinkwater 1 1 carbonemissions.
Denotes Directors who were no longer members of the Committee as at 31December 2018.
Mike Daly Chair of the EHS Committee 12 February 2019 2018 HIGHLIGHTS - Deep dives into process safety management on JubileeandTEN assets.
- Site visit to Ghana operations including key .
- Review of the Sustainability Pillar within the 2030 Vision.
80 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Committees role Meetings The Committee has been established by the Board In addition to the core Committee members, to monitor the performance and key risks that the Functional Heads and Senior Managers from Company faces in relation to occupational and across the Group were invited to meetings to process safety, security, health and environmental provide additional details and insights on specific management, with a particular ongoing focus on agenda items.
They also provide guidance on EHS process safety.
The Committee oversees the issues and support discussions about how EHS processes and systems put in place by the Company can be embedded across their parts of the to meet our stated objectives of protecting employees, business.
In 2018 those attending the meetings the communities in which we operate and the included Senior Management from Tullows natural environment.
Additionally, it monitors the operations and Group management team members effectiveness of operational organisations across from the Safety and Sustainability, External Affairs the Company in delivering continuous improvement and Operations and Engineering functions.
in EHS through reviewing a wide range of EHS leading and lagging indicators to gain an insight Committee activities in 2018 into how EHS policies, standards and practices - In 2018, the Committee reviewed the EHS elements arebeing implemented.
In particular, the of the Safety and Sustainability Plan.
The plan Committee reviews high-potential incidents, sets out milestones that need to be reached to especially where they have occurred repeatedly meet Safety and Sustainabilitys multi-year inone location or activity also see Responsible objectives and covers all aspects of EHS.
It also scrutinises the Examples of these milestones include: outcome of audits and investigations.
- assuring that Company and Business Unit plans are in alignment with the EHS and Committees main responsibilities non-technical risk standards incorporated The Committees main responsibilities are: inTullows Integrated Management - to review and provide advice regarding the System IMS : environmental, health, security and asset - supporting Business Delivery Teams in protection, and safety policies of the Company: theimplementation of the Human Rights - to monitor the performance, including regulatory Policy including compliance with the compliance, of the Company in the progressive ModernSlavery Act both available on our implementation of its environmental, health, website : and security and asset protection, and safety policies, - conducting process safety and asset integrity including process safety management: audits of the Jubilee and TEN FPSOs.
- to receive reports covering matters relating to - At each meeting the Committee tracked material environmental, health, security and performance against EHS key performance asset protection, and safety risks: and indicators KPIs, which include both leading - to consider material regulatory and technical andlagging indicators.
In addition to providing developments in the fields of environmental, asnapshot of Tullows progress, EHS KPIs were health, security and asset protection, and used to identify areas where more focus may safetymanagement.
berequired, such as asset integrity, occupational safety and land transport safety.
A number of The Committees terms of reference are reviewed theEHS KPIs are part of the corporate scorecard annually and are available on the corporate website.
and are linked to remuneration: these are The Committees membership changed during the overseen by the Committee.
year with Mike Daly replacing Anne Drinkwater as Chair of the Committee, and Dorothy Thompson - Assurance activity on key EHS risk areas was joining the Committee.
The Committee currently reviewed during 2018.
Such assurance included comprises two non-executive Directors and one the review of results from audits of malaria Executive Director.
Sandy Stash, EVP Safety & management processes across our Ghana, Sustainability, Operations & Engineering and Kenya and Uganda operations.
Committee External Affairs SOEEA, also attends the Committee assurance also included review of the process meetings.
Collectively, the Committee members safety and asset integrity audits of Ghana have considerable operational EHS experience production operations, including an assessment gained from diverse operating environments of the delivery of the Jubilee Asset Integrity across the extractive industries.
com 81 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE EHS COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Committee activities in 2018 continued - The Committee reviewed process safety risk management including plant, process, people and performance management to assess priorities, progress and challenges in 2018 andlooked ahead to 2019 work plans.
The Committee also reviewed risk management indrilling and completion operations including processes, tools and performance.
- Tullows environmental performance and key environmental risks were reviewed together withthe mitigation and management techniques employed to minimise their impact.
Looking forward to 2019 - The Committee will focus on the strategic work plan under development for the Sustainability pillar of the 2030 Vision.
- The Committee will have a continuing emphasis on process safety, including Ghana and Kenya ongoing operations.
- The Committee will provide ongoing oversight ofappropriate EHS risk management at all operational sites.
- The Committee will review assurance work focused on land transport safety and the application of business continuity plans implemented by the business.
- The Committee will continue to review the EHSelements of the East Africa development project plans and sustainability aspects of all new country entries.
82 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts
