PROGRESSIVE ORGANISATION A PROGRESSIVE ORGANISATION Our 2030 Vision outlines how we will take a progressive and innovative approach to planning for and delivering our business activities, which includes developing organisational agility: using smart technology: and streamlining and improving our processes.
ORGANISATIONAL STRATEGY Efficient and effective organisation: ensuring our Leadership succession: ensuring Tullow is led by operating model supports the delivery of our strategy strong, capable leadership teams with robust and supports a motivated and engaged workforce succession plansinplace Performance management: driving a highLocalisation: developing businesses with national performing mindset, continuous improvement in leadership teams and globally developing national how we work and linking performance to reward leadership capability Inclusion and diversity: being an inclusive company People development: developing our people and with a diverse workforce, with strong host country supporting their careers through business delivery and gender representation at senior levels Tullows thinking on what it means to be a progressive organisation is evolving.
Our initial priorities focus on three components: organisational agility, technology innovation and process improvement.
Organisational agility refers to how we Employee engagement will allocate skills and expertise more fluidly with a focus on During the year we carried out our biennial employee engagement value creation.
We are introducing more flexible work patterns survey, Tullow Pulse, andreceived a 90 per cent response allowing our people to more freely work from different locations rate from employees and contractors, the highest ever or geographies, and more flexible working hours, regardless participation from an all-employee survey.
of the projects they are assigned to.
This will deliver greater diversity of thought and contribution within every team.
Technology The survey showed that we are making good progress in the is all pervasive and has the potential to create huge efficiencies, key areas of improvement that were raised in the 2016 survey.
performance improvements and insights onavast range of our In particular, there was positive feedback on the work on activities at Tullow.
More information about our initial thinking career and personal development, effective communication on this can be found in the Technology Innovation section on and Senior Management set-up and engagement.
Finally, process improvement isan area where we helped increase the overall levels of positive sentiment and have made great strides in recent years, for example in satisfaction within Tullow.
improving our Integrated Management System and reporting The key findings from this years survey were: at a company and individual level to ensure our focus is delivering on our strategy and on value.
A key focus of - a clear recognition of the Companys focus and commitment our2019 scorecard KPIs related to Progressive organisation to environmental, health and safety and the importance of is to develop more detailed thinking and plans to build on our environmental and socialperformance: initial progressive strategy forexecution in 2020 in Tullow.
- strong, positive feedback about people development but This section highlights some areas of our organisational questions about employees potential to achieve longerfocus, such asour approach to inclusion and diversity, term career goals within Tullow: smartworking and people development.
We have more work - recognition of the embedded improvements in financial to do to fully adopt a progressive approach in all aspects of governance, cost consciousness and financial discipline: our organisational strategy.
Nevertheless, ourorganisational strategy outlined above has been delivering strong performance - positive feedback about the changes in leadership, and a for the business over the last three years, andwill continueto desire for more engagement with staff: guide our strategic approach to Tullowsorganisation.
com 45 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT PROGRESSIVE ORGANISATION CONTINUED - consensus that communications and engagement had improved: and - recognition of the refreshed Tullow Values but concerns around trust and fear of speaking up still prevalent in some People development parts of our organisation.
Tullow is committed to developing our people to ensure they have the right skills and experience todeliver our strategy The responses to the survey have been developed into action andto ensure they have fulfilling roles and rewarding careers.
plans, which shall will delivered during 2019.
Project LEAP, adedicated project to improve our approach to We have continued to prioritise clear and effective communication career and personal development, continued into its second across the Company.
Regular news items are available to all year in 2018.
The project has helped: strengthen the link employees through a relaunched intranet and regular town between development and business performance: encourage hall meetings led by Executives or Senior Managers.
Over the more agile ways of working: improve how development support past year we launched Tullow in Focus, a series of longer is offered to staff: and supported the establishment of town hall sessions, that the Executive Team and Leaders led development communities.
Tullows people development across all six of our key locations, providing Tullow people with agenda includes a range of programmes e. g. Senior Leaders an opportunity to review and debate our vision, strategy, Programme and Ghana Risers Programme.
In2018, many performance and key activities.
In addition to formal ofour development opportunities have come through our communications, the Executive and Senior leaders regularly People Forum initiative, a twice-yearly review of open roles meet a range of staff to communicate business news and to and opportunities across the business, with a view to creating hear employees views and opinions.
cross-functional moves and job placements, expanding peoples skills, experiences and career horizons.
The 2018 People Forums led to 20 cross-functional moves, ten external development assignments and numerous volunteer roles being created.
Additionally, a new development portal was OUR VALUES launched, which receives over 1,000 hits per month.
Having launched the refreshed Tullow Values in December2017, we have made progress in 2018 We are now undertaking further work to better understand intheengagement and reinforcement of these Values.
theneeds of Tullows business leaders and employees in order to support their ongoing career development and to deliver the Companys 2030 Vision.
This will inform our future VALUE INTEGRITY learning and development strategy.
Focus on value creation Act with integrity throughperformance, andhave respect for  eachother, and the TOTAL WORKFORCE communities and places 2,500 where we work 2,000 1,500 1,000 2,042 1,403 1,152 500 1,030 990 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 INITIATIVE COLLABORATION Take initiative to find new Work collaboratively to and innovative ways to leverage our collective develop thebusiness talentsand support thedevelopment of eachother 46 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts GENDER DIVERSITY 1,200 1,000 Leadership and succession The focus of 2018 was to review and refresh our succession 800 plans for the Executive Team, which were reviewed by the Boards Nominations Committee in June 2018.
Aswell as 600 identifying potential successors, independent assessments are undertaken to establish strengths and development needs, 400 from which individual development plans are developed.
200 0 Total male workforce Total number of male managers Total female workforce Total number of female managers Inclusion and diversity Tullow believes that an inclusive and diverse workforce is critical to maintaining a successful and sustainable business.
2016 2017 2018 The rich diversity, skills, abilities and creativity that people Board diversity 18% 11% 13% from differing backgrounds and experiences bring to the 2 11 1 9 1 8 Company are highly-valued and we ensure that we provide aworkplace where employees are treated fairly, equally Executive diversity 0% 25% 25% andwith respect.
Our inclusion and diversity plan remains 0 4 2 8 2 8 focused on increasing the diversity of nationalities and Senior Management 13% 15% 21% genderacross the Company.
diversity 9 68 10 65 14 68 We aim to have a nationality mix that is representative of Workforce diversity 29% 30% 31% thecountries where our assets are located.
In particular, 336 1,152 313 1,030 303 990 wewant toimprove the numbers of Africans and women in leadership roles.
We monitor and track progress against our aspirations and our data and analytics ensure we can track We have been actively working to attract more diverse and drive further improvement.
This work is led by an candidates when we recruit new employees.
This included Executive sub-group and during 2018 it focused on: changing the way we advertise, checking that the language used is gender neutral and developing more robust interview - raising awareness of Tullows inclusion and diversity plans processes e. g. diverse panel interviews.
In addition, we across the Company: haveworked to ensure our interview processes avoid any - improving the percentage of African nationalities potential bias.
inseniorleadership: - improving our gender diversity in senior leadership and toaddress the gender pay gap: - considering Tullows inclusion and diversity plans alongside our Employee Standards, HR procedures, employment Gender pay gap reporting legislation and industry best practice: In 2017 the UK Government introduced the requirement for companies with over 250 employees to calculate and report their - reporting on inclusion and diversity performance:and gender pay gaps for salary and bonuses.
The gender pay gap - initiating training for managers and holding internal workshops.
isthe difference between the average earnings of men and women, expressed relative to mens earnings.
Tullow is At the end of 2018 our workforce was made up of893 employees reporting this data for all our UK permanent employees and 97 contractors: 44 different nationalities work atTullow, tofulfil the requirements of the regulation.
52 per cent are African nationals and 31 per cent are women.
OurExecutive Team is made up of six men and twowomen 2018 PAY AND BONUS GAPS and our Senior Managers were 13percent Africanand Womens hourly rate Womens bonus pay 21percent female.
2017 2018 2017 2018 Dorothy Thompson, who is one of just seven femaleChairs inthe FTSE 250, took up the position ofTullow Board Chair in Lower mean 44% 39% 53% 48% July2018 and governs anotherwise all male Board comprised Lower median 49% 46% 52% 48% of four non-executive Directors and three Executive Directors 13 per cent female.
The current lack of diversity stems from recent changes in the Board that we are seeking to address.
Our target is to achieve 30 per cent female representation and20 per cent African representation on the Board by 2020. www.
com 47 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT PROGRESSIVE ORGANISATION CONTINUED Tullows UK workforce is 31 per cent female and only 21 per cent of managerial positions are filled by women and this gender imbalance continues to be the principal reason for Tullows gender pay gap.
There is a national shortage of qualified and Localisation experienced women in technical roles in the oil and gas sector As Africas leading independent oil company, localisation is and this is reflected at Tullow with a higher proportion of men fundamental to our strategy, commitment and brand.
This is in the senior technical roles.
Our gender pay gap has improved reinforced by the way we operate in Ghana and Kenya, where in the past year: however, we acknowledge there is more work we look to develop and invest in local talent.
This includes to be done and we continue to focus on improving diversity, ensuring that if we employ an expatriate to cover a skills gap, especially at senior levels.
that person then supports the business to develop transition plans to take on a local employee.
2018 PAY QUARTILES Men Women 2017 2018 2017 2018 LOCALISATION IN ACTION Over the past three years, Tullow has seconded over Top quartile 90% 90% 10% 10% 50colleagues from its African offices toits corporate Upper middle 91% 88% 9% 12% offices in London and Dublin, giving secondees an quartile opportunity to gain valuable skills andexperience through Lower middle 65% 62% 35% 38% work onkey projects, which will ultimately enable them quartile tosucceed expatriates or grow their careers in our Africanoffices.
In 2018 we seconded 27 African Lower quartile 51% 51% 49% 49% colleaguesto corporate offices.
In our Ghana business, in 2018 we promoted and hired 16 PERCENTAGE RECEIVED BONUS PAY Ghanaians into senior leadership positions and among our Men Women broader staff base, nine roles were localised.
Notwithstanding this progress, we saw a 3per cent decline in localisation 2017 2018 2017 2018 over the year, from 67 per cent in 2017 to 64 per cent in 95% 94% 97% 97% 2018.
This was driven by an operational and business excellence programme, which involved some redundancies in our Ghana business.
Looking ahead to 2019, we aretargeting localisation rates of 71 per cent by the end of the year.
Inour Kenya business, which from a human resource perspective hasremained Reward static in advance of FID, one role was localised.
Overall, Tullow offers an attractive reward and benefits package to there was a 1 per cent improvement in localisation in engage and motivate staff, drive the success of our business ourKenya business last year, from 78 per cent in 2017 and attract new employees to the Company.
Our reward to79per cent in 2018. package is performance-linked and consists of fixed and variable components including base salary, bonus, share awards, pension, life assurance and a range of other benefits.
Through our bonus scheme, all employees have LOCALISATION RATES BY COUNTRY % theopportunity to be shareholders in Tullow and all bonus 100 structures include an element of corporate performance.
Thisapproach supports the engagement of the entire workforce with our Company vision and purpose.
80 Furtherinformation on our Executive remuneration can be 60 found on page 93.
40 20 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 Ghana Kenya Uganda 48 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts SMART AND FLEXIBLE WORKING Tullow launched a new smart and flexible working policy towards the end of 2018, which links directly to our desire tobe a progressive organisation.
As a result of offering employees more flexibility in their working hours and locations, we believe Tullow will be a more attractive place towork, reducing the carbon footprint from employee travel, andcreating a more inclusive working environment.
Colleagues will benefit from a greater work life balance andavoid some of the stresses associated with daily commuting.
This policy will be implemented globally inthefirst quarter of 2019.
Dee Murray, Group Head of HR TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION Subsurface as well as Production Operations teams have Tullow has a long track record of trialling and adopting the latest been evaluating specific use cases fordigital twins, in IT capabilities.
Over the years several teams within the predictive analytics androbotics for adoption in 2019.
Company have kept a careful eye on the evolving information These activities are all directly supportive of our commitment technology horizon looking for opportunities to add additional to being progressive.
Not only does digital have the capability value through the use of new tools and methods.
Until recently, to further improve Tullows performance, but it also creates the proven use cases for tools such as artificial intelligence, learning opportunities for staff in competencies that will machine learning and robotic process automation seemed beincreasingly in demand both inside and outside our relatively few and far between within our industry.
This in turn allows Tullow to offer exciting relentless pace of evolution in cloud services, telecommunication opportunities to our JV Partners as they look to improve speeds and raw computer power has created a step change understanding and upskill their stakeholders in use of in the speed of new, useful innovations being made available digitaltools.
Tullow has responded this year by formalising its approach through the creation of a corporate digital strategy team charged with developing and managing the realisation of a Company-wide digital roadmap.
The digital strategy team partners with business leads to look for scenarios where new digital tools have produced measurable value in situations directly analogous to Tullows operations and objectives.
This provides a higher degree of certainty that the tools and new processes adopted will provide the actual promised value.
This pragmatic approach is the primary guiding principle as we think about how tostreamline and improve efficiency across our back-office capabilities in light of the increasing variety of digital tools available off the shelf.
Tullows approach to digital also recognises that its traditional commitment to innovate has repeatedly and successfully expressed itself through adoption of, and even the creation of, cutting-edge information management practices and tools.
In areas of the business that directly create a competitive advantage for Tullow, the digital strategy team offers continued support for experimenting with digitalsolutions that have the potential to be transformative in our industry.
Throughout 2018, Tullow Exploration and Angus McCoss, Exploration Director www.
com 49 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT PROGRESSIVE ORGANISATION CONTINUED SPEAKING UP Ethical behaviour Workplace compliance 37 Our Code of Ethical Conduct the Code is at the Fraud 11 core of our Ethics and Compliance programme 66 Supply chain 10 speaking which is designed to ensure that we conduct our Corruption 8 up cases business ethically and legally.
We have zero tolerance Speaking up cases 66 for bribery, corruption and other financial crime.
This is fully supported by Tullow management and the Board.
In 2018, we updated the Code as part of our three-year review cycle for Board-level policy We are committed to ensuring that the integrity of documents.
As part of this review, we strengthened our Code of Ethical Conduct is not compromised, our Code to specifically cover new areas of governance whether by staff or by those who work on our behalf.
that expect a clear commitment or position from To this end, we have a speaking up process in place, the Company, including on lobbying and advocacy, comprised of internal channels to speak up to a prevention of the facilitation of tax evasion, manager or the Tullow Ethics and Compliance team, anti-slavery and GDPR.
or via our external independent and confidential We require those who deliver services to us, or who reporting process provided by Safecall.
We prominently act on our behalf, to act in a manner consistent publish the speaking updetails in our Code which with our Code in addition to the specific business is publicly available.
In 2018, werecorded 66 ethics and compliance clauses we have in place in reports, of which 10 were submitted via Safecall.
our agreements as well as other clauses that cover We investigated all reported possible or actual anti-slavery and compliance with sanctions and breaches of our Code, following which two trade restrictions.
These contractual clauses are members of our workforce left the Group or had designed to ensure that third parties connected to their contracts terminated.
As in previous years, Tullow will not cause us to breach our own Code.
weprovide a breakdown in the speaking up graph Prior to contract award, we also conduct risk-based above of such cases bycategory.
third-party due diligence to assess risks related to ownership structure, anti-bribery and corruption, This Strategic Report and the information referred sanctions and trade restrictions and human rights to herein have been approved by the Board and and labour conditions.
In 2018, we provided further signed on its behalf by: due diligence training to our supply chain teams and continued monitoring theexecution of thisprocess.
As in past years, we relaunched the annual e-learning on the Code to all staff.
This year, we redesigned the module to connect the learning Dorothy Thompson onspecific areas of the Code e. g. anti-bribery and Chair corruption with the Tullow Values Value, Integrity, Collaboration and Initiative.
Our Values, as well asour Code, are instrumental to driving the way we work and further build a culture of ethics and compliance.
We also merged the e-learning with Adam Holland our annual Code certification process whereby Company Secretary staff are required to disclose how they complied 12 February 2019 with the Code of Ethical Conduct and the related standards and procedures in a given period e. g. whether they filed all gifts and hospitality received.
In 2018, the Code e-learning and annual Code certification were completed by 100 per cent of our people as well as all non-executive Directors.
Les Wood, CFO and Board member with executive responsibility for ethics and compliance, signed off on behalf of Tullow Oil plc to confirm thisprocess.
50 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts
