GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS EFFECTIVE & ENTREPRENEURIAL LEADERSHIP The Board provides strategic oversight and cultural stewardship E 4.
ANGUS McCOSS of the Company to promote its long-term sustainable success, EXPLORATION DIRECTOR and has a particular responsibility for maintaining effective risk Age: 57 Appointment: 2006 management and internal control systems.
Tenure: 12 years Independent: No Key strengths Upstream business, exploration and appraisal executive leadership, public company leadership, N E 2.
DOROTHY THOMPSON investor and government relations, environment, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CHAIR health, safety and sustainability, technology Age: 55 Appointment: 2006 andinnovation.
Age: 58 Appointment: 2018 Tenure: 12 years Independent: No Tenure: 10 months Independent: Yes Experience Key strengths Angus brings substantial experience in the upstream Key strengths Upstream business, executive leadership, investor oil and gas business to Tullow, gained through a Corporate finance, accounting and audit, business and government relations, environment, health, 21-year career in exploration atRoyal Dutch Shell.
development, risk management, executive leadership, safety and sustainability.
Angus held senior roles in exploration and public company governance and leadership, investor subsurface covering a wide geography across relations, technology and innovation.
Experience Africa, South America, the Middle East and China Paul, a petroleum engineer, joined Tullow in 2001 Experience including general manager exploration, Nigeria having gained operational, commercial and Dorothy brings extensive leadership and governance andregional vice president exploration forthe management experience in the North Sea, Latin experience to Tullow developed over a 35-year Americas.
After joining Tullow in 2006, Angus America, Africa and Southeast Asia with established career in international business.
Dorothy most headed up the exploration leadership team that exploration and production companies Conoco Inc. recently spent 12 years as Chief Executive Officer for discovered significant resources for Tullow inGhana, and LASMO.
Paul has been instrumental in the Drax Group plc, the international power and energy Uganda and Kenya.
Angus holds a BSc Hons growth of Tullow, participating in the transformational trading company.
Before joining Drax, Dorothy was Geology from Dundee University and a PhD in acquisitions of North Sea gas assets from BP in vice president of the global independent power Structural Geology from Queens University, Belfast.
2002 and the West Africa oilassets from Energy generation company InterGen Services Inc, Africa in 2004.
Paul was appointed Chief Operating Current external roles managing its European business.
Dorothy previously Officer of Tullow in 2006, a positionhe held until Angus is currently senior independent non-executive worked for PowerGen plc as head of project finance 2017, when he was appointed ChiefExecutive director of Providence Resources plc, an Irish oil having started her career in development banking Officer.
Paul holds a BSc in Civil Engineering from and gas exploration company.
Angus also serves with the Commonwealth Development Corporation Strathclyde University and an MSc in Petroleum onthe advisory board of the Energy and Geoscience and the National Development Bank of Botswana, Engineering from Imperial College, London.
Institute, University of Utah, which conducts roles that Dorothy gained significant experience in scientific research projects for the global emerging markets in Africa.
In addition, Dorothy Current external roles energyindustry.
spent nine years as a non-executive director of None.
Johnson Matthey, a multinational specialist in the supply and innovation of sustainable technologies A N R in the chemical industry, where she served on the 5.
LES WOOD Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
SENIOR INDEPENDENT CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Dorothy holds BSc Hons and MSc degrees in NONEXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Economics from the London School of Economics Age: 56 Appointment: 2017 Age: 54 Appointment: 2013 and Political Science and was appointed a Tenure: 20 months Independent: No Commander of the Order of the British Empire in Tenure: 5 years Independent: Yes Key strengths 2013 for services to the UK electricity industry.
Key strengths Upstream business, corporate finance, Corporate finance, accounting and audit, business Current external roles accountingand audit, business development, development, M&A, risk management, executive Dorothy is currently a non-executive director riskmanagement, executive leadership, leadership, public company governance and ofEaton Corporation plc, an international power investorand government relations.
management company, where she serves on the Experience Audit and Finance Committees.
In addition, Dorothy Experience Les brings considerable financial and commercial is a director of the Court of the Bank of England, Jeremy brings extensive strategic and corporate expertise to Tullow, including major M&A delivery, where she chairs the Audit & Risk Committee, finance experience to Tullow developed over a joining in 2014 as Vice President Commercial & isthe Senior Independent Director and serves on 30-year business career.
Most recently Jeremy Finance after a 28-year career at BP plc.
Les held a the Nominations Committee.
spent 26 years at the investment bank JP Morgan number of senior roles including Chief Financial where he held a number of senior executive Officer for BP Canada and BP Middle East as well rolesincluding head of European mergers and as Global Head of Business Development.
After acquisitions, co-head of global natural resources joining Tullow, Les has been instrumental in driving &diversified industrials and latterly vicechair of a new performance culture and cost discipline as well the banks energy group.
Jeremy holds an MSc as improving the balance sheet to position the COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP KEY inEngineering from Cambridge University.
Les holds a BSc Hons Committee Chair inChemistry from Herriot Watt University, Current external roles Edinburgh, and an MSc in Inorganic Chemistry Jeremy is currently a non-executive director of A Audit Committee fromAberdeen University.
John Wood Group plc, an international engineering N Nominations Committee company providing project and technical services Current external roles tothe energy industry, where he serves on the E EHS Committee None.
Auditand Nominations Committees and chairs the R Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee.
Jeremy is also a co-founder and chair of the Lakeland Climbing Centre.
60 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 3 2 1 4 7 5 6 8 A R A N R E 6.
MIKE DALY NONEXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NONEXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NONEXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Age: 56 Appointment: 2010 Age: 64 Appointment: 2012 Age: 65 Appointment: 2014 Tenure: 8 years Independent: Yes Tenure: 6 years Independent: Yes Tenure: 4 years Independent: Yes Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Corporate finance, audit and accounting, business Upstream business, corporate finance, accounting Upstream business, exploration, executive and public development, risk management and investor and audit, riskmanagement, executive and public company leadership, technology and innovation, andgovernment relations.
environment, health, safety and sustainability.
Experience Experience Experience Tutu brings a wealth of financial and investment Steve brings significant financial and leadership Mike brings significant upstream experience to Tullow experience to Tullow from a 30-year career in experience in the energy and extractive industries from a 40-year career in the oil and gas business.
proprietary trading, investment banking, derivatives to Tullow after a 40-year business career.
Steve, Mike spent 28 years at BP plc where he held a trading, business and asset management.
After achartered accountant, most recently spent eight number of senior executive and functional roles starting his career at OConnor &Company Securities years as finance director of National Grid plc.
within the exploration and production division on the trading floor of the London Stock Exchange, Previously, he held senior financial positions during across Europe, South America, the Middle East and Tutu spent 21 years at UBS, most recently as head an 11-year career at Royal Dutch Shell and six Asia, including eight years as head of exploration of emerging markets in Europe, Africa and the years at BG Group plc, latterly as group treasurer.
He also served Middle East.
Tutu also served on the board of directors.
During this time Steve has also held non-executive onBPs executive team as executive vice president In 2007, he founded Nubuke Investment LLP, an directorships at the American oil and gas drilling exploration, accountable for the leadership of BPs investment and advisory business focused solely on company Transocean Ltd, the Compass Group plc access, exploration.
Mike was a member of the Africa.
Tutu has also served as a senior adviser to and the Indian energy and power company World Economic Forums Global Agenda Council Power Africa, a division of USAid, the United States EssarEnergy.
Steve holds a BA inGeology onthe Arctic and was on the board of the British Governments international development agency.
He remains a visiting Professor He was co-chair of the African Acquisition Committee at the Department ofEarth Sciences at Oxford Current external roles at the Tate Modern Museum, London, and is director University.
He holds aBSc in Geology from Aberystwyth Steve is currently a non-executive director of and founder of the Nubuke Foundation, a Ghanaian University and aPhD in Geology from Leeds University.
AcaciaMining plc where he serves on the Audit, cultural, arts and educational institution.
Tutu holds Mike is also a graduate of the Program for Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
a BSc in Mathematics and Computing from the Management Development, Harvard Business Inaddition, Steve is also chairman of mining University of Ghana Legon, Accra.
School, and in 2014was awarded The Geological company Ferrexpo plc where he chairs the Society of Londons Petroleum Group Medal.
Current external roles Nominations Committee.
Managing partner and chief investment officer Current external roles of Nubuke Investment LLP and director and Non-executive director of Compagnie Gnrale fide founder of the Nubuke Foundation.
Gophysique, a global provider of geoscience and geophysical services tothe oil and gas industry, where he ischair of the Health, Safety, Environment and Sustainable Development Committee.
TENURE YRS AGE DISTRIBUTION YRS GENDER DIVERSITY % NATIONALITY % INDEPENDENCE % 6.0 57 13% 13% 63% average average female Ghanaian independent tenure age 38 38 24 I 75 25 I 13 87 I 13 87 I 63 37 I 05 3 50s 6 Female 13 Ghanaian 13 Independent 63 510 3 60s 2 Male 87 British 87 Non-independent 37 1015 2 www.
