STRATEGIC REPORT MARKET OUTLOOK REVIEWING EVOLVINGMARKETS OIL PRICE Global oil supply and demand are currently around tocontinue allowing eight countries to import Iranian oil for 100million bopd.
Oil supply responds most quickly to price six months.
The fourth quarter was an oil bear market, with through modulation of production, when necessary, by key crude dropping over 30 per cent to a year-end low, marginally OPEC and other major producer countries, and through the above $50 bbl.
The declines, initially a response to the US oil shale industry where, in the absence of continuous USreliefs from sanctions on Iranian oil, were compounded investment, production from fractured reservoir wells as demand growth estimates were reduced on economic declines sharply within months.
Supply from conventional uncertainty, especially around the USChina trade outlook.
production also declines without infill investment but much Traders are expecting continued price volatility over 2019, more gradually.
Oil demand growth is generally driven by given limited spare production capacity, weighed against GDP but is concentrated regionally in emerging economies anuncertain economic growth outlook and potential for and in the petrochemical and transport fuel sectors.
Beyond that, the implementation ofIMO 2020 regulations is expected to drive higher demand In 2018, Brent prices approached and briefly exceeded $70 bbl for diesel and low-sulphur heavy oil.
After a brief retracement, prices increased steadily until May when Brent reached $80 bbl on President Trumps Tullow mitigates the risk of oil price volatility through a decision to impose sanctions against Iran, as well as disruption prudent hedging programme.
Hedging delivered $850 million to supply in Nigeria.
By July, Brent was back at $70 bbl of revenue during the recent downturn 20152017, and in asoil demand fell and traders saw that Saudi Arabia and 2019, we have 60 per cent of our production protected at a Russia were willing to increase output to cap price upside.
floor price of $56 bbl, while 75 per cent remains exposed Crude prices peaked in October at a two-year high of to higher oil prices compared to around 60 per cent in $86 bbl asthe expected impact of sanctions on Iranian oil 2018, and 25 per cent of production is capped at around grew.
Thesubsequent weakening of prices reflected OPECs $80 bbl.
This, together with low operating costs per barrel, decision to increase output in September to offset the flexible capital expenditure and strong liquidity, ensures our anticipated fallin Iranian production, as well as a weaker business remains robust during unpredictable markets and OPEC and IEAconsumption outlook, and the US decision is competitive as decarbonisation accelerates.
In the period to 2035, oil and gas is likely theviability of major capital projects for TRANSITION TO THE toremain close to 60 per cent of the energy .
LOW-CARBON ECONOMY mix, with natural gas as a key bridge fuel.
Governments and investors continue to be The process for calculating the net present Renewable energy supply compound average focused on providing affordable, low-carbon cost of GHG emissions over the lifetime of growth rates of 810 per cent per year are energy to a growing population, whilst new projects is set out in our Integrated forecast for the foreseeable future with the limiting global warming to below 2 degrees.
Management System Investment Appraisal main renewable energy technologies being 2018 saw a successful COP24 in Poland Standard, making it an integral part of cost competitive with fossil fuel equivalents agree the elements of the rulebook for Tullows financial appraisal process for in many parts of the world and sometimes putting the 2015 Paris Agreement into newdevelopments.
Finally, oil demand is forecast practice, including how governments will We are committed to adopting a business topeak around 2035, although if policies measure, report on and verify their strategy that is responsive to applicable legal tighten, some believe this peak will be brought emissions-cutting efforts.
By2020, countries and regulatory changes designed to address forward.
This makes resetting costs and prices must show they have mettargets set a climate.
Tullows IMS Non-Technical Risk through modernisation and digitalisation key decade ago for cutting theiremissions, and Standard requires that for all new factors in retaining competitiveness affirm new, much tougher targets.
The developments, greenhouse gas emissions throughout this transition.
investment communitys focus on climate are estimated over the lifetime of the project.
continued to gain momentum, with experts Tullow recognises that evolving legislation We calculate the net present cost of these citing 2018 as the year that climate aimed at reducing GHG emissions may, over emissions using a shadow carbon price of disclosure entered the mainstream, with time, have an impact on demand prices.
$40 te of CO equivalent emissions, in line 500 companies expressing support for the Weare actively seeking to anticipate and with industry standards.
Task Force on Climate-related Financial respond to this change, for example by Disclosures recommendations.
applying notional carbon pricing to test 16 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts AFRICAN ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL OUTLOOK We set out below an overview of the economic and political outlook in our countries of operation.
Ghana The political landscape in 2019 may also ease somewhat after The 2019 budget, presented in November, shows renewed the youth protests in Kampala against perceived harassment government confidence after several difficult years following the of the opposition, the rising cost of living and security force balance of payments crisis in 20142015.
The Government has taken some important of the economy and stronger oil receipts in 2018 have created firststeps to address these issues but perceived inequality space for more expansive fiscal policy: government ofopportunity and new charismatic youth leadership are expenditure will rise in 2019 to support delivery of its likelyto reshape the political landscape into the 2020s.
ambitious social and economic development plans.
Gabon Higher aggregate oil prices, increasing liquids production and Gabon saw an uncertain start to 2019, due to concerns about the launch of Ghanas first competitive exploration licensing President Ali Bongos health, raising questions about an round are also sparking renewed confidence in the oil sector.
earlier than expected political transition.
The economic Petroleum revenues are playing a key role in servicing Ghanas outlook seems more certain with economic growth expected external debt and in financing the countrys flagship free to rise to 5.1 per cent in 2019.
Although public finances are yet Senior High School programme.
to be restored to full health, substantive reforms have been However, investor confidence remains fragile and market positively received by the IMF.
appetite for emerging market risk is more volatile.
With the There has also been significant progress towards restoring the imminent end of the IMF emergency support programme in attractiveness of Gabons mature oil industry.
The finalisation of the March 2019, capital markets will insist that the Government new hydrocarbons code, now awaiting legislative approval, is a very continues to show probity in managing its accounts and positive step.
The launch of a new licensing round in late 2018 delivering its public investment commitments while should also encourage higher levels of IOC interest.
maintaining the countrys attractiveness to foreign direct investors in dollar-generating sectors like oil and gas.
Cte dIvoire Over the past 18 months, the Ivorian Government has awarded Kenya more than a dozen open licences to IOCs and juniors.
This The March 2018 handshake between President Kenyatta isan important step in the revival of Cte dIvoire as a major andlong-time opponent Raila Odinga drew a line under the West African exploration frontier.
Leadership at the Ministry disputed 2017 election.
This allowed a shift in political focus ofEnergy changed in December 2018, but the Governments toissues of governance and development.
2019 is likely to commitment to finding the next generation of oil and gas bedominated by the findings of Odingas Building Bridges fields is unlikely to change.
This is intended, among other things, to reduce the probability of a disputed or violent electoral transition in2022, Politically, the country has remained among the most stable in when Kenyatta will stand down.
the region, though a period of uncertainty is beginning, ahead of the 2020 election.
President Ouattara is due to stand down While political tensions have eased and growth is relatively and this has prompted a significant and ongoing realignment robust, revenue generation will continue to lag ambitious of parties and leaders that is likely to dominate political spending plans into 2019.
The Central Bank of Kenya has voiced activity in 2019. concerns about the available headroom for public financing ofKenyas twin deficit and public investment programme.
Equatorial Guinea This should translate into renewed government focus on The IMF estimated that Equatorial Guineas economy thedelivery of Project Oil Kenya, to secure future revenue contracted for the fifth successive year in 2018, due to falling streams without large-scale public financing.
Rapid decision hydrocarbon production, weak oil and gas prices and the making will be key here, given the potential for the widely resulting reduction in government capital investment.
expected constitutional reform to require government Itsresponse to rapid decline in hydrocarbons output has attention and resources over the next year.
New exploration licences have been awarded and the Government is seeking partners to Uganda invest in mature fields with a focus on boosting production The Ugandan economy is expected to expand more strongly andreducing costs.
Politically, the country has remained in2019 after five years of sub-par growth.
However, revenue largely stable during the downturn, but there is some generation to meet spending commitments remains challenging, uncertainty linked to the leadership transition expected especially in light of the Ugandan Governments policy of avoiding intheyears ahead.
borrowing from international capital markets.
Long-term oil production from the Lake Albert fields could underpin government revenue and development plans for the decade ahead creating a strong incentive for facilitating a 2019 FID.
