GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT APPLYING THE UKCORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE Introduction Remuneration Committee.
The Board is satisfied As a UK listed company, Tullow Oil plcs governance that the Committees have sufficient resources to policies and procedures are based on the principles carry out their duties effectively.
Their terms of and supporting provisions of the Financial Reporting reference are reviewed and approved annually by the Board and the respective Committee Chairs Councils FRC UK Corporate Governance Code.
report on their activities at the next Board meeting.
ThisDirectors Report summarises how the Company Details of Committee membership, roles and their has complied in full with the April 2016 version of work during 2018 are set out later in this report.
theCode during the year ended 31 December 2018, namely: leadership, effectiveness, accountability, Inaddition to delegating certain matters to Board remuneration and shareholder relations.
In July 2018 Committees, the Board has also delegated certain the FRC published a revision to the Code which operational and management matters to the willapply to reporting periods beginning on or Executive Directors.
In line with the guidance after1January 2019.
Copies of the 2016 and issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and 2018versionsof the Code are available via the Administrators ICSA, the Board approved formal FRCs website: www.
uk terms of reference for the Executive Directors Committee in December 2014 and most recently The Company remains compliant with the Financial reviewed and reaffirmed these terms of reference Conduct Authoritys Listing Rule 9.8.
Related information can be found in the Directors Report Division of responsibilities onpages 62 to 67.
The Group has complied with The Chair is primarily responsible for the effective sections 414CA and 414CB as well as 414C of the working of the Board, whilst the Chief Executive Companies Act 2006 following the introduction of Officer is responsible for the operational management the Companies, Partnerships and Groups Accounts of the business, for developing strategy in consultation and Non-Financial Reporting Regulations 2016. with the Board and for implementation of the strategy.
Relevant information can be found throughout the This separation of responsibilities is clearly defined Strategic Report and Governance section of this and agreed by the Board.
The Chair leads the Annual Report.
Board, setting the agenda and ensuring that the meetings provide adequate time for discussion.
Leadership The non-executive Directors have a broad range of Role of the Board business and commercial experience.
They provide The Board is accountable to shareholders for the independent and constructive challenge to the creation and delivery of strong, sustainable financial Executive Team and monitor the performance of the performance and long-term shareholder value.
Executive Team in delivering the agreed objectives Itmeets these aims through setting the Groups and targets.
TheBoard considers each of the strategy and ensuring that the necessary resources non-executive Directors to be independent in are available to achieve the agreed strategic goals.
One of the non-executive The Board also sets the Companys key policies Directors hasbeen selected by the Board to be the and reviews management and financial performance.
The Board is fully The Board operates through a framework of controls, satisfied that Jeremy Wilson demonstrates and these clear procedures, lines of responsibility complete independence and robustness of and delegated authorities allow risk to be assessed character and judgement in his capacity as Senior and managed effectively.
These are underpinned Independent Director.
The Senior Independent bythe Boards work to set the Groups core Values Director is available to meet shareholders if they and standards of business conduct and ensure that have concerns that cannot be resolved through these, together with the Groups obligations to discussion with the Chair, the Chief Executive itsstakeholders, are widely understood across Officer or the Chief Financial Officer or for matters allitsactivities.
where such contact would be inappropriate.
During The Board has delegated some of its responsibilities the year, the Senior Independent Director met with to four Committees, the Audit Committee, the EHS the other non-executive Directors without the Chair Committee, the Nominations Committee and the to discuss the Chairs performance.
62 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts The relationship between the Board, the Board Committees and the Executive Team and their delegated responsibilities are summarised in the following diagram: THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Chair, Executive Directors, Senior Independent Director and non-executive Directors The Board operates under the leadership of the Chair and is collectively responsible for setting the Companys strategy to deliver long-term value to shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Board ensures the appropriate resources, leadership and effective controls are in place to deliver the strategy.
The Board also sets out the Companys culture and Values, monitorsbusiness performance and provides risk management.
The Board delegates some of its responsibilities to Board Sub-Committees.
The Board is accountable for the stewardship of the Companys business to the shareholders.
AUDIT NOMINATIONS REMUNERATION EHS COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Responsible for financial Responsible for Board Responsible for reward Responsible for health, reporting, audit, internal composition, appointment and compensation for occupational and process control and risk of Directors and Executive Directors and safety, environment and management.
the Chair and reviewing security management.
the remuneration arrangements for the Executive Team andemployees.
EXECUTIVE TEAM Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Exploration Director and five Executive Vice Presidents The Executive Team operates under the leadership of the Chief Executive Officer and is responsible for delivery and execution of the Boards strategy as well as the day-to-day management of the Companys business and operational performance.
TheExecutive Team is accountable to the Board.
Since 1 January 2019, the Remuneration Committee is now responsible for setting the remuneration for the Executive Team.
Board discussions Director Attendance The Board and its Committees deal with its core Tutu Agyare 5 6 activities in planned meetings throughout the year.
Matters which require decisions outside Mike Daly 6 6 thescheduled meetings are dealt with through Steve Lucas 5 6 additional ad hoc meetings and conference calls.
Angus McCoss 6 6 The Chair, the Senior Independent Director and the Chief Executive Officer maintain frequent contact Paul McDade 6 6 with the other Directors in addition to theregular Dorothy Thompson 4 4 Board meetings.
This ensures that allmembers of the Board have an opportunity todiscuss any issues Jeremy Wilson 6 6 of concern and to be fully briefed on the Groups Les Wood 6 6 operations.
During 2018, theBoard held six scheduled Anne Drinkwater 2 2 meetings with the following in attendance: Aidan Heavey 4 4 Directors who were no longer Directors of the Company as at 31 December 2018. www.
com 63 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Leadership continued BOARD TIME % At the end of every scheduled Board meeting, the Chair holds a discussion with the non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors.
These are supplemented by informal meetings between the Chair, the Chief Executive Officer and the non-executive Directors.
The non-executive Directors receive regular briefings on the more technical and operational aspects of the Groups activities and matters of major strategic significance.
35 25 9 8 5 7 8 3 I These include major projects, for example the Jubilee Turret Remediation Project TRP and Strategy 35 theKenya Early Oil Pilot Scheme EOPS but Financial management and capital allocation 25 alsoinclude matters such as material litigation.
Safety, Sustainability & ExternalAffairs SSEA 9 The Board is of the view that no individual or Development & Operations D&O 8 groupof individuals dominates decision making.
Exploration & Appraisal E&A 5 Governance 7 A programme of strategy presentations covering awide number of operational and other issues is Risk management 8 made to the Board in June each year and, in 2018, Succession planning 3 the Board discussed in depth the Companys capital allocation framework and long-term strategy forgrowth.
During the year, the Board received - significant changes in accounting policies or presentations from each of the Business Delivery practices supported by the Audit Committee : Team leaders and reviewed and approved the Companys strategy for each of its Business Delivery - approval of treasury strategy, including financing Teams.
In conjunction with the Audit Committee, and hedging strategies: and with input from the Executive Team, the Board - material contracts and commitments, including also reviewed in detail the risks facing the Company, capital projects with a $100 million value or the Companys appetite for those risks and the above and acquisitions and disposals with a Enterprise Risk Management System ERMS $50million value or above: tomonitor and mitigate those risks.
- entry into new countries: The Board normally holds one Board meeting ata principal overseas office of the Group.
These meetings - risk management, including emerging risks ensure that the Board has a clearknowledge of andinternal controls supported by the theCompanys overseas operations and engages AuditCommittee : with the Groups various stakeholders.
During the - succession planning and appointments visit, additional time is made for members of the supported by the Nominations Committee : Executive Team and Senior Management from across the Group to present tothe Board on matters of - the Groups corporate governance and particular strategic relevance, in-depth operational compliance arrangements: and matters and matters relating to non-technical - key corporate policies.
Inaddition, opportunities are made for the Board to interact both formally and socially with During 2018 the Board considered all relevant abroadcross section of the workforce.
In 2018 matters within its remit aligned with the schedule thisoverseas Board meeting was held in October, of matters reserved for the Board.
Particular at the Groups regional office in Accra, Ghana.
additional matters considered were: The Board has a formal schedule of matters - long-term sustainable strategy and capital reserved that can only be decided by the Board.
allocation including capital structure and capital This schedule is reviewed and approved by the management: Board each year.
In 2018 the Board approved a - finance and treasury, including hedging number of changes to simplify and clarify the strategyand gearing: schedule.
The schedule is available on our website and the key matters reserved include the following: - risk assessment and mitigation and non-technical risks in major areas of operation: - the Companys purpose, strategy and Values, andensuring that each of these and the culture - options for growth, including exploration: of the Company and its Group are aligned: - stakeholder identification and engagement: - key structure and capital considerations: - portfolio management: - Financial Statements and dividend policy: 64 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts - governance and compliance, including the Functional and Business Unit heads and, where newCorporate Governance Code: appropriate, visits to the Groups principal offices and operations.
New Directors also receive an - assurance, risk and internal audit: overview of their duties, corporate governance - diversity and inclusion at Board level and policies and Board processes.
Dorothy Thompson throughout the Group: received a comprehensive introduction to Tullow after she joined in April 2018, which included an - process for evaluation entry into new introductory field course in petroleum geology, countries:and anoffshore safety induction course, visits to our - succession planning for Board members overseas offices in Ghana including a visit to the andSenior Management.
Jubilee FPSO, Kenya, Ireland and South Africa, aswellas meetings with government officials and Board effectiveness major shareholders.
Composition All members of the Board have access to appropriate At the year end on 31 December 2018, the Board professional development courses to support them consisted of five independent non-executive in meeting their obligations and duties.
During Directors and three Executive Directors comprising: theyear, Directors attended external seminars on the independent non-executive Chair, four independent relevant topics relating to the business.
They also non-executive Directors, the Chief-Executive Officer, receive ongoing briefings on current developments, the Chief Financial Officer and the Exploration including updates on governance and regulatory Director.
During the year, there were a number of issues.
In April 2018, the Company Secretary Board changes.
In April, Anne Drinkwater stepped arranged a Directors training day which covered down from the Board with effect from the conclusion avariety of different topics including culture, of the AGM, whereupon Dorothy Thompson was diversity and inclusion, mergers and acquisitions, appointed as Chair-Designate.
In July, Aidan Heavey developments in corporate governance and then stepped down as Chair and retired from the accounting policies.
Board and Dorothy Thompson was appointed as Chair.
The Directors believe that the Board and Information and support itsCommittees currently consist of Directors Directors have access to independent professional withan appropriate balance of skills, experience, advice at the Companys expense, on any matter independence and diversity of background to relating to their responsibilities.
The Company enable them to discharge their duties and Secretary is Adam Holland.
He is responsible for responsibilities effectively.
ensuring compliance with all Board procedures and for providing advice to Directors when required.
Appointments to the Board The Company Secretary provides company secretarial The Nominations Committee reviews the structure, services to the Board and the Group.
He acts as size and composition of the Board and makes secretary to the Audit, Nominations, EHS and recommendations to the Board about any changes Remuneration Committees and has direct access required.
During 2018, Dorothy Thompson was to the Chairs of these Committees.
appointed to the Chair of the Board with the departure of Aidan Heavey.
As part of the appointments process, Evaluation candidates disclose any other significant time Tullow conducted an extensive Board evaluation in commitments they may have and are required 2017, the results of which were detailed in the 2017 toinform the Board of any subsequent changes Annual Report and Accounts and which informed tosuch commitments.
the development of the Boards objectives for 2018.
The appointment of Dorothy Thompson as Chair Commitment addressed a significant finding of the 2017 evaluation.
All Directors have disclosed their other significant As part of her induction and familiarisation with commitments and confirmed that they have the Board, Dorothy Thompson undertook an sufficient time to discharge their duties effectively.
out-of-cycle evaluation focused on future Board Development and training structure, taking into account the long-term All new Directors receive an induction programme strategy of the Company and the risks to it.
This when they join the Board.
This reflects their addressed the majority of the succession-related background, experience and knowledge and their issues identified in the 2017 performance understanding of the upstream oil industry and evaluation, culminating in the search for further Tullow in particular.
The programme includes non-executive Directors.
Further details can be one-to-one meetings with Senior Management.
found in the report of the Nominations Committee on page 77 to 79 later in this report.
com 65 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Board effectiveness continued Accountability Evaluation continued Financial and business reporting In addition, in 2018 the Board undertook an This report provides shareholders with a clear internal evaluation of its own performance and assessment of the Groups financial position and effectiveness and also that of its Committees.
prospects supplemented, as required, by other Theevaluation was planned with Lintstock Ltd, periodic financial and trading statements.
The which has no other connection with the Company, Boards arrangements for the application of risk and was coordinated by the Chair of the Nominations management and internal control principles are Committee and the Company Secretary.
the Directors was required to submit responses to Risk management and internal control a series of questionnaires to reflect on themes The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for identified from the previous years exercise including: the Groups systems of internal control which are - the Boards composition: designed to safeguard the assets of the Group and to ensure the reliability of financial information for - diversity and skills: both internal use and external publication and to - board dynamics: comply with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Overall control is ensured by a - management of meetings: regular detailed reporting system covering both - Board support and Committees: technical progress of projects and the state of the Groups financial affairs.
- focus of meetings: The Board has put in place procedures for identifying, - strategic and operational oversight: evaluating and managing principal risks that face - risk management and internal control: the Group.
Principal risks are regularly reported tothe Board.
Tullow recognises that any system of - human resource management: and internal control can provide only reasonable, and - priorities for change.
not absolute, assurance that material financial irregularities will be detected or that the risk of The anonymity of all respondents was ensured failure to achieve business objectives is eliminated.
throughout the process in order to promote the However, the Boards objective is to ensure that open and frank exchange of views.
The Company Tullow has appropriate systems in place for the Secretary subsequently produced a report which identification and management of risks, including concluded that the Board was satisfied with its emerging risks.
In accordance with the requirements owncollective performance and effectiveness, the of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board is performance and effectiveness of each individual required to monitor the Companys risk management Director, and also that of its Committees.
The and internal control systems and, at least annually, evaluation noted particular improvements to the carry out a review of their effectiveness, and report Boards focus on and testing of Company strategy, on that review in the Annual Report.
At Tullow, the governance within the Group and meeting processes.
Board has delegated responsibility for this assessment The Company remains confident that the Board to the Audit Committee and results of the assessment has the experience and track record to meet the are described in the Audit Committees report later Companys aims of delivering both its immediate in this document.
The Board sets Audit Committee and auditor its specific future objectives at its offsite strategy The Board has delegated oversight of the session in June each year and they reflect the relationship with the Groups external auditor to focus of the Company in the year ahead.
Progress the Audit Committee and is outlined in the Audit against each objective is tracked by the Company Committee Report later in this report.
Secretary and reviewed with the Chair and the Board periodically.
Remuneration Re-election The Board has delegated responsibility for agreeing Executive and non-executive Directors are initially the remuneration policy for the Chair and the appointed for a term of three years.
All Directors Executive Directors to the Remuneration Committee.
The Board will set out The level and components of the Directors in the Notice of Annual General Meeting its remuneration, and the procedures by which it reasons for supporting the re-election or election isestablished, are outlined in the Remuneration of each of the Directors at the forthcoming Annual Committees Report later in this report.
66 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Shareholder relations country and political risk and other operational Engagement and dialogue matters.
These meetings are generally hosted by Tullow is committed to regular dialogue with its our Executive Vice President of Safety, Operations, shareholders and the wider investment community.
Engineering & External Affairs and the Investor During 2018 the Investor Relations team and Executive Relations team.
During 2018, Tullow also hosted Team have maintained open and transparent dialogue meetings with institutional investors to discuss its plans for improving diversity and inclusion at Board with the Companys shareholders.
Ongoing level and throughout the organisation.
These meetings communication has been through regulatory announcements, regular meetings, presentations, were hosted by our Chair, our Executive Vice investor conferences and ad hoc events.
Over the President for Organisation Strategy & Company year, the Investor Relations team and Executive Performance and the Company Secretary.
Team met with approximately 300 institutions Tullows seventh Ghana Investor Forum took place comprising 70 per cent of the share register and a in Accra in May 2018.
The event gave key institutional large number of potential new investors.
Targeted and retail shareholders the chance to hear roadshows, conferences and investor meetings presentations and question the Executive Directors were conducted in England, Scotland, Ireland, and Senior Managers from the Ghana Business Eastand West Coast USA, Switzerland, Scandinavia, Unit.
In addition to that event, Tullow also hosted Ghana, the Middle East and South Africa.
specific meetings at its offices in Accra with some of Ghanas major institutional investors to provide In November 2018, the Company hosted a Capital them the opportunity to further engage with Markets Day in London at which presentations members of the Tullow team.
were given by the Executive Team toprovide detail into the Groups strategy and key areas of operations.
We ensure shareholders can access details of the A webcast of the event and the materials presented Groups results, and other news releases, through are available to view on our website.
Engagement the London Stock Exchanges Regulatory News with our debt investors is now well integrated into Service and on releases made to the Irish and Ghana our annual investor relations programme and the stock exchanges.
In addition, these news releases Executive, Group Finance and Investor Relations are published on the media section of the Groups teams have regular dialogue with bond investors website: www.
Shareholders and other through a number of high-yield conferences and interested parties can subscribe to email news one-on-one meetings throughout the year.
updates by registering on the website.
The Group continually looks for ways to improve how we use In 2018 the Investor Relations team commissioned online channels to communicate with our a follow-up investor perception study to track progress stakeholders through our corporate website, against areas that were identified as requiring webcasting and social media.
Another important improvement in the results of an original survey way we keep shareholders informed is through commissioned in 2017.
Interviews were conducted regular formal reporting and Tullows Annual Reports with 18 buy-side investors and the results showed are available on the corporate website.
an overall improvement in sentiment and recognition of the progress management had made in the Constructive use of general meetings period.
The results were presented and discussed At the Annual General Meeting, held on 25 April 2018, in detail with the Board at its strategy offsite in shareholders received presentations setting out June and the feedback continues to inform the the key developments in the business and put content and style of our messaging to the market.
questions to the former Chair, the Chair of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees and In addition, upon her appointment as Chair-Designate, other members of the Board.
A poll was used to Dorothy Thompson wrote to the Companys major vote for all resolutions at the 2018 Annual General shareholders and offered them the opportunity to Meeting, and the final results, which included all meet in person and discuss any matters relating votes cast for and against and those withheld, were tothe Company.
She subsequently met a number announced via the London Stock Exchange and on of portfolio managers and governance teams from the Companys corporate website.
Notice of the our institutional investors and was joined in those Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders meetings by the Company Secretary.
Throughout atleast 20 working days before the meeting.
the year, institutional shareholders are offered theopportunity to meet the Chair or the Senior On behalf of the Board Independent Director to discuss any issues and concerns in relation to the Groups governance and strategy.
Non-executive Directors are also available to attend such meetings with major shareholders ifrequested to do so.
Dorothy Thompson Tullow conducted a series of meetings with socially Chair responsible investors when requested, to discuss topics including health and safety, the environment, 12 February 2019 www.
