Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 44 Financial statements Board of Directors and Company Secretary Tony Rice Simon Pryce Amitabh Sharma John Hirst Chair Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director Independent Non-Executive Director Time in position: Time in position: Time in position: Time in position: since 28 Jan 19 6 mths 2 yrs 8 mths 4 yrs Tony Rice was CEO of Cable & Prior to his appointment, Simon Amitabh has held senior John was Chief Executive of the Wireless Communications plc, CEO was Group Chief Executive of finance positions at listed Met Office, a post he held from of Tunstall plc and held a number BBA Aviation plc for 10 years.
and private companies with 2005 to 2014.
Between 1998 and of senior roles in BAE Systems plc.
2005 John was CEO of Premier Tony has a BA in Business Studies Simon qualified as a Chartered Farnell plc, having previously spent from City of London College Accountant in the UK before Amitabh was previously Group 19 years with ICI plc, where he was and an MBA from Cranfield working at the global investment Financial Controller at Ultra from Chief Executive of ICI Performance School of Management.
banking firms of Lazards and JP 1999 to 2005 and at Senior plc Chemicals and ICI Autocolour, as Morgan, and then at GKN plc.
He was Group Finance well as being Group Treasurer.
Appointed to the Board: Director at Gibbs and Dandy 18 December 2018 Simon is a Fellow of the Royal plc now Gibbs and Dandy He was awarded a CBE in the Aeronautical Society and a Ltd and a Divisional Finance 2014 New Years Honours List Committees member of the Chartered Institute Director at Saint Gobain.
for his national and international Nomination Chair for Securities and Investment.
is also a member of the Council He qualified as a Chartered Other Key Appointments of the University of Reading.
Accountant in 1993 and was He is a Fellow of the Institute Chair of Dechra subsequently an audit manager of Chartered Accountants, a Pharmaceuticals plc Appointed to the Board: with KPMG in London.
Member of the Association Senior Independent 18 June 2018 of Corporate Treasurers and a Director of Halma plc Appointed to the Board: companion of the Chartered Non-Executive Director of the Committees 4 May 2016 British Institute of Management.
Whittington Hospital Trust None Committees Appointed to the Board: Skills and Experience Other Key Appointments None 1 January 2015 Senior business management Non-Executive Director of in the aeronautical and Electrocomponents plc Other Key Appointments Committees electronics engineering sectors.
None Audit Chair, Nomination Senior non-executive roles Skills and Experience and Remuneration in UK listed companies.
International automotive Skills and Experience and engineering sector.
Financial professional with Other Key Appointments Senior leadership and general extensive industry experience.
Non-Executive Director of Marsh management experience in Business management in UK: Jelf plc: ORSUS Medical Ltd multinational listed companies.
and White Square Chemical Inc. Senior Independent Director and Audit Committee Chair at Anglian Water Chair of Risk Committee of Jelf plc Chairman of the British Standards Institute and the National Oceanography Centre Skills and Experience Leadership in large global organisations.
Public and private sector experience.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 45 Executive Director Audit Committee member Non-Executive Director Remuneration Committee member Nomination Committee member Geeta Gopalan Martin Broadhurst Victoria Hull Sir Robert Walmsley Louise Ruppel Independent Independent Independent Senior Independent General Counsel and Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Company Secretary Director Director Director Director Time in position: Time in position: Time in position: Time in position: Time in position: 1 yr 8 mths 6 yrs 5 mths 1 yr 8 mths 9 yrs 11 mths Since 28 Jan 2019 Geeta has worked in JMartin joined Marshall Victoria is a former Sir Robert was Chief of Louise Ruppel joined commercial and retail Aerospace as a Executive Director and Defence Procurement Ultra in January 2019. banking as well as management trainee in General Counsel of at the UK Ministry of She trained as a solicitor social investment and 1975 and, following a Invensys plc and Telewest Defence MOD, a post at UK city firm Slaughter community development number of roles with the Communications plc.
which he held from 1996 and May where she in the third sector.
Company, including until his retirement from qualified into the Production Director and She has considerable public service in 2003. corporate department.
Her executive roles Director of Programmes, international and She subsequently worked included Chair Europe for served as Chief Executive domestic experience of Prior to his MOD as an in-house lawyer Monitise plc, and Director between February 1996 legal, commercial and appointment, Sir Robert at Merrill Lynch & Co. of Payments Services at and December 2010. governance matters had a distinguished career Limited in London and HBOS.
Geeta also worked having worked in global in the Royal Navy, where worked for FirstGroup plc at Citigroup for 16 years, During his time as and domestic companies herose to the rank of as Company Secretary during which time she Chief Executive, he operating at a Executive Vice Admiral in 1994 and and Group Legal Director was a Managing Director served on the Group Committee or Board level.
served for two years as until 2016, when she for its UK retail bank and Holdings Board and was Controller of the Navy.
left to become General Business Development Chair of a number of Appointed to the Board: Counsel and Company Head of EMEA.
28 April 2017 Appointed to Secretary at Manchester the Board: Airports Group.
She has experience Appointed to the Board: Committees 22 January 2009 coaching and mentoring 2 July 2012 Audit, Nomination Skills and Experience as well as in-depth and Remuneration Committees Legal, compliance and knowledge of the Committees Audit, Nomination Board-level experience.
digital economy, mobile Audit, Nomination and Other Key and Remuneration and internet spaces.
Remuneration Chair Appointments Non-Executive Director Other Key Appointed to the Board: Other Key of Rosenblatt Group plc Appointments 28 April 2017 Appointments Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Skills and Experience of Cohort plc Committees Director of the Centre Experience across a Audit, Nomination for Engineering diverse range of sectors.
Skills and Experience and Remuneration and Manufacturing Legal and BoardDefence, security, Excellence level experience.
Other Key Trustee of the Royal Knowledge of Ultras Appointments Aeronautical Society main geographic markets.
Non-Executive Director Substantial experience of of CYBG plc Skills and Experience government procurement.
Non-Executive Extensive experience Director of Funding in the defence and Circle Holdings plc aerospace markets.
Non-Executive Director International business of Wizink Bank S. A. leadership and growth.
Large engineering Skills and Experience organisation management Senior management in experience.
the financial services sector digital economy and the social sector.
