G N I C S R A U L O E S S N M O I A T R A K V E O T N I N N I G OUR VALUE CREATION MODEL bottom-line growth, and capital efficiency which in turn drives UNILEVER HAS A PROVEN BUSINESS MODEL THAT underlying operating margin, free cash flow and return on invested SUPPORTS LONG-TERM, SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATION.
capital and ultimately attractive returns for shareholders.
Our business activities span a complex, global and cyclical value chain.
To respond further to the increasing pace of change and accelerate The start of our value chain is consumer insight.
We track changing value creation, we have embedded our C4G programme across consumer sentiment through our 27 People Data Centres around all Divisions so we are a faster, simpler organisation.
Through close collaboration between marketing and R&D, rapidly embracing new digital technologies such as the Internet we use our insights to inform product development, leveraging our of Things, AI and robotics to get even closer to our value chain 900 million annual R&D spend.
Our research aims to bring together partners and consumers.
the best thinking and ideas from wherever they exist within Unilever and beyond, including universities and specialist companies.
Our strategy and business model continue to deliver solid growth.
From 2014 to 2018 we have delivered average underlying sales growth We work with tens of thousands of suppliers and spend around 34 of 3.3% a year while underlying operating margin increased by an billion on goods and services.
Our supply chain sources the materials average 70 basis points per year to 18.4%.
Longer term, Unilever has and ingredients that make up our products.
Our global manufacturing grown dividends by an average of 8% per year over the last 38 years, operations across more than 300 factories in 69 countries turn these raw with no reductions.
materials into products with a total volume of nearly 19 million tonnes.
We are on track to meet a number of targets to accelerate shareholder Our products are then distributed via a network of around 400 globally value since 2017.
These include underlying sales growth ahead of our coordinated distribution centres to 26 million retail stores, from large markets, which we expect to translate into underlying sales growth of supermarkets, hypermarkets, wholesalers and cash and carry, to 3-5% each year up to 2020, projected cumulative savings of 6 billion small convenience stores, as well as other fast-growing channels such by 2019 and an expansion of underlying operating margin from 18.4% as e-commerce, out-of-home and direct-to-consumer.
Return on Invested Capital is expected to be We are the second largest advertiser in the world, based on media sustained in the high teens and dividends will continue to rise, reflecting spend.
We create an increasing amount of tailored content ourselves confidence in the outlook for profit growth and cash generation.
to market our brands, using digital channels.
Sustainable value creation also means creating value for the many Underpinning our value chain is a set of defining strengths which set stakeholders Unilever relies on.
The Unilever Sustainable Living Plan us apart from our competitors: our portfolio of global, purpose-led USLP is at the heart of our multi-stakeholder business model and brands and local jewels: a geographic presence in more than 190 vision to grow our business, whilst decoupling our environmental countries with 58% of our turnover in emerging markets: deep footprint from our growth and increasing our positive social impact distribution capability through ever more complex channels: and in turn contributing to the United Nations Sustainable Development a talent pool of local leaders over 80% of our business leaders are Goals see page 15.
The USLP helps us to deliver more growth local to their markets.
through our brands with purpose, less risk by future proofing our supply chain, lower costs through eco-efficiency practices and more Our strategy see page 10 and our Divisional strategies see pages trust from the stakeholders who we rely on.
11 to 12 harness these strengths to deliver competitive top and WHAT WE VALUE WE CREATE DEPEND ON CONSUMER BENEFITS We sell products that help people PURPOSEFUL PEOPLE to feel good, look good and get 155,000 talented people who more out of life Page 1 contribute their skills and purpose to our business Page 16 TOP & BOTTOM LINE OUR PURPOSE GROWTH NATURAL RESOURCES To Make Sustainable Living Commonplace We deliver consistent, competitive, Renewable and non-renewable profitable and responsible growth materials and ingredients for OUR VISION Page 6 our products Page 14 To grow our business, whilst decoupling our environmental IMPROVED HEALTH footprint from our growth and increasing our positive social impact FINANCIAL RESOURCES delivered through the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan: & WELL-BEING Cash, equity and debt to invest We are helping hundreds of millions for the long term Pages 104 to 109 of people take action to improve their IMPROVING HEALTH REDUCING ENHANCING AND WELL-BEING ENVIRONMENTAL LIVELIHOODS health & well-being Page 13 INTANGIBLE ASSETS IMPACT for more than for SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS R&D capabilities and intellectual by property such as patents, trade 1 BILLION MILLIONS 1 2 marks and know-how Pages 97 to 99, 130 TANGIBLE ASSETS OUR STRATEGY REDUCED Physical assets such as To deliver long-term growth and sustainable value creation by: manufacturing, logistics and ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT office facilities as well as our We are working to halve the Winning with Winning in the Winning through Winning with vehicle fleet and stock Page 100 brands and marketplace continuous people environmental footprint of the Page 10 innovation Page10 improvement making and use of our products SUPPLIERS Page 10 Page 10 as we grow our business Pages 13 to 14 Source the materials and ingredients SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Supported by Division strategies: that make up our products and provide services to support our business.
Page 17 Beauty & Foods & Home Care Personal Care Refreshment Page 12 Page 11 Pages 11 to 12 STAKEHOLDERS ENHANCED LIVELIHOODS & PARTNERS We are enhancing the livelihoods Relationships with governments of millions of people as we grow and other organisations to drive our business Page 14 systems change Page 17 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report 9 T H G I S N I R E L O M G U I S S N T I O C C S M E A S N U U R F E A M C T U U S R N I O N C G
