Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 12 Financial statements Divisional Review GRAEME STACEY Divisional Managing Director Aerospace & Infrastructure Covering aerospace and nuclear, this division provides military and civil aerospace systems and sub-systems as well as control systems and instrumentation that ensure the safe operation of energy generating plants.
Divisional performance Orders received worth 18.1m to provide B787 electro-thermal wing ice This divisions revenue declined due to lower demand for nuclear temperature protection systems WIPS to Boeing as part of an ongoing long-term products and delayed orders in information processing at Airport agreement contract.
Systems, which were partially offset by an increase in the build rate of our high Markets pressure pure air generating HiPPAG The defence aerospace market is units.
Profits declined due to lower showing good signs of growth, with revenue as well as product mix, with North American, European, Middle reduced high margin nuclear temperature Eastern and Asian countries looking revenues.
As a result, the underlying to acquire new aircraft, upgrade operating margin was 15.3%.
ageing fleets and develop indigenous platforms.
Civil aerospace also continues The divisions order book increased to grow, particularly in developing 39.1m since December 2017 IFRS 15: nations where there is a need to meet 294.6m owing in part to the orders growing air passenger traffic, as well noted below, which will underpin the as in the demand for regional jets in divisions future performance: North America and Europe.
Ultras long-standing positions on both Multiple contract awards of over military and a number of civil platforms 60m to provide various subsystems position us well for this growth.
to both Tier 1 and 2 OEMs for the Lockheed Martin F-35 Joint Strike Fighter programme: and Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 13 Case Study US Air Force Order Wins PCS received orders worth over 60min 2018 for subsystems relating to the US Air Force Joint Strike Fighter Aircraft.
These Low Rate Initial Production LRIP contracts are bid on a programme by programme basis and see Ultra provide UNDERLYING OPERATING capabilities including the REVENUE BY DIVISION REVENUE PROFIT HiPPAG high pressure pure air generating units, engine ice protection systems and harness 196.2m 30.0m sets.
These orders underpin 26% Ultras established position on Group revenue -3.4% 2017 IFRS 15 : -2.9% -8.0% 2017 IFRS 15 : -6.3% this aircraft and the value of Ultras solutions which will be provided over the life of the GROUP UNDERLYING programme.
OPERATING PROFIT ORDER BOOK NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES, 333.7m 1245 27% 17.8% 2017 IFRS 15 : 13.3% 0.1% BUSINESSES WITHIN THIS DIVISION Energy Precision Control Systems See footnote on page 145.
Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 14 Financial statements Divisional Review continued MIKE BAPTIST Divisional Managing Director Commmunications & Security The provision of mission critical solutions including secure communications, encryption solutions as well as capabilities related to command and control, security and surveillance solutions and military electronic warfare EW.
A $46m five-year IDIQ support Divisional performance contract to provide Ultras ADSI to the This divisions revenue grew, benefitting US Army Data Link Systems: and from Orion radio systems for the US The award of a $24m contract to Army's Network Modernisation provide military tactical radios to the programme, as well as growth in airborne US Department of Defense.
platform sales and airborne EW and strategic missile programmes.
This followed on from the strong order intake Markets at the end of 2017.
In the UK, revenues Increased demand for greater bandwidth were impacted by continued uncertainty and broader connectivity, coupled with a and government contracting delays within need for multi-platform and multi-user the secure comms and information interoperability across global defence assurance markets.
Our US cyber markets continues.
The US continues to solutions revenues also reduced as be the largest spender in these markets, discretionary US Naval funding was however countries in Asia-Pacific and allocated elsewhere.
The overall revenue European regions are ramping up their growth more than offset the foreign investments as they continue to face exchange reduction to the divisions territorial disputes, domestic unrest and reported results.
Growing border disputes also call for higher critical infrastructure Cost overruns incurred on specific protection, surveillance and border development contracts at our Herley control, particularly in the Asia-Pacific and division resulted in an underlying Middle East regions.
Ultra remains well divisional margin of 11.8%.
Margin positioned on a broad range of markets, improvements were driven by increased spanning defence applications, cyber Air Defense Systems Integrator ADSI security, physical infrastructure & data and Orion radio deliveries in the year.
security, surveillance command & control systems and forensic analysis markets.
The division won a number of contracts during the year including two larger ones, which are noted below.
Relative to the strong closing order book at the end of 2017, the divisions 2018 closing order book was 27.9m lower at 230.2m 2017 IFRS 15: 258.1m.
The larger orders won in the year were: Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 15 UNDERLYING OPERATING REVENUE BY DIVISION REVENUE PROFIT 252.6m 29.9m 33% Group revenue 4.1% 2017 IFRS 15 : 3.7% 6.0% 2017 IFRS 15 : 4.5% GROUP UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT ORDER BOOK NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES, 230.2m 1295 26% -11.0% 2017 IFRS 15 : -10.8% 0% BUSINESSES WITHIN THIS DIVISION 3eTI Forensic Technology Advanced Tactical Systems ATS Herley Communications & Integrated Systems CIS TCS See footnote on page 145.
Case Study CIS Contract Win Communications and Integrated Systems CIS wasawarded a multi-million pound contract to support theprovision of Strategic Deployable Terminals to General Dynamics Mission Systems, Canada.
General Dynamics will provide the Canadian Armed Forces CAF with the Strategic Deployable Terminals SDTs to expand its Mercury Global In-Service Support as part of the final stage of the Mercury Global Project to deliver military satellite communications SATCOM wideband capabilities.
The terminals will allow the CAF to deliver voice, image and data between deployed operations and commanders back in Canada.
Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 16 Financial statements Divisional Review continued THOMAS LINK Interim Divisional President Maritime & Land Covering underwater warfare and maritime systems for surface, sub-surface and unmanned platforms for military, paramilitary and civil domains, as well as the provision of modern military manned and unmanned vehicles.
The award of a 24.5m order to Divisional performance provide sonobuoys to the UK MoD This divisions revenue grew organically, the first multi-year sonobuoy order but declined overall due to the impact of received by Ultra from the UK.
Demand for Ultras international and US sonobuoys remains healthy and our ERAPSCO JV continues to Markets have a strong working relationship with Global underwater warfare budgets the US Navy.
Revenues on the maritime continue to grow as geopolitical disputes propulsion system order that was won in in Europe and Asia-Pacific have led to an 2017 also contributed to revenue in the increased investment in naval platforms year.
However, there have been delays to and underwater warfare systems.
The US, some programmes resulting in lower UK, Australia and Canada have all revenue on receivers, as well as reduced adopted national shipbuilding strategies datacom and sonar shipments where a to stimulate long-term new ship number of projects completed in 2017. construction to meet evolving threats.
Ultra is strongly positioned in this area of Profits were impacted principally due to growth, securing a number of positions additional costs on the Health and Usage on long-term programmes.
Monitoring System HUMS programme and receiver development programmes and this resulted in a reduction in the divisions underlying operating margin to 16.6%.
The divisions order book increased 58.3m since December 2017 IFRS 15: 361.7m owing in part to the orders noted below: A $42m contract award to supply the US Navy with MK 54 torpedo arrays: The award of a multi-million dollar contract as part of the Royal Canadian Navys Underwater warfare suite upgrade: and Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 17 UNDERLYING OPERATING REVENUE PROFIT REVENUE BY DIVISION 317.9m 52.8m 41% Group sales -3.5% 2017 IFRS 15 : -1.5% -11.0% 2017 IFRS 15 : -7.5% GROUP UNDERLYING ORDER BOOK NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES OPERATING PROFIT, 420.0m 1579 47% 18.1% 2017 IFRS 15 : 16.1% -3.3% BUSINESSES WITHIN THIS DIVISION Avalon Systems Maritime Systems Command & Sonar Systems Ocean Systems EMS PMES Flightline Systems USSI See footnote on page 145.
Case Study UWSU Upgrade Win Maritime Systems was awarded a multi-million Canadian dollar contract from the Royal Canadian Navy RCN as part of the RCNs Halifax Class Frigate Underwater Warfare Suite Upgrade UWSU programme.
Teaming with General Dynamics, UWSU will deliver an integrated system that replaces the current towed array sensor and sonobuoy processing system.
Maritime Systems will deliver a transmitter solution that enables sound energy to be steered only in the direction of interest.
