We are collaborating with hyper and supermarkets to win with OUR PARTNERS omni-channel shoppers and evolve new experiential concepts with WE WORK WITH MANY PARTNERS TO SUPPORT THE these large-scale retailers to ensure Unilever brands enjoy the best SUSTAINABLE GROWTH OF OUR BUSINESS.
positioning in store and online.
ENGAGING STAKEHOLDERS We continue to engage with small-scale retailers by professionalising We have many interactions with our stakeholders on a daily basis.
their store operations through capability training.
Our Rise Sales Our Code of Business Principles and Code Policies guide how we Academy is currently being piloted in Nigeria and Sri Lanka to deliver interact with suppliers, customers, governments, Non-Governmental store operations retail training for micro retailers across the world.
Organisations NGOs and trade associations in particular.
Only In turn, this will help contribute to our USLP target to improve the authorised and appropriately trained employees or representatives can incomes of 5 million small-scale retailers in our distribution network.
engage with these groups and we require that a record should be kept of all interactions and that all engagement must be conducted: in a GOVERNMENTS transparent manner with honesty, integrity and openness: in compliance We co-operate and engage with governments, regulators and with laws and in accordance with Unilevers values.
Our website contains legislators, both directly and through trade associations, in the further disclosure on how we engage with our stakeholders.
development of proposed legislation and regulation which may affect our business interests.
All employees involved in political engagement SUPPLIERS must comply with our Code of Business Principles and Code Policies.
Our supply chain is very diverse and highly dynamic as we respond We do not support or fund political parties or candidates or any groups to changing consumer preferences, in line with our C4G programme.
Our suppliers help us meet consumer needs by innovating, creating Our participation in policy discussions is varied, covering macro topics capacity and delivering quality materials and services for our products.
such as climate change, nutrition and plastic packaging.
We engage We work with a large range of suppliers in over 160 countries from with government stakeholders directly or through membership of multinational companies through to SMEs and smallholder farmers.
representative organisations, including trade associations.
We screen suppliers in relation to their supply chain capabilities and the level of associated environmental and social risk.
Managing TRADE ASSOCIATIONS supplier risk is a key role of our Supply Chain function.
All suppliers We are members of and support a number of trade associations must complete our registration process to assess compliance with the and similar organisations which help us to advance our public policy mandatory requirements of our Responsible Sourcing Policy which interests.
We keep a record of our trade association memberships includes anti-bribery and corruption.
We conduct audits and follow and membership fees, which is regularly updated.
We also engage up issues identified where necessary.
with peer companies, both individually and in coalitions, on issues of mutual interest.
This includes working together to implement Partner to Win is our approach to building long-term relationships sustainable business strategies and drive change.
with selected key strategic supplier partners in order to achieve mutual growth.
It focuses on five key areas: quality and service, These associations reflect our global scale and presence across innovation, value, sustainability and capacity and capability.
We list our global memberships in the to Win helps us strengthen supplier and customer collaboration Engaging with stakeholders section on our website.
We are registered and improves operational efficiency.
In 2018, we had 175 Partner in the Transparency Register of the European Union.
Our US trade to Win suppliers, representing 35% of total procurement spend.
association memberships can be found on the FAQ section of the Unilever USA website.
We came first in the annual Gartner Supply Chain Top 25 for the third year running, emphasising our leading practices in the area of supply chain management, in particular on sustainability and digitalisation.
NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANISATIONS We are building transformational partnerships in collaboration with NGOs who share our vision for a more sustainable future.
These CUSTOMERS partnerships are instrumental in improving the quality of peoples In a fragmented channel landscape, those companies that best serve lives, driving growth, achieving our USLP targets and contributing to their shoppers and customers with bespoke solutions will benefit the Sustainable Development Goals.
Unilever serves consumers through ten different channels: hyper and supermarkets, e-commerce, out of home, drug stores, In collaboration with NGOs, we build programmes on the ground to small stores, discounters, Food Solutions, Unilever International, implement our brands purpose in addition to advancing our efforts in prestige channel and global retail.
areas such as sustainable sourcing and distribution often in partnership with governments and other businesses.
We drive scale through new We serve around 26 million retail stores globally of which we cover business models, digital technologies and external financing.
eight million directly and another 18 million indirectly through wholesale and cash & carry.
Our leadership engages with stakeholders through platforms such as the World Economic Forum, UN Global Compact, the World Business In 2018 we focused on developing our e-commerce channels, digitising Council for Sustainable Development and the Consumer Goods Forum, our value chain to respond to the rapid fragmentation of traditional championing a more inclusive model of capitalism and the pursuit routes to market.
We are actively driving B2C and B2B e-commerce of long-term value creation for the benefit of multiple stakeholders.
Our focus is to build a balanced e-commerce Partnerships with NGOs are crucial to deliver the United Nations business model, growing across e-retailers, bricks and mortar Sustainable Development Goals see page 15. online sales and direct-to-consumer businesses.
In 2018 we signed a logistics partnership with JD.
com, China's largest retailer.
JD will help to bring our most popular products to the most hard-to-reach communities in China, securely and quickly.
Health & Beauty channels have been an area of focus for Beauty & Personal Care.
In Europe we have been increasing our presence and share with the discounter channel, which continues to see growth, contributing to top line growth for Unilever while delivering incremental gross profit.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report 17
