DELIVERING LONG-TERM VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS sustainable products.
In October we joined calls from consumers, NGOs OUR CONSUMERS and politicians for a worldwide ban on animal testing of cosmetics and Our three Divisions meet the constantly changing needs of consumers Dove, the Divisions biggest brand, achieved PETA accreditation as cruelty by harnessing our global scale and local expertise.
Innovation is the fuel, free.
The PETA cruelty-free logo will start appearing on many packs creating great products that consumers love, from nutritionally balanced in 2019 and more brands are set to follow.
We are also developing new foods and refreshments, to affordable soaps that combat disease, luxurious packaging solutions with less plastic, better plastic and no plastic.
shampoos and everyday household care products.
Whatever the brand, REN launched a sea kelp and magnesium body wash in a bottle made wherever it is bought, were working to ensure that it plays a part in helping from 100% recycled plastic, with 20% from recovered ocean plastic.
fulfil our purpose as a business making sustainable living commonplace.
Simple launched biodegradable face wipes made from renewable plant fibres and sustainable wood pulp.
More packaging innovations will be BEAUTY & PERSONAL CARE launched in 2019.
BEAUTY & PERSONAL CARE BPC GENERATED TURNOVER Overall, underlying sales growth was 3.1%, driven by skin care and OF 20.6 BILLION, ACCOUNTING FOR 40% OF UNILEVERS skin cleansing, but partly offset by slower growth in deodorants TURNOVER AND 33% OF OPERATING PROFIT IN 2018. and oral care due to market and competitive pressures.
Profitability The Division is our largest and includes five global brands with progressed with underlying operating margin improving 80 basis points to 21.9%.
Geographically, a number of countries grew above turnover of 1 billion or above, namely Axe, Dove, Lux, Rexona and the market including US, Canada and the UK while emerging markets Sunsilk, as well as other household names such as TRESemm, Signal, Lifebuoy and Vaseline.
BPC has leading global positions in such as Pakistan and Bangladesh also had high growth.
Brazil underperformed as did Japan and parts of Western Europe, where hair care, skin cleansing and deodorants, and strong local positions in skin care and oral care.
The prestige business leads in premiumising markets were flat to declining.
In our channels, e-commerce remains a key driver of growth alongside the Health & Beauty channel where our portfolio with turnover of 490 million from brands including we would like to see faster growth following a slow year, especially in Dermalogica and Hourglass.
BPCs strategic ambition is to become the most valuable and admired Looking ahead, we will continue to build our future-fit portfolio BPC company, led by its purpose Beauty that cares for people, society and our planet.
Its priorities are to continue to grow its core brands, while adopting the new model of marketing, to deliver strong growth, making an accretive contribution to Unilevers top and bottom line.
build a future-fit portfolio, lead in high-growth spaces and adopt a new model of marketing.
The priorities reflect and respond to key trends shaping the Division.
2018 saw increasing fragmentation across route FOODS & REFRESHMENT to market, retail channels and media, alongside growing data, analytic FOODS & REFRESHMENT F&R GENERATED TURNOVER and automation capabilities.
Together these trends are creating a OF 20.2 BILLION, ACCOUNTING FOR 40% OF UNILEVERS more dynamic, complex and sophisticated landscape with greater TURNOVER AND 58% OF OPERATING PROFIT IN 2018. segmentation, differentiation and personalisation.
The Division launched in January 2018 after the previous Foods and BPCs core brands are introducing new innovations and formats quickly and Refreshment Categories merged.
The integration and relocation of the at scale, such as the new shower mousses from Axe, Dove and Radox as global teams to Rotterdam is complete.
The disposal of the spreads well as a growing range of products which respond to the trend for natural business was also completed in July.
F&R now includes the foods, ice and wellbeing products.
During 2018 we launched Vaseline Clinical Care cream and beverages categories, as well as Unilever Food Solutions, and Dove Derma Series in the fast-growing therapeutics segment and our dedicated foodservice business.
F&R is home to five global brands Dove Facial Cleansing Series infused with 100% plant-derived botanical oils with turnover of 1 billion or above, namely Knorr, Hellmanns, in Japan.
Hair care has created and launched multiple naturals products, Magnum, Lipton and Heart brand eg Walls as well as other famous creating a business with over 300 million in turnover in 2018. global brands including Brooke Bond and Ben & Jerrys.
It also includes local jewels such as Bango and Robertson's plus recent B Corp Succeeding in the hyper-fragmented world demands greater consumer acquisitions such as Pukka Herbs, Sir Kensingtons and Me Terra.
responsiveness and we are proud to have launched nine new brands over F&R's ambition is to accelerate growth while improving underlying the past two years: ApotheCARE Essentials, Hijab Fresh, K-Bright, K-JU, operating margin.
F&Rs purpose 'Taste good, Feel good, Force for good' Korea Glow, Love Beauty and Planet, Pure Derm, Purifi and Skinsei.
underpins our strategic priorities which are to: transform the portfolio: Love Beauty and Planet has expanded from North America into four organise for agility and lower costs: and transform capabilities.
markets in Europe and is now active across several categories including skin cleansing, deodorants, skin care and hair care.
Our efforts to transform the F&R portfolio are driven by consumer insights.
For example, we are seeing stronger preference for healthier Our acquisitions play a key role in building the future-fit portfolio.
In the products with more natural and organic ingredients.
F&R has launched last four years, BPC has acquired 13 companies including wellbeing a number of products addressing this trend, including Magnum and focused Equilibra in 2018.
AHC Carver Korea, acquired in 2017, showed Hellmanns vegan variants in Europe, meat-free Knorr launches in the strong e-commerce performance and in 2018, we rolled it out to Taiwan, Nordics and Ben & Jerrys non-dairy alternatives.
Knorr also expanded Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia and Russia.
Schmidts Naturals, its organic and 100% natural ranges in Europe.
In our beverages also acquired in 2017, has extended beyond deodorants into more category, we continue to grow our good for me tea ranges.
The acquisition of Quala S. A completed in February 2018. range, which includes variants such as detox and stress-less, continued Within two months of acquisition, its Savile and Ego extensions had its global roll-out with strong performance.
Recently acquired brands brought to market multiple new products in five categories.
Strong such as Pukka Herbs are being rolled out at pace.
However, given progress has been made building a highly attractive prestige portfolio continuous acceleration of the external landscape, we have to step which is on track to becoming a 1 billion business.
Our most recent up portfolio transformation further and increase the speed of our acquisition in prestige, Hourglass, is growing fast, expanding into new response to trends.
geographies and with a commitment to become entirely vegan by 2020.
Our market-focused organisation and agility supports our portfolio Future growth will depend on accelerating the adoption of a new model transformation and delivered several new brands in 2018 such as of marketing focused on brands with purpose, generating great content, RED RED UK, Culture Republick US, and Jawara Indonesia.
We delivered via digital channels using advanced data and analytics.
The announced an agreement to acquire Horlicks and other consumer model is creating many new consumer touchpoints.
For instance, Axe healthcare nutrition products in India and other Asian markets from collaborated with DJ Martin Garrix to launch his Burn Out video with GlaxoSmithKline GSK, and also acquired the Vegetarian Butcher over 40 million YouTube views to date, celebrating the brand's message Netherlands and three ice cream brands Adityaa India, Betty of individuality.
In Latin America, Sunsilk partnered with an online Romania and Denny Bulgaria.
After success in the US, Breyers influencer to co-create products for curly hair.
Delights was launched in Europe.
In addition, we introduced innovative Our purpose-led brands are well positioned to meet growing concerns licensed ice cream brands including Kinder in Europe and Cornetto about the fragility of the planet and consumer preference for more Oreo in India.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report 11 DELIVERING LONG-TERM VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS CONTINUED Consumers shopping habits continue to change.
We launched the growth opportunities.
The Division responded to these changes by creating IceCreamNow platform in partnership with restaurant delivery services, four consumer-centric categories: Fabric solutions which focuses on ready building a new home-delivery channel.
We have also launched a global to wear clothes eg Omo, Surf, Radiant : Fabric sensations which focuses front-of-house programme to showcase our teas and condiments on fabrics, fashion and lifestyle eg Comfort, Snuggle : Home & hygiene in restaurants, hotels and bars, and to capitalise on the growth of eg Sunlight, Sun which focuses on delivering care for a cleaner world: eating out and out-of-home consumption.
These represent significant and life essentials which unites our air and water purification brands eg business opportunities.
Home Cares purpose 'Making your home a better world.
Making our world a better home' underpins the Divisions strategic The second F&R strategic priority is to organise for agility and lower priorities: strengthening further the foundation of the business: making costs.
In 2018, our 5S and ZBB programmes stepped up fuelling our Home Care fit for the future: and investing in capabilities.
gross margin and marketing support.
We will continue our savings programme to reduce structural costs, while providing funding for Home Care strengthened the foundations of the business by delivering portfolio transformation and margin expansion.
Our speed to market superior products and benefits.
We launched Cif Specialist sprays has improved by almost a third, reflecting how C4G is helping to across 15 countries in Europe whilst continuing to roll-out our toilet unlock speed and agility.
We are also piloting new ways of working blocks to 11 more markets.
We expanded our product portfolio into across our teams.
high potential geographies, building on our most established brands such as Omo-branded floor cleaners in Brazil.
Our Comfort Intense Our final strategic priority is to transform our capabilities with a focus ultra-concentrated fabric conditioners are now in 20 markets and on R&D, lean innovation and precision marketing.
The creation of continue to enjoy strong growth.
our state-of-the art global Foods Innovation Centre in Wageningen Netherlands will further strengthen our innovation capability.
It is Our brands made progress in embracing purpose to connect more scheduled to open in 2019.
We are also enhancing our capabilities in meaningfully with consumers in particular millennials.
In India, digital-driven marketing through extra resourcing across key markets, Domex enrolled renowned movie stars in its 'Pick up the brush' upskilling our current teams and hiring digital savvy marketeers.
campaign to help overcome the social stigma associated with cleaning toilets, a key barrier to improve sanitation.
Seventh Generation, These strategic priorities are underpinned by the development of acquired in 2016, stepped up its advocacy for Climate Justice together more purpose-led brands.
Knorr, Hellmanns, Lipton, Brooke Bond with the Sierra Club to move cities to commit to 100% renewable and Ben & Jerrys continued to grow, each fuelled by a unique purpose energy.
Home Cares biggest brand, Omo Persil, joined forces with which is resonating with consumers.
Brooke Bond for example National Geographic, IKEA and Lego to promote the developmental continued its work tackling cultural taboos through its campaigns, benefits of play in children.
addressing same-sex relationships in Canada and divorce in the Gulf markets.
Meanwhile, Hellmanns launched a major focus on food The second pillar of our strategy is to future-proof our business to lead waste with an activation in Brazil to inspire people to use Hellmanns new trends.
We intensified our efforts and increased our footprint in the to transform leftovers into tasty meals.
Action on plastic packaging is fast-growing natural segment through the launch of Omo naturals in another priority for F&R.
We have partnered with Ioniqa and Indorama New Zealand, France and Brazil among others, the roll-out of Seventh Ventures to pioneer a technology which converts PET waste into virgin Generation in more markets and the launch of Sunlight Naturals across grade material for use in food packaging.
In the UK, PG tips started South-East Asia and South Africa.
Our brands such as Cif, Omo Persil to introduce 100% biodegradable plant-based pyramid bags.
More and Seventh Generation responded to growing concerns about plastic by innovations and new technologies are in the pipeline.
including recycled plastic in their packaging.
Home Care launched Day2, a dry wash spray that revives clothes between washes saving time and During 2018 F&R turnover declined 9.9% to 20.2 billion, due to the water.
Our ultra-concentrated laundry gems, a new format launched in sale of spreads and currency devaluation.
Underlying sales growth the UK in 2017, performed below expectations.
In South Africa we reacted was 2.0% while our underlying operating margin improved by 80 basis quickly to the drought in Cape Town with Domestos Flush Less, a toilet points to reach 17.5%.
Europe returned good results in ice cream, spray that disinfects and eliminates odours without the need to flush.
underpinned by good weather and innovations such as Magnum pints We increased our presence in e-commerce, crossing 500 million of and Kinder ice cream.
However, developed markets overall remain sales and continued to experiment with new business models such as difficult and are seeing slower volume growth due to increasing peer-to-peer laundry services.
segmentation of consumer preferences, especially in foods, where our efforts on portfolio transformation were not enough to offset the The third strategic pillar is investing in our capabilities.
Traditional channels in Europe such as supermarkets and partnering to tap into the opportunities that data brings to make Home hypermarkets continue to discount, creating deflationary pressure.
Care more efficient and better able to seize growth opportunities.
In Latin America had a challenging year due to tough economic China, our water purification brand, Truliva, partnered with Alibaba to conditions, a truckers strike in Brazil and currency headwinds in develop an online leasing market for water purifiers.
We also joined Argentina which affected growth in these two markets.
Excluding Latin forces with Ms Paris, the Chinese dress rental platform, that allows America, emerging markets generally delivered a strong performance.
consumers to hire designer dresses and return without laundering.
Several key markets including India, China and Turkey saw doubleTo support our R&D efforts, we have inaugurated the Materials digit growth reflecting the strong potential in emerging markets.
Innovation Factory at the University of Liverpool, a world-class centre of excellence in advanced material chemistry and an ecosystem that F&R will continue to drive growth and margin by focusing on its strategic brings together innovation partners and leading academics to develop priorities.
Our portfolio transformation, step-up in capabilities and shift more sustainable and superior formula and packaging for our brands.
in culture are of paramount importance to meet these objectives.
Home Care delivered underlying sales growth of 4.2% while our underlying operating margin improved by 80 basis points to reach 13.0%.
HOME CARE Key drivers of growth were North and South Asia with South East Asia, HOME CARE GENERATED TURNOVER OF 10.1 BILLION, Middle-East, Turkey and the US also performing strongly.
By contrast, ACCOUNTING FOR 20% OF UNILEVERS TURNOVER AND our performance in Latin America was challenged by a truckers strike 9% OF OPERATING PROFIT IN 2018. and extreme inflationary pressures.
Our home & hygiene and fabric Home Care is home to two global brands with turnover of 1 billion or sensations categories delivered strong, broad-based profitable growth above, namely Dirt is Good eg Omo and Persil and Surf.
Other leading whereas life essentials performed below expectations largely driven by brands include Comfort, Domestos, Sunlight, Cif, Seventh Generation as a significant decline in category growth in air purification in China and well as our air and water purification brands Blueair, Pureit and Truliva intense competitive pressures.
Margin expansion in fabric solutions was Qinyuan.
79.5% of our turnover is in developing and emerging countries.
hampered by inflationary headwinds and competitive pressures on pricing.
Home Cares ambition is to deliver sustained underlying sales growth and Home Care will continue to drive growth and margin by shifting our step up underlying operating margin.
portfolio and footprint towards the higher growth, more profitable The rapid change of consumer habits, media, competitors and channels, market segments, formats, channels and geographies while as well as heightened environmental stress, has redefined Home Cares continuing to address with agility changing consumer preferences.
12 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018
