Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 04 Financial statements Chairs Statement THE NEXT PHASE OF ULTRAS JOURNEY Realising that potential through our Focus, This is a very exciting time for Ultra, Fix, Grow journey will be an accelerated but evolutionary process that will take time but there is more we can do to deliver and some reinvestment.
This builds on the already strong Ultra platform, and we are the Groups potential.
confident that Ultra can deliver above average growth as well as strong and sustainable TONY RICE value creation over themedium and long Chair term.
I look forward to working with Simon and the team to realise that potential.
2018 performance The Group achieved a satisfactory financial performance in 2018, and having taken account ofanumber of legacy issues, it is particularly This is my first report as Chair pleasing to see a return to organic revenue of Ultra Electronics after taking growth and a good number of material contract over from Douglas Caster in wins that will be delivered in the years ahead.
January 2019, and soIwill be The Groups cash performance improved in the closing stages of the year and resulted in a commenting on the previous better than expected outturn for underlying years performance on his behalf.
operating cash conversion at 79% for 2018 2017: 97%.
The Group ended the year with a Firstly, I would like to highlight Douglas strong order book of 984m and 2019 opening significant contribution to Ultra over the past order cover of 66%, which sets us up well for 31years.
Douglas has played a pivotal role in the year ahead.
thegrowth and development of Ultra into the specialist international electrical and electronics Shareholders will note a higher number of nonengineering company it is today.
Douglas underlying costs than in previous years.
Some of was with the business from 1988 until his these relate to legacy issues, such as theselfretirement at the start of this year, and was report made by Ultra to the SFO investigation, part of the original management buyout from where we continue to cooperate with the SFO, Dowty that formed Ultra Electronics in 1992. the abandoned acquisition of Sparton, and He joined the Board in October 1993, and in the final part of the S3 programme.
Whilst we April 2000, was appointed Chief Operating dont envisage future significant non-underlying Officer, becoming Chief Executive in April expenditure at this scale, the Board will ensure it 2005.
He was appointed Deputy Chair in April is transparent and open about any such issues.
2010 and became Chair of Ultra in April 2011.
Without his tremendous personal commitment Board changes and succession planning and leadership, the Group would not be what Over a year ago the Board started the process it is today.
Douglas leaves the Group in good torecruit a new Chief Executive Officer, which shape and with an exciting future.
On behalf resulted in the appointment of Simon Pryce in of all of Ultras stakeholders, I would like to June 2018.
Simon has a wealth of experience, a thank Douglas for all he has done for Ultra proven track record and is well-placed to lead and wish him the very best for the future.
Ultra through its next phase of development.
Iam very encouraged by his initial impressions.
I agreed to become Chair of Ultra because Ithink He has already taken steps to enhance the senior this is a very exciting time for the Group.
It is management team with the hire of a new Chief clear to me that Ultra has a number of strengths, Human Resources Officer and, a permanent including a remarkable engineering heritage, General Counsel and Company Secretary, as exceptional IP and positions on a broad range of well as a number of other appointments and programmes and platforms.
However, as Simon they are already having an impact on the Group.
explains in his report, there is more we can do to deliver Ultras potential in the next phase of the Companys development.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 05 Douglas Caster, who performed the role of Following the further changes to the Board, Outlook Executive Chair during the process of recruiting theBoard has again requested Sir Robert to Ultra entered 2019 with good visibility and the new CEO, stepped back to being Chair upon continue as Senior Independent Director until, an opening order cover of 66%.
Reflecting Douglas atthe latest, January 2020, to ensure a degree is well-positioned in growth markets with length of service, and in accordance with the of continuity and business knowledge.
Further significant exposure to the strengthening Boards succession planning process, the Board details of these Board changes can be found US defence budget.
We plan to build on this commenced a search for anew Non-Executive inmy Governance statement on page 46. momentum by increasing investment in the Director and Chair Designate, resulting in my Groups own Research and Development joining the Board in December 2018, and taking Dividend and buy-back R&D and systems, as well as focusing over as Chair on 28 January 2019.
Details of the The total dividend per share for 2018 increased on improved execution and delivery.
process by which I was appointed are set out in to 51.6p from 49.6p last year, an increase of the Report from the Chair of the Nomination 4.0%, and will be paid to shareholders on the We remain on track to achieve increased Committee set out on pages 5456. register as at 12 April 2019 on 9 May 2019.
The organic revenue growth in 2019.
There is a Board has stated its commitment to a lot of work to do as the Focus, Fix, Grow As announced on 6 March 2019, due to progressive dividend policy, signalling our journey is designed and implemented, and his increasing other commitments and his confidence in the future of the business.
there will be additional costs associated recent appointment as Chair of the British with it in the short term.
However, we are Standards Institution, John Hirst has indicated In March 2018 we announced that, following confident that these improvements will benefit that he intends to step down as a Nondiscussions with the US Department of Justice the Group in the medium and long term.
Executive Director and Chair of the Audit and competition concerns raised by it, Ultra and I look forward to keeping you updated on Committee later this year, once a suitable Sparton had mutually agreed to terminate the the progress we aremaking in due course.
John will step merger, and that the Group therefore intended down from the Remuneration Committee to undertake, over time, a share buy-back TONY RICE after the 2019 Annual General Meeting.
through on-market purchase in order to return Chair We thank him for his wise counsel and the 134m net proceeds of the earlier equity 6 March 2019 support over the past five years and wish issue to its shareholders.
him all the best for his future endeavours.
To date we have bought back most of the Sir Robert Walmsleys term as a Non-Executive 7,047,168 new ordinary shares issued under Director was due to expire in April 2018.
We see good medium-term the changes to the Board, on 10 November opportunities to invest the remaining capital in 2017, it was announced that the Board had a value-creative way in the businesses as part of asked Sir Robert to remain on the Board for a our Focus, Fix, Grow journey.
It is therefore our further year as Senior Independent Director to intention to formally close the buy-back, whilst provide non-executive continuity and leadership.
retaining the opportunity to buy-back our shares in the normal way should it make economic sense to do so.
