DELIVERING LONG-TERM VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS CONTINUED BUSINESS TRANSFORMATION OUR SHAREHOLDERS Our brand portfolio continues to evolve to match our Divisions' strategic WE DELIVERED SOLID PERFORMANCE IN 2018 AND REMAIN priorities, resulting in the sale of assets that no longer fit our growth ON TRACK FOR OUR 2020 TARGETS.
model or the acquisition of assets that take us into new market segments We aim to build long-term relationships with our shareholders and build new market positions.
This active portfolio management means through positive engagement for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
that in the past nine years we have sold 6.8 billion of turnover, mainly We engage directly with our shareholders on a broad range of financial in the lower growth foods businesses.
During that same period, we have and environmental, social and governance ESG matters.
During 2018 acquired approximately 5.3 billion of turnover.
The spreads disposals we engaged with shareholders on a number of topics including our in July allow Foods & Refreshment to focus on growth.
Remuneration Policy and on the simplification of Unilever.
See page Actively managing our brand portfolio through acquisitions and 39 and our website for more details.
In addition to direct engagement disposals remains an important strategic growth driver.
In December we regularly engage indirectly via ESG ratings organisations such as we announced an agreement to acquire the Health Food Drinks MSCI, Sustainalytics and ISS, as well as investor-focused sustainability portfolio of GlaxoSmithKline GSK in India, Bangladesh and 20 other rankings such CDP and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
Further details of the transaction can be found on our website.
The acquisition includes iconic brands such PERFORMANCE IN 2018 as Horlicks and Boost, and a product portfolio supported by strong Underlying sales growth for 2018 was 2.9% and underlying operating nutritional claims.
The transaction is aligned with our strategy to margin was 18.4%, a rise of 90 basis points.
Turnover declined by 5.1% increase our presence in health-food categories and in high-growth due to the sale of spreads and currency devaluation: operating margin emerging markets.
The transaction is subject to customary regulatory was 24.6% due to profit on the spreads disposals.
and shareholder approvals, with expected completion around Emerging markets saw a good performance in underlying sales 12 months from the announcement.
growth of 4.6% including improved price growth in response to In October we completed the acquisition of a 75% stake in the Italian commodity inflation.
Notable improvements were in India, which was personal care business Equilibra which has a growing presence strong across all categories, and China where strong volume growth in the natural skin and hair care segments.
We also completed was seen particularly in e-commerce.
Argentina was classified as the acquisition of Qualas Beauty & Personal Care and Home Care hyper-inflationary and price growth was excluded from underlying brands.
We acquired a number of exciting new businesses including figures from July: any volume growth or decline is included within the Vegetarian Butcher Netherlands which expands our portfolio underlying figures.
North America saw an improvement in underlying into plant-based foods, and three ice cream brands Adityaa India, sales growth and there was acceleration in the US, helped by our Betty Romania and Denny Bulgaria.
With the exception of brands acquisition programme in recent years, particularly in BPC.
Europe launched in countries where they were not previously sold, acquisitions remains challenged by a deflationary environment generally.
We and disposals only contribute to underlying sales growth from delivered solid volume-driven growth across our business with good 12 months after completion.
A key part of our 2020 programme is faster portfolio evolution in order We generated 5.0 billion of free cash flow and 18.8% return on capital.
to focus Unilever on more rapidly growing segments.
This process Underlying earnings per share was 2.36, a rise of 5.2%, and dividends continued at pace during 2018 with the focus on new brand launches were increased 8%, reflecting Unilevers confidence in future profit and evolving our core brands.
Our C4G organisation means we can growth and cash generation.
Diluted earnings per share was 3.48. respond to consumer trends more quickly.
We have launched nearly Our share price has fallen 0.42% for PLC shareholders and risen 0.98% 30 brands in the last two years.
Local brands are also being launched for NV shareholders.
For information on our non-GAAP measure, see more quickly followed by rapid global roll-out, for instance Breyers pages 23 to 26.
Delights, Love Beauty and Planet and Lakme all responding to the trend for more natural and healthy products.
PROGRESS AGAINST OUR 2020 FINANCIAL TARGETS In April 2017, we set out financial targets for 2020 to further accelerate Evolving our core brands has also accelerated.
Brands such as Dove, shareholder value.
In 2018 we maintained a strong delivery of savings Lifebuoy and Sunsilk in Beauty & Personal Care all launched new with over 2 billion of savings from the supply chain, ZBB and change variants responding to consumer trends.
In Home Care there were new programmes.
As a result, we are on track to meet our cumulative launches of Domestos, Cif and Comfort while Foods & Refreshment savings target of 6 billion by 2019 and a 2020 underlying operating extended the Knorr, Hellmanns and Lipton brands with new on-trend margin target of 20%, compared to 16.4% in 2016. variants for more information on brand launches see pages 11 to 12.
We continue to maintain our leverage by targeting a Net Debt to Realising the opportunities from digital technology to help deliver underlying EBITDA ratio of 2x, consistent with a credit rating of at least further growth and margin improvement is another key part of our A A2.
During 2018, we returned 6 billion to shareholders through our business transformation.
We have launched a digital transformation share buyback programme following the sale of spreads.
programme across all aspects of our value chain.
We have 30 platforms across Unilever which power our business using digital During the year the Boards decided to withdraw proposals to revise technologies.
Our Enterprise & Technology Solutions team is set Unilevers dual-headed legal structure after extensive engagement up to deliver a technologically enabled Unilever for the future while with shareholders.
We remain firmly committed to our 2020 ensuring that processes and activities are shared and scaled across improvement programme and are confident of meeting its key the business.
This will allow us to use technology as a competitive goals.
To simplify our capital structure, we cancelled the NV advantage rather than a cost.
preference shares in February 2019 see page 38.
Digital technology changed our approach to marketing some time ago but the transformation of Unilever more broadly has begun at pace.
AI, machine learning and voice related technologies are being used to deliver personalised and immersive experiences to our consumer platforms such as Recipedia and Cleanipedia websites.
We are also driving digital through our R&D organisation, introducing new tools to increase the speed, efficiency and quality of our innovation processes.
18 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018
