A CHANGING WORLD UNILEVER OPERATES IN THE FAST-MOVING CONSUMER ENVIRONMENT UNDER PRESSURE According to a 2018 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change GOODS FMCG INDUSTRY, ONE OF THE WORLDS LARGEST, report, the world is on course for warming of 1.5 degrees Celsius by as MOST COMPETITIVE AND DYNAMIC.
Drought, floods, extreme heat and poverty for hundreds of millions are threatened if no action is taken to curb emissions.
The MARKET OVERVIEW cost of inaction will be profound, estimated to be about $44 trillion The top 25 global FMCG players generate sales of over 700 billion in lost GDP.
But the rewards for positive action are substantial and in markets characterised by their dynamic nature.
A global, digital thanks to the Paris Agreement, nearly 200 countries are pursuing economy is fuelling rapid change characterised by fragmentation carbon reforms.
This is helping to open about $23 trillion in opportunities throughout the value chain.
This requires fast, innovative, profitable for climate-smart investments in 21 emerging markets alone by 2030. global and local responses in areas such as supply chain, customer development, marketing and brand innovation.
Climate change also threatens our food system which must produce 50% more food to feed over 9 billion people by 2050.
However, In response, Unilever has reorganised into three Divisions: Beauty changing weather patterns and growing seasons threaten suitable & Personal Care, Foods & Refreshment and Home Care.
Each has cultivation areas around the world.
Business can spur positive change implemented our C4G change programme which was introduced in 2016 and achieving food security could create 80 million jobs and business to create a simpler organisation capable of innovating more quickly to opportunities worth $2.3 trillion annually by 2030.
Linked to climate evolve our brand portfolios and meet changing trends more effectively change is water scarcity, a threat to 3.2 billion people.
If current usage harnessing our global scale and local expertise.
Acquisitions of new continues the world will have only 60% of its required water by 2030. brands have further supplemented our core portfolios.
See pages 30 and 33 to 35 for more on climate change risks.
The use and threat of tariffs for political leverage continues to drive Other environmental concerns are growing in significance, such as uncertainty in our markets.
Currency volatility in Argentina, Turkey plastic packaging.
The Ellen MacArthur Foundation found that 95% and Pakistan as well as major political disruption in markets such as of the value of plastic packaging is lost to the economy after one short Brazil, continues to demand rapid local responses from our brands.
use, equivalent of $80-120 billion lost to the global economy each Our business is shaped by systemic macro forces.
See pages 14 to 15 and 30 for more on plastic packaging risks review these to ensure our strategy remains relevant.
there are four distinct but overlapping macro trends that will shape the world over the next ten years.
PEOPLE LIVING DIFFERENTLY Concerns about the planet and society are matched by concerns about DIGITAL AND TECHNOLOGY REVOLUTION our own health and what we eat.
Growing urbanisation is shaping new Business is evolving at a faster pace than ever.
Traditional understanding health priorities while the cost of care is also rising, placing health and engagement with consumers is being redefined.
Digital technology services under increased pressure.
Obesity kills more people than is transforming relationships with consumers from connectivity and hunger, while many populations struggle to find sufficient nourishment the Internet of Things, to robotics, artificial intelligence and augmented in their diets.
Sugar is seen as a major threat which has resulted in reality.
All are linked by more targeted and data-driven marketing.
a number of countries choosing to implement a tax on it.
For food companies, this presents a mix of challenges and opportunities.
Fragmentation remains a principal driver of change, impacting Meanwhile, public awareness around mental health issues continues consumer journeys, route-to-market channels and media, and brand to grow, particularly with digital connectivity.
Consumers are taking different paths to purchase, often combining offline and online channels where influencers are Consumers are now living in communities that are becoming more a growing force.
Younger consumers continue to prioritise meaning diverse with fragmented identities.
Younger generations, especially over materialism and are demanding more authenticity, transparency Millennials and Generation Z, continue to have a powerful influence and natural ingredients.
The talkability of brands is vital in a on cultural norms on issues such as diversity and discrimination.
fragmented digital media landscape, favouring those with a strong Meanwhile, older generations are exerting a strong economic point of view, or purpose, relevant to consumers.
The number of people aged 80 or over is expected the global workforce and middle class consumers, especially in to triple by 2050. emerging markets, has resulted in long-term shifts favouring greater Migration is having a profound effect on national identity.
One in 30 convenience and time-saving attributes.
people are international migrants living abroad, a 40% rise since Channels to reach consumers are equally fragmented.
People are encouraged to move, in part, by the rise of global less reliance on big box retailers with e-commerce growing 13% megacities with more than ten million inhabitants.
The number of globally, driven by direct-to-consumer models and platforms such as these will rise from 31 to 41 by 2030.
Such urbanisation is expected Amazon and Alibaba.
The market is also polarising between specialist to create an additional 500 million one-person households between channels and discounters and convenience stores, creating both risks 2016 and 2030.
Climate change looks set to increase migration even and opportunities for FMCG companies.
further as populations are displaced due to rising sea levels and changing climates.
The proliferation of digital and social media channels has resulted in media fragmentation, with digital advertising now about 40% of the The #MeToo movement has encapsulated a major shift in womens market.
However, improving standards and tackling fraud to protect rights.
The global gender gap in primary school completion and the integrity of digital marketing are major challenges.
enrolment in secondary school has closed, however barriers and opportunities remain, particularly on equal pay.
According to the World Bank, gender equality would enrich the global economy by POLARISED WORLD an estimated $160 trillion if women were earning as much as men Slow and uneven economic growth, rising inequality, political in the workplace.
Men themselves face changing roles.
Time spent polarisation and the rise of nationalism within countries is impacting with children has almost quadrupled for men since 1965 and in some consumer confidence.
At the same time, consumers continue countries the burden of care is changing in response to improved to have low confidence in government, business, media and NGOs, paternity leave entitlements and shared parental leave.
Changing according to the Edelman Trust Barometer.
However, according to the demographics and societal expectations present significant risks and same study, three out of four people agree a company can take action opportunities for FMCG companies.
to both increase profits while improving economic and social conditions in the community it operates in.
Find out more about how we are responding to the trends outlined in this section in delivering value for our stakeholders pages 11 to 18.
8 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018
