OUR STRATEGY GROWING THE CORE, EVOLVING THE PORTFOLIO AND DEVELOPING CHANNELS ARE AT THE HEART OF OUR STRATEGY.
Our strategy helps us deliver top and bottom line growth in a fast-changing world.
It is underpinned by C4G which aims to create a faster, simpler organisation.
WINNING WITH BRANDS AND INNOVATION WINNING THROUGH CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT Rapid innovation is critical to respond effectively to the fragmentation C4G plays a significant role in driving growth, but is also responsible we are experiencing in consumer segments, routes to market and media for margin expansion for profitable growth.
Innovation varies by Division based on market requirements discipline governing overhead spending, and our zero-based budgeting and brand strategies but we split projects into three separate groups.
ZBB approach, we are reducing costs and uncovering innovative ways Firstly, we have global roll-outs, such as the Sunsilk Natural Recharge of working.
Secondly, we have local innovations We are applying the 5S 'smart' programme across the Group which marketed through global brands, such as our partnership with Kinder cuts costs and examines the business case for improvements more owned by Ferrero which was launched in several European countries broadly driving savings through smart buying, smart sourcing and following success in France.
Finally, we have local brands with local a smart product portfolio, as well as leveraging our supplier Partner innovation, such as Vim bars with mint extract launched in India.
5S also drives revenue and margin through smart Our faster response to consumer trends is due to different ways of mix and smart pricing delivered through our Net Revenue Management working to meet the needs of local consumers and customers, and quick programme.
5S is delivering over 1 billion of savings per year, with the decision-making.
Global marketing networks called Brand Communities aim to reinvest two-thirds of these savings.
work hand in hand with more than 230 Country Category Business Brand and Marketing Investment is focused on maximising return on Teams CCBTs that operate as multifunctional entrepreneurial units.
We are increasing spend in the areas driving growth, such as This allows for more experimentation, responsiveness and scaling up digital media and in-store, whilst reducing production and promotional of innovation across markets.
We are already seeing an improvement in spend.
In 2018 we generated savings in BMI of over 500 million.
We are time to market across our portfolio as a result of a range of initiatives to creating more content in-house while making existing assets go further.
speed up the innovation process.
For example, time to market with new Our 16 U-Studios in 13 countries create brand content faster and more innovations to meet local trends is now 40-50% faster compared to 2016. efficiently than external agencies.
Improvements to measurement and Our portfolios are evolving to meet consumer demand for brands verification of digital audiences ensure we maximise value in digital that take a stand on issues they care about.
Unilevers purpose and advertising alongside improvements in the measurement of influencer our Sustainable Living brands are key to driving purchase preference.
Consumer trust in brands is also driven by their experiences of Related principal risks pages 29 and 31 : Brand preference, marketing.
In 2018 we took a key role in the industry ensuring digital Supply chain responsibility covering content, platforms and measurement while also campaigning to improve influencer marketing and combat fraud in the digital ecosystem.
Related principal risks pages 29 to 32 : Brand preference, Economic and political instability, Portfolio management, Safe and high-quality products, Sustainability, Climate change, Plastic packaging WINNING IN THE MARKETPLACE WINNING WITH PEOPLE Every day, 2.5 billion people use our products.
We evolve our portfolio With unprecedented change happening externally, we are taking action to reach consumers in all income brackets from our prestige range in in a number of areas to ensure we are more agile, digitally focused Beauty & Personal Care, built from carefully selected acquisitions, to the and networked.
Our C4G programme is empowering our people roll-out of affordable products, such as Domex Toilet Cleaning Powder in with an owners mindset and gives them the licence to take greater India, for low income consumers.
We reach wide into new geographies, responsibility.
Through C4G we are already seeing higher levels of with brands expanding into new pockets of growth such as launching empowerment, collaboration, experimentation and increased speed Ben & Jerrys Moo-phoria low calorie ice cream in the US and Premium in decision-making.
Cif sprays in 15 European markets in 2018.
To develop the capabilities, skills and leadership which support new Data is key and our ambition is to build one billion one-to-one consumer ways of working, we are investing in continuous, always-on learning relationships through our People Data Centres which connect us with programmes.
We are particularly focused on digital capabilities.
To consumers in a responsible way through real-time analytics.
Our 27 develop purpose-led and future-fit leaders, in 2018 we launched new People Data Centres identify trends from social listening alongside Standards of Leadership.
Developed in collaboration with thought engaging with consumers on ideas for new launches.
Our contact with leaders and groups of young and senior leaders, the new Standards consumers is governed by our Code Policy on Personal Data & Privacy recognise the need for leaders to embrace both the inner and outer which sets out the steps we take to protect personal data.
The 'outer game' is what leaders need to do to succeed: the 'inner game' is about their inner purpose which guides Alongside innovation, customer development is key to growth, ensuring their behaviours and actions.
products are available when and where consumers want them, in the format they prefer, at the right price.
E-commerce remains a crucial Attracting and retaining talent is vital to support our growth ambitions.
Online is now around 5% of Unilever turnover.
In China Purpose and our Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP remain key e-commerce accounts for over 20% of turnover.
We are building our talent attractors with 75% of employees in our 2018 UniVoice survey business through online channels such as Amazon, Taobao in China, believing their role contributes to the USLP and 70% believing they can online grocery websites, and direct-to-consumer models deployed by fulfil their purpose at work.
To reinforce this link and give more people Dollar Shave Club, T2 and our prestige brands.
a stake in the business we are developing our approach to reward by including more long-term share-based incentives for business Related principal risks pages 29, 30 and 32 : Customer relationships, performance and progress on our USLP targets.
Economic and political instability, Portfolio management, Sustainability, Climate change Related principal risks pages 29, 31 and 32 : Talent, Business transformation, Sustainability 10 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018
