ABOUT US AT A GLANCE OUR PURPOSE OUR BRANDS ARE AVAILABLE IN OVER 190 COUNTRIES.
UNILEVERS PURPOSE IS TO MAKE SUSTAINABLE LIVING THIS GIVES US A UNIQUE OPPORTUNITY TO POSITIVELY COMMONPLACE.
WE BELIEVE THIS IS THE BEST WAY TO IMPACT THE LIVES OF PEOPLE ALL OVER THE WORLD.
Every day, 2.5 billion people use our products to feel good, look good We believe long-term sustainable growth is best delivered through and get more out of life.
Our range of around 400 household brands brands that offer great performance and have a genuine purpose.
includes Lipton, Knorr, Dove, Rexona, Hellmanns and Omo.
We are Washing shirts whiter or making hair healthier and shinier is still one of the largest fast moving consumer goods FMCG companies vitally important, but product performance by itself is no longer globally.
In 2018 we had 12 brands with turnover of over a billion euros enough.
Consumers are looking for more.
The strength of our global brands is reflected in Kantars At Unilever, we encourage our brand managers to take a stance and Brand Footprint report published in May 2018.
It found that 13 of make a positive difference to society.
Purpose defines a brand in the worlds top 50 FMCG brands based on market penetration and people's minds and is best delivered through action.
It's only through consumer interactions are owned by Unilever with these brands action that consumers will see purpose as more than marketing.
chosen 36 billion times each year.
This is significantly more than any other FMCG company in the study.
Our company purpose To make sustainable living commonplace is unequivocal.
We want to help create a world where everyone can Our portfolio also includes iconic local brands designed to meet the live well within the natural limits of the planet.
We put sustainable specific needs of consumers in their home market such as Brooke living at the heart of everything we do, including our brands and Bond in India and Brilhante in Brazil.
We are increasingly seeing our products, our standards of behaviour and our partnerships which local brands and innovations being rolled out to more markets such drive transformational change across our value chain.
as Lakme and Breyers Delights.
Our geographic reach gives us an unparalleled global presence, including a unique position in emerging Purpose takes many forms amongst our brands.
Some, like Lifebuoy, markets which generate 58% of our turnover.
take on life-threatening diseases associated with poor hygiene with programmes to change handwashing behaviour.
Domestos' purpose From the beginning of 2018, Unilever began operating across three is to improve sanitation for millions of people who do not have access new Divisions created as part of our efforts to accelerate shareholder to a toilet.
Our brands can also be a catalyst to promote positive value creation.
The largest by turnover is Beauty & Personal Care cultural norms.
Brooke Bond's purpose 'Common ground is only followed by Foods & Refreshment then Home Care.
Details of each a cup away' is highly relevant in an increasingly divided world and can be found on pages 11 to 12.
The sale of our spreads business was can be applied well locally.
In India, it addresses religious tensions.
These changes create a strong platform In the Gulf, divorce.
to accelerate our strategy of long-term, sustainable shareholder value creation.
Our strategy is explained in detail on page 10.
Some of our brands take an activist stance, mobilising citizens to change policy or create social movements.
For example, Ben & Our business activities span a complex global value chain which Jerry's builds movements around issues such as climate change is described on page 9.
At the heart of our business is a workforce and the refugee crisis.
Seventh Generation with its plant-based of 155,000 people as at 31 December 2018 who are driven by our products campaigns for renewable energy.
Deodorant brand purpose and empowered to excel in our fast-changing markets.
The Rexona's purpose is to help reverse physical inactivity, a big issue combination of global scale and local agility has become yet more for societies facing increasingly sedentary lifestyles.
Rexona believes effective through the continued implementation of our Connected 4 'the more you move, the more you live' supported by Motion Sense Growth C4G change programme to meet consumer trends which are technology which works through movement.
Radiant believes everyone detailed on page 8.
Our employees are supported by leadership teams deserves an opportunity to shine.
It goes beyond bright clothes and with representatives from over 70 countries.
Of our business leaders, helping consumers 'dress to progress', enhancing skills through its 80% are local to their markets reflecting the deep local expertise at Career Academies.
Each market focuses on the skills that matter the heart of our business.
This rises to more than 90% when we include locally.
In Brazil that's entrepreneurial and business skills.
In India, managers who support those teams.
In this volatile and uncertain world, protecting Unilever through the All of Unilever's brands are on a journey to becoming purposeful.
fostering of business integrity is a non-negotiable for all employees.
Sustainable Living brands are those that are furthest ahead.
In 2017, Our Code of Business Principles the Code, and the 24 policies 26 of our brands qualified as Sustainable Living brands including our that support it Code Policies, set out the behaviour standards B-Corp certified brands such as Ben & Jerry's, Seventh Generation required from all our people.
The Code Policies cover a number and Pukka Herbs, which means that they meet high standards of of areas, including anti-bribery and corruption, respect, dignity social and environmental performance, transparency and legal and fair treatment of people and personal data and privacy.
Our Sustainable Living brands grew 46% faster than the the Code and Code Policies help us put our values of Integrity, rest of the business and delivered more than 70% of Unilevers growth, Respect, Responsibility and Pioneering into practice.
See page 16 driven by consumer demand for brands with purpose at their core.
for more on our Code and Code Policies.
However volatile and uncertain the world is, Unilevers purpose During the year the Boards withdrew proposals to simplify Unilevers supported by the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP and brands dual-headed legal structure after extensive engagement with with purpose will remain steadfast because managing for the shareholders.
We remain firmly committed to our 2020 financial benefit of multiple stakeholders is the best way for us to grow.
programme and are confident of meeting its key targets and objectives as our faster, simpler organisation delivers more efficiency, lower costs We are now looking beyond the current USLP as many of our and significant operational and financial benefits.
We carried out an extensive listening exercise on the future of sustainable business.
We spoke to approximately This Annual Report and Accounts provides further detail on our 300 stakeholders, including more than 130 external experts, and performance during the year and how our business model is delivering heard from over 40,000 employees through a Have Your Say strong returns for shareholders and a more sustainable way of doing survey.
They gave us their views on the priorities that they would business for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
Find out more about like Unilever to focus on.
The results will be used to co-create our performance on pages 6 and 7.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report 1
