Corporate governance Safe and Secure is the first of our three ACCOUNTABILITY: brand promises the cornerstone of providing HEALTH & SAFETY COMMITTEE REPORT a home for each of our c. 50,000 students.
Unite Students is home to c. 50,000 students.
Committee overview For many, this is their first time living away from Composition home.
Being safe and secure is at the heart Sir Tim Wilson Chair of everything we do our focus on the safety Elizabeth McMeikan and wellbeing of all our customers, employees, contractors and other visitors to our properties.
Richard Smith Ilaria del Beato Fire has always been identified as our biggest safety risk.
Following the lessons of the Grenfell Role Tower tragedy, during 2018 we continued to The role of the Health & Safety Committee is to: improve the safety of our properties with the comprehensive replacement of cladding at Ensure that the Groups Health and Safety Olympic Way in London, Waverley House in Professor Sir Tim Wilson policies and procedures are reviewed Bristol and Concept House and Sky Plaza in Chair of the Health & Safety annually and effectively implemented Leeds.
Sky Plaza also simultaneously received Committee to ensure legal requirements are met, a 4.1m investment in internal safety works with as well as striving for best practice the installation of sprinklers, hob watchers and door screechers and an upgrade to the fire Ensure that the business is aware of alarm and AOVs automatic opening vents.
regulatory changes and understands the impact upon the business Greetham Street, Portsmouth passed the Remain updated on performance and BS8414 test and thus complies with The Ministry any major health and safety incidents so of Housing, Communities and Local Housing as to ensure management identifies and MHCLG guidance.
We are also replacing implements appropriate corrective actions.
the cladding at St Pancras Way, London.
Activities in 2018 We are now conducting a fire strategy review Student safety campaign of all our properties and, following the Hackitt During 2018, we hosted another student Review, we have appointed a Fire Safety Manager safety campaign.
This focused on fire safety in Q4, 2018 to help implement recommendations.
These include ensuring the golden thread of information per property.
This will ensure there is a The campaign was targeted to run soon digital, single repository of information per building after student check-in and was co-ordinated from design through to construction and any later with local fire & rescue services and Police changes in occupation.
We also continue to work closely with Avon This year, we were supported by a student Fire & Rescue as our Primary Authority to receive vlogger passionate about fire safety.
This involved assured advice throughout our properties.
This filming video content at the Avon Fire & Rescue helps ensure we continue to develop, implement station near our Head Office in Bristol and sharing and share best practice.
peer-led material throughout our digital channels.
This generated lots of positive feedback and local Alongside this comprehensive fire safety work, media interest, helping reinforce the importance we also embarked on a bold student safety of safety to our students.
This targeted student fire safety and personal student safety.
There is more External safety audit on this student safety campaign below.
In addition to fire safety experts, we also work with The British Safety Council to provide Sir Tim Wilson independent external assurance on our health Chair Health and Safety Committee and safety effectiveness.
During 2018, The British Safety Council completed a Five Star Occupational H&S Audit.
The primary objective of this is to determine the progress made by the organisation since our first BSC audit in 2016.
This review showed we are making improvements in our health and safety management system and safety culture and we progressed from a Good to Very Good rating.
72 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 Crisis management During the year, we refreshed our Crisis Safety at our Development sites Management Plan to ensure it keeps up to In our development activity, there was one RIDDOR reportable injury and 8 minor incidents in 2018. date with the emerging threats and risks.
This represents good safety performance versus the industry norm, especially pleasing in a year in As part of this refresh, we also conducted live which we completed 7 schemes.
This performance is within our Unite Students internal benchmarks crisis management tests, both in our operating beating the industry standards as follows: properties and our head office in Bristol, to really Total reportable incidents to date 2018 challenge the effectiveness and resilience of our Reportable Minor crisis planning and procedures.
We continue to Project Hours worked incidents incidents run crisis management tests with different and Chaucer House 127,676 0 0 dynamic scenarios to help prepare us as best International House 229,071 0 0 as possible for crisis events.
St Vincents 248,271 0 1 Brunel House 147,605 0 4 Incidents Incidents involving our employees, customers Skelhorne Street 353,168 0 1 or visitors: New Wakefield St 18,720 0 1 Cowley Oxford 261,197 1 0 Six reportable injuries under RIDDOR White Rose View 14,428 0 1 involving employees and customers Totals 1400136 1 8 classed as members of the public 263 minor non-reportable incidents We have also carried out a number of During 2019, we aim to build on safe and involving employees, customers safety and wellbeing initiatives during 2018 secure and the safety performance at our and contractors.
to drive better safety at our Development sites.
Development sites, aligning with our broader These include: aim to put health back into health & safety.
Activities include: Employee wellness New site branding and safety signage This year, we trialled a renewed approach designed for all sites and piloted at We are currently a client partner of the to DSE Display Screen Equipment training Cowley Barracks, Oxford.
These help drive Considerate Constructor Scheme and our and workplace assessments.
We are also the Unite safety message and remind average site inspection scores put us in the developing a Wellbeing Strategy for our People.
Development operatives of the standards top 7% of sites nationally.
In 2019, we are expected on our sites looking to raise the bar even further with Accident and incident reporting our development sites at Tower North, Leeds Unite provided mobile welfare units on site We have incorporated data from our AIMS and New Wakefield Street, Manchester to allow operatives to have health checks Accident and Incident Management System being our first ultra sites.
This requires us to e. g. blood pressure, cholesterol, BMI and into our new Business Intelligence tool to enable do more as regards to our neighbours, the discuss any related issues.
This is to reinforce us to interrogate data, identify trends and drive environment, site appearance and aligns safety and wellness at our sites improved safety actions.
with Unites safe and secure commitment We organised motivational safety talks We will provide an on-site screening facility for Top-five focus areas for 2019 on site for our 3 framework contractors, prostate related issues, following the passing of We have streamlined our safety approach whereby an ex-tradesman who was one of our framework contractor site managers to focus on the following five high priority areas paralysed following what should have working at Cowley Barracks, Oxford through 2019: been an innocuous incident talks about the impact on his life, family and friends.
Our Development Project Managers will Fire safety This proved a hard-hitting and thought undergo mental health first aid training and provoking session which makes operatives we will explore the provision of wellbeing Security think twice about safety on site areas and counsellors on site.
All Unite Development Project Managers Contractor safety have undertaken H&S training and are now Considerate Constructors Scheme Manual handling card holders.
This aligns Unite with our supply chain and helps keep H&S top of mind.
Work at height This year, this British Safety Council audit was Mental health and wellbeing In parallel, we will put the health back into complemented with an additional audit of Mental health for young people continues as health and safety, with a particular focus on our fire safety management processes and an increasing concern for the Higher Education mental health.
fire safety at our properties.
This provided us sector and also for us at Unite, especially since we with assurance that our end-to-end processes are home to so many young people while they Sir Tim Wilson at Unite Students operate to very high standards.
Employees receive mental health Chairman first-aid training to look for signs and signpost help.
27 February 2019 Our next BSC safety audit is scheduled for Q4 The student support services team provides 2019.
This audit will be expanded to include support to employees and students alike and a detailed construction audit for the first time.
works closely with University support teams.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 73
