Corporate governance DIRECTORS REPORT As at 27 February 2019, the Company had There are no restrictions on the transfer or Details of proposals to be put to the Annual received notifications from the following voting rights of ordinary shares in the capital General Meeting in relation to the power of companies and institutions of the voting interests of the Company other than those which may Directors to issue shares in the Company are set of themselves and their clients in 3% or more of be imposed by law from time to time or as set out under the heading Annual General Meeting.
the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
out in the Companys articles of association.
Going Concern and viability statement In accordance with the Market Abuse Percentage The going concern statement and viability of share Regulations, certain employees are required to statement are set out on pages 67 and 27 Shareholder capital seek approval to deal in the Companys shares.
respectively and are incorporated into this APG Asset Management NV 8.45 Directors Report by reference.
BlackRock Inc 8.11 The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in Standard Life Aberdeen 4.22 Disclosure of information to auditors restrictions on the transfers of securities and or The Vanguard Group Inc 4.15 The Directors who held office at the date voting rights.
No person holds securities in the of approval of the Directors Report confirm Company carrying special rights with regard Share capital that, so far as they are each aware, there is to control of the Company.
Unless expressly At the date of this report, there are 263,536,692 no relevant audit information of which the specified to the contrary, the Companys ordinary shares of 25p each in issue, all of which Companys auditor is unaware: and each articles of association may be amended by are fully paid-up and quoted on the London Director has taken all the steps that s he ought special resolution of the shareholders.
to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information Change of control During the year and through to the date of this and to establish that the Companys auditor is All of the Companys share schemes contain report, 125,009 ordinary shares of 25p each were aware of that information.
provisions relating to a change of control.
allotted and issued pursuant to the exercise of Outstanding rewards and options would options under The Unite Group plc SavingsDirectors conflicts of interest normally vest and become exercisable on a Related Share Option Scheme, 23,731 ordinary The Company has procedures in place for change of control, subject to the satisfaction shares of 25p each were allotted and issued managing conflicts of interest.
A Director must of any performance conditions.
Other than pursuant to the exercise of options under the notify the Chairman and the Chairman notifies certain of the Groups banking facilities, there Approved Scheme and 22,206,872 ordinary the Chief Executive if he she becomes aware are no other significant agreements to which shares of 25p each were allotted and issued that he she, or any of his her connected parties, the Company is a party that affect, alter or following an equity placing.
may have an interest in an existing or proposed terminate upon a change of control of the transaction with the Company or the Group.
Nor are The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary Directors have a continuing duty to update any there any agreements between the Company shares, as well as the powers of the Companys changes to these conflicts.
and its Directors or employees providing for Directors, are set out in the Companys articles compensation for loss of office or employment of association.
Political donations that occurs because of a takeover bid.
No political donations were made during the year ending 2018.
The Directors have no authority to buy-back the Companys shares.
Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8 4R For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4C, the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4R can be found in the following locations within the Annual Report: Information required under LR 9.8.
4R Reference 1 Amount of interest capitalised and tax relief Note 3.1, page 129 2 Publication of unaudited financial information n a 4 Details of long term incentive schemes Pages 74 to 95 5 Waiver of emoluments by a Director n a 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a Director n a 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Pages 41 and 148 8 Item 7 in relation to major subsidiary undertakings n a 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary n a 10 Contracts of significance n a 11 Provision of services by a controller shareholder n a 12 Shareholder waiver of dividends n a 13 Shareholder waiver of future dividends n a 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders n a All the information referenced above is incorporated by reference into the Directors report.
96 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 Other information incorporated Resolution 2: Directors Resolutions 16 and 17: Disapplication by reference Remuneration Policy of pre-emption rights resolutions The following information in the Strategic In addition to the ordinary business of the If the Directors wish to allot new shares and Report is incorporated into this Directors meeting, Resolution 2 will be proposed as an other equity securities for cash other than in Report by reference: ordinary resolution to approve a new Directors connection with an employee share scheme, Remuneration Policy as set out on pages 79 company law requires that these shares are Results and Dividend page 01 to 85.
The current remuneration policy was offered first to the shareholders, in proportion approved in the May 2016 AGM and therefore to their existing holdings.
The Directors consider Greenhouse Gas Emissions page 47 the remuneration policy is due for approval in it desirable to have the maximum flexibility Financial instruments and financial risk the May 2019 AGM in line with the three-year permitted by corporate governance guidelines management page 31 and Section 4 cycle.
The rationale for the proposed changes to respond to market developments and to are explained in the annual statement of the enable allotments to take place to finance Future developments pages 18, 19 and 39 Chair of the Remuneration Committee on pages business opportunities without making a Employment of disabled persons Employee 74 to 78.
The Remuneration Committee has, pre-emptive offer to existing shareholders.
This involvement pages 45 and 46. during 2018, consulted with investors representing cannot be done under the Companies Act 2006 around two-thirds of Unites issued share capitol unless the shareholders have first waived their The Corporate Governance Statement on and with proxy advisors Glass Lewis, the pre-emption rights.
The purpose of Resolutions pages 52 to 95 and the Statement of Directors Investment Association and ISS to seek their 16 and 17 together the disapplication of responsibilities on page 99 are incorporated into views on these proposed changes to the pre-emptions rights resolutions is to enable this Directors report by reference.
The proposed shareholders to so waive their pre-emption rights.
changes are aimed at simplifying our pay arrangements, ensuring variable incentives Resolution 16 authorises the Directors to allot Management Report continue to target the right measures to deliver new shares pursuant to the authority given by This Directors Report together with the Strategic our longer-term strategy, improving alignment Resolution 15 the allotment resolution for cash: report and other sections from the Annual Report with employees across the organisation and to forms the Management report for the purposes be consistent with the revised UK Corporate a in connection with a rights issue or of DTR 4.1.
8 R. Governance Code 2018. pre-emptive issue: and or Annual General Meeting b otherwise up to the aggregate amount Resolution 15: Authority to allot shares The Annual General Meeting AGM of the stated in the Notice which represents 5% Resolution 15 will be proposed as an ordinary Company will be held at the Companys of the nominal value of the issued share resolution to grant the Directors authority to registered office at South Quay, Temple Back, capital of the Company as at the date allot shares in the Company, and grant rights Bristol, BS1 6FL at 9.30am on 9 May 2019.
Formal of the Notice, to subscribe for, or to convert, any security into notice the Notice of the Meeting is given on shares of the Company, up to the aggregate pages 156 to 159. in each case without the shares first being amount stated in the Notice which represents offered to existing shareholders in proportion one-third of the nominal value of the issued to their existing holdings.
share capital of the Company as at the date of the Notice.
In accordance with guidelines Resolution 17 additionally authorises the issued by the Investment Association, this Directors to allot new shares for cash, without resolution also grants the Directors authority to the shares first being offered to existing allot further equity securities up to the aggregate shareholders in proportion to their existing amount stated in the Notice which represents holdings, in connection with the financing or one-third of the nominal value of the issued refinancing, if the authority is to be used within share capital of the Company as at the date six months of the original transaction of an of the Notice.
This additional authority may acquisition or specified capital investment only be applied to fully pre-emptive rights issues.
which is announced contemporaneously with the allotment or which has taken place in the preceding six-month period and is disclosed in the announcement of the allotment.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 97 Corporate governance DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The authority under Resolution 17 is limited to The allotment and the disapplication of Update on 2018 AGM resolutions the aggregate amount stated in the Notice pre-emption rights resolutions comply with with votes against which represents 5% of the nominal value the Share Capital Management Guidelines At the Companys Annual General Meeting of the issued share capital of the Company issued by the Investment Association in July 2016 on 10 May 2018, all resolutions were duly passed as at the date of the Notice.
and the disapplication of pre-emption rights but there were votes against the share issuance resolutions follow the resolution templates issued resolutions Resolution 15 Issue shares preTaken together, this disapplication of by the Pre-Emption Group in May 2016. emptively, Resolution 16 Dis-apply Pre-emption pre-emption rights resolutions will allow the Rights and Resolution 17 Dis-apply Pre-emption Directors to issue new shares for cash without If the resolutions are passed, the authorities Rights acquisition specified capital investment.
offering the shares first to existing shareholders will expire at the end of the next Annual in proportion to their existing holdings under General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, The Company has proactively engaged with the following circumstances: 8 August 2020, this being the date 15 months shareholders and proxy advisors since the 2018 from the passing of the resolutions, whichever AGM.
Overall, the engagement was positive in connection with a rights issue or other is the earlier.
In summary, the votes against pre-emptive issue, with a nominal value these resolutions were primarily due to the equivalent to two-thirds of the issued share Resolution 18: Notice of perceived cumulative impact of share issuances capital as at the date of the Notice which General Meetings over the past few years.
While shareholders were will allow the Directors to make exclusions The Companies Shareholders Rights overwhelmingly supportive of the individual or such other arrangements as may be Regulations 2009 the Shareholders Rights share issuances, the Company acknowledges appropriate to resolve legal or practical Regulations, increased the notice period for the feedback and will continue to engage with problems which, for example, might arise General Meetings of the Company to 21 days shareholders and consider shareholder and with overseas shareholders : unless shareholders approve a shorter notice proxy voting guidelines.
period, which cannot be less than 14 days.
At for any other purpose, with a nominal value the Annual General Meeting of the Company This report was approved by the Board on equivalent to 5% of the issued share capital held in 2018, shareholders authorised the calling 27 February and signed on its behalf by: as at the date of the Notice: and of General Meetings, other than an Annual in connection with the financing or General Meeting, on not less than 14 days Christopher Szpojnarowicz refinancing of an acquisition or specified notice.
Resolution 18 seeks the approval of Company Secretary capital investment which is announced shareholders to renew the authority to be able 27 February 2019 contemporaneously with the allotment or to call General Meetings other than an Annual which has taken place in the preceding General Meeting on 14 days notice.
The six-month period and is disclosed in the flexibility offered by Resolution 18 will be used announcement of the allotment, with a where, taking into account the circumstances, nominal value equivalent to 5% of the issued the Directors consider it appropriate in relation share capital as at the date of the Notice, to the business of the Meeting and in the interests but subject to an overall aggregate limit of the Company and shareholders as a whole.
equivalent to two-thirds of the issued share capital as at the date of the Notice.
The Company undertakes to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the The Directors intend to adhere to the provisions in Shareholders Rights Regulations before calling the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles, a General Meeting on 14 days notice.
If given, as updated in March 2015, and not to allot shares the approval will be effective until the Companys for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis pursuant next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended to the authority in Resolution 16 either in excess that a similar resolution will be proposed.
of an amount equal to 5% of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company or in excess of an amount equal to 7.5% of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company within a rolling three-year period, without prior consultation with shareholders.
Adherence to the principles would not preclude issuances under the authority sought under Resolution 17.
98 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Under applicable law and regulations, Annual Report and Accounts and the Group the Directors are also responsible for preparing and parent company financial statements in a Directors report, Directors Remuneration accordance with applicable law and regulations.
report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements The Directors are responsible for the maintenance for each financial year.
Under that law they and integrity of the corporate and financial are required to prepare the Group financial information included on the Companys website.
statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted Legislation in the UK governing the preparation by the EU and applicable law and have elected and dissemination of financial statements may to prepare the parent company financial differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
statements on the same basis.
Each of the Directors, the names of whom are Under company law, the Directors must not set out on pages 56 and 57, confirms that to approve the financial statements unless they are the best of his or her knowledge: satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company The Annual Report and Accounts taken as a and of their profit or loss for that period.
whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for In preparing each of the Group and parent shareholders to assess the Companys position company financial statements, the Directors and performance, business model and strategy are required to: The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of Select suitable accounting policies and accounting standards, give a true and fair then apply them consistently view of the assets, liabilities, financial position Make judgements and estimates that are and profit or loss of the Company and the reasonable and prudent undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole State whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU The Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the Prepare the financial statements on the going business and the position of the issuer and concern basis unless it is inappropriate to the undertakings included in the consolidation presume that the Group and the parent taken as a whole, together with a description company will continue in business.
of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are R S Smith J J Lister sufficient to show and explain the parent Director Director companys transactions and disclose with 27 February 2019 reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 99
