Strategic report We are more than simply a student accommodation BUSINESS MODEL developer and operator.
Our unique combination of assets AND STRATEGY and capabilities provides a strong strategic foundation to deliver future growth and sustainable returns for our shareholders in an increasingly competitive market.
1 we are confident we can continue 1.
P ortfolio aligned to deliver high levels of occupancy Quality to best Universities and rental growth.
The quality, location and scale of our properties portfolio is a key component of our We know what is important to business model and strategy.
We aim students, both from our 28 years to align our portfolio with the strongest of experience in the student Universities where student demand is accommodation sector, and our predicted to remain high, helping us to long-term research programme, develop further growth opportunities.
which provides us with valuable With 90% of our portfolio aligned to knowledge in to the students of these Universities, rising to 91% on today and tomorrow.
completion of our existing pipeline, A strong balance sheet, together with our 2 investment in the Unite to our customer care centre by 39%.
Scalable Students Accommodation The popular uChat function within Quality operating platform Fund USAF and the London the app allows students to connect In building a Home for Success to future flatmates, reaching 98% of Student Accommodation we have successfully harnessed service our direct let student population.
the power of our PRISM operating Joint Venture LSAV give system and other proprietary digital platform Unite a flexible range We have based our three brand platforms to simultaneously improve promises on our customer insight of options for funding our students experience and drive and research keeping you safe operational efficiencies.
development, investment and secure, getting you settled in, and future-funded property and being there when you need us.
Based on student feedback we Our quality service platform helps us acquisitions.
This capability introduced an online check-in to deliver on these promises, offering has been enhanced in system, used by 53% of students as an enhanced digital offer, like online they arrived at the start of the new 2018 by securing an check-in and multiple MyUnite academic year, increasing our app services, delivering quick and investment grade credit operating efficiency and reducing efficient maintenance responses, rating and improved hassle for our students.
Our MyUnite providing high speed Wifi as a app is now used by 89% of our debt facilities, allowing standard, and working to sector students and delivers a wide range of leading operating margins.
more efficient funding useful pre-arrival information and has of our existing pipeline.
helped to reduce arrival related calls 3 A strong balance sheet, together with 3.
University relationships Quality our investment in the Unite Students Our University relationships, developed Accommodation Fund USAF and over many years, provide us with University the London Student Accommodation opportunities which simply arent Joint Venture LSAV give Unite a available to our competitors, securing flexible range of options for funding partnerships 60% of our beds under nominations development, investment and asset agreements with an average life of management activities.
This strength six years, giving us a 76% contracted has been enhanced in 2018 by rental uplift.
Following our first securing an investment grade credit on-campus acquisition of the entire rating and improved debt facilities, Aston University accommodation allowing more efficient funding of portfolio in 2017, we have secured two our existing pipeline.
further University partnership schemes in 2018, in London and Oxford, providing further growth opportunities.
12 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 Secure high quality income Home for Superior total Success returns for shareholders For students and Universities through dividends & value growth Continuous portfolio Our purpose enhancement Our Home for Success purpose is what drives us as a business.
It manifests in many forms from designing buildings made for todays students, based on deep insight and customer feedback, to creating long-term, inimitable partnerships with Universities that deliver value for Unite, our partners and our students.
Our efficient, scalable, service platform honed over many years and unique to Unite is designed to deliver a seamless customer experience that we improve year-on-year.
Robust capital structure THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 13
