Corporate governance During the year, the Audit Committee continued its key ACCOUNTABILITY: oversight role for the Board with specific duties as set out AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT in its terms of reference to reassure shareholders that their interests are properly protected in respect of the Groups financial management and reporting.
Audit Committee Chairs overview Role of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee works to a structured The Audit Committee has delegated authority programme of activities, with agenda items from the Board set out in its written terms of focused to coincide with key events in the reference.
The terms of reference for the Audit annual financial reporting cycle.
The Audit Committee take into account the requirements Committee reports regularly to the Board of the Code and are available for inspection at on its work.
the registered office, at the Annual General Meeting and on the Group website at http: During the year, the Audit Committee has www.
co. uk about-us corporatecontinued to monitor the integrity of the Groups governance.
financial statements and supported the Board with its ongoing monitoring of the Groups risk The key objectives of the Audit Committee are: management and internal control systems in Ross Paterson line with the requirements under the Corporate To provide effective governance and control Chair of the Audit Committee Governance Code.
The Committee also over the integrity of the Groups financial determined the focus of the Groups internal reporting and review significant financial audit activity, reviewed findings, and verified reporting judgements that management was appropriately To support the Board with its ongoing implementing recommendations.
In addition, monitoring of the effectiveness of the recognising the value of an effective Groups system of internal controls and whistleblowing channel, the Committee risk management systems again reviewed arrangements for the Groups employees to raise concerns in confidence.
To monitor the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function and review During 2018, the Audit Committee undertook its material findings the third full evaluation exercise of the Deloitte To oversee the relationship with the external audit approach to ascertain the effectiveness auditor, including making recommendations of the external audit function.
Further to the to the Board in relation to the appointment completion of the evaluation of the external of the external auditor and monitoring audit process, we are satisfied with both the the external auditors objectivity and auditors independence and audit approach independence.
and have recommended to the Board that Deloitte be re-appointed as auditor in 2019.
Composition of the Audit Committee The members of the Audit Committee are set As noted in this Corporate Governance out on page 60 of this Corporate Governance Statement, the Board delegates certain of Statement.
The Audit Committee members are its duties, responsibilities and powers to the all independent Non-Executive Directors and Audit Committee, so that these can receive have been selected with the aim of providing suitably focused attention.
However, the Audit the wide range of financial and commercial Committee acts on behalf of the full Board, expertise necessary to fulfil the Audit Committees and the matters reviewed and managed by duties.
The Board considers that as a chartered the Audit Committee remain the responsibility accountant and serving Finance Director of a of the Directors as a whole.
FTSE 250 company, I have recent and relevant financial experience.
Meetings are attended, by invitation, by the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Financial Controller.
I also invite our external auditor, Deloitte, to each meeting.
The Audit Committee regularly meets separately with Deloitte without others being present.
As appropriate, I also invite our internal auditor, PwC, to attend the meetings.
Deloitte and PwC meet independently of management to ensure alignment, to update on respective findings and consider the impact on the relative approaches of their work.
68 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 Audit Committee meetings Financial reporting Significant issues considered The Audit Committee met four times during The primary focus of the Audit Committee, in by the Committee the year and attendance at those meetings relation to financial reporting in respect of the After discussion with both management and the is shown on page 64 of this Corporate year ended 31 December 2018, was to review external auditor, the Committee determined Governance Statement.
with both management and the external auditor that the key risk of misstatement of the Groups the appropriateness of the half-year and annual 2018 financial statements related to: financial statements concentrating on: Main activities of the Audit Property valuations Committee during the year The quality and acceptability of accounting Meetings of the Audit Committee generally REIT compliance policies and practices take place just prior to a Group Board meeting Joint venture accounting.
and I report to the Board as part of a separate The clarity of the disclosures and compliance agenda item, on the activity of the Audit with financial reporting standards and Committee and matters of particular relevance Property valuations relevant financial and governance reporting to the Board in the conduct of its work.
At its four The Groups principal assets are investment requirements meetings during the year, the Audit Committee properties and investment properties under Material areas in which significant judgements focused on the following activities.
development that are either owned on balance have been applied or where there has been sheet or in USAF or LSAV.
The investment discussion with the external auditor The Audit Committee reviewed the half-year and properties are carried at fair value based on annual financial statements and the significant an appraisal by the Groups external valuers Whether the Annual Report and Accounts, financial reporting judgements.
As part of this who carry out the valuations in accordance taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and review, the Audit Committee supported the Board with the RICS Red Book valuation guide, taking understandable and provides the information by reviewing the financial viability and the basis into account transactional evidence during the necessary for shareholders to assess the for preparing the accounts on a going concern year.
The valuation of property assets involves Groups position and performance, business basis as outlined below.
The Audit Committee also significant judgement and changes in the core model and strategy.
reviewed and challenged the external auditors assumptions could have a significant impact on report on these financial statements.
the carrying value of these assets.
The Audit Committees assessment of the annual report to ensure that it is fair, balanced As discussed above, the effectiveness of the Management discusses the underlying and understandable took into account the external audit function was considered during performance of each asset with the external following considerations: 2018.
the Audit valuers and provides detailed performance Committee considered: the independence and data to them including rents, University lease A review of what fair, balanced and objectivity of the external auditor: the make-up agreements, occupancy, property costs and understandable means for Unite and quality of the audit team: the proposed costs to complete for development properties.
The high level of input from the Chief audit approach and the scope of the audit: Management receives detailed reports from the Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer the execution of the audit and the quality of valuers and performed a detailed review of the with early opportunities for the Board to the audit report to the shareholders: as well as valuations to ensure that management considers review and comment on the annual report ultimately the fee structure.
the valuations to be appropriate.
The valuation report is reviewed by the Chief Financial Officer Ensuring consistency in the reporting of the The Audit Committee discussed reports from and the Property Director prior to sign-off.
Groups performance and management PwC as the Groups internal auditor on their information as described on pages 22 audit and assessment of the control environment.
During the year, the Committee and or the to 23, risk reviews as described on pages The Committee reviewed and proposed areas Board met with members of the Groups valuer 24 to 27, business model and strategy of focus for the internal audit programme of panel and challenged them on the basis of as described on pages 12 and 13 review, including the approach to ensure that their valuations and their core assumptions, A cross-check between Board Minutes and the internal audit activity continues to be including the yield for each property, rental the annual report is undertaken to ensure aligned to the principal Group risks.
The Directors that reporting is balanced questioned the external valuers on market trends and transactional evidence that Whether information is presented in a supports the valuations.
The Audit Committee clear and concise manner, illustrated by was satisfied that the Groups valuers were appropriate KPIs to facilitate shareholders appropriately qualified and provided an access to relevant information.
independent assessment of the Groups assets.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that an To aid our review, the Audit Committee considers appropriate valuation process had taken place, reports from the Group Financial Controller the core assumptions used were reasonable and reports from the external auditor on the and hence the carrying value of investment outcomes of their half-year review and annual and development properties in the financial audit.
As an Audit Committee, we support statements was appropriate.
Deloitte in displaying the necessary professional scepticism their role requires.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 69 Corporate governance ACCOUNTABILITY: AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The external auditor explained the audit Joint venture accounting Internal controls procedures to test the valuation of investment Two of Unites significant assets are its investments Led by the Groups risk assessment process, and development properties and the associated in USAF and LSAV which the Group has we reviewed the process by which the Group disclosures.
On the basis of the audit work, the historically accounted for as joint ventures.
Management external auditor reported no inconsistencies or is responsible for establishing and maintaining misstatements that were material in the context The Group reports under IFRS 10 12 which adequate internal controls.
Internal controls are of the financial statements as a whole.
provides guidance on how an investor should designed to provide reasonable assurance account for its interests in other entities, including regarding among other things the reliability Further analysis and details on asset valuations a definition of control and guidance on how of financial reporting and the preparation of are set out on page 36. to classify and account for jointly controlled the financial statements for external reporting arrangements.
During the year, management purposes.
A comprehensive strategic planning, REIT compliance undertook a detailed review of its classification budgeting and forecasting process is in place.
As a REIT, profits from the Groups property rental for both USAF and LSAV, and following that Monthly financial information and performance business and gains on disposal of property assets analysis concluded that both USAF and LSAV insight is reported to the Board.
are exempt from UK corporation tax.
As a result, should continue to be treated as joint ventures.
the Group does not recognise a deferred tax The Audit Committee considered this and The Audit Committees work to review the liability in relation to unrealised gains on agreed there was no material change and effectiveness of the internal controls was driven investment properties, or accelerated capital accordingly it was appropriate to continue to by the Group Financial Controllers reports on allowances on property rental business assets.
account for USAF and LSAV as joint ventures the effectiveness of internal controls, supported Maintaining REIT status involves significant under IFRS 11, with Unite recording its 24.8% share by the work of the internal auditor and its reports judgement about the future performance of of the results and net assets of USAF as a joint to the Audit Committee.
The feedback from the the business and compliance with the REIT rules venture using equity accounting and likewise Groups internal auditor on specific areas of and there would be a material impact on the 50% for LSAV.
control is tested on a periodic basis and our Groups tax charge and financial results of not external auditor is requested to provide specific remaining compliant with the REIT regime.
feedback and assessment of the Groups Risk management financial controls and highlight any areas of The Groups risk assessment process and the way The Group monitors compliance with the REIT weakness.
No significant weaknesses were in which significant business risks are managed is requirements on a quarterly basis to confirm that identified through the course of the Audit a key area of focus for the Audit Committee.
the interest cover test and balance of business Committees reviews.
test in relation to income are met.
The balance Our work here was driven primarily by of business test relating to assets is determined performing an assessment of the approach Internal audit based on figures at 1 January 2018 and so taken by the Groups Risk Committee.
The Risk The Group engages PwC to perform internal compliance has already been confirmed for Committee is responsible for the delivery of the audit activity, with this internal audit function the year.
Groups Risk Management Framework, which reporting directly to the Audit Committee.
the Audit Committee has approved, and the The Group has modelled tax adjusted property Groups assessment of its principal risks and The Audit Committee considered and approved business profits for five years and declared PIDs uncertainties, as set out on pages 28 to 31. the scope of the internal audit activity to be in respect of the May 2018 and November 2018 undertaken during 2018 and looking forward on distributions to ensure that the PID requirement The Board also formally reviewed the Groups a twelve-month basis to ensure that the internal will be satisfied.
The combined PID from the principal risks at two meetings during the year.
audit approach is more adaptable to the risk distributions made during 2018 comprise 86% of Through these reviews, the Audit Committee environment.
The Audit Committee also discussed the Groups forecast tax-exempt property rental considered the risk management procedures and challenged the output from the internal business profit, leaving a small amount that can within the business and was satisfied that the key audit reviews undertaken in the prior year and be paid as part of the May 2019 distribution.
Group risks were being appropriately managed.
concluded that the reviews provided good support for statements made by management The risk assessment flags the importance of and that the control environment is robust in the the internal control framework to manage risk areas tested over the last three years.
and this forms a separate area of review for the Audit Committee.
During the year, PwC focused their internal audit work on REIT requirements, cyber security, supplier management and maintenance management.
Overall, PWC concluded that there were no significant issues and controls were well designed, but noted there were some areas of improvement to be made to maximise controls and operational efficiency, which management is in the process of implementing.
70 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 During 2018, the combined fees for the External audit Independence and external audit tender non-audit services performed by Deloitte The effectiveness of the external audit process is The Audit Committee considers the re-appointment were 0.2 million, which predominantly relates facilitated by appropriate audit risk identification of the external auditor, including the rotation to reporting accountant services provided in at the start of the audit cycle which we receive of the audit partner which is required every respect of the unsecured bond issued during from Deloitte in a detailed audit plan, identifying five years, each year and also assesses their the year and the final phases of the previously their assessment of these key risks.
independence on an ongoing basis.
2018 is the approved consulting services provided by fourth year during which Deloitte has been the Market Gravity.
During the year, Deloitte For the 2018 financial year, the significant Groups external auditor.
Judith Tacon is the charged the Group 0.4 million for audit services.
risks identified were in relation to valuation engagement partner and has been on the audit of properties, REIT compliance, classification team since Deloittes appointment.
The 2019 year The Audit Committee is comfortable that the of joint ventures, revenue recognition and end audit will be the last year under the Financial auditors objectivity and independence have management override.
These focus areas were Reporting Councils APB Ethical Standards that not been compromised due to the nature of discussed at the Audit Committee and it was Judith Tacon will be able to hold the role of Senior the reporting accountant procedures and agreed that they should be the principal areas Statutory auditor.
We will therefore be considering work undertaken by Market Gravity not involving of focus as they represent the areas with the a transition plan during the coming year.
management decision-making, preparation of greatest level of judgement and materially financial data or the design and implementation impact the overall performance of the Group.
The Audit Committee reviewed Deloittes audit of internal controls.
These risks are tracked through the year and work and determined that appropriate plans we challenged the work done by the auditor are in place to carry out an effective and high The Audit Committee approved the fees for to test managements assumptions and quality audit.
Deloitte confirmed to the Audit audit services for 2018 after a review of the estimates around these areas.
Committee that it maintained appropriate level and nature of work to be performed, internal safeguards to ensure its independence including the impact of the equity issuance, We assess the effectiveness of the audit and objectivity.
As part of the Audit Committees REIT compliance and accounting standard process in addressing these matters through assessment of the ongoing independence changes, and after being satisfied by Deloitte the reporting we receive from Deloitte at of the auditor, the Audit Committee receives that the fees were appropriate for the scope both the half-year and year end, and also details of any relationships between the Group of the work required.
These fees are also reports from management on how these risks and Deloitte that may have a bearing on their benchmarked against other listed real estate are being addressed.
independence and receives confirmation that companies of comparable size and complexity.
they are independent of the Group.
For the 2018 financial year, the Audit Committee Audit Committee evaluation was satisfied that there had been appropriate As discussed above, an assessment of Deloittes The Audit Committees activities formed part of focus and challenge on the primary areas of effectiveness, its processes, audit quality and the evaluation of Board effectiveness performed audit risk and assessed the quality of the audit performance was undertaken in May 2018 in the year.
Details of this process can be found process to be good.
We hold private meetings following completion of the 2017 audit.
with the external auditor at each Audit Committee meeting to provide additional The Committee confirms compliance with the Ross Paterson opportunity for open dialogue and feedback provisions of CMA Order 2014.
Chair Audit Committee from the Audit Committee and the auditor 27 February 2019 without management being present.
Matters Non-audit services typically discussed include: To further safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditor from The auditors assessment of business and becoming compromised, the Committee has a financial statement risks and management formal policy governing the engagement of the activity thereof external auditor to provide non-audit services.
No material changes have been made to this The transparency and openness of policy during the year.
This precludes Deloitte interactions with management, confirmation from providing certain services, such as valuation that there has been no restriction in scope work or the provision of accounting services.
placed on them by management and the independence of their audit For certain specific permitted services such as How they have exercised professional reporting accountant activities and compliance scepticism.
work, the Audit Committee has pre-approved that Deloitte can be engaged by management, I also meet with the external lead audit partner subject to the policies set out above, and subject outside the formal Audit Committee process.
to specified fee limits for individual engagements and fee limits for each type of specific service.
For all other services, or those permitted services that exceed the specified fee limits, I as Chairman, or in my absence, another member, can pre-approve permitted services.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 71
