Vesuvius plc 6 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Divisional overview Overview Steel Division Our customers are steel producers and other Revenue Return on sales high-temperature industries.
Vesuvius is a world 1,236.7m 10.4% leader in the supply of refractory products, systems 2017: 1,148.7m 2017: 8.7% and solutions.
These help our customers increase Trading profit their efficiency and productivity, enhance quality, 128.3m improve safety and reduce their costs and their 2017: 100.4m environmental impact.
Business units See Steel Flow Control Operating review on p42-44 Steel Flow Control What we do Vesuvius Steel Flow Control business unit supplies Blast the global steel industry with consumable ceramic furnace products, systems, robotics, digital services and technical services.
These products are used to 1 Convertor and Continuous contain, control and monitor the flow of molten refining ladles caster steel in the continuous casting process.
Steel slab, 2 3 billet or How the process works bloom The continuous casting process enables steel manufactured from a blast furnace or electric arc furnace to be cast without interruption, whilst 4 protecting it from the atmosphere.
Avoiding atmospheric contact is crucial as it significantly reduces contamination and oxidation of the steel.
Our products The consumable products that Vesuvius supplies have a short service life often a matter of a few hours due to the significant wear caused by the extremely demanding environment in which they are used.
These products must withstand extreme temperature changes, whilst resisting liquid steel and slag corrosion.
In addition, the ceramic parts in contact with the liquid steel must not contaminate it.
The quality, reliability and consistency of these products and the associated solutions and services we provide are therefore critical to the quality of the finished metal being produced and the productivity, 1 profitability and safety of our customers processes.
Steel Digital Services Tap hole Stack linings clay repair We offer digitalised solutions to our customers to enable them to make their underlying processes Iron more efficient and reliable.
Digital Services focuses trough on providing products that enhance the control and monitoring of our customers production processes.
The products provided by Digital Services include Torpedo temperature sensors, oxygen, hydrogen and ladle sublance probes, iron oxide and metal sampling for the steel, aluminium and foundry industries.
See Steel Digital Services Operating review on p47 E C A N R U F T S A L B m o o Our business l b r o S t E e L l l i D b A, L b a G l N s I l N e e I t F 7 Steel Advanced Refractories What we do Vesuvius Advanced Refractories business unit supplies specialist refractory materials for lining Convertor steel-making vessels such as blast furnaces, ladles linings and Linings and tundishes, which are subject to extreme repair & bricks temperatures, corrosion and abrasion.
Along with Refining these materials, we provide advanced installation ladles technologies including robots, computational fluid dynamics capabilities and laser systems for measuring refractory wear.
Our main customers are steel producers and manufacturers of steel production equipment, where our products accompany the steel-making process from its early steps all the way to the end of production in the rolling mill.
Our array of heat-intensive production solutions accompany the physical transformation of iron ore and scrap into semi-finished products, and account for 2 c. 80% of the revenue of the business unit.
Our customers and the process The service life of the products that Advanced Refractories supplies into the steel-making process can vary some a matter of hours and others for a period of years based upon the type of refractory and the level of wear caused by the demanding environment in which they are used.
Broader offer In addition, Vesuvius Advanced Refractories business unit supplies other high-temperature industries such as primary and secondary aluminium, copper, cement, petrochemicals and energy from waste.
See Steel Advanced Refractories Operating Linings, review on p45-46 bottoms 3 Ladle, slide gate, tube Key: changer Steel Flow Control products Steel Advanced Refractories products Ladle Robotic arm Purging plug Flux Tundish Ladle Stopper shroud & rigging Linings Temperature measurement Flux Tundish slide gate Robotic Mould arm Tundish tube Mould level 4 changer control Impact pad E S R R D E T N S A A C R S O U T O R U E N I V T N N O O C C g n i l t t Vesuvius plc 8 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Divisional overview continued Foundry Division Overview We are a world leader in the supply of Revenue Return on sales consumable products, technical advice and 561.3m 12.3% application support to the global foundry 2017: 535.2m 2017: 12.2% industry, improving casting quality and foundry Trading profit efficiency.
Our primary customers are ferrous 68.9m and non-ferrous foundries serving various 2017: 65.1m end-markets, from large bespoke castings to high-volume automotive pieces.
We operate in Foundry the foundry sector under the FOSECO brand.
What we do The foundry process is highly sequential and is critically dependent on consistency of product quality and productivity optimisation.
Working alongside customers at their sites, our engineers Mould provide on-site technical expertise in addition to production Induction advanced computational fluid dynamics capabilities and pouring Final furnace to develop the best customised production solutions.
casting 1 Our products 3 The conditioning of molten metal, the nature of the mould used and, especially, the design of the way metal flows into the mould are key parameters 2 in a foundry, determining both the quality of the finished castings and the labour, energy and metal usage efficiency of the foundry.
Vesuvius products Treatment and associated services to foundries improve all of pouring ladle these parameters.
Each of our products typically represents a small element of the overall cost of the foundry process but contributes significantly to product quality and yield.
In Foundry, customers are evolving towards more sophisticated and increasingly complex castings with increased requirements for cleaner and lighter metal, resulting in a greater need for Vesuvius products.
Our customers We are also focused on expanding the cross-selling opportunities between the Foundry and Advanced Refractories business units.
Foundries utilise some of the refractory products manufactured by Advanced Refractories, which allows us to offer a complete product offering to our customers.
See Foundry Operating review on p48-49 3 e f e r o f e b M E T I T S A C Our business D L U O M O T N I G N I R U N 9 Pouring cup Downsprue Cope Feeder Core & Filter coatings Sand binder Mould coatings Runner Drag 1 2 Linings Stopper rod Nozzle O O I T P C U D O R P D L U O M
