Our performance 47 The Digital Services business unit offers profitability.
In Asia-Pacific, we continued digital products to our customers to make to increase the penetration of our products Steel Digital their underlying processes more efficient in India, gaining market share with new and reliable.
Digital Services focuses on and existing customers.
providing products that enhance the Services control and monitoring of our customers Strategic highlights from the year production processes, complementing During 2018 we introduced a number of During 2018 we introduced Vesuvius strong presence and expertise in new features in our sensors, probes and molten metal engineering to create new a number of new features related instruments which allow our technologies and integrate them into customers to meet increasing end product in our sensors, probes expert process management systems.
and related instruments The products provided by Digital Services In 2018 we integrated the Digital Services which allow our customers include temperature sensors, oxygen, companies, ECIL Met Tec and Sidermes, hydrogen and sublance probes, iron to meet increasing endinto the Group sales networks.
This enabled oxide and metal sampling for the steel, these businesses to access the wider product consistency and aluminium and foundry industries.
footprint of the Vesuvius customer base.
By using these technologies customers We also continued the restructuring can focus on critical parameters within actions started in 2017 to optimise their processes, enabling them to refine our cost base and manufacturing their production methods to improve footprint for sensors and probes, quality, lower production costs and and to reduce operating costs.
We have also continued our investment programme to increase automation 2018 Performance in our manufacturing processes.
Digital Services generated revenue of Davide Guarnieri 33.0m, an increase of 2.4% year-on-year Director, Group Digital Services on a reported basis.
On an underlying basis, revenue increased 10.8%.
The 27 February 2019 strong sales growth in the Americas was due to market share gains and increased penetration of our products.
In EMEA, our sales growth was impacted by Russia where priority was given to improving 33.0m Digital Services revenue m 2017: 32.2m 2018 33.0 2017 32.2 2016 28.0 Platinum thermocouple loop for disposable Sensors and Probes Vesuvius plc 48 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Operating review Foundry Underlying revenue in EMEA increased by 2018 Performance 7.2% year-on-year as a result of growth Foundry reported revenues of 561.3m in Foundry across the majority of foundry end- 2018, an increase of 4.9% compared to markets with particular strength in general 2017 on a reported basis, whilst underlying engineering as well as some improvements Division revenue increased 8.2%.
On a reported in our business at European steel basis, our trading profit improved 5.7% foundries, albeit from a low base.
On an underlying basis, We continue to invest in our trading profit increased by 10.9%, with In the Americas, despite weakness in US team of technical experts return on sales increasing by 30 basis light vehicle production, underlying to provide to our customers points.
Our sales growth in 2018 benefited revenue increased by 15.3%, supported, in from market share gains in the key product particular, by growth in the heavy truck the best solutions and lines of feeding systems, filters and and mining markets as well as increases in advice on how to maximise coatings as well as selling price increases.
iron casting output related to construction Trading profit also benefited from the and agricultural equipment.
Furthermore, the efficiency of their ongoing organisational restructuring in we were successful in gaining market share production processes.
Europe and North America, which is now across all our key product lines aided by focused on a rationalised, leaner structure.
several important new product launches.
However, overall profitability was In Asia-Pacific, underlying revenue impacted by a time lag in selling price increased by 5.5%, with sales increasing increases to compensate for raw material in all major markets.
Our revenues in and other cost inflation, particularly in China were up 7%, driven by growth in North Asia.
Fused Silica, a specialised engineering machinery and construction product line, also suffered from significant and agricultural equipment, and market weakness in the fourth quarter, supported by successful new product particularly in China and EMEA, where launches.
In India, where our revenues customers choose to delay purchases and were only up 2%, we prioritised passing extend year-end maintenance shutdowns.
through raw material and other cost inflation, as well as managing customer risk and optimising working capital.
Foundrys value-added foundry solutions include: 561.3m Foundry revenue m Feeding Systems: Our customised Coatings: Protect both sand and insulating and exothermic feeding permanent moulds from the effects 2017: 535.2m systems allow for the efficient supply of of being filled with liquid metal molten metal to key areas of complex 2018 561.3 Crucibles: Used in a wide range of and or large castings, and prevent liquid 2017 535.2 melting and holding applications shrinkage defects in the finished casting, for non-ferrous alloys, particularly improving yields and productivity by 2016 459.4 aluminium, copper and zinc.
Each of reducing the amount of molten metal these applications requires a crucible required per casting.
In addition, our with specific properties to maximise exothermic feeding systems provide a productivity and minimise energy use secondary heat source which can also control metal cooling, minimising the Other products: These include binders adverse effects of shrinkage during which are used to prepare the sand solidification moulds and cores, inoculants used for ferrous and non-ferrous castings, Filters: Remove impurities from the flux degassing equipment for removing liquid metal and reduce turbulence unwanted gas in liquid aluminium during pouring Glenn Cowie and refractory materials used for the President, Foundry transportation of liquid metal Our performance 49 WE USE OUR D IFFERENT PER SPEC TIVES TO SOLVE ISSUES.
Working together, we help move the Company forward.
Branden Reber Maintenance Journeyman, Cleveland, USA We continued to develop our technical existing and new customers.
In Mexico Strategic highlights from the year services offering, and during 2018 we have successfully increased attention Restructuring programmes and process we launched a new temperature on non-ferrous customers requiring improvement initiatives measurement system which increases sophisticated and complex castings for The organisational restructuring in North uniformity in iron quality, thus reducing the aerospace industry.
America and Europe, which commenced variation in the properties of finished Our people in 2016 and 2017 respectively, continued castings and ultimately enabling a through the year.
With a focus on We have continued to focus on succession reduction in the number of waste castings.
rationalising our manufacturing footprint planning with several key new employees We continued to invest in our team of and maximising capacity utilisation.
We have also technical experts, especially in the invested time in selecting entrepreneurial We also continued to focus on operational emerging markets of China, India and managers to strengthen our team and excellence by implementing lean Eastern Europe to provide to our drive future growth in the business.
Each of improvement programmes at all our customers the best solutions and advice these initiatives delivered an improved plants, investing in robotic packaging on how to maximise the efficiency of organisational culture and accountability, lines, other forms of automation in our their production processes.
while moving decision-making closer to operations, and increasing global raw the customer and increasing our speed of Increased penetration in selected material and product sourcing.
emerging markets New value-added solutions In China we emphasised the introduction Glenn Cowie In 2018, our R&D efforts resulted in several of new products, specifically designed for President, Foundry new product launches.
During the year, the Chinese market and developed by 27 February 2019 we launched two new feeding systems our local technical team.
The launches of a high precision feeding system for our break-through feeding system and turbochargers and an innovative modular customised coatings were particularly design feeding system to be used in iron successful and very well received by the and steel foundries.
market, driving revenue growth with both Vesuvius plc 50 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 SEC TION THREE N ON - F I NAN C IAL INF O RM AT I O N In this section: 52 Non-financial information statement 53 Our principles 56 Health and safety 62 Sustainability 66 People and community Non-financial information 51 I ENJOY THE FAST MOVING AND CHALLENGING ENVIRONMENT AT VESUVIUS.
I get to move from project to project, working in locations all around the world.
Lynda Yaker Audit Manager, London, UK
