O Ou ur r p pe er rfo for rm ma an nce ce 45 45 THESE ARE E XCITING TIMES FOR VESUVIUS.
I joined Chicago Heights at a time when there was huge potential to make a difference, at a facility that was changing Im thrilled to be part of the team.
Marcus Cilfone Operations Manager, Chicago Heights, USA Steel Advanced Refractories During 2018 we continued to improve our value-added solution offering for our customers, which includes refractories, installation technologies including robots, computational fluid dynamics capabilities and lasers.
2018 Performance Strategic highlights from the year 541.1m Our Steel Advanced Refractories business Restructuring programmes and process improvement initiatives Steel Advanced Refractories revenue m unit reported revenues of 541.1m in 2018, an increase of 7.7% compared to 2017 on We continued the review and improvement 2017: 502.3m a reported basis, whilst underlying revenue of our manufacturing network, 2018 541.1 increased 12.5%.
The strong sales growth reinforcing our operational excellence was supported by selling price increases to and manufacturing operations.
Following 2017 502.3 offset raw material and other cost inflation.
the success of the manufacturing 2016 400.9 rationalisation programme in South We achieved underlying revenue growth in America, similar initiatives were launched each of our key regions with the Americas in Europe and NAFTA delivering up 22.9%, EMEA up 8.6% and Asia-Pacific improvements in the cost base through up 8.7%.
However, we experienced some a combination of increased efficiency and market share loss especially in North Asia adapting production volumes between and in certain European countries as plants.
As part of our restructuring Tanmay Ganguly priority was given to the selling price initiatives in North America, we divested President, Steel increases to recoup raw material and the BMI installation business in October Advanced other cost inflation.
This Refractories continued focus on operational excellence allows us to reinforce our cost leadership and the competitiveness of our manufacturing network.
Vesuvius plc 46 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Operating review Steel Advanced Refractories continued Technological leadership customers productivity, efficiency and safety in the blast and reheat furnaces Advanced Refractories During 2018 we continued to improve our and tundish operations, through new value-added solution offerings for our value-added solutions and optimised monolithic formulations, customers, which includes refractories, include: precast shapes and installation practices.
installation technologies including Monolithics and shaped refractory robots, computational fluid dynamics Our people materials: In both magnesia capabilities and lasers.
We are basic and alumina silicate acid We continued our focus on attracting experiencing increased demand for our formulations supplied by Vesuvius in the best talent everywhere in the world, refractory application robots, which the form of powder mixes, which are reinforcing our management team enable our customers to eliminate the risk spray-applied or cast onto the vessel and ensuring our organisation is run to be lined i. e. monolithics and in of human presence in dangerous working by entrepreneurial, empowered and the form of shapes e. g. bricks, areas and also the risk of human errors, accountable managers on the ground, pads, dams and other larger while at the same time improving the precast shapes who are close to our end-markets and quality of installation.
At the same time customers.
One of Vesuvius key strengths Tap hole clay: A refractory mass we have registered an increased interest is the strong relationship between used to plug the tapping hole globally in laser measurements, which Vesuvius employees and our customers, at the base of a blast furnace.
allow customers to track the wear profile When molten iron is ready to be with the majority of our customer-facing of the refractories in use to enable extracted from the blast furnace, employees working every day at a steel targeted repair, delaying the need for a drilling machine perforates a hole mill or aluminium plant.
The knowledge of costly full replacements.
through the solidified clay to start the flow of molten metal of our employees the tapping process In 2018, we continued to invest in our and their ability to understand our Installation technologies: Are key to global R&D network with the expansion customers allows us differentiation which ensure the quality of the end product of our research facility in Visakhapatnam, is intrinsic to us maintaining our position in and are critical for the installation India to reinforce our presence in this key the market.
of refractory products in extreme market for our future growth, and to temperature environments Tanmay Ganguly enable us to better tap into the growing Lasers: Help track the performance President, Advanced Refractories talent pool of engineers and scientists in of the installed refractories and the country.
27 February 2019 instruct the customer in advance, when for example, a vessel becomes New value-added solutions unsuitable for use In 2018, we accelerated our R&D effort Computational fluid dynamic as we launched several additional new capabilities: Are used by our value-added solutions.
Our product engineers to simulate the flow of launches are focused on enhancing our molten metal during the process of steel-making, aluminium making, etc.
Our engineers help our customers optimise their molten metal flow by designing customised refractory shapes to ensure the most efficient flow dynamics Tundish water modelling is used to optimise the design of Vesuvius tundish solution offerings
