Vesuvius plc 52 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Non-financial information statement In accordance with the The non-financial information Further information, disclosed in other requirements of the statement provides information on sections of the Strategic Report, is the Groups activities and policies in incorporated into this statement by Companies Act 2006, respect of: reference, including: Vesuvius presents its Non-financial Environmental matters Information on the Groups See Sustainability p62-65 principal risks information statement, Details of the Groups principal risks which forms part of the Companys employees relating to these non-financial matters Strategic Report.
are detailed in the Groups schedule of See People and community p66-69 Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 32-33 Social matters See People and community p70-71 See Risk, viability and going concern p28-33 Respect for human rights See Our principles p54 Details of the Groups business model Anti-corruption and See p14-15 anti-bribery matters See Our principles p54 Details of the Groups non-financial KPIs See p18-19 The statement also details, where relevant, the due diligence processes implemented by the Company in pursuance of these policies.
Sample in preparation for differential scanning calorimetry at our R&D laboratory in Enschede, Netherlands Non-financial information 53 Our principles Working together with shared values makes Vesuvius stronger employee to actively demonstrate every Vesuvius Values Vesuvius is a day.
They are an expression of the culture In 2018 we launched a new set of Values geographically and of the Group, promoting our image to for the Group: Courage, Ownership, external stakeholders, and underpinning culturally diverse group, Respect and Energy.
These CORE Values the commercial promise we provide to are actively supporting the Groups employing nearly 11,000 our customers.
priorities, encouraging consistent people in 41 countries.
behaviours across the Group in order to These values were rolled out across all our sustain our business success in the future.
They are prominently displayed as This geographical diversity places us close visual reminders and they are reinforced in These values, and the described to our customers across the globe, but also our performance management systems, behaviours underpinning them, convey highlights the importance of maintaining ensuring they are firmly embedded in our the mindset and attitudes we expect each and applying strong and consistent ethical day-to-day conversations.
values in our worldwide approach to business.
Our employees engagement with our values and culture is vital to our Our strength comes from our CORE success and the sustainable delivery of the Groups strategy.
We are creating a culture of Vesuvius has established a framework for energetic, empowered and accountable explaining and delivering the culture and entrepreneurs, courageously challenging the status principles we consider to be fundamental to our sustained success: quo and driving sustainable growth.
With our CORE values we are telling the world who we are and what we stand for Values Respect Courage I demonstrate respect for other peoples I systematically say, decide and do what Code of Conduct Policies and procedures ideas and opinions even if I disagree is right for Vesuvius including when it is with them.
difficult, unpopular or not consensual.
I express my opinions openly during Training discussions but I also defend group I listen to others, foster esteem and decisions once theyve been taken, fairness with customers, suppliers, even if they do not correspond to my Monitoring and Evaluation coworkers, shareholders and the initial position.
I proactively take leadership responsibility Performance improvements I communicate my objectives clearly and on difficult projects and topics that are take time to explain all decisions.
I behave important to the Groups performance, with the highest level of integrity.
motivated by the perspective of success rather than paralysed by the risk of I promote diversity at all levels of the personal failure.
Ownership Energy I am personally accountable for the I work hard and professionally in pursuit consequences of my actions and for the of excellence.
performance of the Group in my area I constantly raise the bar and challenge of responsibility or oversight, without the status quo.
For me, the sky is the limit.
blaming external circumstances or the actions of others.
I lead by example, inspiring and motivating my team to go the extra mile.
I demonstrate an entrepreneurial I promote a positive and energising work spirit, looking for and seizing business environment.
I continuously deliver opportunities and I immediately address outstanding customer experience and problems that come up as soon as innovative solutions.
I never underestimate competitors and I manage the Groups money and permanently strive to reinforce the resources as though they were my own.
Vesuvius plc 54 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Our principles continued The Group commits not to discriminate in Code of Conduct Policies and procedures any of our employment practices and to Our Code of Conduct sets out the We continue to enhance the policies that offer equal opportunities to all.
The Group standards of conduct expected, without underpin the principles set out in the Code respects the principles of freedom of exception, of everyone who works of Conduct.
These assist employees to association and the effective recognition for Vesuvius in any of its worldwide comply with our ethical standards and the of the right to collective bargaining and operations.
The Code emphasises our legal requirements of the jurisdictions in opposes the use of, and will not use, commitment to ethics and compliance which we conduct our business.
They also forced, compulsory or child labour.
These with the law, and covers every aspect give practical guidance on how this can principles have been integrated into the of our approach to business, from the be achieved.
Amongst these policies are: work of our procurement teams as we way that we engage with customers, assess our suppliers and their business Speak Up employees, the markets, and each of practices.
In compliance with the UK Vesuvius employees can speak up our other stakeholders, to the safety Modern Slavery Act, the Group published without fear of retaliation, either to of our employees and workplaces.
its third annual statement in May 2018.
Vesuvius management or via independent Everyone within Vesuvius is individually channels.
A third-party-operated accountable for upholding its Anti-bribery and corruption and working confidential Employee Concern Helpline with third parties requirements.
We recognise that lasting Speak Up is available for employees business success is measured not only in We engage with various third-party wishing to raise concerns anonymously or our financial performance, but in the representatives and intermediaries in our in situations where they feel unable to way in which we deal with our customers, business.
We recognise that they can report internally.
This independent facility business associates, employees, investors present an increased anti-bribery and supports online reporting through a and local communities.
The Code of corruption risk.
Our procedure on working web portal, or reporting by phone or by Conduct is published in our 29 major with third parties clearly outlines our voicemail.
Ensuring global accessibility, functional languages.
zero-tolerance approach to bribery employees can speak with operators in and provides practical guidance for our any of our 29 functional languages.
employees in identifying concerns and The helpline is publicised through local how to report them.
Vesuvius engages with language posters at each of our sites, third-party sales agents, many of whom our internal website and during internal Code of Conduct principles operate in countries where we do not have compliance training.
Our employees use employee will ever be penalised or of, and interaction with, sales agents is Health, safety and the disadvantaged for reporting a legitimate supported by an ongoing training concern in good faith.
environment programme for those who have specific responsibility for these relationships.
Reports received via Speak Up channels are managed by the General Counsel Trading, customers, products Data protection and Compliance Director.
When received, and services Our data protection policy requires a reports are assessed for risk and category uniform approach in the handling of of concern.
All reports are investigated personal data to manage the privacy Anti-bribery and corruption following a protocol for review, obligations of the Group.
Everyone has investigation, action, closure and rights in respect of how their personal data feedback independent of management Employees and human rights is handled.
Our policy recognises that the where necessary, but involving senior lawful and correct treatment of personal business unit or HR management as data is vital to our continued success Disclosure and investors appropriate.
For complex issues, formal in an increasingly regulated global investigation plans are drawn up, and marketplace.
During the course of our support from external experts is engaged Government, society and local activities we may collect, store and process where necessary.
Feedback is recognised communities personal data about our staff, customers, as an important element of the Speak Up suppliers and other third parties.
We are process and we aim to provide an update committed to treating this data in an on all reports within 28 days of receipt.
Conflicts of interest appropriate and compliant manner.
Human Rights Training Competitors The Group human rights policy reflects the principles contained within the During the year we continued to develop United Nations Universal Declaration of our training programme on the principles Human Rights, the International Labour contained in the Vesuvius Code of Conduct Organisations Fundamental Conventions and associated anti-bribery, corruption on Labour Standards and the United and other compliance policies and Nations Global Compact.
Training gives our employees applies to all Group employees.
It sets a clearer understanding of the scope of out the principles for our actions and risks that exist as we conduct our business behaviour in conducting our business and and gives context to how the Group The Code of Conduct is available in provides guidance to those working for us expects each one of us to respond to those 29 languages at www.
com on how we approach human rights issues.
In 2017, we launched an integrated Non-financial information 55 learning management system which compliance concerns, nor serious During the year we also completed our allows us to deliver Vesuvius-specific breaches of the Code of Conduct.
Of the global training programme with those e-learning modules to employees on topics small number of reports received that employees who have responsibility for our relevant to their role through an online contained allegations in breach of our sales agents and provided such employees interactive platform.
We have continued Code of Conduct, thorough investigations with face-to-face enhanced Anti-Bribery to utilise this system during 2018. were performed and, where appropriate, training.
This included applicable policy disciplinary action taken, including and procedure training, the identification Training provided during 2018 included: individuals leaving the Group as a result.
of red flags and interactive case study sessions.
Such training will remain a E-learning modules for gifts, hospitality Prevention of slavery and human continuing part of our compliance and entertainment, trade sanctions, trafficking programme.
due diligence and role-specific data During 2018 we published our third protection modules Data protection transparency statement outlining the Webex and video conference workshops Groups approach to the prevention of In 2018 we continued to review our slavery and human trafficking in our approach to data protection, following the Face-to-face training by the Legal and business and supply chain.
A copy of our implementation of the EU General Data Compliance team to staff at several latest statement is available to view on Protection Regulation GDPR in May sites covering gifts, hospitality and our website www.
Further due diligence was undertaken entertainment and trade sanctions publication of our first statement we with the appointed Data Protection have conducted a risk assessment of our Our e-learning platform supplements the Officer DPO and European legal face-to-face training provided to employees purchasing activities, seeking to identify, entities, clarifying the data we control by location and industry, where the by the Legal and Compliance team, and process both globally and locally enabling us to reach more employees, more potential risks of modern slavery are in Europe, the methods by which we do highest.
Our assessment identified the quickly and in a more targeted way.
In 2019, this, the security of the systems that we will continue to develop the training following four industries that pose a higher hold our data and the assignment of risk of modern slavery for Vesuvius: processes and modules available.
responsibilities for responding to this.
Mining and Extractive industries Monitoring and evaluation have been prepared and will be rolled raw materials out on each anniversary of GDPR Alongside our training programme, we 2.
Textiles personal protective equipment implementation and thereafter to assess assist employees with the implementation PPE and work clothing and ensure continued compliance with and interpretation of the Groups policies, data protection legislation.
We have and their application through a process 3.
Transport and packaging identified further upcoming changes in of monitoring and evaluation.
Maintenance, cleaning, agricultural data protection legislation in California, process involves performing ongoing and work and food preparation Brazil and India and are working with local targeted due diligence and risk assessments contracted workers teams to ensure our approach to data to inform our policy design and its application.
protection is compliant with these This forms part of our compliance To ensure effective communication of our changes.
The DPO is also responsible framework to ensure that our ethical and Human Rights Policy and output of our for raising awareness of data protection legal approach remains fit for purpose Modern Slavery risk assessment we issues across the Group, supervising and is understood throughout the business.
provided face-to-face training to our key privacy impact assessments and training purchasing staff and continue to use an Speak Up staff who undertake roles that involve online e-learning module to upgrade the the processing of data.
Specific data We continue to monitor the volume, training given to all supplier-facing staff.
protection training for IT and other geographic distribution and range of This provides key guidance on the red targeted professionals was provided reports made to the Speak Up facility flags associated with modern slavery to through e-learning in 2018. to ascertain not only whether there are assist them in identifying these during significant regional compliance concerns, supplier visits and accreditation.
Other due diligence but also whether there are countries where The Group continues to undertake Working with third parties access to this facility is less well understood focused, country and function-specific or publicised.
During 2018, the Audit During 2018 the Group continued the risk assessments, reviewing financial Committee continued to monitor and review of our third-party representatives records and the quality of implementation oversee the Groups procedures for and intermediaries.
Following the 2017 of our policies and procedures, often reporting allegations of improper enhanced review of sales agents we engaging the assistance of external behaviour, and throughout the year extended our review to the work of our advisers.
The outputs of these received updates on the nature and volume custom clearance agents.
This included assessments are used to identify activities of reports received from the confidential a detailed review of our due diligence that require further improvement, ensure Speak Up Helpline, key themes emerging activities on active custom clearance that our Group policies and procedures from these reports and the results of any agents across the Group.
This process for the management of anti-bribery and investigations undertaken.
In 2018, we covers reputation, public information corruption risk continue to be appropriate received 21 reports 2017: 76 through the searches, regulatory searches and activity for the business, and ensure that within our Speak Up facility.
Each one of these was review.
The review of our due diligence business there is the necessary awareness investigated.
Similar to 2017, a substantial processes will continue to be extended and understanding to be able to manage majority of reports received in 2018 were using a risk-based approach during 2019 risks appropriately.
human resource issues which indicated no and beyond.
