Vesuvius plc 16 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Our strategy Execution Strategic Objectives priorities Reinforce our We are dedicated to accelerating the delivery of our Strategic technology leadership Objectives.
In particular, speeding up growth by focusing our efforts on the high-quality, high-end segments of the Steel and Foundry markets: See Innovation increasing our efforts to optimise our manufacturing base: and driving p24-27 this change with a team of skilful, motivated and talented people.
Deliver growth Increase penetration of value-creating solutions Generate sustainable profitability and See our Operating reviews create shareholder value p42-49 Maintain strong cash generation and an efficient capital structure Capture growth in developing markets Provide a safe working environment for See our our people Operating reviews p42-49 Be at the forefront of innovation Improve cost leadership and margins Run top-quality, cost-efficient and See our sustainable operations Operating reviews p42-49 Foster talent, skill and motivation in our people Vesuvius measures and monitors its performance against these Develop our Technical Strategic Objectives through its Key Performance Indicators KPIs Service offering See Innovation p24-27 See our Key performance indicators on p18-19 Our business 17 Execution Vesuvius has articulated five key execution priorities.
These enable priorities us to achieve our core strategic objectives of delivering long-term sustainable profitability and creating shareholder value.
Description Progress in 2018 Vesuvius was built and grew on technology breakthroughs.
In line with our focus on a non-matrix, decentralised organisation, we These enabled the steel continuous casting and foundry industries integrated R&D into the business units to ensure the closest possible link to improve their efficiency and quality substantially.
Focusing on between R&D and our operations.
In 2018, the percentage of revenue technology leadership continues to drive our unique value proposition accounted for by New Products, being products launched within the and underpins our ability to deliver ongoing value enhancement last five years, grew to 15.4% from 14.5% in 2017.
Our objective is for to our customers.
We continued the process of focusing our global efforts in R&D on centres of excellence in the US, Europe, India and China.
We also increased our focus on combining developments in robotics, automation and data analytics capabilities with our wellestablished material science research.
Our spend on R&D increased year-on-year to 33.6m in 2018, being c. 2% of our total revenue.
We continued to increase our R&D efficiency by focusing our efforts on a reduced number of potentially high-impact R&D projects.
Our technology has been widely adopted by the most sophisticated In 2018, we outperformed underlying growth in the majority of producers in the most developed markets.
We achieved market share gains in Flow Control and differences remain in the penetration of our solutions within the Foundry through customer proximity and the combination of our industry.
Consequently, there is a wider audience of customers whom products with robotics and automation at our customers plants.
we believe can benefit from them.
As steel and foundry markets in For Flow Control, this outperformance is reflected in our underlying developing markets become more quality focused, we have the 2018 revenue growth of 11.5% versus 4.6% growth in global steel opportunity to significantly increase our penetration of these production volumes.
For our Foundry Division, underlying 2018 markets through offering our value-creating solutions.
revenue growth of 8.2% is further evidence of this outperformance.
Building on our long-standing presence in all markets, we can leverage In 2018, we continued to deliver attractive top line growth in both our the high growth enjoyed by our customers industries in emerging Steel and Foundry Divisions, outperforming crude steel production markets which are large consumers of steel goods and foundry castings.
increases and underlying foundry end-markets in our key developing markets of China, India, Latin America, EEMEA Eastern Europe, Middle East including Turkey and Africa and South East Asia.
Steel Division revenue in these markets grew by 17.6% in 2018 versus steel production growth of 5.7% and Foundry Division revenue grew by 10.8% in these key developing markets.
We continue to pursue our restructuring programmes throughout the We remain on track with the implementation of our restructuring Group to adapt our business and our cost base to the changing programmes and delivered an incremental 14.0m recurring cash trading environment.
This is central to our efforts to improve profitability.
saving during the year, in part related to the three European plant Furthermore, we have embedded the principles of lean manufacturing closures announced in July 2018.
This was ahead of our expectations.
across all our sites, continuously focusing on quality and productivity to Our original restructuring programme launched in 2015 is almost enable us to maintain our margins.
Our global presence allows us to complete, with 8.4m savings still to be delivered by 2020.
Our new benefit from economies of scale and deliver excellent service from restructuring programme launched in March 2018 is well underway, local sites.
and we expect to deliver cash savings of 22.0m for a one-off cash charge of 19.3m and 15.0m of capital expenditure to support the implementation of the programme.
17.3m of cash charge and 2.1m of capital expenditure had been accounted for at the end of 2018.
We have 16.4m of savings left which will be delivered by 2021.
In 2019 we are targeting the delivery of a further 14.0m of recurring cash savings, leaving 8.5m to be delivered in 2020 and 2.3m in 2021.
Our customers processes require increasing levels of engineering We continued to see good progress in our global Technical Services offering services to reach the demanding levels of safety, accuracy and during 2018.
The partial integration of our technical service capabilities into consistency required by their end-customers quality specifications.
the business units in 2018 is yielding strong results and the global revenue The key elements of Vesuvius Technical Services strategy are, firstly, from our Technical Services offering reached 96.5m in 2018, up 16.1% the Digital Services business unit, which is focused on incubating our from 2017 on a constant currency basis.
The performance of our Digital data capture technologies, and secondly, the business units which Services business unit was also strong, with underlying revenue growth play a critical role in integrating these products into our broader of 10.8%, reflecting accelerated product penetration and a focus on consumables offering as well as ensuring customer access.
In this optimising the structure of this business.
way, our Technical Services strategy is progressively penetrating all activities of both our Steel and Foundry Divisions.
