Vesuvius plc 24 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Innovation We build an environment across the organisation in which creativity is encouraged and can flourish To maintain creativity and more Innovation culture and change Artificial intelligence, importantly to turn creativity into Without refractory materials most mechatronics, automation innovation through the successful of the technological inventions and commercialisation of new ideas, we strive and digitalisation all now developments we know today would not to build an environment across the have been possible.
Virtually everything play an important role in organisation in which creativity is we use in everyday life, is in some way our research activities, encouraged and can flourish.
This implies dependent on the existence of refractories, that individuals as well as the organisation production processes which are an essential part of the itself needs to be continuously challenged, successful operation of any industrial and the products and re-energised, recognised, rewarded and process in which high temperatures are provided with the best tools to achieve services we provide to used.
The extensive application of its maximum potential.
refractory today, across so many different our customers.
industrial processes, has and continues The Groups focus on adopting a new to be a story of continuous innovation.
entrepreneurial, decentralised, non-matrix organisation, detailed elsewhere in the To meet the challenges of today and the report, also had implications for the opportunities of tomorrow, Vesuvius has 33.6m R&D organisation in 2018.
Likewise, integrated many new technologies into our Total R&D spend the formulation of a new strategic plan for Innovation portfolio: Artificial Intelligence, each business unit, required a complete 2017: 32.6m Mechatronics, Automation and review of our Innovation roadmaps.
These all now play an At constant 2018 currency.
This process dovetailed with the end of important role in our research activities, the 5-year R&D plan, with most of the production processes and the products existing initiatives completed or in and services we provide to our customers.
1.9% Our leading robotics technologies help Whilst much of what we have developed % of Revenue improve safety, reliability and consistency and implemented in the last few years in the application of our refractory and 2017: 2.0% has been maintained and reinforced in sensors technologies at our customer the new innovation roadmaps, we have sites, generating refractory and process also made the adjustments necessary data which, combined with predictive to reflect new aspects of each business 15.4% algorithms, allows for the optimisation units strategic plan.
1 % of new product sales of our refractory performance and real time enhanced control of our customers Training remains a critical element, 2017: 14.5% processes to maximise the yield and ensuring that the innovation pillar of the 1.
S ales of products launched within the last quality of their end products.
Artificial Vesuvius group strategy reinforcing our 5 years as a % of total revenue.
Intelligence is also now used to accelerate technology leadership remains solid and our research and material development that the career development of our staff is process.
supported to ensure that we can deliver the necessary progress.
As we continue with our Excellence programme in innovation we also identify new areas where training is required, both for newly hired and existing staff to allow progress on this excellence journey.
Alan Charnock Chief Technology Officer Our business 25 25 VESUVIUS IS BRINGING THE NEXT GENERATION OF PRODUCTS TO OUR CUSTOMERS.
Were doing this by focusing R&D activities on Centres of Excellence.
Devdutt Shukla Global R&D Director, Advanced Refractories Barlborough, UK Vesuvius Advanced Refractories business unit assists our customers with advancements in vessel performance management Ergonomics and safety Vesuvius commitment to service Customised installations of Vesuvius Our team of automation experts Portable Smart Robotic Systems conduct training, modifications help our customers to provide a safe, and preventive maintenance ergonomic working environment for customers using remote for their maintenance operators access features Consistent application & Laser guided maintenance predictable material consumption Complementing the consistent, Custom pre-programmed automated installation method installation parameters virtually with Vesuvius Process Metrix eliminate operator induced Lasers allows for targeted surface variability in the tundish refurbishment to extend the service refurbishment process life of vessels Vesuvius plc 26 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Innovation continued We also launched Ideation Challenges in In Advanced Refractories we closed the Structure, collaboration and 2018, designed to increase networking Bettsville Facility in Ohio and moved the resources and creativity using our TechConnect staff and analytical facilities to Pittsburgh At the beginning of 2018, we elected to collaborative platform.
This promotes which now houses teams from all three of redistribute and embed the Group R&D a collaborative brainstorming process the business units.
Advanced Refractories organisation directly within each business where technical challenges are posted R&D is now focused on three sites: unit, maintaining cross-fertilisation and on the platform and members of the Pittsburgh, USA, Barlborough, UK and technical exchange between the business technology community are invited to Visakhapatnam, India.
The research unit R&D groups using TechConnect, our contribute their ideas to accelerate the groups in each of these facilities are the communication and collaboration tool resolution of the challenge.
Global Centres of Excellence CoE developed over the last few years.
We also for a specific area of our technology: 2018 also saw our first Technology and expanded our Technology Bridge concept, Pittsburgh focusing on basic monolithic: Innovation Meeting TIME where we where teams of experts across all business Barlborough on bricks and tap hole clay: brought together a large portion of the units collaborate on our core technologies.
and Visakhapatnam on alumina silicate global Vesuvius R&D community for This approach now also covers Front-End monolithic.
Each facility also continues to extensive technology exchange, targeted Innovation where technologies, materials house a development group responsible brainstorming exercises on specific topics and applications that are completely for regional support across all Advanced and networking.
TIME was a great success new to the refractory world, are shared Refractories technologies.
and will become a regular feature on the between technologists from across the R&D calendar as we foster a professional, Flow Control is expanding the capabilities entire organisation.
This collaboration collaborative and interactive global stimulates ideas for the application of of our research centre in Suzhou, China R&D community.
to increase support for the Viso product these technologies in as many areas of our business as possible.
Being new to the development, the largest product line in In addition to embedding Group R&D into the Group.
Also in Ghlin, Belgium where refractory world, Front-End Innovations the business units, we have also made are naturally breakthrough technologies we have traditionally housed our systems some significant changes to the business research facility, we are investing in a new and usually market disruptive in nature.
units R&D structures aimed at further Thus, they involve significantly more risk mechatronics and automation centre globalisation of our R&D.
for both Flow Control and Advanced and longer-term research effort.
The more ideas for their application that we can Refractories, consolidating the marketleading robotic technologies of both generate in advance, the easier it is to justify the investment risk involved in this business units.
Vesuvius Foundry business unit facilitates advances in the pouring of steel castings with a shrouded metal stream During the casting process, oxide films form The Czech foundry UNEX now applies readily on the surfaces of the metal streams this shrouding principal to a range of coming from a bottom-pour ladle.
Through high-integrity and quality-demanding metal turbulence these films can become castings.
Dramatic quality and productivity entrained in the metal, initiating defects improvements have been achieved due to the in the casting and degrading its physical elimination of oxide and bifilm formation properties.
For many years continuous within the casting process.
In addition to the casters of metals have been using a improved surface quality of the castings, shrouding process to protect the metal there has also been a significant reduction streams during casting.
Using technology of X-ray and ultrasonic detected defects developed by Vesuvius, foundries are now experienced.
Improved physical and able to enhance their casting quality by using mechanical properties are achieved, a similar shrouding concept.
The Foseco with notch toughness that is the castings Hollotex Shroud is a new product that creates ability to withstand an impact with a flaw a seal between the nozzle and the shroud, present increased by up to twofold.
allowing the metal to flow from the ladle into the shroud.
The liquid metal passes through the shroud and an integrated filter block, and then into the casting cavity.
The liquid metal remains protected from exposure to air: eliminating the potential for air aspiration and the associated formation of oxide films.
Pouring a steel casting using the Hollotex Shroud Our business 27 Vesuvius Steel Flow Control Ladle to Mould Solution A European steel plant producing combination of products and the casting high quality steel grades for use in process to improve the flow of molten automobiles and packaging, was striving metal from ladle to mould.
to improve the quality, productivity Validation tests were conducted in situ and yield of its production.
Working in utilising the proposed new components to partnership, with the customer, the assess their performance, and Vesuvius Vesuvius Solutions Group conducted Ladle to Mould configuration technology.
The combination of new a full Ladle to Mould evaluation and products was shown to considerably simulation of the various products improve the steel quality level both in and processes in use.
terms of cleanliness and defect rate, Measuring and recording the existing achieving the standard for food mould flow characteristics using our packaging steel required by the customer.
XMAT technology and thermal cameras The Vesuvius Ladle to Mould solution to monitor the filling of the tundish, the has now been permanently implemented Global Solutions Group then utilised their by the site.
computational fluid dynamic modelling capabilities to propose changes to the Old process New process Mould level plots Foundry R&D continues to operate from Whilst we seek to avoid too many changes Technology roadmap and KPIs three sites: the main site in Enschede, in project prioritisation, new ideas continue Our technology roadmap details both the Netherlands, which acts as the Centre of to arrive, with our New Product Process requirements for the successful delivery Excellence for filters, feeding systems, Ideation portal delivering over 100 new of the existing project portfolio and the binders, coatings, metal treatment and ideas per year and we would absolutely areas where fundamental research is non-ferrous applications: Pittsburgh, USA, expect some of these to take priority over required to make long-term new product the Centre of Excellence for non-ferrous those currently in the roadmap.
It is this developments possible and practical, and foundry and crucible research: and process that will ensure the continuation of therefore boosting NPS performance.
Feignies, France, the Centre of Excellence refractories as an essential element in so NPS%, our key R&D KPI, has continued to for fused silica research.
steadily grow, with the NPS% reaching All of these changes and the emphasis on 15.4% in 2018 up from 14.5% in 2017.
Whilst NPS% remains our key innovation fundamental research and front-end There was a reduction from the original KPI, we track additional targets to ensure innovation require the ongoing targeted number of product launches in the Innovation strategic plan delivers as recruitment of additional research staff.
2018 due to a deliberate shift of focus expected.
In particular, we monitor the These increased internal resources and resources onto a smaller number level of effort resources specifically combined with expanded funding for the of important long-term new product targeted for Breakthrough, key strategic external cooperation projects with our developments, which are now entering and front-end innovation projects, and the partners, mean that we will continue industrialisation and are planned to launch results of these projects, which are those to increase our research spending to in H1 2019.
The launch of these major expected to deliver increased sales maintain total R&D spend at c. 2% of projects in 2019 will in turn release R&D revenue at higher margins.
Oversight of turnover as our revenue grows.
The resources to move onto new projects the R&D activity has been increased increased investment is expected to entering the pipeline.
with bi-annual reviews by the full Group maintain the growth of our NPS % KPI, Executive Committee in addition to towards our target of a sustainable 20% post-launch reviews of the new product level.
At the same time, we expect to introduction projects.
This ensures increase R&D productivity by a further adherence to the best project practices 2m of NPS revenue year for each 1m of and allows the organisation to learn from R&D spend, ensuring that this increased past experiences.
R&D investment delivers a higher level of Alan Charnock return to the business.
Chief Technology Officer 27 February 2019 We expect to continue with a stable level of IP filings.
In 2018 we maintained our portfolio at 155 families, 1,530 granted patents and 590 applications pending.
