Vesuvius plc 116 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Directors Report Directors Report Future developments The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the A full description of the activities of the Group, including audited accounts of the Group and of the Company, Vesuvius plc, performance,  registered in England and Wales No.
8217766, for the year ended year,  31 December 2018. developments in the Groups business, can be found in the Strategic Report.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to provide a Directors Report for Vesuvius plc for the year ended Dividends 31December2018.
 and which is incorporated by reference into, and forms part  2017:5.50pence perVesuvius of, this report is included in the following sections of the ordinary share was paid on 21 September 2018 to Vesuvius Annual Report: shareholders.
  2017:12.50pence perordinary  share which, if approved, will be paid on 24 May 2019 to The Governance section, including the Corporate Governance shareholders on the register at 23 April 2019.
Statement Post Balance Sheet event FinancialInstruments: On 27 February 2019 the Group signed an agreement to acquire management objectives and policies contained in Note 26 to  CCPI, aspecialty the Group Financial Statements   This Directors Report and the Strategic Report contained on applications 65%ofsales andaluminium 35%ofsales.
pages 1 to 71 together represent the management report for CCPI is based in Ohio, USA, and will become part of the Groups the purpose of compliance with DTR 4.1.
8R of the UK Listing Advanced Refractories business unit.
The transaction values CCPI Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
does not have any overseas branches within the meaning of the .
Accountability and audit Going concern A responsibility statement of the Directors and a statement by Information on the business environment in which the Group the auditor about its reporting responsibilities can be found on operates,  .
 prospects of the Group, is included in the Strategic Report.
The responsibilities set out in their statement within the context of an  overall control environment of central strategic direction and .
As at the date of this report, positionoftheGroup, itscashflows,  so far as each Director of the Company is aware, there is no facilities are also described in the Strategic Report.
In addition, relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is the Groups Viability statement is set out within the Strategic  Report on page 31.
Note 26 to the Group Financial Statements  sets out the Groups objectives, policies and processes for  managingitscapital:financialrisks: establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Further Auditors reappointment details of the Groups cash balances and borrowings are included  PwC werereappointedas in Notes 13, 14 and 26 to the Group Financial Statements.
external Auditors for Vesuvius plc for the year ended 31 December , balancesheet 2018, at the 2018 AGM.
PwC have been Vesuvius external  Auditors since 2017 and have expressed their willingness to   statements.
On the basis of the exercise described above, the ending 31 December 2019.
Consequently, resolutions for the Directors have prepared a going concern statement which can reappointment of PwC as auditor of the Company and to be found on page 31. authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration are to be proposed at the 2019 AGM.
Research and development  R&D Directors  representing , ChristerGardell, approximately2% 2017:2% ofGrouprevenue.
Furtherdetailsof HockGoh, JaneHinkley, DouglasHurt, HollyKoeppel, John theGroupsR& McDonough CBE and Guy Young.
All the Directors will retire at of the Strategic Report.
the 2019 AGM and offer themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Biographical information for the Directors is given on pages 74 and75.
, and contractual arrangements for, the Executive and Non-executive  Remuneration Report.
The Non-executive Directors do not have service agreements.
Inaddition, theArticlesstate The Directors have been granted qualifying third-party  indemnity provisions by the Company and the Directors of the General Meeting to allot equity securities for cash, without  noneofwhomisa  Director of Vesuvius plc have been granted qualifying pension shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings under Section scheme indemnity provisions by Vesuvius Pension Plans Trustees 561oftheCompaniesAct,  Ltd.
The indemnities for Directors of Vesuvius plc have been in in other circumstances up to the aggregate nominal amount force since the date of their appointment.
 At the AGM on 10 May 2018, the Directors were authorised to remain in force.
issue relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 9,040,463, and, in connection with a rights issue, to issue relevant Annual General Meeting securities up to a further nominal value of 9,040,463.
In addition, The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Directors were empowered to allot equity securities, or sell The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED Treasury Shares, for cash on a non pre-emptive basis up to an .
, andforthepurposes offinancing orrefinancing,  Amendments of articles of association months after the original transaction a transaction which the Board of the Company determines to be an acquisition or other  capital investment, to allot equity securities, or sell Treasury of special resolution in accordance with the Companies Act.
Shares, for cash on a non pre-emptive basis up to an additional .
 Greenhouse gas emissions  Information on our reporting of greenhouse gas emissions, and to be held in 2019, whichever is the earlier.
The resolutions were all the methodology used to record these, is set out on page 64 of tabled in accordance with the terms of the Pre-Emption Groups the Strategic Report.
The Directors propose to renew these authorities at the 2019 AGM for a further year.
In the year ahead, other than in respect of Vesuvius ability to satisfy rights granted to Donations employees under its various share-based incentive arrangements, In accordance with Company policy, no political donations the Directors have no present intention of issuing any share weremadein2018 2017:nil,  capital of Vesuvius plc.
Authority for purchase of own shares Change of control provisions Subject to the provisions of company law and any other  applicable regulations, the Company may purchase its own Private Placement Loan Notes contain provisions entitling the shares.
At the AGM on 10 May 2018, Vesuvius shareholders gave counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event  .
Anumberof 27,121,389 Vesuvius ordinary shares, representing 10% of the arrangements to which the Company and its subsidiaries are the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at the latest party, such as other debt arrangements and share incentive practicable day prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM.
plans, may also alter or terminate on a change of control in the  eventofatakeover.
renewal of this authority at the 2019 AGM.
In 2013 the Company acquired 7,271,174 ordinary shares, Share capital representing a nominal value of 727,117 and 2.6% of the As at the date of this report, the Company had an issued share entire called-up share capital of the Company prior to the : purchase.
These shares were purchased pursuant to the Boards 7,271,174 of these ordinary shares are held in Treasury.
commitment to return the majority of the net proceeds of Therefore, the total number of Vesuvius plc shares with voting the disposal of the Precious Metals Processing division to rights is 271,213,897. shareholders.
These shares are currently held as Treasury shares.
Further information relating to the Companys issued share The Company has not subsequently disposed of any of the repurchasedshares.
Duringtheyear, theCompanydidnotmake capital can be found in Note 8 to the Company Financial Statements.
any further acquisitions of shares nor did it dispose of any shares previously acquired.
The Company does not have a lien over any The Companys Articles specify that, subject to the authorisation of its shares.
of an appropriate resolution passed at a General Meeting of the Company, Directors can allot relevant securities under Section Vesuvius plc 118 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Directors Report continued law.
In cases where employees are injured or disabled during Share Plans employment with the Group, support, including appropriate Vesuvius operates a number of share-based incentive plans.
training,  Under these plans the Group can satisfy entitlements by the adjustments are made as appropriate in respect of their duties acquisition of existing shares, the transfer of Treasury shares or by ,  the issue of new shares.
Existing shares are held in an employee employment.
TheTrusteeoftheESOP  Employee involvement Group to meet liabilities for the issue of shares to satisfy awards that vest.
The Trustee does not register votes in respect of these Vesuvius adopts an open and honest approach to employee shares and has waived the right to receive any dividends.
communications, supported by regular updates from senior management across businesses and operations within the At 31 December 2018, the ESOP held 2,874,060 ordinary shares.
The Board and senior management visit operations Duringtheyear,  throughout the year, touring the sites and meeting with ordinary shares of 10p each in Vesuvius with a nominal value of employees.
Other regular communications include direct email 0.2m at a total cost, including transaction costs of 13.0m, to , the hold to satisfy the future vesting of awards under the Companys industrial environment in which Vesuvius operates, and other share incentive plans.
Subsequent to the year end the ESOP .
TheCompanyoperatesan , atatotalcost, employee intranet which distributes Company news and events, including transaction costs, of 0.4m, to complete a purchase , aswellaslocal order commenced prior to the year end.
The total purchases initiatives for employee engagement on a site-by-site basis.
during the year represented 1% of the Companys called up share The HR department is the primary point of contact for employees capital.
, operatingwithan open-door policy and advising employees of any local legal, Restrictions on transfer of shares and voting tax, pension or other employment changes.
There are numerous  Articles donot employee-sponsored and led representative bodies within  Vesuvius which differ with respect to jurisdiction and geography.
The Directors are not aware of any Senior management, supported and facilitated by the HR agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may department,  result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
to consult with these employee representative bodies as appropriate.
No person has any special rights with regard to the control of the All members of the Group Executive Committee participate in the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Vesuvius Share Plan and receive awards of Performance Shares, This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles which vest in accordance with measures and targets set against should be consulted if further information is required.
For certain senior managers, awards are made  MTP.
Thesemanagers participate in the MTP at varying percentage levels, and awards Interests in the Companys shares are made in shares and based on the same measures and targets  as the Annual Incentive Plan.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following interests of 3%, or more, of its issued ordinary shares: Pensions As at As at 31 Dec 2018 27 Feb 2019 In each country in which the Group operates, the pension arrangements in place are considered to be consistent with Cevian Capital 21.11 21.11 good employment practice in that particular area.
Independent Standard Life Aberdeen 13.59 14.06 advisers are used to ensure that the plans are operated in Aberforth Partners 4.93 4.93 accordance with local legislation and the rules of each plan.
Phoenix Asset Management 3.10 3.10 Group policy prohibits direct investment of pension fund assets in the Companys shares.
Outside the UK, the US, Germany and The interests of Directors and their connected persons in the Belgium, the majority of pension plans in the Group are of a ordinary shares of the Company as disclosed in accordance with .
the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority are as set out on page 113 of the Directors Remuneration Report and details of  the Directors Deferred Share Bonus Plan and long-term incentive entrants and existing members were offered a buy-out of their awards are set out on pages 111 and 112. .
TheGroupsUKdefined Equal opportunities employment benefitsplan theUKPlan  plans are closed to new entrants and have ceased providing Vesuvius is an equal opportunities employer, and decisions on ,  recruitment, development, training and promotion, and  other employment-related issues are made solely on the grounds arrangements.
of individual ability, achievement, expertise and conduct.
These principles are operated on a non-discriminatory basis, without For the Groups closed UK Plan, a Trustee Board exists comprising regard to race, colour, nationality, culture, ethnic origin, religion, employees, former employees and an independent trustee.
belief, gender, sexual orientation, age, disability or any other The Board currently comprises six trustee Directors, of whom two reason not related to job performance or prohibited by applicable are member-nominated.
The administration of the UK Plan is Governance 119 outsourced.
The Company is mindful of its obligations under the  Pensions Act 2004 and of the need to comply with the guidance was15.3m 31December2017:16.5m.
Theprincipalreasons issued by the Pensions Regulator.
Regular dialogue is maintained  between the Company and the Trustee Board of the UK Plan to   ensure that both the Company and Trustee Board are apprised of rates: updated mortality assumptions and pension membership  data  the UK Plan.
This is pertinent to each being able to contribute to unfundedbenefits: the effective functioning of the UK Plan.
expenditure paid for the year of 9.8m and foreign exchange movements of 2.6m.
 plans through a combination of asset matching, buy-in The following disclosures are made in compliance with the opportunities and, where prudent, voluntary cash contributions.
Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rule 9.8.
4R Reference Location 1  None 2  Not applicable 3  Pages 98 and 99 4  Not applicable 5  Not applicable 6  Not applicable the year 7  Not applicable unlisted subsidiary during the year 8  Not applicable placing made during the year 9  Not applicable controlling shareholder was interested during the year 10  Not applicable shareholder during the year 11  Vesuvius plc holds 7,271,174 of its 10 pence ordinary shares as has waived or agreed to waive any dividends Treasury shares.
No dividends are payable on these shares.
CooksonInvestments Jersey Limited, theTrusteeofthe Companys ESOP, has agreed to waive, on an ongoing basis, any dividends payable on shares it holds on trust for use under the Companys Employee Share Plans, details of which can be found on pages 107, 111 and 112 12  See above dividends 13  Not applicable company independence The Directors Report has been approved by the Board and is signed, by order of the Board, by the Secretary of the Company.
Henry Knowles Company Secretary 27 February 2019
