Vesuvius plc 74 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Bo Boa ar rd o d of Di f Dir re ec ct to or rs s John McDonough CBE Patrick Andr Guy Young Christer Gardell Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director Chairman Committees Committees Committees Committees N N Date appointed to the Board Date appointed to the Board Date appointed to the Board Date appointed to the Board 1 September 2017 1 November 2015 31 October 2012 31 October 2012 Independent Independent Independent Independent N A N A No N A Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Global career serving the Extensive international A wealth of commercial acumen Proven strategic and leadership steel industry experience gained in the mining gained through his extensive skills gained in a complex and industrial sectors business investment and multinational business Strong background in management experience strategic development and Strong engineering background Qualified Chartered implementation A strong track record of and global commercial Accountant, with significant supporting the growth of experience financial and business Consumer focus and proven international businesses, development experience record of delivery, with strong Clear leadership understanding advocating focus and commercial acumen of safety issues Drive and energy in managing driving change Drive and energy in promoting people and teams Operational and strategic Experienced non-executive his strategic vision understanding of a range of Focus on strategic execution director across a range of business environments gained Career experience and business optimisation business sectors from working in Asia-Pacific, Patrick was President of the EMEA and the UK Career experience Career experience Vesuvius Flow Control business Experience as CEO with an Guy was Chief Financial Officer Christer is co-founder of Cevian unit prior to his appointment as international listed company of Tarmac and latterly Lafarge Capital and Managing Partner.
Chief Executive of the Group.
Tarmac, the British building Career experience Christer served as Chief Executive Before joining the Group in 2016, materials company, between Officer of AB Custos, the Swedish John spent 11 years as Group he served as Executive Vice 2011and 2015.
Prior to this investment company until 2001, Chief Executive Officer of President Strategic Growth, CEO he spent 13 years working at prior to which he was a Partner Carillion plc until he retired in Europe and CEO for Asia, CIS and Anglo American plc in various of Nordic Capital and McKinsey 2011.
Prior to this he spent nine Africa for Lhoist company, the senior financial and business & Company.
He has previously years working for Johnson world leader in lime production.
development positions, including served as a non-executive Controls.
He has previously Prior to this he was CEO of the as Chief Financial Officer of Scaw Director of AB Lindex and of served as a Non-executive Nickel division, then CEO of the Metals Group, the South African Tieto Corporation.
Director and Chairman of the Manganese division of ERAMET steel products manufacturer.
Remuneration Committee of group, a global manufacturer of Current external appointments Guy is qualified with the South Tomkins plc, and as a Trustee nickel and special alloys.
African Institute of Chartered Managing Partner of Cevian of Team Rubicon UK.
Capital, and Vice Chairman of John was awarded a CBE in 2011 Metso Corporation.
A member of None Current external appointments for services to industry.
the Nomination Committees of None Ericsson and Nordea Bank Abp, Current external appointments although not a member of the Chairman of The Vitec Group plc Ericsson or Nordea boards.
and Sunbird Business Services Limited, and a Non-executive C evian Capital is a shareholder of Director of Cornerstone Property Vesuvius plc and, at 27 February Assets Limited.
John will retire 2019, held 21.11% of Vesuvius from the Board of The Vitec issued share capital.
Board Key to Board Committee Committees membership A A Audit: See p86 Audit Committee N N Nomination: See p93 Nomination Committee R Remuneration: See p95 R Remuneration Committee R Committee Chairman Governance 75 Hock Goh Jane Hinkley Douglas Hurt Holly Koeppel Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director Committees Committees Committees Committees A N R A N R A N R A N R Date appointed to the Board Date appointed to the Board Date appointed to the Board Date appointed to the Board 2 April 2015 3 December 2012 2 April 2015 3 April 2017 Independent Independent Independent Independent Yes Yes Yes Yes Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Strong focus on R&D and Proven track record of Qualified Chartered A strong track record of growing technology managing complex global Accountant, with significant businesses, with more than trading business recent and relevant financial 35 years of domestic and Wealth of experience dealing experience having served as international utility, power and with safety and sustainability Qualified Chartered Finance Director of a listed infrastructure experience matters gained from more than Accountant, with significant UK company for nine years 35 years working in the oil and financial and operational International financial and gas industry experience in large Highly knowledgeable of both operational experience managing multinational companies corporate and operational assets on five continents In-depth knowledge of Asian financial matters, with markets Well-developed leadership and Strong board experience significant US and European global team management skills both as an independent Strong international commercial experience non-executive director and experience, gained through Career experience Proven general management as an investor, in the US and a global career in the oil and and leadership skills internationally Jane was Managing Director gas industry of Navion Shipping AS for Career experience Career experience Career experience three years until 2001.
Prior to this she spent a large part of Douglas was Finance Director of From 2000 to 2009, Holly worked Hock spent 25 years with her Executive career working IMI plc, the global engineering at American Electric Power Schlumberger, where his roles at Gotaas-Larsen Shipping group for nine years until 2015.
Company, Inc. latterly serving included serving as President Corporation, the liquefied natural Prior to this he spent 23 years at as Chief Financial Officer.
Prior of Network and Infrastructure gas shipping specialist, where GlaxoSmithKline plc where he to this she spent 15 years at Solutions in London, President of she served as Chief Financial held a number of senior finance the Consolidated Natural Gas Asia-Pacific, and Vice President Officer and Managing Director.
and general management Corporation in a variety of and General Manager of China.
She has previously served as a positions.
He began his career management roles which included Following this Hock spent seven Non-executive Director of Revus at Price Waterhouse.
four years based in Australia.
years as a Partner of Baird Capital Energy ASA.
From 2010 to 2017 Holly was Partners Asia, based in China.
Douglas is a Chartered Co-Head of Citi Infrastructure He has previously served as Jane is a Chartered Accountant.
Investors which was renamed Chairman of MEC Resources Ltd Gateway.
She has also served as a and a Non-executive Director of Current external appointments Current external appointments Directors Tenure Director of Integrys Energy Group, Harbour Energy Ltd. Chairman of Teekay GP L. L. C and Senior Independent Director Inc. and Reynolds American Inc. a Non-executive Director and and Chairman of the Audit Current external appointments Chairman of the Remuneration Committees of Tate & Lyle PLC, Current external appointments Chairman of Advent Energy Ltd, Committee of Premier Oil plc.
and Countryside Properties PLC, 6 2 Non-executive Director and and a Non-executive Director and Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of AB SKF, Santos Ltd and Stora 8 Chairman of the Audit Committee of British American Tobacco p. l. c. Enso Oyj.
of the British Standards 3 and a Non-executive Director of Institution.
2 4 3 Directors Tenure Board Composition Directors Tenure With international business experience Up to 3 years Independent Directors excluding the Chairman 3-6 years 2 Female Directors 6 More than 6 years With prior experience of serving as director of 3 8 a listed company 2 3 4 Up to 3 years 3-6 years With international business experience Independent Directors excluding the Chairman More than 6 years Female Directors With prior experience of serving as director of a listed company
