Vesuvius plc 76 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Group Executive Committee 1 Henry Knowles 2 Glenn Cowie 3 Tanmay Ganguly 4 Guy Young General Counsel & President, Foundry President, Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Advanced Refractories 37 years with the Group 3 years with the Group 5 years with the Group 11 years with the Group Appointed President Foundry For biographical details please Appointed as General Counsel in November 2014, having Appointed President Advanced see the Board of Directors on & Company Secretary in delivered significant change Refractories in November page 74.
Prior to in business structure and 2014.
Previously Tanmay led joining Vesuvius, Henry performance as President the refractory business in spent seven years at Hikma Advanced Refractories during India as Managing Director Pharmaceuticals PLC, a generic the prior three years.
He started of Vesuvius India Ltd, and pharmaceutical manufacturer his career in Foseco South latterly as Vice President Steel with significant operations in Africa, where he held several Flow Control and Advanced the Middle East, North Africa technical and sales positions Refractories, South Asia, and the United States where in both the Foundry and where he successfully increased he held the roles of General Steel Divisions, before taking both businesses revenue Counsel, Company Secretary the following roles of Chief and profitability.
and also led the compliance Executive Sub Saharan Africa, Tanmay is based in function.
an international Strategic Barlborough, UK.
Growth Initiative role in the UK, Henry is based in London.
Area Director Northern Europe, based in Borken, Germany and then Vice President Foundry NAFTA and the Americas.
Glenn is based in Tamworth, UK.
2 3 1 4 G Gov ove er rn na an nc ce e 77 5 Roel van der Sluis 6 Agnieszka Tomczak 7 Patrick Bikard 9 Alan Charnock President, Flow Control Chief HR Officer President, Operations Vice President and Chief Technology Officer 28 years with the Group 5 months with the Group 10 years with the Group 34 years with the Group Appointed President Flow Appointed as Chief HR Officer Appointed President Control in October 2017.
Agnieszka has Operations in January Appointed Chief Technology joined Vesuvius in the European over 25 years of senior leadership 2014 with an emphasis on Officer in April 2015.
Alan Foundry Division and held experience in multinational improving safety, quality and began his career in the Foundry marketing and technology roles companies spanning various reducing inventories, creating Division in South Africa and held in Northern Europe, Central business sectors and industries.
value through customer various senior appointments Europe and the Middle East.
Prior to joining Vesuvius, focus, lean techniques and within the Foundry, Flow Control He was appointed President she spent 12 years at ICI, continuous improvement.
He and Advanced Refractories Vesuvius China North Asia subsequently acquired by was previously Vice President businesses in Spain, the US, Steel and his remit subsequently Akzo Nobel, in regional and for Manufacturing, QHSE, Venezuela, Japan and China.
increased to include Foundry global HR roles.
Engineering and Purchasing Prior to his appointment as Vice operations in China, Japan and, prior to joining Vesuvius, he President and Chief Technology Agnieszka is based in London.
Roel has wide held senior operational roles at Officer, he was Vice President experience in both the foundry Renault, Alstom and Faurecia.
of Marketing & Technology and the steel industries.
for Flow Control, based in Patrick is based in Ghlin, Ghlin, Belgium.
Alan has wide Roel is based in Ghlin, Belgium.
global experience of all aspects of Vesuvius manufacturing 8 Patrick Andr business.
Chief Executive 3 years with the Group Alan is based in Ghlin, Belgium.
For biographical details please see the Board of Directors on page 74.
