Governance 97 Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy The Companys existing Remuneration Policy was approved at the AGM held on 10 May 2017.
The previous policy applied in its entirety up until this date and after this date those elements of the previous policy that related to remuneration that remained extant on this date such as outstanding share awards continued to apply until these commitments cease.
The full policy report, as approved by shareholders, can be found in the 2016 Annual Report a copy of which is available under the Reports tab in the Investors section of the Group website www.
For the benefit of shareholders, we have reprinted the Policy below.
To ensure that the Policy is relevant to the 2018 financial year, we have made minor textual changes to refer to the applicable financial year in the following sections: Illustration of the Application of the Remuneration Policy for 2019 which also contains, as described, 2019 data : and Consideration of Shareholder Views.
The Service contracts section refers to the terms of the current Executive Directors and the Terms of service section refers to the dates of appointment of the current Non-executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out here, where the terms of the payment were agreed: i before the date the Companys first Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act came into effect: ii before the policy set out here came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved Remuneration Policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes, payments includes the Remuneration Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Remuneration Policy Table for Executive Directors Base salary Alignment purpose Opportunity Helps to recruit and retain key employees.
Salary increases will normally be in line with In line with the two to three-year period for Reflects the individuals experience, role the average increase awarded to other base salary appraisal, individual increases and contribution within the Company.
employees in the Group over a similar period.
when paid are likely to be in excess of those In considering any increase in base salary, for the wider population of employees for Operation the Committee will also consider: that year.
The individuals performance is reviewed i the role and value of the individual: No absolute maximum has been set for annually, with changes to base salary Executive Director base salaries.
Current normally appraised over a two to threeii changes in job scope or responsibility: Executive Directors salaries are set out in the year period.
Annual Report on Directors Remuneration iii progression in the role e. g. for a new section of this Remuneration Report.
Any change will normally be effective appointee : from 1 January in the year of the increase.
Performance iv a significant increase in the scale of role Base salary is positioned to be market and or size, value or complexity of the Any increase will take into account the competitive when considered against other Group: and individuals performance, contribution global industrial companies, and relevant and increasing experience.
v the need to maintain market international and FTSE 250 companies competitiveness.
Paid in cash, subject to local tax and social security regulations.
Other benefits Alignment purpose Opportunity dependent children, life insurance, disability and health insurance, together with Provides normal market practice benefits.
There is no formal maximum as benefit costs relocation allowance and expatriate benefits, can fluctuate depending on changes in in some instances grossed up for tax, in provider, cost and individual circumstances.
Operation accordance with the Groups policies, and A range of standard benefits including, participation in any employee share scheme Performance but not limited to: car allowance, private operated by the Group.
medical care including spouse and None Vesuvius plc 98 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Remuneration Policy continued Pension Alignment purpose Operation Opportunity Helps to recruit and retain key employees.
An allowance is given as a percentage of Maximum of 30% of base salary.
This may be used to participate in Vesuvius pension arrangements, invested Performance in own pension arrangements or taken as a None cash supplement or any combination of the above options.
Annual Incentive Alignment purpose Performance The Committee has the discretion to determine that actual incentive payments Incentivises Executive Directors to achieve Annual Incentive is measured on targets set at should be lower than levels calculated by key short-term financial and strategic the beginning of each year.
The Committee reference to achievement against targets targets of the Group.
establishes threshold and maximum if it considers this to be appropriate.
performance targets for each financial year.
Additional alignment with shareholders The majority of the Annual Incentive will be The Committee has the discretion to interests through the operation of determined by measure s of Group financial award participants the equivalent value bonus deferral.
The remainder of the Annual of dividends accrued during the vesting Incentive will be based on financial, strategic period on any shares that vest.
Operation or operational measures appropriate to the individual Director.
Performance is measured Normally 33% of any Annual Incentive Subject to malus and clawback.
Actual performance earned by Executive Directors will be targets will be disclosed after the deferred into awards over shares under Opportunity performance period has ended.
They are the Vesuvius Deferred Share Bonus Plan Below threshold: 0%.
not disclosed in advance due to their which normally vest after at least three commercial sensitivity.
years, other than in specified circumstances On-target: 62.5% of base salary.
outlined elsewhere in this Policy.
These may be cash or share settled.
Payments made between threshold and on-target and between on-target and maximum are pro-rated.
Vesuvius Share Plan Alignment purpose Performance Awards vest three years after their award date, other than in specified circumstances Flexible umbrella plan.
Vesting of Performance Share awards is outlined elsewhere in this policy, subject to usually dependent on measures of Group Aligns Executive Directors interests with the achievement of specified conditions.
EPS and relative TSR with the precise those of shareholders through the delivery measures and weighting of the measures The Committee may decide that the shares in of shares.
Rewards Executive Directors determined by the Committee ahead of each respect of which an award vests are delivered for achieving the strategic objectives of award.
These details are disclosed in the to participants at that point or that awards growth in shareholder value and earnings.
Annual Report on Directors Remuneration will then be subject to an additional holding section of this Remuneration Report.
Assists retention of Executive Directors period before participants are entitled to over a three-year performance period.
The Company reserves the right only to disclose EPS performance targets after the The Committee has the discretion to award Operation performance period has ended, due to their participants the equivalent value of dividends Awards may be granted as: commercial sensitivity.
accrued during the vesting period on any shares that vest.
Prior to any vesting, the Remuneration Performance share awards Committee also reviews the underlying Subject to malus and clawback.
financial performance of the Company over Deferred share bonus awards the performance period to ensure the vesting Opportunity is justified.
Restricted share awards Executive Directors are eligible to receive an annual award with a face value of up Market-price options to 200% of base salary in Performance share awards.
Vesting at threshold performance is 25% Individuals are entitled to an aggregate rising to vesting of the full award at maximum.
annual maximum amount of awards.
If more than one type of award is granted, the individual limit for all awards is reduced to remain within the maximum.
Governance 99 Within the policy period, the Committee will continually review Malus Clawback arrangements the performance measures used, including TSR and the The Executive Directors variable remuneration is subject to malus applicable comparator group, and EPS and other financial and clawback provisions.
These provide the Committee with the measures, to ensure that awards are made on the basis of flexibility, if required, to withhold or recover payments made to challenging targets that clearly support the achievement of Executive Directors under the Annual Incentive Plan including the Groups strategic aims.
deferred awards and or to withhold or recover share awards granted to Executive Directors under the Vesuvius Share The Committee may vary or waive any performance condition s Plan, including any dividends granted on such awards.
if circumstances occur which cause it to determine that the original The circumstances in which the Committee could potentially condition s have ceased to be appropriate, provided that any elect to apply malus and clawback provisions include: a material such variation or waiver is fair, reasonable and not materially misstatement in the Companys financial statements: an error in less difficult to satisfy than the original condition in its opinion.
the calculation of the extent of payment or vesting of an incentive: In the event that the Committee were to make an adjustment gross misconduct by an individual: or significant financial loss or of this sort, a full explanation would be provided in the next serious reputational damage to Vesuvius plc resulting from an Remuneration Report.
individuals conduct, a material failure of risk management or a The Committee may: a in the event of a variation of the serious breach of health and safety.
These malus and clawback Companys share capital, demerger, special dividend or any other provisions apply for a period of up to three years after the end of corporate event which it reasonably determines justifies such an a performance period or end of the deferral period in respect of adjustment, adjust: and b amend the terms of awards granted deferred awards.
under the share schemes referred to above in accordance with the rules of the relevant plans.
Performance measures Share awards may be settled by the issue of new shares or by the In selecting performance measures for the Annual Incentive, transfer of existing shares.
In line with prevailing best practice at the Committee seeks to reflect key strategic aims and the need the time this Policy Report was approved, any issuance of new for a rigorous focus on financial performance.
Each year shares is limited to 5% of share capital over a rolling ten-year the Committee agrees challenging targets to ensure that period in relation to discretionary employee share schemes and underperformance is not rewarded.
The Company will not be 10% of share capital over a rolling ten-year period in relation to disclosing the specific financial or personal objectives set until all employee share schemes.
after the relevant performance period has ended because of commercial sensitivities.
The personal objectives are all non-financial or job-specific in nature and track performance against key strategic, organisational and operational goals.
In selecting performance measures for the Vesuvius Share Plan, the Committee seeks to focus Executive Directors on the execution of long-term strategy and also align their rewards with value created for shareholders.
On this basis, the performance conditions for the Vesuvius Performance Share awards will usually be dependent on measures based on TSR and EPS performance.
Vesuvius plc 100 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Remuneration Policy continued Illustration of the application of the Remuneration Service contracts of Executive Directors Policy for 2019 The Committee will periodically review the contractual terms for new Executive Directors to ensure these reflect best practice.
The charts below show the total remuneration for Executive Service contracts currently operate on a rolling basis and are Directors for 2019 for minimum, on-target and maximum limited to a 12-month notice period.
The fixed elements of remuneration comprise base salary, pension and other estimated benefits, using 2019 Patrick Andr is employed as Chief Executive of Vesuvius plc salary data.
The assumptions on which they are calculated are pursuant to the terms of a service agreement made with Vesuvius as follows: plc dated 17 July 2017.
Guy Young is employed as Chief Financial Officer pursuant to the terms of a service agreement with Minimum: Fixed remuneration only.
Each Executive Directors On-target: Fixed remuneration plus on-target Annual Incentive appointment is terminable by Vesuvius on not less than 12 months made at 62.5% of base salary for Patrick Andr and Guy Young written notice, and by each Executive Director on not less than six and threshold vesting i. e. median performance for TSR and months written notice.
threshold for EPS for Performance Share awards made at 200% of base salary for Patrick Andr and 150% of base salary for External appointments of Executive Directors Guy Young under the Vesuvius Share Plan.
The Executive Directors do not currently serve as Non-executive Maximum: Fixed remuneration plus maximum Annual Incentive Directors of any other quoted company.
Subject always to being full achievement of financial and personal targets, made consent being granted by the Company for them to take up such at 125% of base salary for Patrick Andr and Guy Young and an appointment, were they to so serve, the Company would allow 100% vesting for Performance Share awards made at 200% them to retain any fees they received for the performance of of base salary for Patrick Andr and 150% of base salary for their duties.
Guy Young under the Vesuvius Share Plan.
Note: In addition the Committee retains the discretion to award dividends either shares or their cash equivalent on any shares that vest.
Remuneration Illustrations 000 Patrick Andr, Chief Executive Guy Young, Chief Financial Officer Minimum Minimum 100% 870k 100% 472k On-Target On-Target 16% 56% 24% 20% 1,545k 57% 27% 822k Maximum Maximum 31% 27% 42% 2,820k 33% 30% 37% 1,434k 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 Fixed Elements Annual Variable Elements Long-Term Variable Elements Governance 101 Remuneration policy for Non-executive Directors The Company seeks to appoint Non-executive Directors who have relevant professional knowledge, and have gained experience in a relevant industry and geographical sector, to support diversity of expertise at the Board and match the wide geographical spread of the Companys activities.
Non-executive Directors attend Board, Committee and other meetings, held mainly in the UK, together with an annual strategy review to debate the Companys strategic direction.
All Non-executive Directors are expected to familiarise themselves with the scale and scope of the Companys business and to maintain their specific technical skills and knowledge.
The Board sets the level of fees paid to the Non-executive Directors after considering the role and responsibilities of each Director and the practice of other companies of a similar size and international complexity.
The Non-executive Directors do not participate in Board discussions on their own remuneration.
No variable remuneration is available to Non-executive Directors.
Non-executive Directors receive reimbursement of reasonable expenses incurred in attending the Board, Committee and other ad hoc meetings, including gross up payments to cover any personal tax owed on such expenses.
Fees Alignment purpose The Chairman is paid a single fee and Base fees paid to Non-executive receives administrative support from Directors will in aggregate remain within To attract and retain Non-executive Directors the Company.
the aggregate limit stated in our Articles, of the necessary skill and experience by currently being 500,000. offering market-competitive fees.
Opportunity Performance Operation Non-executive Directors and the Chairman will be paid market-appropriate fees, with None Fees are usually reviewed every other any increase reflecting changes in the market year by the Board.
or adjustments to a specific Non-executive Non-executive Directors are paid a base Directors role.
fee for the performance of their role, No eligibility for bonuses, retirement benefits payable in cash, plus additional fees for or to participate in the Groups employee Committee chairmanship or acting as share plans.
Benefits and expenses Alignment purpose Operation Opportunity To facilitate execution of responsibilities All Non-executive Directors are reimbursed Non-executive Directors expenses are and duties required by the role.
for reasonable expenses incurred in carrying paid in accordance with Vesuvius out their duties including any personal tax expense procedures.
Performance None Terms of service of the Chairman and other Non-executive Directors The terms of service of the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors are contained in letters of appointment.
Each Non-executive Director is appointed subject to their election at the Companys first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and re-election at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
During the first year of his her appointment, the Chairman is entitled to 12 months notice from the Company: thereafter, he she is entitled to six months notice from the Company.
None of the other Non-executive Directors is entitled to receive compensation for loss of office at any time.
All Non-executive Directors are subject to retirement, and election or re-election, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
The current policy is for Non-executive Directors to serve on the Board for a maximum of nine years, with review at the end of three and six years, subject always to mutual agreement and annual performance evaluation.
The Board retains discretion to extend the tenure of Non-executive Directors beyond this time, subject to the requirements of Board balance and independence being satisfied.
Vesuvius plc 102 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Remuneration Policy continued The table below shows the date of appointment for each of the Non-executive Directors: Non-Executive Director Date of Appointment John McDonough CBE 31 October 2012 Christer Gardell 31 October 2012 Hock Goh 2 April 2015 Jane Hinkley 3 December 2012 Douglas Hurt 2 April 2015 Holly Koeppel 3 April 2017 In addition to the annual remuneration elements noted above, Recruitment policy the Committee may consider buying out terms, incentives and On appointment or promotion of a new Executive Director, any other compensation arrangements forfeited on leaving the Committee will typically use the Remuneration Policy in force a previous employer that an individual forfeits in accepting at the time of the Committees decision to determine ongoing an appointment with Vesuvius.
The Committee will have the remuneration.
authority to rely on Listing Rule 9.4.
2R 2 or to apply the existing limits within the Vesuvius Share Plan to make Restricted Base salary levels will generally be set in accordance with the Remuneration Policy current at the time of the Committees Share awards on recruitment.
In making any such awards, the Committee will review the terms of any forfeited awards, decision, taking into account the experience and calibre of the appointee.
If it is appropriate to appoint an individual on a base including, but not limited to, vesting periods, the expected value of such awards on vesting and the likelihood of the performance salary initially below what is adjudged to be market positioning, contingent on individual performance, the Committee retains targets applicable to such awards being met, while retaining the discretion to make any buy-out award the Committee the discretion to realign base salary over the one to three years following appointment, which may result in a higher rate of determines is necessary and appropriate.
The Committee may also require the appointee to purchase shares in Vesuvius to a annualised increase than might otherwise be awarded under the policy.
If the Committee intends to rely on this discretion, it will be pre-agreed level prior to vesting of any such awards.
The value of any buy-out award will be capped, to ensure its maximum noted in the first Remuneration Report following an individuals appointment.
Other than in exceptional circumstances, other value is no higher than the value of the awards that the individual forfeited on joining Vesuvius.
Any such awards will be subject to elements of annual remuneration will, typically, be set in line with the Remuneration Policy including a limit on awards under the malus and clawback.
Annual Incentive and Vesuvius Share Plan of 325% of salary in With respect to the appointment of a new Chairman or aggregate.
The Committee retains the discretion to make the Non-executive Director, appointment terms will be consistent following further exceptions: with those applicable at the time the appointment is agreed.
In the event that an internal appointment is made, or where Variable pay will not be considered.
With respect to a Director is appointed as a result of transfer into the Group Non-executive Directors, fees will be consistent with the policy on an acquisition of another Company, the Committee at the time the appointment is agreed.
If, in exceptional may continue with existing remuneration provisions for this circumstances, a Non-executive Director was asked to assume an individual, including pension entitlements, where appropriate interim executive role, the Company retains the discretion to pay them appropriate executive compensation, in line with the policy.
If necessary and appropriate to secure the appointment of a candidate who has to move locations as a result of the Exit payment policy appointment, whether internal or external, the Committee may make additional payments linked to relocation, above those Vesuvius has the option to make a payment in lieu of part or all outlined in the policy table, and would authorise the payment of the required notice period for Executive Directors.
Any such of a relocation allowance and repatriation, as well as other payment in lieu will consist of the base salary, pension contributions associated international mobility terms.
Such benefits would and value of benefits to which the Director would have been be set at a level which the Committee considers appropriate for entitled for the duration of the remaining notice period, net of the role and the individuals circumstances statutory deductions in each case.
Half of any payments in lieu of notice would be made in a lump sum, the remainder in equal If appropriate the Committee may apply different monthly instalments commencing in the month in which the performance measures and or targets to a Directors midpoint of their foregone notice period falls and are reduced or first incentive awards in his her year of appointment extinguished by salary from any role undertaken by the departing Service contracts will be entered into on terms similar to those Executive in this time.
Executive Directors are subject to certain non-compete covenants for a period of nine months, and for the existing Executive Directors, summarised in the Service contracts of Executive Directors section above.
non-solicitation covenants for a period of 12 months, following the termination of their employment.
Their service agreements are governed by English law.
Governance 103 Executive Directors contracts do not contain any change of in different leaver scenarios and on a change of control.
Whilst the control provisions: they do contain a duty to mitigate should Committee retains overall discretion on determining good leaver the Director find an alternative paid occupation in any period status, it typically defines a good leaver in circumstances such as during which the Company must otherwise pay compensation on retirement with agreement of the Company, ill health, disability, early termination.
death, redundancy, or part of the business in which the individual is employed or engaged ceasing to be part of the Group.
Final The table below summarises how the awards under the treatment is subject to the Committees discretion.
annual bonus and Vesuvius Share Plan are typically treated Event Timing Calculation of vesting payment Annual Incentive Plan Paid at the same time as to continuing Annual bonus is paid only to the extent Good leaver employees.
that any performance conditions have been satisfied and is pro-rated for the proportion of the financial year worked before cessation of employment.
Individuals lose the right to their annual bonus.
Bad leaver Paid on the effective date of change of control.
Annual bonus is paid only to the extent that Change of control any performance conditions have been satisfied and is pro-rated for the proportion of the financial year worked.
Vesuvius Share Plan On normal vesting date or earlier at Unvested awards vest to the extent that any Good leaver the Committees discretion.
performance conditions have been satisfied and a pro-rata reduction applies to the value of the awards to take into account the proportion of vesting period not served, unless the Committee decides that the reduction in the number of vested shares is inappropriate.
Unvested awards lapse on cessation Bad leaver of employment.
Unvested awards vest to the extent that any Change of control performance conditions have been satisfied and a pro-rata reduction applies for the proportion of the vesting period not served.
I n certain circumstances, the Committee may determine that unvested awards under the Vesuvius Share Plan will not vest on a change of control but will instead be replaced by an equivalent grant of a new award, as determined by the Committee, in the new company.
In the case of the Vesuvius Deferred Share Bonus Plan if the The Committee reserves the right to make any other payments in individual leaves for any reason other than dismissal for cause connection with a Directors cessation of office or employment or in the event of a change in control, the deferred award will vest where the payments are made in good faith in discharge of an in full, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of a compromise or settlement of any Benefits normally cease to be provided on the date employment claim arising in connection with the cessation of a Directors office ends.
However, the Committee has the discretion to allow some or employment.
minor benefits such as health insurance, tax advice and repatriation expenses to continue to be provided for a period In certain circumstances, the Committee may approve new following cessation where this is considered fair and reasonable contractual arrangements with departing Executive Directors or appropriate on the basis of local market practice.
In addition, including but not limited to settlement, confidentiality, restrictive the Committee retains discretion to fund other expenses for the covenants and or consultancy arrangements.
These would be Executive Director, for example, payments to meet legal fees used only where the Committee believed it was in the best incurred in connection with termination of employment, or to meet interests of the Company to do so.
the costs of providing outplacement support, and fide minimis termination costs up to 5,000 to cover transfer of mobile phone or other administrative expenses.
Vesuvius plc 104 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Remuneration Policy continued Comparison of Remuneration Policy for Executive Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group Directors with that for other employees in developing policy The Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors is designed The Company does not consult directly with employees on in line with the remuneration philosophy set out in this report Executive Directors remuneration arrangements.
However, which also underpins remuneration for the wider Group.
the Remuneration Committee will take into account the pay Remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors draw on the and employment conditions of other Group employees when same elements as those for other employees base salary, fixed determining Executive Directors remuneration, particularly when benefits and retirement benefits with performance-related determining base salary increases, when the Committee will pay extending down into the management cadres and beyond.
consider the salary increases for other Group employees in the However, given that remuneration structures for other employees same jurisdiction.
need to reflect both seniority and local market practice, they differ from the policy for Executive Directors.
In particular, Consideration of Shareholder views Executive Directors receive a higher proportion of their Vesuvius is committed to open and transparent dialogue with remuneration in performance-related pay and share-based its shareholders on remuneration as well as other governance payments.
Individual percentages of fixed versus variable matters.
As Chairman of the Committee, Jane Hinkley welcomes remuneration and participation in share-based structures shareholder engagement and is available for any discussions decline as seniority decreases.
investors wish to have on remuneration matters.
During 2018, The process for delivering salary increases on a two to remuneration matters were discussed at a number of meetings three-year cycle for Executive Directors is also applied to with investors.
The feedback from such meetings is always shared other members of the Group Executive Committee and their with the Committee and taken into consideration when decisions direct managerial reports.
Whilst all employees receive an are made about future remuneration strategy and arrangements.
annual performance appraisal, other employees continue to receive salary reviews on an annual basis.
Shareholding guidelines As with Executive Directors, middle and senior managers The Remuneration Committee encourages Executive Directors participate in the Annual Incentive Plan.
For members of the to build and hold a shareholding in the Company.
The required Group Executive Committee and functional employees, holding of the Chief Executive is to be equivalent in value to at the award is predominantly based on Group performance, least 2x salary and that required of other Executive Directors is to with the remainder awarded against achievement of personal be equivalent in value to at least 1x salary.
For operational employees, any potential award Compliance with the shareholding policy is tested at the end of is based upon achieving three measures relating to Group each year for application in the following year using the average performance, business unit performance, and individual of the closing prices of a Vesuvius ordinary share for the trading achievement of personal objectives.
All members of the Group Executive Committee participate in the Vesuvius Share Plan and receive awards of Performance Shares, General which vest in accordance with measures and targets set against The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy EPS and TSR.
The level of awards granted to members of the set out in this Policy Report for regulatory, exchange control, Group Executive Committee who dont serve on the Board are tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change lower than those payable to the Executive Directors.
in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for For certain senior and middle managers, awards are made that amendment.
under the Vesuvius Medium Term Plan MTP.
These managers participate in the MTP at varying percentage levels, and awards are based on the same measures and targets as the Annual Incentive Plan.
Senior managers have their MTP awards made over Vesuvius shares, whilst middle managers receive their awards in cash.
In each case, awards are granted following the end of the relevant financial year.
The MTP share awards vest on the second anniversary of the date of grant, subject to continuing employment.
Governance 105 Directors Remuneration Report Annual Report on Directors Remuneration Directors Remuneration at a glance Our remuneration for Executive Directors The table below sets out the phasing of receipt of the various elements of Executive Director remuneration for 2019.
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Description and link to strategy Base salary Salaries are set at an appropriate level to enable the Company to recruit and retain key employees, and reflect the individuals experience, role and contribution within the Company.
Benefits Provides normal market practice benefits.
Pension The pension benefit helps to recruit and retain key employees and ensures income in retirement.
Annual Incentive The Annual Incentive incentivises the Executive Directors to achieve key short-term financial and strategic targets of the Group.
Deferred Incentive The deferral of a portion of the Annual Incentive increases alignment with shareholders.
Vesuvius Share Plan Awards under the Vesuvius Share Plan align Executive Directors interests with those of shareholders through the Holding delivery of shares and assist in the retention of the Executive Period Directors.
The VSP rewards the Executive Directors for achieving the strategic objectives of growth in shareholder value and earnings.
2019 Directors Remuneration The table below sets out how the Remuneration Policy will be applied to the Executive Directors remuneration for 2019.
Further details about each of the elements of remuneration are set out in the Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Directors Remuneration.
Remuneration element Remuneration structure Base salary Current salaries as follows: Patrick Andr 600,000 2018: 525,000 Guy Young 350,000 2018: 350,000 The 2019 salaries shown above include a salary increase effective from 1 January 2019 of 14% for Patrick Andr.
In line with the Groups Remuneration Policy, Guy Young has not received an increase in 2019.
Benefits Benefits for Executive Directors include car allowance, private medical care, relocation expenses, tax advice and tax reimbursement, commuting costs, school fees and Directors spouses travel and administrative expenses.
Pension Pension allowances of 25% of base salary.
This allowance can be used to participate in Vesuvius pension arrangements, be invested in their own pension arrangements or be taken as a cash supplement or any combination of these alternatives.
Annual Incentive For 2019 the maximum Annual Incentive potential for the Executive Directors will be 125% of base salary with target Annual Incentive potential being 62.5% of base salary.
Their incentives are based 60% on Group headline earnings per share, 20% on the Groups working capital to sales ratio based on the 12-month moving average and 20% on specified personal objectives.
33% of any Annual Incentive earned will be deferred into awards over shares, to be held for a period of three years.
Vesuvius Share Plan Performance Share awards with a maximum value of 200% of salary will be awarded to Patrick Andr and 150% for Guy Young.
Vesting of 50% of shares awarded will be based upon the Companys TSR performance relative to that of the constituent companies of the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts, and 50% on headline EPS growth.
Performance will be measured over three years with awards vesting after three years.
There will then be a further two-year holding period applicable to the awards.
Vesuvius plc 106 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Annual Report on Directors Remuneration continued Remuneration Committee structure Advice provided to the Remuneration Committee The current members of the Remuneration Committee are Deloitte is appointed directly by the Remuneration Committee all the independent Non-executive Directors of the Company.
to provide advice on executive remuneration matters, including The Committee Chairman is Jane Hinkley.
Jane Hinkley, Hock remuneration structure and policy, updates on market practice Goh, Douglas Hurt and Holly Koeppel have all served on the and trends, and guidance on the implementation and operation Committee throughout 2018.
All continue in office as at the date of share incentive plans.
The Committee appointed Deloitte, of this report.
The Committee complies with the requirements a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of of the UK Corporate Governance Code for the composition of Conduct in relation to Executive Remuneration Consulting in the remuneration committees.
Each of the members brings a broad UK, following a formal tender process in 2014.
Deloitte also experience of international businesses and an understanding of provides the Remuneration Committee with ongoing calculations their challenges to the work of the Committee.
The Company of total shareholder return TSR to enable the Committee to Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
Members biographies monitor the performance of long-term share incentive plans.
In addition in 2018, within the wider Group, Deloitte was procured in various jurisdictions to provide tax and treasury advisory work.
During 2018, Deloittes fees for advice to the Remuneration Meetings Committee, charged on a time spent basis, amounted to 54,147.
The Committee met five times during the year.
The Groups The Committee conducted a review of the performance of Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief HR Officer initially Ryan Deloitte as remuneration adviser during the year and concluded van der Aa, and subsequently Agnieszka Tomczak, were that Deloitte continued to provide effective, objective and invited to each meeting, together with Christer Gardell, our independent advice to the Committee.
No conflict of interest non-independent Non-executive Director, though none of them arises as a result of other services provided by Deloitte to participated in discussions regarding their own remuneration.
In addition, a representative from Deloitte, the Remuneration Committee adviser, attended the majority of meetings.
Activities of the Remuneration Committee The attendees supported the work of the Committee, giving critical insight into the operational demands of the business and The key matters the Remuneration Committee considered during their application to the overall remuneration strategy within the its five meetings in 2018 included: Group.
In receiving views on remuneration matters from the Considering and approving the 2019 salary review proposals Executive Directors and senior management, the Committee for the Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Management recognised the potential for conflicts of interest to arise and considered the advice accordingly.
The Chairman of the Reviewing and approving achievement against performance Committee reported the outcomes of all meetings to the Board.
targets for the 2017 Annual Incentive arrangements The Committee operates under formal terms of reference which Setting performance targets and approving the structure of were reviewed during the year and a recommendation was made the 2018 Annual Incentive arrangements to the Board about appropriate amendments to align them with Reviewing and assessing the Companys attainment of the new 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code.
The terms of performance conditions applicable to the Vesuvius reference are available on the Group website www.
Performance Share awards made in 2015 The Committee members are permitted to obtain outside legal advice at the Companys expense in relation to their deliberations.
Setting the performance measures and targets, and These powers were not exercised during the year.
The Committee authorising the grant of new awards in 2018 under the Vesuvius may also secure the attendance at its meetings of any employee Share Plan, the Deferred Share Bonus Plan and Medium Term or other parties it considers necessary.
Incentive Plan Considering the Companys ongoing share sourcing Role and responsibilities requirements to meet obligations under the Companys share The Committee is responsible for: plans, and funding of the ESOP Determining the overall remuneration policy for the Executive Approving the 2017 Directors Remuneration Report and Directors including the terms of their service agreements, reviewing the 2018 Directors Remuneration Report pension rights and compensation payments In light of the publication of the new 2018 UK Corporate Setting the appropriate remuneration for the Chairman, the Governance Code, the New Code, along with advice received Executive Directors and Senior Management being the Group from the external advisers and other trends in remuneration Executive Committee practice, discussing the Committees role and responsibilities going forward.
As a result of this the Committee: Reviewing workforce remuneration and related policies, and the alignment of incentives and rewards with culture, taking recommended to the Board appropriate changes to the these into account when setting the policy for Executive Committees terms of reference to incorporate the New Code Director remuneration requirements regarding such items as: the prior experience of the Remuneration Committee Chairman: the Committees Overseeing the operation of the executive share incentive plans review of workforce remuneration and related policies: and the alignment of incentives and rewards with culture: share incentive plans promoting long-term shareholdings by executive directors: remuneration schemes and policies enabling the use of discretion to override formulaic Governance 107 outcomes: and post-employment shareholding requirements Share Usage for executive Directors Under the rules of the Vesuvius Share Plan, the Company has the reviewed its activities on understanding workforce related discretion to satisfy awards either by the transfer of Treasury remuneration policies shares or other existing shares, or by the allotment of newly issued shares.
Awards made under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan to resolved to implement an additional two-year holding period satisfy shares awarded to Directors in respect of their Annual for Performance Share awards that are granted under the Incentive, and awards made to management of the Company Vesuvius Share Plan from 2019 onwards, such that these over shares pursuant to the Medium Term Incentive Plan, must awards will be subject to a three-year vesting period, be satisfied out of Vesuvius shares held for this purpose by the followed by a two-year holding period Companys employee share ownership plan trust ESOP.
The decision on how to satisfy awards is taken by the resolved that share awards granted under the Vesuvius Remuneration Committee which considers the most prudent Share Plan from 2019 onwards would also be subject to and appropriate sourcing arrangement for the Company.
post-employment termination holding requirements for the duration of the above holding period noting that a At 31 December 2018, the Company held 7,271,174 ordinary formal policy on this would be developed as part of the shares in Treasury and the ESOP held 2,874,060 ordinary shares.
Remuneration Policy to be submitted for shareholder During the year, the trustee of the ESOP purchased an additional approval in 2020 2,313,456 Vesuvius plc shares to hold to satisfy the potential future vesting of awards under the Companys share incentive reviewed the terms of the existing discretion applicable to determination of the vesting of awards under the Vesuvius plans.
Subsequent to the year-end the ESOP purchased an additional 71,544 shares to complete a purchase commenced Share Plan and updated this to align with the principles set out in the New Code and prior to the year-end.
The ESOP can be gifted Treasury shares by the Company, can purchase shares in the open market or can reviewed the existing malus and clawback circumstances subscribe for newly issued shares, as required, to meet obligations currently specified by the Company as set out on page 99 to satisfy options and awards that vest.
of the Remuneration Policy and concluded that they The Vesuvius Share Plan complies with the current Investment remained appropriate.
Association guidelines on headroom which provide that overall As in previous years, the Committee was the subject of an dilution under all plans over a rolling ten-year period should not externally moderated performance evaluation in 2018. exceed 10% of the Companys issued share capital, with a further The performance of the Remuneration Committee was rated limitation over a rolling ten-year period of 5% for discretionary highly and it was noted that there had been an improvement share schemes.
More than 9.9% of the 10% limit and more than in the quality of communication between the Company, the 4.9% of the 5% limit remains available as headroom for the issue Committee and its advisers, and that this was now rated as of new shares or the transfer of Treasury shares for the Company.
It was anticipated that with the arrival of the new No Treasury shares have been transferred or newly issued shares Chief HR Officer this area would be further developed.
It was allotted under the Vesuvius Share Plan during the year under noted that in 2019, the Committee would be focusing on the review.
formulation of the Companys 2020 Remuneration Policy, which would be tabled for approval at the 2020 AGM.
Policy Implementation The following section provides details of how the Companys Regulatory Compliance Remuneration Policy was implemented during the financial year The Remuneration Policy, which is set out on pages 97 to 104 was 2018 and how it will be implemented in the financial year 2019. prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
It also meets the requirements of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
This Remuneration Report sets out how the principles of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code are applied by the Company in relation to matters of remuneration.
We have complied for the year under review with the provisions of the Code.
Vesuvius plc 108 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Annual Report on Directors Remuneration continued Directors Remuneration Audited The table below sets out the total remuneration received by Executive Directors in the financial year under review: 1 Patrick Andr Guy Young 2018 2017 2018 2017 000 000 000 000 2 Total salary 525 175 350 325 3 Taxable benefits 203 60 29 23 4 Pension 131 44 88 81 5 Total fixed pay 859 279 467 429 6 Annual Incentive 546 186 351 332 7 Long-term incentives 546 758 8 Total variable pay 1,092 186 1,109 332 9 Total 1,951 465 1,576 761 The table below sets out the fees and taxable benefits received by Non-executive Directors in the financial year under review and the total remuneration received by both Executive and Non-executive Directors during the year under review: 2018 2017 Taxable Taxable 2 3 2 3 Total fees benefits Total Total fees benefits Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 John McDonough CBE 185 7 192 185 21 206 Christer Gardell 45 8 53 45 7 52 Hock Goh 45 5 50 45 8 53 Jane Hinkley 60 3 63 60 3 63 Douglas Hurt 65 1 66 65 2 67 10 Holly Koeppel 45 6 51 34 7 41 Total 2018 Non-executive Director remuneration 475 Total 2018 Executive Director remuneration 3,527 Total 2018 Director remuneration 4,002 Note: 1.
P atrick Andr joined the Board on 1 September 2017.
Figures for 2017 in the table relate to salary, benefits and Annual Incentive earned in respect of the period 1 September 31 December 2017.
Base salary or fees, as appropriate earned in relation to services as a Director during the financial year.
T he UK regulations require the inclusion of benefits for Directors where these would be taxable in the UK on the assumption that the Director is tax resident in the UK.
The figures in the table therefore include expense reimbursement and associated tax relating to travel, accommodation and subsistence for the Director and, where appropriate, their spouse in connection with attendance at Board meetings and other Corporate business during the year, which are considered by HMRC to be taxable in the UK.
Standard benefits for the Executive Directors include car allowance and private medical care.
As an expatriate, Patrick Andr also receives relocation benefits under Vesuvius applicable expatriate localisation policy.
As detailed in the 18 July 2017 RNS announcement of Mr Andrs appointment, those relocation benefits totalling 140,925 in 2018 comprised commuting and housing costs, a one-off resettlement allowance of one months salary, tax advice and school fees.
Patrick Andrs benefits figure also includes the reimbursement by the Company of 25,306 in relation to double taxation suffered by Mr Andr in respect of his remuneration arrangements as the Belgian-based President of the Flow Control business unit prior to his appointment as Chief Executive.
The taxable benefit numbers for 2017 have been restated for Messrs Andr and Young to reflect additional taxable benefits incurred in respect of the year.
P atrick Andr and Guy Young receive a pension allowance of 25% of base salary.
The figures in the table represent the value of all cash allowances and contributions received in respect of pension benefits.
The sum of total salary, taxable benefits and pension.
T his figure includes the Annual Incentive payments to be made to the Executive Directors in relation to the year under review.
33% of these Annual Incentive payments will be deferred into awards over shares, to be held for a period of three years.
See pages 109 to 111 for more details.
T his represents the Performance Share awards granted to Patrick Andr and Guy Young in 2016 under the Vesuvius Share Plan, that are due to vest in 2019.
See Note 1 of the Vesuvius Performance Share Awards Allocations table on page 112.
At an average Vesuvius mid-market closing share price from 1 October 2018-31 December 2018 of 537 pence, the total value of the awards that are due to vest, along with the cash payment for the dividend that has accrued on these vested shares is 1,303,827.
The sum of the value of the Annual Incentive and the long-term incentives where the performance period ended during the financial year.
The sum of base salary, benefits, pension, Annual Incentive and long-term incentives where the performance period ended during the financial year.
Holly Koeppel joined the Board on 3 April 2017.
Total 2017 Director remuneration for the Directors who served during 2017 was 3.383m.
This included total fixed pay of 667k and variable pay of 1,008k paid to Franois Wanecq in 2017.
Franois Wanecq retired from the Board on 31 August 2017.
Governance 109 Base Salary and Fees Pension Arrangements Audited In the year under review, the Chief Financial Officer received a In accordance with their service agreements, Patrick Andr and base salary of 350,000 per annum and the Chief Executive Guy Young are entitled to pension allowances of 25% of base received a base salary of 525,000 per annum.
This allowance can be used to participate in Vesuvius Directors fees were set at 45,000 per annum.
Supplementary pension arrangements, be invested in their own pension fees of 15,000 per annum were paid to the Chairmen of the arrangements or be taken as a cash supplement or any Audit and Remuneration Committees.
A supplementary annual combination of these alternatives.
fee of 5,000 was also paid to the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman was paid an annual fee of 185,000.
Neither the Annual Incentive Chairman nor the other Non-executive Directors are members of The Executive Directors are eligible to receive an Annual Incentive the Groups pension plans, nor do they participate in the Groups calculated as a percentage of base salary, based on achievement incentive schemes.
against specified financial targets and personal objectives.
Each The Group currently operates a longer-term policy whereby year the Remuneration Committee establishes the performance salaries of Executive Directors and senior Executives are reviewed criteria for the forthcoming year.
The financial targets are set by every two to three years rather than annually.
In line with this reference to the Companys financial budget.
The target range policy, Guy Youngs salary, which was reviewed and increased by is set to ensure that Annual Incentives are only paid out at 7.7% in 2018, has not been reviewed or adjusted further in 2019. maximum for significantly exceeding performance expectations.
The Remuneration Committee considers that the setting and The Remuneration Committee has scope to step outside this attainment of these targets is important in the context of policy where it is commercially appropriate this is the case for achievement of the Companys longer-term strategic goals.
As outlined at the time of appointment and in last years Remuneration Report, Mr Andr was appointed Chief The Annual Incentive has a threshold level of performance Executive in September 2017 on a salary of 525,000 per annum below which no award is paid, a target level and a maximum 11% lower than his predecessors salary of 590,000 with a performance level at which a maximum award is earned.
commitment to review his salary annually for the first three years 2018 Annual Incentive of his appointment January 2019, 2020 and 2021.
This approach For 2018 the maximum Annual Incentive potential for the was intended to provide the Remuneration Committee with Executive Directors was 125% of base salary and their target flexibility to adjust Mr Andrs salary to the appropriate level Annual Incentive potential was 62.5% of base salary.
for an established Chief Executive as and when the Board was satisfied with his development in the role.
For the financial year 2018 the Executive Directors Annual Incentives were based 60% on Group headline earnings per At the end of 2018, the Board discussed Mr Andrs performance to share, 20% on the Groups working capital to sales ratio based on date as Chief Executive.
The overwhelming consensus was that he the 12-month moving average and 20% on specified personal had developed quickly into a highly effective and high-performing objectives.
In light of this, the Remuneration Committee felt it was the appropriate time to adjust his salary on a commensurate Financial Targets basis.
Accordingly, Mr Andrs salary was increased by 14% to The 2018 Vesuvius Group headline earnings per share 600,000 per annum with effect from 1 January 2019. performance targets set out below were set at the December In 2018 the Remuneration Committee also reviewed the 2017 full-year average foreign exchange rates, being the rates Chairmans fee and the Board reviewed the fees paid to used for the 2018 budget process and then adjusted following the Non-executive Directors.
These fees were set on demerger Boards decision to recognise the utilisation of the US Deferred and were last reviewed in 2015 when no changes were made.
Tax Asset through headline trading profit: Having considered the Directors performance and recognising Threshold: On-target: Maximum: the increasing time commitment of these roles, the Remuneration 38.7 pence 40.9 pence 43.0 pence Committee approved an 11% increase in the Chairmans fee to 205,000 with effect from 1 January 2019, and the Board approved a 10% increase in the Non-executive Directors fees The 2018 Groups working capital to sales ratio targets were set as to 50,000.
No changes were made to the supplementary fees, follows: which remain at 15,000 per annum for the Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, and 5,000 for the Senior Threshold: On-target: Maximum: 24.5% 23.5% 22.5% Independent Director.
In assessing the Groups performance against these targets, the Committee uses a constant currency approach.
Thus, the 2018 full-year EPS performance was retranslated at December 2017 full-year average foreign exchange rates to establish performance.
This is consistent with practice in previous years.
Vesuvius plc 110 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Annual Report on Directors Remuneration continued In 2018, Vesuvius retranslated EPS performance was 52.6 pence, Personal Objectives and working capital to sales ratio was 23.9%.
Consequently EPS In 2018, a proportion 20% of the Annual Incentive for Executive performance was above maximum and the Groups working Directors representing 25% out of the maximum 125% bonus capital to sales was between threshold and target.
Payments of entitlement was based on the achievement of personal 75% and 7.5% of base salary respectively, 82.5% in total were objectives.
A summary of the objectives set and performance therefore due to the Executive Directors under the Annual achieved is set out below.
Incentive in respect of the financial performance metrics.
Patrick Andr Summary of objective Summary outcome Drive Group performance Improved Group safety performance and developed internal control structures Elaborated and implemented further formal restructuring plans to drive Group cost efficiency Delivered against most key financial KPIs Progress senior executive talent Introduced new high potential managers in key P&L positions and business unit management and succession president direct reports Strengthened bench below the direct reports of the business unit presidents Increased the strength of the Groups corporate human resources organisation Focus on Group strategy evolution Conducted strategy review, and implemented plan for accelerated delivery of longer-term growth Developed organic and inorganic growth opportunities In summary, after considering performance as outlined above, the Committee approved an Annual Incentive pay-out of 21.53% of base salary, out of the 25%, in respect of the personal objectives of Patrick Andr.
Guy Young Summary of objective Summary outcome Improve the Group financial Shortened monthly reporting timeframe to support business analysis control process Improved quality of MD&A on monthly results Strengthened financial control team Improve the performance of Continued the implementation of delivery of the European Shared Service Centre Shared Services Enhanced management and reporting lines for global shared services structure Improve working capital management Improved quality of internal working capital reporting Delivered increased consistency of internal KPIs to drive performance Improve efficiency and performance Delivered restructured IT team of IT output Increased efficiency in response to IT issues Performance of tax department Streamlined existing internal tax processes to deliver improved performance In summary, after considering performance as outlined above, the Committee approved an Annual Incentive pay-out of 17.65% of base salary out of the 25%, in respect of the personal objectives of Guy Young.
The total Annual Incentive awards payable to Patrick Andr and Guy Young in respect of their services as a Director during 2018 are therefore 104.03% and 100.15% of salary respectively.
2019 Annual Incentive The Remuneration Committee has determined that for 2019 the structure of the Annual Incentive will remain the same as for 2018: 60% of the Executive Directors Annual Incentives will therefore be based on Group headline earnings per share, 20% on the Groups working capital to sales ratio based on the 12-month moving average and 20% on the achievement of personal objectives.
The Company will not be disclosing the targets set until after the relevant performance period has ended because of commercial sensitivities.
The personal objectives for 2019 are all non-financial or job-specific in nature and track performance against key strategic, organisational and operational goals.
The maximum Annual Incentive potential for 2019 will be 125% of base salary, with potential payouts of 62.5% of base salary for the achievement of target performance in all three elements.
Payouts will commence and increase incrementally from 0% once the threshold performance for any of the three elements has been met.
Governance 111 Deferred Share Bonus Plan allocations audited In 2018, 33% of the cash Annual Incentives earned by Patrick Andr and Guy Young in respect of their periods of service as Directors of Vesuvius plc during 2017, were deferred into shares under the Companys Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
The following table sets out details of these awards: Total share Additional Total share Market price of allocations shares Allocations allocations the shares on as at allocated lapsed Shares vested as at the day before Earliest Grant and type of award 31 Dec 2017 during the year during the year during the year 31 Dec 2018 award p vesting date Patrick Andr 1 15 March 2018 Deferred Bonus Shares 10,128 10,128 605.5 15 Mar 2021 Total 10,128 10,128 Guy Young 1 15 March 2018 Deferred Bonus Shares 18,118 18,118 605.5 15 Mar 2021 Total 18,118 18,118 Note: 1.
I n 2018, Patrick Andr and Guy Young were awarded Annual Incentive bonuses in respect of their service as Directors of Vesuvius plc of 185,544 and 331,906 respectively.
33% of these bonuses were paid in deferred shares under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
The allocations of shares were made on 15 March 2018 and were calculated based upon the average closing mid-market price of Vesuvius shares on the five dealing days before the award was made, being 6.045.
The total value of these awards based on this share price on the date of grant was 61,229 and 109,529 respectively.
These shares will vest on the third anniversary of their award date.
T he mid-market closing price of Vesuvius shares during 2018 ranged between 473.2 pence and 662 pence per share and on 31 December 2018, the last dealing day of the year, was 506.5 pence per share.
Share award in 2019 equivalent in value to 200% of his base Longer-term Pay LTIPs audited salary and Guy Young an award equivalent in value to 150% of Performance Share awards are allocated to the Executive his base salary.
Directors under the Vesuvius Share Plan VSP.
In accordance with the Remuneration Policy and the rules of the VSP, they are The performance period applicable to the awards made in 2016 eligible to receive, on an annual basis, a Performance Share ended on 31 December 2018.
The TSR performance during award with a face value of up to 200% of salary.
Vesting of 50% this three-year performance period was assessed against the of shares awarded is based upon the Companys three-year TSR comparator group and it was determined that the Companys performance relative to that of the constituent companies of the performance was above upper quintile.
As a result, 50% of FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts, and 50% on headline EPS Performance Share awards will vest under the TSR performance growth.
The level of compound headline EPS growth specified in element.
The Groups annual compound headline EPS growth the targets is set by the Remuneration Committee each year, over the performance period was 26.5% exceeding the maximum taking into account the Groups prospects and the broader global annual compound headline EPS growth target of 15%.
The schedule of EPS targets is designed the Boards decision to recognise the utilisation of the US at the maximum level to be highly challenging, whilst remaining Deferred Tax Asset through headline trading profit, the Groups an effective incentive for the management team.
The EPS EPS for the base year of the performance period was adjusted and TSR measures operate independently.
The use of these accordingly.
As a result, 50% of Performance Share awards will performance measures is intended to align executive also vest under the EPS element, giving a total vesting of 100%.
UK Executives receive These awards will vest in April 2019. awards in the form of nil-cost options with a flexible exercise date As described in the Remuneration Policy prior to the vesting of and non-UK Executives receive conditional awards which are Performance Shares the Remuneration Committee reviews the exercised on the date of vesting.
underlying financial performance of the Company over the Performance Share awards vest after three years and performance period to ensure the vesting is justified, and to commencing with awards made in 2019, they will then be subject consider whether to exercise its discretion to make any to a further two-year holding period.
For future grants of Performance Shares under the VSP, this discretion has been extended to include consideration of On 15 March 2018, Patrick Andr and Guy Young received certain non-financial matters the occurrence of which may make allocations of Performance Shares worth 200% and 150% of their full or partial vesting inappropriate.
The Remuneration Committee has determined that Patrick Andr will again receive a Performance Vesuvius plc 112 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Annual Report on Directors Remuneration continued Targets for the Performance Share Awards granted in 2016, 2017, 2018 and to be granted in 2019 Audited TSR ranking relative to FTSE 250 Annual compound headline excluding investment trusts Vesting percentage EPS growth Vesting percentage Below median 0% Less than 3% 0% Median 12.50% 3% 12.50% Between median and Pro rata between 12.50% and Between 3% and 6% Pro rata between 12.50% and upper quintile 50% 25% Upper quintile and above 50% 6% 25% Between 6% and 15% Pro rata between 25% and 50% 15% or more 50% Vesuvius Performance Share Award Allocations Audited The following table sets out the Performance Share awards that were allocated in 2016, 2017 and 2018 under the Vesuvius Share Plan: Total share Additional Total share Market price of allocations shares Allocations allocations the shares on as at allocated lapsed Shares vested as at the day before Performance Earliest Grant and type of award 31 Dec 2017 during the year during the year during the year 31 Dec 2018 award p period vesting date Patrick Andr 1 8 April 2016 1 Jan 16 31 Dec 18 Performance Shares 92,746 92,746 291.7 8 Apr 2019 2,3 16 March 2017 1 Jan 17 31 Dec 19 Performance Shares 60,413 60,413 524.5 16 Mar 2020 4 1 September 2017 1 Jan 17 31 Dec 19 Performance Shares 42,257 42,257 578 1 Sep 2020 5 15 March 2018 1 Jan 18 31 Dec 20 Performance Shares 173,697 173,697 605.5 15 Mar 2021 Total 195,416 173,697 369,113 Guy Young 1 8 April 2016 1 Jan 16 31 Dec 18 Performance Shares 128,739 128,739 291.7 8 Apr 2019 2 16 March 2017 1 Jan 17 31 Dec 19 Performance Shares 93,355 93,355 524.5 16 Mar 2020 5 15 March 2018 1 Jan 18 31 Dec 20 Performance Shares 86,848 86,848 605.5 15 Mar 2021 Total 222,094 86,848 308,942 Note: 1.
I n 2016, Guy Young received an allocation of Performance Shares worth 125% of his base salary, being 128,739 shares.
In addition, prior to his appointment as Chief Executive, Patrick Andr received an award of 92,746 shares in respect of his role as President, Flow Control.
Performance Shares that were allocated in 2016 had performance conditions to be tested over the financial years 2016, 2017 and 2018.
In accordance with the Companys achievement of the specified performance conditions, 100% of Patrick Andr and Guy Youngs Performance Shares, being 92,746 shares and 128,739 shares respectively, are due to vest on 8 April 2019.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee has determined that Messrs Andr and Young will be given cash payments of 47,926 and 66,526 respectively, equivalent to the value of the dividends that would have been paid on the number of shares that are due to vest in respect of dividend record dates occurring during the period between the award date and the date of vesting.
O n 16 March 2017, Guy Young received an allocation of Performance Shares worth 150% of his base salary, being 93,355 shares.
In addition, prior to his appointment as Chief Executive, Patrick Andr received an award of 60,413 shares in respect of his role as President, Flow Control.
P atrick Andrs March 2017 Performance Share award is subject to Flow Control performance conditions.
Under these, 7,552 of the 60,413 shares awarded were deemed to have met the performance condition applicable in the first year, and 7,552 shares are deemed to have met the performance condition applicable in the second year.
The achievement of the performance condition will be reassessed at the end of 2019.
F ollowing his promotion to Chief Executive on 1 September 2017, Patrick Andr received an additional award of 42,257 Performance Shares in the form of a conditional award.
This award brought his total award of Performance Shares in 2017 to 200% of his salary on a pro-rated basis, which is the maximum annual award for the Chief Executive as determined by the Vesuvius Remuneration Policy.
O n 15 March 2018, Patrick Andr and Guy Young received allocations of Performance Shares worth 200% and 150% of their base salaries, being 173,697 shares and 88,848 shares respectively.
These allocations were calculated based upon the average closing mid-market price of Vesuvius shares on the five dealing days before the award was made, being 6.045.
The total value of these awards based on this share price on the date of grant was 1,049,998 and 524,996 respectively.
A ll of Guy Youngs awards have been made in the form of nil-cost options with no exercise price.
Patrick Andrs 2016 and 2017 awards were made in the form of conditional awards and his 2018 award in the form of a nil-cost option.
I f the respective performance conditions for Patrick Andr and Guy Youngs awards are not met then the awards will lapse.
If the threshold level of either of the two performance conditions applicable to the awards is met, then 12.50% of the awards will vest.
T he Remuneration Committee also has the discretion to award cash or shares equivalent in value to the dividend that would have been paid during the vesting period on the number of shares that vest.
The mid-market closing prices of Vesuvius shares during 2018 ranged between 473.2 pence and 662 pence per share and on 31 December 2018, the last dealing day of the year, was 506.5 pence per share.
Malus Clawback arrangements in 2019 Vesuvius has malus and clawback arrangements in respect of Executive Directors variable remuneration.
The structure of those arrangements is outlined in our Remuneration Policy.
Statement of Directors Shareholding Audited The interests of Directors and their closely associated persons in ordinary shares as at 31 December 2018, including any interests in share options and shares provisionally awarded under the Vesuvius Share Plan are set out below: Outstanding incentive awards With Without Beneficial performance performance 1 2 holding conditions conditions Executive Directors Patrick Andr 369,113 10,128 Guy Young 14,811 308,942 18,118 Non-executive Directors John Mc Donough CBE Chairman 100,000 3 Christer Gardell Hock Goh 5,000 Jane Hinkley 12,000 Douglas Hurt 18,000 Holly Koeppel 27,500 Note: 1.
P atrick Andr holds conditional awards over 195,416 shares, and 173,697 nil-cost options, Guy Young holds 308,942 nil-cost options respectively, these have all been granted as Performance Shares under the Vesuvius Share Plan.
The awards were all granted subject to performance conditions although 15,104 shares granted to Patrick Andr in March 2017 have satisfied their performance condition and their vesting is now only subject to his continued employment until the vesting date.
P atrick Andr and Guy Young hold conditional awards over 10,128 shares and 18,118 shares respectively, granted under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
These awards are not subject to any additional performance conditions.
C hrister Gardell is Managing Partner of, and has a financial interest in, Cevian Capital which held 21.11% of Vesuvius issued share capital as at 31 December 2018 and at the date of this report.
None of the other Directors, nor their spouses, nor their minor children, held non-beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company during the year.
There were no changes in the interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company in the period from 1 January 2019 to the date of this Report.
A ll awards under the Vesuvius Share Plan are subject to performance conditions and continued employment until the relevant vesting date as set out on pages 111 and 112.
F ull details of Directors shareholdings and incentive awards are given in the Companys Register of Directors Interests, which is open to inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
Payments to past Directors and loss of office payments audited Other than the payments disclosed in the 2017 Annual Report in respect of Franois Wanecqs retirement from the Company, there were no other payments made to any Director for loss of office during the year ended 31 December 2018, and no payments were made to any other past Directors of the Company during the year ended 31 December 2018.
Shareholding guidelines The Remuneration Committee encourages Executive Directors to build and hold a shareholding in the Company.
The required holding of the Chief Executive is to be equivalent in value to at least 2x salary and that required of other Executive Directors is to be equivalent in value to at least 1x salary.
To this end, Executive Directors are required to retain at least 50% measured as the value after tax of any shares received through the operation of share schemes: in addition, permission to sell shares held whether acquired through the operation of share schemes or otherwise will not be given, other than in exceptional circumstances, if, following the disposal, the shareholding requirements have not been achieved or are not maintained.
Compliance with the shareholding policy is tested at the end of each year for application in the following year using the average of the closing prices of a Vesuvius ordinary share for the trading days in that December.
Vesuvius plc 114 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Annual Report on Directors Remuneration continued Executive Directors Shareholdings Audited As at 31 December 2018, the Executive Directors shareholdings against the current shareholding guidelines using the Companys share price averaged over the trading days of the period 1 December to 31 December 2018, of 497 pence per share were as follows: Actual share ownership as a percentage of salary Policy share ownership Director at 31 Dec 2018 as a percentage of salary Policy met?
Patrick Andr 0% 200% In the build-up period Guy Young 21% 100% In the build-up period Annual changes in Chief Executive pay vs employee pay The table below shows the percentage change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive comprising salary, taxable benefits and Annual Incentive and comparable data for UK salaried employees.
The UK salaried employee workforce was chosen as a fair representation of a suitable comparator group as both the former Chief Executive Franois Wanecq and the incumbent Chief Executive Patrick Andr are based in the UK albeit with a global role and responsibilities and levels of pay vary widely across the Group depending on geography and local market conditions.
UK salaried employee workforce Chief Executive average per capita 1 2018 2017 000 000 % change % change Salary 525 568 7.57 3.28 216 6.02 5.87 Taxable benefits 203 Annual bonus 546 585 6.67 25.48 Note: 1.
S alary, taxable benefits and Annual bonus amounts in respect of the Chief Executive for 2017 reflect the sum of amounts payable to Franois Wanecq in respect of service from 1 January 2017 to 31 August 2017, and amounts payable to Patrick Andr in respect of service from 1 September 2017 to 31 December 2017.
CEO pay ratios 50th 25th Percentile 75th Percentile Median Percentile CEO pay ratio 58:1 43:1 28:1 The table above shows the Chief Executive Pay ratios, versus our UK employees for 2018.
The pay ratios compare amounts disclosed in the single total figure table for the Group Chief Executive to the annual full time equivalent remuneration of our UK employees for 2018.
The data has been calculated in accordance with Option A in The Companies Miscellaneous Reporting Regulations 2018.
1 2 Annual spend on employee pay vs Shareholders distributions The charts below show the annual spend on all employees including Executive Directors compared with distributions made and proposed to be made to shareholders for 2017 and 2018: Relative importance of spend on pay 2018 m Relative importance of spend on pay 2017 m 53.2m 48.6m 11.4% 10.4% Remuneration Remuneration B B Dividends Dividends 88.6% 89.6% 414.3m 418.0m m m 2018 2017 Change 1 Employee Pay 414.3 418.0 0.89 % 2 Dividends based on final proposed dividend 53.2 48.6 9.47% Note: 1.
E mployee pay includes wages and salaries, social security, share-based payments and pension costs, and other post-retirement benefits.
See Note 8 of the Notes to the Group Financial Statements.
S hareholder Distributions Dividends includes interim and final dividends paid in respect of each financial year.
See Note 25 of the Notes to the Group Financial Statements.
Governance 115 TSR Performance and Chief Executive Pay The TSR performance graph compares Vesuvius TSR performance with that of the same investment in the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts.
This index has been chosen as the comparator index to reflect the size, international scope and diversity of the Company.
TSR is the measure of the returns that a company has provided for its shareholders, reflecting share price movements and assuming reinvestment of dividends.
The demerger of Vesuvius plc was effective on 19 December 2012 and therefore the graph shows the period from 19 December 2012 to 31 December 2018.
Vesuvius total shareholder Vesuvius plc FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts return compared against total shareholder return of the FTSE 250 index excluding 250 investment trusts since demerger 200 150 100 19 12 12 50 1 2 Franois Wanecq Patrick Andr Chief Executive pay financial year ending 31 12 12 31 12 13 31 12 14 31 12 15 31 12 16 31 12 17 31 12 18 1 Total remuneration single figure 000 1,227 2,447 1,519 752 1,173 1,675 1,951 2 465 1 Annual variable pay % of maximum 0% 100% 64% 0% 63% 101% 104% 2 106% 1 Long-term variable pay % of maximum 67% 28% 27% 0% 0% 43.7% 100% 2 n a Note: 1.
A mounts shown in respect of Franois Wanecq for 2017 reflect payments in respect of his service as Chief Executive from 1 January 2017 to 31 August 2017 and the full value of his Vesuvius Share Plan award in relation to the performance period 20152017.
Amounts shown in respect of Patrick Andr for 2017 reflect payments in respect of his service as Chief Executive from 1 September 2017 to 31 December 2017.
Statement on Shareholder Voting At the last AGM which was held on 10 May 2018 the resolution concerning the advisory vote on the Directors Remuneration Report for 2018 received 234,780,528 votes 98.65% in favour and 3,204,210 votes against 1.35% : 778,850 votes were withheld.
At the 2017 AGM, when the Companys Remuneration Policy was last put to the vote, the resolution received 238,743,173 98.86% in favour and 2,762,888 votes 1.14% against: 1,454,874 votes were withheld.
At the AGM to be held on 15 May 2019, shareholders will again be invited to participate in an advisory vote on the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Directors Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by Jane Hinkley Chairman, Remuneration Committee 27 February 2019
