Governance 79 Board Report The Board of Vesuvius plc the Company is responsible for the 2018 Board programme Groups system of corporate governance and is committed to Ultimate responsibility for the management of the Group rests maintaining high standards of governance and to developing with the Board of Directors.
them to reflect progression in best practice.
This report describes the Companys corporate governance structure and explains The Board focuses primarily upon strategic and policy issues and how, during the year ended 31 December 2018, Vesuvius applied is responsible for the Groups long-term success.
It sets the Groups the Main Principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code strategy, oversees the allocation of resources and monitors the 2016 issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Code.
It is responsible for effective risk Throughout the year and up until the date of this report, assessment and management.
In performance of these duties the Vesuvius was in full compliance with the requirements of the Code.
Board has regard to the interests of the Groups key stakeholders During the year the Board undertook a thorough review of the and is cognisant of the potential impact of the decisions it makes.
requirements of the new 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code The Board discharges its responsibilities through an annual the New Code.
A significant amount of the requirements of the programme of meetings.
New Code are supported by processes that already form part of At each scheduled meeting the following standard items are the governance activities of Vesuvius.
In the areas where they do considered: not, the Board has begun to implement the necessary changes to the Companys practices and procedures to ensure that Vesuvius Directors duties and conflicts of interest will comply fully with the New Code in 2019.
Minutes of the previous meeting and matters arising A copy of the current Code can be found on the FRC website at: Reports from the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer https: www.
uk directors  Company Secretary on key aspects of the business stewardship .
Key performance indicators In addition, in 2018 the Board focused on key areas of strategy, performance and governance, including the issues outlined below: Strategy Receiving and reviewing reports on strategy from the Flow Control, Advanced Refractories, Digital Services and Foundry business units Receiving and reviewing regular reports from the Chief Executive on implementation of the Groups strategic objectives including M&A opportunities Reviewing and approving the launch of the Groups new CORE values Receiving and considering a report on the Groups Quality, Health, Safety and Environmental strategy and objectives Participation in a two-day off-site review of strategy attended by the Companys key advisors and each business unit President Receiving and considering reports on the Groups Shared Service Centre, IT, tax and treasury strategies, legal and compliance activities and the management of the Groups key pension liabilities Receiving and considering a report on the Groups research and development strategy and objectives Reviewing the Groups financing structure Performance Receiving monthly reports on the Groups financial performance against key indicators, including each of the Groups KPIs Receiving monthly safety reports setting out our performance against key indicators Receiving regular updates from the Chief Executive on the performance of the Groups businesses with a critical focus on safety Scrutinising the Groups financial performance and forecasts Reviewing the Groups internal control and risk management practices Reviewing and agreeing the annual budget and forward-looking three-year plan Approving trading updates, preliminary and half-year results Governance Receiving regular reports from the Board Committees Approving the Annual Report and Notice of AGM Reviewing the Groups risk appetite and monitoring the Groups key risks Completing an evaluation of the Board and Committees performance and regularly reviewing progress against the improvement actions identified in 2017 Reviewing and approving the Groups Modern Slavery Statement Receiving regular updates on corporate governance and regulatory developments, and developing an action plan for modifying the Groups governance arrangements to ensure full compliance with the New Code in 2019 Completing a formal annual review of the Groups governance arrangements Renewing the Groups delegated authorities Receiving reports from the Companys brokers on market issues Vesuvius plc 80 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Board Report continued Board committees The Groups governance structure The principal governance Committees of the Board are the Audit, The Board Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Each Committee The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and has written terms of reference, which were reviewed during the delegates certain matters to its Committees.
It is anticipated that year and amendments made to reflect the changing governance the Board will convene on seven occasions during 2019, holding requirements outlined in the New Code.
These are available to ad hoc meetings to consider non-scheduled business if required.
view on the Companys website www.
For biographical details see Board of Directors on pages 74 The Chairman and Chief Executive and 75.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the The interactions in the governance process are shown in the Chief Executive is set out in writing.
These were reviewed during schematic below.
the year as part of the Companys annual corporate governance review, and amendments made to ensure they conform with the New Code.
They are available to view on the Companys website www.
Board Governance Committees Administrative Committees In addition, the Board delegates certain responsibilities to a Finance Audit Committee Chairman Committee and Share Scheme Committee, which operate in accordance To monitor the integrity of financial Douglas Hurt with the delegated authority agreed by the Board reporting and to assist the Board in its review of the effectiveness of the Membership Groups internal controls and risk All independent management systems Non-executive Directors Finance Committee Chairman To approve specific funding and John McDonough, Remuneration Committee Chairman Treasury-related matters in Chairman To determine the overall remuneration Jane Hinkley accordance with the Groups for the Executive Directors and set the delegated authorities or as Membership appropriate remuneration for the delegated by the Board Membership Chairman, Chief Executive, Chairman, Executive Directors and All independent Chief Financial Officer and senior management Non-executive Directors Group Head of Corporate Finance Nomination Committee Chairman To advise the Board on appointments, John McDonough, Share Scheme Committee Chairman retirements and resignations from Chairman To facilitate the administration of the Any Board member the Board and its Committees and Companys share schemes except when considering to review succession planning and his own succession, in which Membership talent development for the Board case the Committee is Any two Directors or and senior management chaired by an appropriate Non-executive Director any two Directors and the Company Secretary Membership Chairman and any three Non-executive Directors Group Executive Committee The Group also operates a Group Executive Committee GEC, which is convened and chaired by the Chief Executive and assists him in discharging his responsibilities.
The GEC comprises the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, the three business unit Presidents, the Chief HR Officer, the Chief Technology Officer, the President Operations, and the General Counsel Company Secretary.
The GEC met eight times during 2018 and is scheduled to meet eight times during 2019.
Its meetings are held at different venues round the world.
Governance 81 Governance structure The Board Responsible for Group strategy, risk management, succession and policy issues.
Sets the tone, values and culture for the Group.
Monitors the Groups progress against the targets set Chairman Chief Executive Provides leadership and guidance for the Develops strategy for review and approval of Board, promoting a high standard of corporate the Board.
Directs, monitors and maintains the governance.
Sets the Board agenda and operational performance of the Company.
Independent on Responsible for the application of Group policies, appointment, he is the link between the implementation of Group strategy and the resources Executive and Non-executive Directors for their delivery.
Accountable to the Board for Group performance Senior Independent Director Non-executive Directors Company Secretary Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman, Exercise a strong, independent voice, challenging Advises the Chairman on governance, an alternative contact for shareholders and supporting Executive Directors.
Scrutinise together with updates on regulatory and and an intermediary for other Non-executive performance against objectives and monitor compliance matters.
Leads the annual evaluation of financial reporting.
Monitor and oversee risks agenda with clear information flow.
Acts as the Chairman and recruitment process for and controls, determine Executive Director a link between the Board and its Committees his her replacement, when required remuneration and manage Board succession and between Non-executive Directors and through their Committee responsibilities senior management The Non-executive Directors meet regularly throughout the year without the Executive Directors being present Board and Committee attendance The attendance of Directors at the Board meetings and at meetings of the principal Committees of which they are members held during 2018 is shown in the table below.
The maximum number of meetings in the period during which the individual was a Board or Committee member is shown in brackets.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Chairman John McDonough CBE 7 7 5 5 Executive Directors Patrick Andr 7 7 Guy Young 7 7 Non-executive Directors Christer Gardell 7 7 4 5 Hock Goh 7 7 4 5 4 5 4 5 Jane Hinkley 7 7 5 5 5 5 5 5 Douglas Hurt 7 7 5 5 5 5 5 5 Holly Koeppel 7 7 3 5 3 5 3 5 Hock Goh was unable to attend a set of Committee meetings during the year due to a family bereavement, and Holly Koeppel was unable to attend some Committee meetings due to clashes with other professional responsibilities that had been previously notified to the Chairman.
To the extent that Directors are unable to attend scheduled meetings they receive the papers in advance and relay their comments to the Chairman for communication at the meeting.
The Chairman follows up after the meeting in relation to the decisions taken.
In 2018, the Committee Chairmen contacted those Directors who were unable to attend Committee meetings in advance of those meetings, to canvass their views and understand any issues they wished to raise in respect of the subject matters being discussed.
These issues were then raised at the meeting through the relevant Chairman and followed up after the meeting.
Vesuvius plc 82 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Board report continued Board effectiveness Board Diversity Policy Board composition The Nomination Committee will Purpose engage with executive search firms This policy sets out the approach to The Board comprises eight Directors the Non-executive in a manner which ensures that diversity in respect of the Board of Chairman, John McDonough CBE: the Chief Executive, opportunities are taken for a Directors of Vesuvius plc.
The policy diverse range of candidates to Patrick Andr: the Chief Financial Officer, Guy Young: and five is intended to assist the Board, be considered for appointment.
through the work of the Nomination Non-executive Directors.
Douglas Hurt is the Senior Independent This will include ensuring that the Committee, in creating and Director.
Henry Knowles is the Company Secretary.
Committee only uses search firms maintaining optimum Board and that are signed up to the Voluntary Committee composition.
The Board focuses on ensuring that both it, and its Committees, Code of Conduct for Executive The broad principles of diversity Search Firms.
have the appropriate range of diversity, skills, experience, contained in the policy apply to all The Nomination Committee independence and knowledge of the Company, and the markets employees of the Vesuvius Group.
supports senior management in which it operates, to discharge its duties and responsibilities The Vesuvius Code of Conduct efforts to increase diversity in the reflects Vesuvius commitment effectively.
The Board continues to look at diversity in its broadest senior management pipeline to to diversity and respect for its facilitate succession planning sense reflected in the range of backgrounds and experience employees.
of Board members who are drawn from different nationalities Policy Statement With respect to the representation and have managed a variety of complex global businesses.
of women on the Board, highlighted Vesuvius plc recognises the value The Board has adopted a Board Diversity Policy as set out on this by the Davies and Hamptonof a diverse and skilled workforce page.
The Policy identifies the Boards objectives on diversity to Alexander Reviews, the Board and is committed to creating and is supportive of the initiative to maintaining an inclusive and ensure that the Company maintains the optimum Board and increase the proportion of women collaborative workplace culture Committee composition, underpinning our desire to maintain on the boards of FTSE 350 that will provide sustainability for the right balance of independence, skills and knowledge in the companies.
Vesuvius, which at the organisation into the future.
the date of this policy has a boardroom.
Details of the Nomination Committees activities Policy Objectives Board comprising 25% female during the year, with details of compliance with this policy, are membership, will continue to ensure The Nomination Committee will included in the Nomination Committee report on pages 93 and 94. that the Board of Vesuvius plc focus on ensuring that it, the Board reflects this level, or greater levels of and the Boards other Committees The Boards overall skills and experience, as well as Non-executive gender diversity, as are appropriate have the appropriate range of for its size and dynamics, to enable it diversity, skills, experience, Director independence, were reviewed during the year.
The Boards to continue to deliver on the independence and knowledge of composition also formed part of the Board evaluation process.
requirements of the Vesuvius the Company to enable them Two of the eight Directors 25% are women and four 50% are business.
to discharge their duties and non-UK citizens.
The Board also contains individuals from a range responsibilities effectively.
Monitoring and Reporting of ethnic backgrounds.
There were no new Directors appointed in The Nomination Committee will This policy and progress against its ensure that all appointments to 2018, so there were no changes in the Boards diversity during the objectives will be reviewed annually.
the Board are based on merit with year.
The Board considers its diversity, size and composition to be The Nomination Committee is each candidate assessed against responsible for the implementation appropriate for the requirements of the business, and in line with its objective criteria focused on the of this policy and for monitoring skills, experience and knowledge adopted policy.
The Board recognises that the Hampton-Alexander progress towards the achievement required of the position, and with Review has set a target of 33% female representation on FTSE 350 of its objectives.
due regard to the benefits of Boards by 2020.
Whilst the Board does not believe that it is diversity on the Board.
appropriate to accelerate its planned rotation of Directors purely December 2017 to meet this target, it will continue to consider the benefits of greater diversity in all future Director recruitment decisions.
Board Composition Committee composition is set out in the relevant Committee reports.
No one, other than the Committee Chairman and members of the Committee, is entitled to participate in meetings 7 8 of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
However, as detailed in the Committee reports, where the agenda permits, other Directors and senior management regularly attend by invitation, supporting the operation of each of the Committees in an open and consensual manner.
4 7 The Board considers that, for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code, four Non-executive Directors excluding the 4 Non-executive Chairman, namely Hock Goh, Jane Hinkley, Douglas Hurt and Holly Koeppel, are independent of 6 4 management and free from any business or other relationship which could affect the exercise of their independent judgement.
Christer Gardell is Managing Partner of Cevian Capital which holds 21.11% Number of Directors with key skills and experience of Vesuvius issued ordinary share capital and is not considered to be Chairman, Chief Executive or CFO experience independent.
He brings a wealth of commercial acumen to the Safety and Risk Boards deliberations.
The Chairman satisfied the independence Financial criteria on his appointment to the Board.
Biographical details of the Global engineering and manufacturing Related industrial experience Directors are set out on pages 74 and 75.
Operational leadership Strategic planning Governance 83 In addition to the formal Board processes, the Chief Executive Appointment to the Board provides written updates on important Company business Recommendations for appointments to the Board are made by issues between meetings, and the Board is provided with a the Nomination Committee.
Further information on the activities comprehensive monthly report of key financial and management of the Nomination Committee is set out in the Nomination information, including updates on safety and quality Committee report on pages 93 and 94. performance.
Regular updates on shareholder issues are provided to the Directors, who also receive copies of analysts Time commitment of the Chairman and the notes issued on the Company.
For the distribution of all Non-executive Directors information, Directors have access to a secure online portal, which contains a reference section containing background The Chairman and Non-executive Directors each have a letter information on the Company.
of appointment which sets out the terms and conditions of their directorship.
An indication of the anticipated time commitment All Directors have access to the advice and services of the is provided in recruitment role specifications, and each Company Secretary.
There is also an agreed procedure in place Non-executive Directors letter of appointment provides details for Non-executive Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, of the meetings that they are expected to attend, along with the to take independent legal advice at the Companys expense.
need to accommodate travelling time.
Non-executive Directors The procedure was not utilised during the year under review.
are required to set aside sufficient time to prepare for meetings, and regularly to refresh and update their skills and knowledge.
Induction and training All Non-executive Directors have agreed to commit sufficient A comprehensive induction programme is available to new time for the proper performance of their responsibilities, Directors.
The core of the induction programme is designed in acknowledging that this will vary from year-to-year depending compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and is on the Groups activities, and will involve visiting manufacturing tailored to meet the requirements of the individual appointee and customer sites around the Group.
The Chairman in and the dynamics of the Group.
particular dedicates a significant amount of time to Vesuvius in discharging his duties.
The Board notes that the Chairman holds The Chairman, through the Company Secretary, continues to chairmanships other than Vesuvius, but that only one of these ensure that there is an ongoing process to review training and is for a listed company.
The other chairmanship is for a much development needs.
Directors are provided with details of smaller private company where the time commitment is limited.
seminars and training courses relevant to their role and are The Chairman stepped down as a Trustee of Team Rubicon UK encouraged and supported by the Company in attending them.
during the year, and will be stepping down as Chairman of the In 2018, regulatory updates were provided as a standing item at Board, and as a Director of The Vitec Group plc on 21 May 2019. each Board meeting in a Secretarys Report.
External input on legal and regulatory developments impacting the business was Directors are expected to attend all scheduled Board and also given, with specialist advisers invited to the Board and its Committee meetings and any additional meetings as required.
Committees meetings to provide briefings on matters such as Each Directors other significant commitments are disclosed to forthcoming accounting changes and the changing landscape the Board during the process for their appointment and they of UK Corporate Governance.
are required to notify the Board of any subsequent changes.
The Company has reviewed the availability of the Chairman All Non-executive Directors are encouraged to visit Vesuvius and the Non-executive Directors and considers that each of facilities on independent visits, to engage with management them can, and in practice does, devote the necessary amount when they do and relay their findings from these trips to the full of time to the Companys business.
In 2018 the full Board visited our Shared Service Centre in Krakow, Poland, with some Directors also taking the opportunity At the 2018 AGM, the resolution for the re-election of Hock Goh to visit our large operation in Skawina, Poland.
There was also was passed with the requisite majority of votes from shareholders, a Board visit to our operations in India.
This covered the key but with a significant percentage of votes against.
The Company manufacturing sites of both Steel and Foundry divisions as well engaged with its shareholders to understand their concerns, as encompassing a visit to a major Steel customer, where the which related to the number of listed company directorships that Board visited the operations and met with senior management Hock Goh held.
During 2018 Mr Goh stepped down as chairman exchanging views on the Groups activities and discussing and director of MEC Resources Ltd and resigned as a director of opportunities for future cooperation.
In addition, the Chairman Harbour Energy Ltd.
In addition to his directorship of Vesuvius, his visited our operations in China in September and Brazil in portfolio of responsibilities has reduced to serving as Chairman of October, and other Non-executive Directors also visited Advent Energy Ltd, and as a Non-executive Director of AB SKF, operations in China during the year.
During each of these visits Santos Ltd and Stora Enso Oyj.
the director received business presentations on current activity and future strategies, and met with local staff and management Information and support to understand better the dynamics of the jurisdiction.
The Board ensures that it receives, in a timely manner, information of an appropriate quality to enable it adequately to discharge its responsibilities.
Papers are provided to the Directors in advance of the relevant Board or Committee meeting to enable them to make further enquiries about any matters prior to the meeting should they so wish.
This also allows Directors who are unable to attend to submit views in advance of the meeting.
Vesuvius plc 84 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Board Report continued Each evaluation was conducted via a series of targeted Performance evaluation questionnaires.
As with previous years, the end-of-year evaluation The Board carries out an evaluation of its performance and that not only covered the performance of the Board but also that of its of its Committees every year.
In 2018, this evaluation was split, Committees, along with individual reviews of each Director and with a review of the Board strategy meeting held in June analysis of the performance of the Chairman.
Narrative reports conducted immediately thereafter and a further, more general, were then presented to the Board and the Audit, Nomination and review of performance conducted at the end of the year.
A list of action points was The evaluation was again externally facilitated by the corporate drawn up by the Chairman based on the results of the evaluation.
The Group subscribes to the use of These will be implemented by the Board in 2019.
Lintstocks Insider List database tool, but has no other connection with the organisation.
The 2017 evaluation highlighted a number of priorities for the Group.
The Board focused on addressing these during 2018 as follows: Area Issue Action taken in 2018 Strategy development and execution Chief Executive undertook a formal review of the Groups strategy Strategy culminating in the Capital Markets Day presentation in November Board continued to monitor progress on strategic initiatives New Chief Executive Board focused on supporting the new Chief Executive to deliver the People & business plan Organisation Senior management succession More time dedicated to senior management succession and talent and talent development management at the Nomination Committee with actions implemented to refresh Group talent, including external hires to supplement bench strength and skills Improvements to organisational structure Group organisational structure was clarified with devolution of P&L responsibility to aid talent development Continued focus on developing Individual Non-executive Directors continued to undertake overseas Board skills and experience site visits in 2018, and Board visits continued to incorporate opportunities to meet with employees and customers where possible Board composition Board tenure and succession was considered Risk should maintain a clear position Further focus on measures to improve safety performance Risk & Culture in Board priorities Business unit presentations refocused to devote sufficient time to major risks and mitigation.
The Board enhanced its understanding of risk appetite within the Group Board information flow, agenda and Business Unit and Functional presentations prioritised at meetings Board Discussions performance & Agenda Consistency of Board papers was enhanced balancing conformity with flexibility to deliver the message and greater use of summaries to aid efficiency.
Prompt feedback was provided to presenters The Chairman noted that the 2018 review had provided Appointment and replacement of Directors particularly positive results, with the Board observed to be The Companys Articles specify that Board membership should functioning well and with renewed vigour, and the new Chief not be fewer than five nor more than 15 Directors, save that the Executive seen to be providing clarity of input and transparency Company may, by ordinary resolution, from time to time, vary this at Board level.
The individual assessment of Directors concluded minimum and or maximum number of Directors.
Directors may that all continued to contribute effectively, devoting adequate be appointed by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
The Board time to their duties and being engaged and proactive in debate may appoint one or more Directors to any executive office, at all meetings.
Each of the Committees was also considered to on such terms and for such period as it thinks fit, and it can also have operated effectively during the year.
terminate or vary such an appointment at any time.
The Articles specify that, at every Annual General Meeting AGM, any Regarding priorities for 2019, the evaluation highlighted the need for the Board to continue its focus on key strategic issues including Director who has been appointed by the Vesuvius Board since the last AGM and any Director who held office at the time of the two new product development, the Groups manufacturing footprint and talent development.
Risk management, particularly the preceding AGMs and who did not retire at either of them, shall retire from office.
However, in accordance with the requirements Groups risk appetite, remains a continued area for emphasis.
Finally, the Board continues to focus on ensuring that it operates of the Code, all the Directors will offer themselves for election or re-election at this years AGM.
The biographical details of the at optimum efficiency and efficacy with regard to prioritising and actioning items.
As in previous years, a set of action points was Directors offering themselves for re-election, including details of their other directorships and relevant skills and experience, will be compiled from the output of the evaluation to ensure that its findings are included in the Boards activities.
Progress is reviewed set out in the 2019 Notice of AGM.
The biographical details of the Directors are also set out on pages 74 and 75. by the Chairman at each Board meeting.
Governance 85 The Board believes that each of the current Directors is effective Share capital and voting and demonstrates commitment to his or her respective role.
Disclosure of the information regarding share capital, the Accordingly, the Board recommends that shareholders approve authorisation received by Directors at the AGM regarding the issue the resolutions to be proposed at the 2019 AGM relating to the of shares and the authority to purchase own shares, is contained on re-election of all the Directors.
page 117 within the Directors Report.
There are no restrictions on voting contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Directors conflicts of interest Further details are set out in the Directors Report on page 118.
The Board has established a formal system to authorise situations where a Director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly Relations with shareholders conflict, with the interests of the Company situational conflicts.
The Board is committed to communicating with shareholders Directors declare situational conflicts so that they can be and other stakeholders in a clear and open manner and seeks to considered for authorisation by the non-conflicted Directors.
ensure effective engagement through the Companys regular In considering a situational conflict, these Directors act in the communications, the AGM and other investor relations activities.
way they consider would be most likely to promote the success The Company undertakes an ongoing programme of meetings of the Company and may impose limits or conditions when giving with investors, which is managed by the Investor Relations team.
authorisation or subsequently if they think this is appropriate.
The majority of meetings with investors are led by the Chief The Company Secretary records the consideration of any conflict Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
In advance of the 2018 and records any authorisations granted.
The Board believes AGM, we wrote to our largest shareholders inviting discussion on that the approach it has in place for reporting situational any questions they might like to raise and making the Chairmen conflicts continues to operate effectively.
No situational conflicts of the Board, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration were brought to the Board for authorisation during the year Committee available to meet shareholders should they so wish.
No formal requests for discussions were received from shareholders following this communication.
Following the AGM Board accountability when a significant number of votes were registered against the reappointment of Hock Goh, the Company again contacted Risk management and internal control its largest shareholders, to understand any concerns.
The Board is responsible for setting the Groups risk appetite and A number of Shareholders responded to this contact and the ensuring that appropriate risk management systems are in over-boarding concerns they expressed were communicated to place.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in reviewing the Board.
As indicated on page 83 in this Report Hock Goh acted the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, during the year to respond to these concerns.
The Chairman, including financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk Senior Independent Director and Committee Chairmen remain management systems.
Further information about the work of the available for discussion with shareholders throughout the year Audit Committee can be found in the Audit Committee report on matters under their areas of responsibility, either through on pages 86 to 92. contacting the Company Secretary, Investor Relations or directly at the AGM.
The Groups approach to risk management and internal control is discussed in greater detail on pages 28-31 and the Groups On 6 November 2018, the Company held a Capital Markets principal risks and how they are being managed or mitigated Day to provide more detail on the Companys strategy, new are detailed on pages 32 and 33.
The Viability statement which technologies, markets and the initiatives that support the delivery considers the Groups future prospects is detailed on page 31. of the Groups growth targets.
80 people attended, including Risk management and internal control is discussed in greater many investors, the majority of analysts covering the Company, detail in the Audit Committee report.
and the presentations were broadcast live on the Companys website.
Executive compensation and risk The Company reports its financial results to shareholders twice All of the independent Non-executive Directors serve on both the a year, with the publication of its annual and half-year financial Audit and Remuneration Committees.
They therefore bring their reports.
In addition, to maintain transparency in performance we experience and knowledge of the activities of each Committee to also issued two scheduled trading updates during 2018.
One was bear when considering critical areas of judgement.
This means published in conjunction with the 2018 AGM on 10 May 2018, and that, for example, the Directors are able to consider carefully the the second was published in conjunction with the Capital Markets impact of incentive arrangements on the Groups risk profile and Day held on 6 November 2018.
Additionally, presentations or to ensure that the Groups Remuneration Policy and programme teleconference calls were held by the Chief Executive and Chief are structured to align with the long-term objectives and risk Financial Officer with institutional investors and analysts on both appetite of the Company.
Further information about the work of these dates.
of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the Directors All Directors are expected to attend the Companys AGM, Remuneration report on pages 95 to 115. providing shareholders with the opportunity to question them about issues relating to the Group, either during the meeting or informally afterwards.
Vesuvius plc 86 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Audit Committee Dear Shareholder, Committee Members Douglas Hurt Committee Chairman On behalf of the Audit Committee, I am Hock Goh pleased to present the Audit Committee Jane Hinkley Holly Koeppel Report for 2018.
The Committee largely works to a recurring and structured The Audit Committee programme of activities which are defined The Audit Committee comprises all the independent Nonin an annual rolling Audit Committee executive Directors of the Company, who bring a wide range of financial and commercial expertise to the Committees decisiontimetable.
Additional items are then making and evaluation processes.
Douglas Hurt is the Senior added and the Committee agenda Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee, having been appointed to these roles by the Board following the is modified as the year progresses, to 2015 AGM.
He was the Finance Director of IMI plc for nine years accommodate new topics and priorities.
prior to that and has worked in various financial roles throughout his career.
Douglas is also Chairman of the Audit Committees of The Audit Committee Report describes the work of the Countryside Properties PLC and Tate & Lyle plc, and a Chartered Committee during the year including its role in monitoring Accountant.
This background provides him with the recent the integrity of the Companys financial statements and the and relevant financial experience required under the Code.
effectiveness of the internal and external audit processes.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
It provides an overview of the significant issues the Committee The Code and Financial Conduct Authority Disclosure Guidance has considered during the year and its material judgements.
and Transparency Rules also contain requirements for the Audit It also describes how the Committee fulfilled its responsibilities Committee as a whole to have competence relevant to the sector to assist the Board in reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups in which the Company operates.
Vesuvius Non-executive system of internal control and risk management systems.
Directors have significant breadth of experience and depth of Yours sincerely knowledge on matters related to Vesuvius operations, both from their previous roles and from their induction and other activities Douglas Hurt since joining the Board of Vesuvius.
A chart detailing this Chairman, Audit Committee experience is set out on page 82.
The Directors biographies on 27 February 2019 pages 74 and 75 outline their range of multinational business-tobusiness experience and expertise in fields including engineering, manufacturing, services and logistics as well as financial and commercial acumen.
The Board therefore considers that the Audit Committee as a whole has competence relevant to Vesuvius business sector.
Meetings The Committee met five times during 2018.
The Committee has also met twice since the end of the financial year and prior to the signing of this Annual Report.
The Board Chairman, the non-independent Non-executive Director, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller, the Group Head of Internal Audit and the external Auditors were all invited to each meeting.
Other management staff were also invited to attend as appropriate.
Audit Committee meetings are conducted to promote an open debate, to constructively challenge significant accounting judgements, to provide guidance and oversight to management to ensure that the business maintains an appropriately robust control environment and to provide informed advice to the Board on financial matters.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee encourages open dialogue between the external Auditors, the management team and the Group Head of Internal Audit between Audit Committee meetings to ensure that emerging issues are addressed in a timely manner.
Governance 87 During the year, as is the Audit Committees established practice, the Committee members met and discussed business and control Activities in 2018 matters with senior management during site visits, informal 1.
The Committees agenda covered the usual standing items meetings and Board presentations.
The Committee also met the review of financial results, the effectiveness of the Groups privately with the Group Head of Internal Audit, and the external internal financial controls, and the review of the internal control Auditors without any executives present.
and risk management systems as well as additional topics, including an update on cyber security and in-depth reviews of The outcomes of Audit Committee meetings were reported to the Groups US tax position and the Groups Total Refractory the Board and all members of the Board received the agenda, Management Service contracts, where revenue is based on tonnes of steel produced.
papers and minutes of the Committee.
The Audit Committee continued to devote time to ensure that initiatives to mitigate potential risks and financial exposure Role and responsibilities remained robust and appropriate.
The Committee challenged During 2018 the main role and responsibilities of the Committee the adequacy of inventory and receivables provisions and the assumed growth rates and discount rates used for asset continued to be to: impairment assessments.
Monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the 3.
The Committee considered the Companys going concern Company and the Group, and any formal announcements statement and challenged the nature, quantum and relating to the Groups financial performance, informing the assessment of the significant risks to the business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity of the Group that were Board of the outcome of the audit modelled as part of the scenarios and stress testing undertaken Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal to support the Viability statement made by the Company in the financial controls and the Groups internal control and risk 2017 Accounts.
The 2018 Viability statement, which was also critically reviewed, is contained within the Strategic Report and management systems can be found on page 31.
Establish and review procedures for detecting fraud, systems 4.
The Committee monitored the resourcing and delivery of the and controls for the prevention of bribery and oversee the 2018 Internal Audit plan and approved the 2019 Internal Audit Companys arrangements for employees to raise concerns plan, including changes made to Internal Audit processes by the new Group Head of Internal Audit.
The Committee about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or monitored both the responses from and follow-up by other matters management to Internal Audit recommendations arising during the year and, where necessary, the Committee tasked Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys management to verify their successful closure within defined Internal Audit function timescales.
Make recommendations to the Board on the appointment, 5.
The Committee examined specific audit issues such as tax reappointment and removal of the external Auditors and matters, including the judgements inherent in the partial recognition of deferred tax assets for US tax losses and the approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the extent to which any movements should or should not be external Auditors included in separately reported items.
Monitor and review the external Auditors independence, 6.
The Committee regularly conducts a detailed review of objectivity and effectiveness, taking into consideration any provisions, challenging the reasonableness of underlying assumptions and estimates of costs and the quantum of non-audit services provided, and the relevant UK professional any related insurance assets.
The Committee considered the impact of new accounting Take account of the findings and conclusions of any FRC audit standards.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 inspection undertaken, when monitoring the performance of Revenue from Contracts with Customers were adopted in the year.
The impact of adopting these standards on the Group the audit Financial Statements was not material and there was no The Committee operates under formal terms of reference adjustment to retained earnings on application at 1 January 2018.
The Group has not restated the comparative results on approved by the Board, which were reviewed during the year.
adoption and the required additional disclosures from these They are available in the Investors Corporate Governance standards are included in the notes to the financial statements.
section of the Companys website, www.
IFRS 16 Leases is effective from 1 January 2019 and the Committee has reviewed the implementation plan for this Within these terms, the Committee and its individual members standard.
It is expected that the application of this standard will are empowered to obtain outside legal or other independent have a material impact on the Groups Financial Statements.
professional advice at the cost of the Company.
T he Committee reviewed its terms of reference and were not utilised during the year.
The Committee may also recommended amendments to the Board to align them with secure the attendance at its meetings of any employee or other the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
parties with relevant experience and expertise should it be considered necessary.
The Committee members believe that they received sufficient, relevant and reliable information throughout the year from management and the external Auditors to enable the Committee to fully discharge its responsibilities.
The work of the Audit Committee is further elaborated in the paragraphs below.
Vesuvius plc 88 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Audit Committee continued Income tax Statement of compliance with the Competition and Markets Authority CMA Order Income tax remains a complex area where significant judgements are required to estimate both uncertain tax liabilities and the The Committee considers that the Company has complied with value of deferred tax assets.
The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Processes and The Committee challenged the assumptions used to arrive at the Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 Article 7.1, 29.3m 2017: 34.3m provided for income tax payable which published by the CMA on 26 September 2014, including with includes 20.2m 2017: 23.2m for uncertain tax provisions as set respect to the Audit Committees responsibilities for agreeing out in Note 10.5.
After discussions with internal tax experts and the audit scope and fees and authorising non-audit services.
considering the results of recent tax audits and the views of the external Auditors, the Committee concurred with managements Financial reporting judgement.
The Committee fulfilled its primary responsibility to review the At the end of 2018, the Group recognised a US deferred tax asset integrity of the 2018 half-year and 2018 annual financial of 67.3m 2017: 32.6m.
The recognition of deferred tax assets statements and recommended their approval to the Board.
for tax losses and other temporary differences is a highly technical The Committee also reviewed the two trading updates released area and the Committee has drawn on internal experts to during the year.
The prospects for US profitability were carefully modelled by management and challenged by the In forming its views, the Committee assessed: Committee.
The Committee reviewed the Groups projections The quality, acceptability and consistency of the accounting for trading in the US, which had further improved in 2018, and policies and practices concurred with management that the US forecast profits are considered sufficient to sustain the deferred tax asset in the US The clarity and consistency of the disclosures, including at the end of 2018. compliance with relevant financial reporting standards and other reporting requirements The Committee also reviewed with management the continuing impact of the significant tax reform announced in late December Significant issues where management judgements and or 2017 in the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act TCJA, which had a estimates had been made that were material to the reporting material impact on the Groups deferred tax position in 2017. or where discussions had taken place with the external Auditors The Committee concurred with management that the subsequent in arriving at the judgement or estimate regulatory guidance on the operation of TCJA issued by the In relation to the overall Annual Report, whether the Annual US Treasury during 2018, mostly in proposed form, did have a material impact on Vesuvius reported tax position as it related Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole was fair, balanced and understandable, taking into consideration all to the new Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income GILTI rules.
the information available to the Committee In light of the substantial recognition on the Groups balance sheet The application of the FRCs guidance on clear and concise of the US tax losses and other temporary differences, the Committee decided that it is now more appropriate to reflect the reporting utilisation of these deferred tax assets, which offset the Groups The disclosure and presentation of alternative performance US taxable Headline profits, as part of the Groups Headline tax measures, in view of the guidelines issued by the European charge.
Securities and Markets Association Other provisions The Committee actively deliberated and challenged reports The Committee has been made aware of a number of potential from the Chief Financial Officer and Group Financial Controller.
exposures and claims arising from ongoing litigation, product These were well prepared and, for areas of judgement and or quality issues, employee disputes, restructuring, environmental estimation, set out the rationale for the accounting treatment and matters, onerous leases, indirect tax disputes and indemnities or disclosures, and the pertinent assumptions and the sensitivities of warranties outstanding for disposed businesses.
Due to the long the estimates to changes in the assumptions.
PwC also delivered gestation period before settlement can be reached, provisioning memoranda for the half-year and year-end, stating their views for these items requires careful judgement in order to establish a on the treatment of significant issues.
PwC provided a summary reasonable estimate of future liabilities.
The Committee also for each issue, including its assessment of the appropriateness of assessed the strength of any insurance coverage for certain of managements judgements or estimates.
The Committee these liabilities and challenged the accounting treatment for any considered the overall level of prudence applied this year, amounts deemed to be recoverable from insurers.
After due compared this with the prior year and concluded that it consideration and challenge, with expert advice sought in certain remained unchanged.
areas, the Committee is satisfied that there are appropriate levels of provisions set aside to settle third-party claims and Significant issues and material judgements disputes Note 31 and that adequate disclosure has been made.
The Committee considered the following significant issues in Where the outcome of an existing issue is uncertain, or where the context of the 2018 financial statements.
It considered these no reliable estimate of the potential liability can be made, areas to be significant taking into account the level of materiality no provision has been made and appropriate disclosure is and the degree of judgement exercised by management.
included under contingent liabilities Note 33.
The Committee resolved that the judgements and estimates made on each of the significant issues detailed below were appropriate and acceptable.
Governance 89 Restructuring charges Fair, balanced and understandable reporting The original restructuring programme which was launched in The Committee considered all the information available to it in 2015 is almost complete, and our new restructuring programme reviewing the overall content of the Annual Report and Financial launched in March 2018 is well underway.
The Committee Statements and the process by which it was compiled and critically reviewed the treatment of the restructuring costs reviewed, to enable it to provide advice to the Board that the disclosed as separately reported items in 2018 and concluded Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
In doing so, that these have been treated consistently with the accounting the Committee ensured that time was again dedicated to the policy.
This ensures that only significant restructuring drafting and review process so that internal linkages were programmes that have a defined scope and are material in identified and consistency was tested.
Drafts of the Annual nature are reported separately, which enables a clearer Report and Financial Statements were also reviewed by a senior understanding of the underlying results of the Group.
executive not directly involved in the year-end process who reported to the Committee on his impressions of clarity, Impairment of intangible assets comprehensiveness, balance and disclosure in the document.
The year-end carrying value of goodwill of 654.5m was tested On completion of the process, the Committee was satisfied that against the current and planned performance of the Steel and it could recommend to the Board that the Annual Report and Foundry cash-generating units CGUs.
The Committee Financial Statements is fair, balanced and understandable.
challenged both the determination of the relevant CGUs, the planned and terminal growth assumptions as well as the discount Risk management and internal controls rates used in the assessments and the relevant sensitivities that were evaluated.
The detailed assumptions, provided in Note 17, As highlighted in the reviews of strategy and principal risks in the reflect both a reduction in global risk-free rates offset by the Strategic Report, risk management is inherent in managements impact of the increasing contribution from the Groups operations thinking and is embedded in the business planning processes of in emerging markets.
The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining a system of risk management and internal The Committee considered the Board-approved medium-term control, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Audit Committee business plans, the range of industry longer-term projections and assists the Board in reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups expert views on discount rates.
Given that the models indicated system of internal control, including financial, operational that there remains significant headroom between the value in use and compliance controls, and risk management systems.
and the carrying value, the Committee concurred that no goodwill This framework is consistent with the Code.
In 2018 Committee members fully participated in the Board Working capital provisions review of existing risks and ongoing mitigating actions, further The Committee challenged the level of provisions held against details of which are given on pages 32 and 33.
The Committee both receivables and inventories Notes 18 and 19 and, after believes that the Groups process for identifying and reviewing ageing analyses, regional analyses and specific understanding the Groups principal risks and uncertainties customer accounts, concluded that the provisions held were remains robust and appropriate.
The receivables provisions were considered in The Committee considered the Companys going concern conjunction with the adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, statement and challenged the nature, quantum and effects of the which has required a new impairment model for financial assets combination of the unlikely but significant risks to the business which is based on expected credit losses rather than only incurred model, future performance, solvency and liquidity of the Group.
These were all modelled as part of the scenarios and stress testing undertaken to support the Viability statement.
As part of this Pensions review, the Committee considered the Groups forecast funding Determining the current value of the Groups future pension requirements over the next three years and analysed the impact obligations requires a number of assumptions.
The appropriateness of key risks faced by the Group with reference to the Groups debt of assumptions used described in Note 27 was questioned by covenants.
The scenarios considered the impact of multiple risks the Committee, as small changes in the assumptions could have occurring simultaneously and the additional mitigating actions material effects and bond yields in particular have been volatile.
that the Group could take.
The Committee noted that the Groups The assumptions made by management for each of the major debt headroom was sufficient to accommodate the modelled schemes were compared by PwC with other similar schemes.
As a result of their review, the Committee was The Committee agreed the reasonableness of the assumptions.
satisfied that the going concern and Viability statements had The Committee also considered the basis for the estimation of the been prepared on an appropriate basis.
The 2018 going concern cost of Guaranteed Minimum Pension equalisation, following statement and the 2018 Viability statement are contained within a High Court judgement in October that impacts UK defined the Risk, viability and going concern section on page 31. benefit pension schemes.
Given the material and one-off nature of this cost, the Committee concurred with reporting this separately, which enables the reader more clearly to understand the underlying results of the Group.
Vesuvius plc 90 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Audit Committee continued The key features of the Groups internal control system, which Internal Audit provides assurance on the accuracy and reliability of the Groups The Groups Internal Audit function operates on a global basis financial reporting, are detailed in the Risk, viability and going through professionally qualified and experienced individual concern section on pages 28 to 33.
During 2018, the Committee members located around the world.
They report to the Group considered the process by which management evaluates internal Head of Internal Audit, based in London, who in turn reports controls across the Group.
The Group Head of Internal Audit directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
provided the Committee with a summary overview of the assurance provided by the Groups control framework and the Throughout 2018 Internal Audit continued to focus on two testing of these controls.
PwC also reviewed controls in the different categories of audit: Compliance & Control C&C, and businesses within the scope of its audit.
This review indicated an Effectiveness & Efficiency E&E.
C&C audits focus entirely on appropriate control environment, with identified improvement internal financial controls and key Board compliance issues, actions under careful management by the Group.
whereas E&E audits examine a broader range of business performance issues.
This approach allows the Audit Committee The Group is made up of several large operating units, to concentrate more specifically on key control issues for but also many small units in geographically diverse locations.
resolution, with reporting focused on C&C audit results and Consequently, segregation of duties, overlapping access controls receiving a more general commentary on the outcome of the on systems and remote management oversight can give rise to E&E audits given.
The detailed outcomes of the E&E audits were control vulnerabilities and fraud opportunities.
The Group has not used to engage management on broader performance issues adopted a common Enterprise Resource Planning system as a identified by the Internal Audit team.
Over time, management intends to move to more sharing of services, enabled by process and systems The Committee received, considered and approved the 2018 standardisation between businesses.
This is likely to improve the Internal Audit plan which was constructed using a risk-based overall internal controls in the smaller operating units.
approach to cover the Groups control environment.
The plan was based on the premise that all operating units are audited at least The Group undertakes a range of activities to mitigate the risk of once every three years, including the smaller operating units.
This framework is regularly reviewed to determine areas Internal Audit annually audits each of the large operating entities for improvement.
Eliminating the risk of fraud remains one of the located in Germany, the US, China, Mexico and Brazil.
During the key areas of focus for Internal Audit, forming a fundamental part year the Committee also considered and approved changes to of full scope and financial audits.
These assess the quality of the the Internal Audit plan as required.
balance sheet reconciliations, review key judgement matters, consider ERP access rights, review tenders and quotations, review In 2018, a total of 53 audit assignments, including one unplanned the entitys controls over master data changes, and controls over audit, were undertaken, covering 59% of the Groups revenue and payments and associated applications.
93% of the Groups profit before tax.
The Committee received a report from the Group Head of Internal Audit at each of its During 2018 the Group continued its review of third-party meetings detailing progress against the agreed plan: key trends representatives and intermediaries.
This included detailed due and findings and an update on the progress made towards diligence for active sales agents and custom clearance agents.
Common themes emerging from Internal The Committee also continued its assessment of the Groups Audit reports coupled with Internal Audit and Managements potential exposure to bribery and corruption risks, noting the assessment of risk have informed the development of the 2019 ongoing work conducted by the Group in this context, such as Internal Audit plan.
face-to-face visits to operations, providing focused, countryspecific training and reviewing financial records.
The output When necessary Internal Audit uses external outsourced auditors of these processes and previous risk assessments continue to supplement internal resources on an ad hoc basis.
The outsourcing to be used to develop Group policies and procedures for the process provides valuable learning opportunities and we expect management of anti-bribery and corruption risk, reflecting an to continue to use outsourcing in specialist areas and geographies appropriate level of control for the business.
Control issues continue to be recorded in a live web-based database into which management are required to The Committee continues to monitor and oversee procedures report progress towards addressing any open issues.
Internal regarding allegations of improper behaviour and employee Audit monitors the progress made and frequent meetings concerns.
Further details of the operation of the Groups Speakcontinue to be held with each business unit President to ensure Up policy and helpline can be found in the Our principles section.
that engagement on the resolution of issues is clearly understood Throughout the year the Audit Committee received updates on at all levels of the business and responsibility for remediation has the volume of reports, key themes emerging from these reports been appropriately assigned.
The results are communicated to and the results of investigations undertaken.
the Audit Committee which also involves senior management as Each year the senior financial, operational and functional necessary to provide an update against any high-priority actions management of the businesses self-certify compliance with and Internal Audit undertakes follow-up reviews as required.
Group policies and procedures for the areas of the business under In situations where audit findings required longer-term solutions, their responsibility and confirm the existence of adequate internal the Committee oversaw the process for ensuring that adequate control systems throughout the year.
The Committee reviews any mitigating controls were in place.
exceptions noted in this bottom-up exercise.
During the year, a review was undertaken of the effectiveness of After considering these various inputs, the Committee was able the Internal Audit function.
The review, which canvassed the views to provide assurance to the Board on the effectiveness of internal of Non-executive Directors and senior management, confirmed financial control within the Group, and on the adequacy of the that the Internal Audit function continued to operate to a high Groups broader internal control systems.
It also noted that the Audit Committee had welcomed the successful induction and impact of the new Group Head of Governance 91 Internal Audit during the year, and noted that considerable sufficient by the Committee.
The audit coverage is reflective benefit had been derived from the Committee Chairman and the of the long tail of smaller businesses within the Group that Committee meeting with the Head of Internal Audit on a regular individually are not material to the Group result.
basis without other management being present during the year.
The Committee also received a report from Mazars during the Having considered the work of the Internal Audit function during year summarising the findings and recommendations from their 2018, including progress against the 2018 Internal Audit plan, the audits of the non-material Group subsidiaries and management quality of reports provided to the Committee, and the results of agreed to implement certain of these recommendations.
the review of the functions effectiveness, the Committee The PwC audit fee approved by the Audit Committee was 1.4m.
concluded that the Internal Audit function operated effectively This was constructed bottom-up on a local currency basis and during 2018. was assessed in light of the audit work required by the agreed materiality level and scope.
The fee agreed by Mazars for the External audit audit of the non-material entities was 0.5m, resulting in a Auditors appointment combined audit fee with PwC of 1.9m, compared to 1.6m in 2017.
In 2017 the Company appointed  LLP PwC as external Auditors to the Company and the Group and Independence and objectivity Mazars LLP to audit the non-material entities within the Group.
The Committee is responsible for safeguarding the independence PwC nominated Julian Jenkins as the audit partner responsible and objectivity of the external Auditors in order to ensure the for the Group audit.
In line with the regulations on auditor rotation, integrity of the external audit process.
In discharging this the external audit contract will be put out to tender at least every responsibility during 2018, the Committee: ten years.
In addition, PwC will be required to rotate the audit partner every five years.
Sought regular confirmation from the incumbent external Auditors that they considered themselves to be independent of 2018 Audit plan the Company in their own professional judgement, and within PwCs 2018 year-end audit plan built on the foundation the context of applicable professional standards established in 2017, reflecting the transfer of activity to the Evaluated all the relationships between the external Auditors European Shared Service Centre and focusing on areas identified and the Group, including compliance with the Groups policy on as representing significant risk and requiring significant judgement.
the employment of former employees of the external Auditors, PwC undertook a range of activities during the year to further to determine whether these impaired, or appear to impair, their understanding of the business and their assessment of the the Auditors independence relevant risks.
The results of these activities drove PwCs scoping of the 2018 audit and the composition of their audit testing.
Reviewed compliance against the policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external Auditors PwC maintained an ongoing dialogue with the Audit Committee throughout the year providing regular updates including Reviewed details of the non-audit services provided by the commentaries on significant issues and its assessment of external Auditors and associated fees consistency and appropriateness in the judgements and As a result of its review the Committee concluded that PwC estimates made by management.
Private sessions were held with remained appropriately independent.
PwC without management being present.
In these sessions PwC confirmed that its work had not been constrained in any way and Non-audit services that it was able to exercise appropriate professional scepticism Vesuvius operates a policy for the approval of non-audit services.
and challenge throughout the audit process.
The Chairman of the A copy is available to view on the Investors Corporate Audit Committee met on a number of occasions with PwC to Governance section of the Companys website, www.
monitor the progress of the audit and discuss questions as Group companies are not permitted to use the external they arose.
Auditors for any prohibited non-audit services as specified by The Independent Auditors Report provided by PwC on pages 121 the UK Financial Reporting Councils FRCs Revised Ethical to 126 includes PwCs assessment of the key audit matters.
Standard 2016, unless subject to a permitted derogation.
These key audit matters are discussed in the significant issues The restrictions broadly prohibit external Auditors involvement and material judgements comments above.
The report also in tax services, any services that involve playing a part in summarises the scope, coverage and materiality levels applied management decision-making, preparing accounting records, by PwC in their audit.
As part of the audit planning process and designing or implementing internal control risk management based on a detailed risk assessment, the Committee agreed a services or financial systems, certain HR services and other legal, materiality figure of 9.4m for Group financial reporting investment and share-dealing services.
The external Auditors can purposes which is higher than last year 7.6m and, in line with be invited to provide non-audit services which, in their position as similar groups, is set at 5% of headline profit before tax of external Auditors, they must or are best placed to undertake and 188.9m.
Importantly, much lower levels of materiality are used which do not impact auditor objectivity or independence.
All in the audit fieldwork on the individual businesses across the audit-related and permissible non-audit services proposed to be Group and these lower figures drive the scope and depth of audit carried out for any Group company worldwide by the external work.
Any misstatement at or above 0.5m was reported to Auditors must be pre-approved by the Chief Financial Officer, the Committee.
who thereafter will refer matters to be further approved by the Chairman of the Audit Committee or the full Audit Committee There were no significant changes this year to the coverage of the before an engagement is agreed.
Any assignment proposed to be audit which stood at 68% of the Groups revenue and 78% of carried out by the external Auditors must also have cleared the headline profit before tax.
This coverage was considered to be Vesuvius plc 92 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Audit Committee continued external Auditors own internal pre-approval process to confirm its ability to coordinate a global audit, working to tight the firms ethical ability to do the work.
deadlines: In practice, the Group did not seek to engage PwC for non-audit the cost-competitiveness of the Auditors in relation to the audit services during 2018 unless there were compelling advantages to costs of comparable UK companies: doing so.
In 2018, the fees for non-audit services payable to PwC the tenure of the incumbent Auditors: and amounted to 0.1m, 2017: 0.1m.
The 2018 fees represent payment for assurance services related to the review of the the periodic rotation of the senior audit management assigned Companys half-year financial statements, quarterly reviews and to the audit of the Company.
tax accounts in India, and a tax form audit in Mexico as required In addition, the Committee considers external reviews of the by regulation.
performance and quality of the Auditors, including: Effectiveness of PwC the annual report issued by the Audit Inspection Unit of the The Committee and the Board are committed to maintaining the Financial Reporting Council on the work of the Auditors: and high quality of the external audit process.
Each year the the Auditors own annual Transparency Report.
Committee carries out a formal assessment of the performance of the external Auditors, taking account of the guidance for audit Having considered the aforementioned factors, the Committee committees prepared by the FRC.
Input into the evaluation was decided to recommend to the Board that PwC be reappointed for obtained from management and other key Company personnel, 2019.
It confirms that its recommendation is free from the members of the Audit Committee and the external audit team.
influence of any third party and that there are no contractual The review focused on the external Auditors mindset and culture, restrictions on the choice of auditor.
A resolution proposing the skills, character and knowledge, and the quality of its controls.
reappointment of PwC is included in the notice of AGM for 2019.
In 2018, the evaluation of the external Auditors included the The Committee noted the ruling by the Securities Exchange following steps: Board of India regarding the prohibition placed on PwC network companies performing audits of listed entities for two years from a survey of key finance and non-finance stakeholders in 1 January 2018.
This allows a transitional period and the audit of London and in-scope countries: Vesuvius entities in India remains permissible for the year ended a commentary-based survey of Audit Committee members 31 December 2018.
The Committee is carefully watching focused on their experience of working with PwC: developments on this matter in the context of the Groups two listed Indian subsidiaries, Foseco India Limited and Vesuvius India a review of other external evidence on PwC audit quality: Limited.
At the date of writing, the ruling remains under appeal by an assessment of PwCs performance against the objectives PwC, but unheard by the competent legal tribunal.
The Group has outlined in PwCs Audit Objectives report: and considered contingency plans should the appeal be rejected and does not anticipate any material disruption.
discussions with PwC and key finance and non-finance personnel.
Audit Committee evaluation The evaluation concluded that PwC provided an effective audit The Audit Committees performance was evaluated as part of the for 2017, providing strong technical expertise and appropriate overall externally facilitated Board and Committee performance challenge.
Particular strengths were the use of specialists in evaluation, which is described in depth on page 84.
The overall London and technical expertise and support on complex performance of the Audit Committee was rated highly, with the accounting matters.
PwC was seen as independent by the Audit Committee operating effectively to review the work of the internal Committee and management, and provided an objective and and external Auditors, providing appropriate challenge to challenging audit process.
managements assessment of significant audit issues and A number of opportunities were identified for both PwC and material accounting judgements, and appropriate oversight of Vesuvius to work together to improve on the timeliness of the the Groups risk management and internal control systems.
external audit process for 2018, principally relating to the work It was noted that there was scope to enhance the approach and that went into pre-audit planning, and improvements in effectiveness of Internal Audit under the new Head, and to gain communication between PwC and the local finance teams.
efficiencies in both Internal and External Audit going forward.
A Reappointment of PwC for 2019 number of priorities were identified for the Audit Committee over The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the coming year, including implementing new accounting rules, encouraging management to continue to improve the control the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the Auditor.
In undertaking this duty, the Committee environment and having regard to the development of shared services.
takes into consideration a number of factors concerning the Auditor and the Groups current activity, including: On behalf of the Audit Committee the results of its most recent review of the effectiveness of the Douglas Hurt Auditors: Chairman, Audit Committee the results of its review of the independence and objectivity of 27 February 2019 the Auditors, particularly in light of the provision of non-audit services: Governance 93 Nomination Committee Dear Shareholder, Committee Members John McDonough CBE Committee Chairman On behalf of the Nomination Committee, Christer Gardell I am pleased to present the Nomination Hock Goh Jane Hinkley Committee Report for 2018.
The Douglas Hurt primary responsibility of the Nomination Holly Koeppel Committee is to focus on Board succession The Nomination Committee planning to ensure that the Board is made The Nomination Committee is made up of me, as Chairman of up of individuals with the appropriate the Company, and any three of the Non-executive Directors.
drive, abilities, diversity and experience During the year I continued as Chairman of the Committee, though I would not act as Chairman if the Committee was to lead the Company in the delivery of considering my succession or the appointment of my successor.
In that case, the Chairman would be an appropriate Non-executive Director.
The Committee reviews the current and future needs of the Board Members biographies are set out on pages 74 and 75. and its Committees on an ongoing basis, and as part of the annual corporate governance review conducted each year, Meetings examines the independence and diversity of the Board and the balance of skills and development needs of Board members.
The Committee met five times during the year.
During 2018, the Committee reviewed the tenure of all of the Directors and discussed future Board composition.
Key activities during the year Board composition: The Committee reviewed the skills, In addition, the Nomination Committee monitors succession planning for the senior management levels immediately below knowledge and experience required for the Board to continue to function effectively, and evaluated the current the Board.
This was a particular area of focus during 2018, with the Committee reviewing the resourcing of key business unit roles, Board composition against an assessment of these future business needs focusing on the quality of those with key P&L responsibility and reviewing functional roles.
It also reviewed talent development Board succession: The Committee reviewed the ongoing and assessed the development of high potential individuals requirements for Board composition to maintain the correct throughout the organisation.
skills, experience and diversity at Board level, in light of the The Committee is committed to supporting and encouraging the tenure of existing Directors growth of a consistent pool of diverse talent to ensure there is a Senior Management succession: The Committee reviewed pipeline for future progression to the Board.
the Groups succession processes for the Group Executive Yours sincerely Committee and the management cadre below this level and examined how the development of individuals flagged as John McDonough CBE high potential was proceeding Chairman, Nomination Committee Directors elections: The Committee considered the Directors 27 February 2019 annual re-elections at the 2018 AGM Committee evaluation: The Committee reviewed its performance and effectiveness during 2018 Committee terms of reference: The Committee reviewed its terms of reference and recommended amendments to the Board to align them with the new UK Corporate Governance Code Role and Responsibilities The Nomination Committees foremost priorities are to ensure that the Company has the best possible leadership, maintains a clear plan for orderly Executive and Non-executive Director succession, and cultivates the appropriate skills, experience and diversity in the Boards overall composition.
Its primary focus is therefore on the strength of the Board, for which appointments are made on merit, against objective criteria, selecting the best candidate for the post.
The Nomination Committee advises the Board on appointments, retirements and resignations from the Board and its Committees.
Vesuvius plc 94 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Nomination Committee continued The Committee operates under formal terms of reference which independence of the Board and the balance of skills, and were reviewed during the year to update them for the new UK development needs of Board members.
These revised terms of reference are available on the Groups website www.
Diversity The Committee and its members are empowered to obtain The Nomination Committee believes that diversity underpins the outside legal or other independent professional advice at the cost successful operation of the Board.
It recognises that this is a key of the Company in relation to its deliberations.
These rights were ingredient in creating a balanced culture for discussions and not exercised during the year.
The Committee may also secure the minimising group-think, and continues with its policy to review the attendance at its meetings of any employee or other parties it requirements for different skills, experience, background, ethnicity considers necessary.
and gender in respect of the Boards composition.
The Boards approach to diversity is formalised in the Board Diversity Policy, details of which are set out on page 82.
All Directors have served Process for Board appointments at a very senior level in global organisations, have international The Committee follows formal, rigorous and transparent experience across a variety of industries, and most have spent procedures for the appointment of new Directors.
When a considerable amount of time resident outside the UK.
considering a Board appointment, the Nomination Committee The Committee continues to consider the mix of skills, experience draws up a specification for the role, taking into consideration and knowledge required on the Board, and promote diversity the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of its existing not only on the Board but also throughout the wider business.
members, the diversity of the Board, the independence of continuing Board members, and the ongoing requirements and Senior management succession anticipated strategic developments of the Group.
The search process is then able to focus on appointing a candidate with the The Committees succession planning activities do not exclusively necessary attributes to enhance the Boards performance.
relate to the Board, but encompass the senior management levels The Committee uses the services of search firms to identify below the Board, aiming to support and encourage the growth of appropriate candidates, ensuring that any selected firm is not a consistent pool of talent able to step up to the top roles in future in any way conflicted in the delivery of its role.
One of the key areas of focus for the Committee during the Committee will only use those firms that have adopted the year was on this succession pipeline, with an emphasis on the Voluntary Code of Conduct addressing gender diversity and development of the senior management cadre.
The Committee best practice in search assignments.
considered detailed succession plans for the senior business unit positions and was appraised of the work being undertaken to The Committee begins any recruitment process by reviewing the develop smaller P&L positions within the organisation to allow skills and attributes required for the role and agreeing a job for the development of talented individuals who could then step specification.
The Committee selects a suitable search firm for the up to regional roles.
The Committee noted the significant, senior assignment based on their skills, expertise and price.
Searches are functional positions that were under recruitment, and examined conducted globally and a long-list of diverse potential appointees how the development of high potentials was proceeding, is produced.
For Executive Director positions internal candidates particularly those who were undergoing management training.
The Committee reviews the long-list and a The Board met key executives throughout the Group to gain a shortlist of candidates for interview is drawn up based upon the greater understanding of the breadth and depth of management objective criteria identified at inception.
The initial short-list of talent.
This process included a series of presentations to the Board candidates is interviewed by members of the Nomination by business unit, functional and geographical heads, to inform the Committee.
The preferred candidate then meets with the Committees views on executive succession planning and talent other Board members.
Finally, detailed external references development across the Group.
are taken up and following this the Committee makes a formal recommendation to the Board for the appointment of the Committee evaluation preferred candidate.
The candidate is then supported in undertaking their own due diligence on the Company and The Committees activities were part of the externally facilitated meeting with its advisers.
They are also required to demonstrate evaluation of Board effectiveness during the year.
The Committee that they have sufficient time available to devote to the role and was considered to have performed effectively over the past year, to identify any potential conflicts of interest.
with the content of meetings and the information received by the Committee both rated highly, and as having continued to Following a new appointment, the Committee continues to improve.
The significant focus on senior management resourcing monitor the development and integration onto the Board of the during the year, was favourably regarded.
It was noted that new Director.
They undertake a full induction programme, the Board would benefit from greater interaction with high continuing to gain insight into the business and meeting executives potentials and it was agreed that the exposure of management throughout the organisation.
to the Committee and the Board in general would be further developed.
Other priorities for the Committee in 2019 include Board composition ongoing oversight of senior management talent development On an ongoing basis, the Committee reviews the current and and succession planning, and monitoring the progress of the new future needs of the Board and its Committees reflecting talent introduced in 2018. on the balance of skills and experience of current Directors and On behalf of the Nomination Committee comparing this against the Boards list of key skills.
The Committee also considers existing lengths of tenure and the prospective John McDonough CBE rotation and retirement of Board members, so that it can plan Chairman, Nomination Committee accordingly.
As part of the annual corporate governance review 27 February 2019 conducted during the year, the Committee examined the
