Strategic report Going concern and viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, and taking intoaccount the Groups current position and its principal risks for a period longer than the12months required by the going concern statement, management prepared a viability analysiswhich was approved by the Board.
Completion of the strategic plan is a Group-wide process engaging Going concern employees throughout the business, including all senior The Directors have performed a robust assessment, including review management in their respective areas.
The strategy is reviewed and of the budget for the year ending September 2019 and longer-term approved by the Board with the latest strategy covering the five years strategic forecasts and plans, including consideration of the principal to September 2023 being approved in March 2018.
Subsequently, the risks faced by the Company, as detailed on pages 23 to 25.
Following more detailed budget for the year ending 30 September 2019 has been this review the Directors are satisfied that the Company and the finalised, which upholds the key assumptions in the 2018 strategy.
Group have adequate resources to continue to operate and meet their liabilities as they fall due for the foreseeable future, a period The Board considers five years to be an appropriate time horizon for considered to be at least twelve months from the date of signing our strategic plan, being the period over which the Group actively these financial statements.
For this reason they continue to adopt focuses on its development pipeline.
As part of our longer-term the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements.
considerations, to support capacity planning and assessment of Details of the Groups policy on liquidity risk and capital management projects which will take longer to reach meaningful revenue, the are included in note 14 to the financial statements.
Group does prepare forecasts for a period of more than five years: however, a period greater than five years is considered too long for Viability statement the strategic plan given the inherent uncertainties involved.
Viability period The Directors have assessed the Groups longer-term prospects, The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over the primarily with reference to the results of the Board-approved five-year period to September 2023, being the period covered by five-year strategic plan.
This is driven by the Groups business model the Groups Board-approved strategic plan.
detailed on pages 6 and 7 and strategy detailed on pages 12 and 13, which are fundamental to understanding the future direction of the 3.
Assessment of viability business, while factoring in the Groups principal risks detailed on To make their assessment of viability, the Directors have tested pages 23 to 25.
The Directors have also considered the Groups anumber of additional scenarios on the base case position of the current strong financial position, including the level of cash at March 2018 five-year strategic plan.
These scenarios encompass 30September 2018 and the Groups ability to generate cash.
keytrading assumptions combined with the potential impact of crystallisation of one or more of the principal risks over the five-year The strategic planning process is undertaken annually, and includes period.
Whilst each of the principal risks has a potential impact, the analyses of profit performance including our core business and new scenario analysis has been focused on those considered to have the product pipeline and mega-programmes, cash flow, investment most significant financial impact.
The risks have been assessed for programmes including options to increase our polymer manufacturing their potential impact on the Groups business model, future trading capacity and our acquisition pipeline and returns to shareholders.
The downside scenarios applied to the strategic plan are as follows: Scenario modelled Link to principal risk 1.
G eneral competitive pressure in the marketplace resulting in a decrease Core business growth ofIndustrial and Medical revenue for both coreand mega-programmes.
A natural or other event impairing key manufacturing assets resulting Business continuity of supply chain insupply disruption for c. 2 years, with associated reputational damage.
M ega-programmes not achieving all milestones set, therefore delaying Future business growth thetimetomeaningful revenue 1m.
I ncrease to direct cost base potentially arisingfrom: Ethics and regulatory compliance a. additional regulatory compliance, environmental or otherwise: Safety, health & environment b. increase in duty and tariffs: Product liability c. product liability issues: or d. i ncrease in raw material and or otherinputprices.
A g lobal recession impacting two financial years similar to impact Future business growth in2009when sales fell by c. 25%.
All of the above, with an associated reduction in the overhead cost base.
26 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report The scenarios tested on page 26 were carefully considered by the Directors, factoring in the potential impact, probability of occurrence and the effectiveness of the mitigating actions.
In addition, whilst considered implausible, a combined scenario was also tested, which contained anaggregation of all scenarios considered.
Further to the risk mitigation plans, the Groups two distinct segments, both with diverse geographic markets and fragmented customer bases, assist in reducing the risk of regional economic challenges and sector customer-specific issues.
The strategy of partnering closely with customers to develop the right applications and our existing and growing list of specified products are also important mitigants.
The mitigation assessment also considered the Groups ability tomanage its cost base, raise new finance and the possibility ofdelaying capital programmes and or restricting shareholder returns over the viability period if required.
The results of this stress testing showed that the Group would be able to remain viable and maintain liquidity over the assessment period.
The lowest cash balance was in Scenario 6, in which the cash balance remains positive, whilst maintaining the regular dividend, and without use of the RCF facility which is available until June 2022.
Approximately 4050% of the Groups revenue is derived from Europe.
The impact of Brexit continues to be considered by the Board, supported by the Brexit Steering Committee.
There remains awide range of potential outcomes, including, increasingly, that of a hard Brexit.
No scenario has been run specifically for Brexit given the range of potential outcomes, which could be favourable driven by a further devaluation of Sterling or adverse for example, tariffs or restrictions of raw material and finished product flows : however scenarios 2 and 4 above have an adaptation to potential Brexit outcomes.
The Directors focus on Brexit is to ensure that the Group remains in the best position to maintain continuity of supply of raw materials and access for our products to key markets.
Viability statement Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors have a reasonable expectation, predicated on the assumption that an unforeseen event outside of the Groups control for example, an event of nature or terror does not inhibit the Companys ability to manufacture for a sustained period, that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five-year period to September 2023.
