Corporate governance Directors report other statutory information The Directors present the Annual Report and financial statements financial statements in the year ended 30 September 2019.
The toshareholders for the year ended 30 September 2018. impact is expected to be in the range of 1m2m.
This High Court judgment represents a condition that arose after the balance sheet date and has therefore been treated as a non-adjusting post balance Principal activity sheet event in accordance with IAS 10 for the year ended The Company is a public limited company, incorporated in England, 30September 2018. registration number 2793780.
The principal activity of the Company is that of a holding company.
The principal activity of the Group is There have been no other post balance sheet events that either the manufacture and sale of high performance polymers.
require adjustment to the financial statements or are important inthe understanding of the Companys current position, financial Strategic report performance or results.
The Strategic report required by the Companies Act 2006 can be found on pages 1 to 39.
The report sets out the business model, Related party transactions strategy and likely future developments, contains a review of the During the year ended 30 September 2018, the Company did not business and describes the development and performance of the have any material transactions or transactions of an unusual nature Groups business during the financial year and the position at the with, and did not make loans to, related parties in which any end of the financial year.
It also contains a description of the Director has or had a material interest.
principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
Such information Details of related party transactions are given in note 20 to the is incorporated into this report by reference and is deemed to form financial statements.
Share capital Research & Development The Company has a single class of shares in the form of ordinary The Groups spend on Research & Development is disclosed in note shares with a nominal value of 1p per share which are listed on the 9 to the financial statements.
Such information is incorporated into premium segment of the Official List maintained by the UK Listing this report by reference and is deemed to form part of this report.
Details of the Companys share capital and reserves for own shares are given in note 19 to the financial statements.
During Results and dividends the year 288,728 shares were issued in respect of options exercised Group profit before tax for the year was 127.5m 2017: 111.0m.
Details of these schemes are The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 46.14p summarised in note 19 to the financial statements.
The information per ordinary share that, subject to shareholder approval at the in notes 18 and 19 to the financial statements is incorporated into Companys Annual General Meeting being held on 6 February 2019, this report by reference and is deemed to form part of this report.
will be paid on 22 February 2019 to all shareholders on the register of members as at 6:30pm on 1 February 2019.
Together with the Rights and obligations attaching to shares interim dividend paid in July 2018, this makes a total regular The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends dividend of 59.56p per ordinary share for the year 2017: 53.80p per when declared, to receive the Companys Annual Report, to attend ordinary share.
and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
In addition to the final dividend, the Directors are recommending the payment of a special dividend of 82.68p per ordinary share There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding that, subject to shareholder approval at the Companys Annual ofordinary shares and no requirements to obtain prior approval to General Meeting being held on 6 February 2019, will be paid on any transfer except where the Company has exercised its right to 22February2019 to all shareholders on the register of members suspend their voting rights, withhold a dividend or prohibit their asat6:30pm on 1February 2019.
The proposal to pay a special transfer following failure by the member or any other person dividendreflects exceeding the trigger point set by the Company appearing to be interested in the shares to provide the Company under the capital allocation policy.
with information requested under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors may, in certain circumstances, also refuse The Company has established employee benefit trusts EBTs in toregister the transfer of a share in certified form which is not fully connection with the obligation to satisfy future share awards under paid up, where the instrument of transfer does not comply with certain employee share incentive schemes.
The trustees of the EBTs therequirements of the Articles of Association, or if entitled to do have waived their rights to receive dividends on those ordinary so under the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
No shares shares of the Company held in the EBTs.
Such waivers represent carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company and lessthan 1% of the total dividend payable on the Companys there are no restrictions on voting rights except that a shareholder ordinary shares.
has no right to vote in respect of a share unless all sums due in respect of that share are fully paid and except also where the Post balance sheet events Company suspends voting rights as referred to above in the event On 26 October 2018, the High Court handed down its judgment ofnon-disclosure of an interest as permitted by the Articles of inthe Lloyds Banking Group case relating to equalisation of member Association.
There are no known agreements between holders of benefits for the gender effects of Guaranteed Minimum Pensions securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities GMP equalisation.
This addressed a long-standing legal uncertainty or on voting rights and no known arrangements under which financial for Defined Benefit pension schemes, and will result inan increase in rights are held by a person other than the holder of the shares.
GMP equalisation represents ascheme amendment, where an additional past service cost is chargeable, due to a change Shares acquired by employees under employee share schemes rank in the benefits payable and will be recognised in full in the Groups equally with the other shares in issue and have no special rights.
Annual Report 2018 Victrex plc 69 Corporate governance Directors report other statutory information continued No market purchases of the Companys own shares were made Own shares held during the year.
As at the date of this report, the Company does not hold any shares as treasury shares.
Details of the Companys share capital are given A total of 174,813 ordinary shares are held by the EBTs in order to in note 19 to the financial statements.
A summary of the Directors satisfy the exercise of options by Directors under the Companys powers in relation to buying back shares is set out below in the 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
No shares were purchased by paragraph entitled Powers of the Directors in relation to share the EBTs in the financial year to 30 September 2018.
As part of routine resolutions which are proposed to are beneficiaries of the EBTs.
shareholders, the Directors will be seeking to renew the authority allowing the Company to purchase its own shares, which is set out AGM in Resolution 23 of the Notice of Annual General Meeting AGM The Notice of the 2019 AGM of the Company and explanatory notes and which can be found on page 111. are given on pages 110 to 119.
Major interests in shares The following information has been disclosed to the Company on request, in respect of interests in the Companys issued share capital asat 28 November 2018: Number of ordinary shares held Percentage Aberdeen Standard Investments 4,384,504 5.09% M&G Investment Management Ltd 3,995,865 4.64% Columbia Threadneedle Investments 3,901,037 4.53% T. Rowe Price Group 3,645,228 4.23% BlackRock Inc 3,516,123 4.08% Baillie Gifford & Co Ltd 3,499,320 4.06% Schroders Plc 3,147,801 3.65% Mondrian Investment Partners Ltd 3,035,315 3.52% The Vanguard Group Inc 2,718,317 3.15% Royal London Asset Management Ltd 2,584,619 3.00% The positions stated above represent the holdings in shares either in theirown right or on behalf of third parties and may not represent the total votingrights or authority to vote as at 28 November 2018.
Directors Appointment and replacement of Directors The following served as Directors during the financial year: The Articles of Association of the Company limit the number of Directors to twelve.
Directors may be appointed by an Ordinary Larry Pentz u Resolution of the shareholders or by a resolution of the Directors.
Jakob Sigurdsson ADirector appointed by the Board during the year must retire at the u first AGM following their appointment and such Director is eligible David Hummel u to offer themselves for election by the Companys shareholders.
Richard Armitage Additionally, the Companys Articles of Association require the u retirement at each AGM of i any Director who has held office at Louisa Burdett u the time of the two preceding AGMs and who did not retire at Tim Cooper either: and ii any non-executive Director who has been in office u fora continuous period of nine years or more.
Notwithstanding the Martin Court u retirement provisions in the Companys Articles of Association, it is Patrick fide Smedt the Companys current practice that all Directors retire from office u ateach AGM in accordance with the recommendations of the UK Andrew Dougal u Corporate Governance Code.
Pamela Kirby u In addition to the statutory power, a Director may be removed Jane Toogood bySpecial Resolution of the Company.
A Director must also u automatically cease to be a Director if i they are removed from Janet Ashdown u office under the Articles of Association or they cease to be a Brendan Connolly Director by virtue of any law or they become prohibited by law u frombeing a Director: or ii they become bankrupt or make any David Thomas u arrangement or composition with their creditors generally: or iii Details of the Directors of the Company are given on pages 42 and 43. they suffer from mental or physical ill health and the Directors Details of Directors interests in shares are provided in the Directors resolve to remove them from office: or iv they resign from office remuneration report on page 66.
Details of Directors are also bynotice in writing to the Company, or in the case of an executive provided on the Company website, www.
Director, their appointment is terminated or expires and the 70 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018 Corporate governance Directors resolve that the office be vacated: or v they are absent The Directors were also authorised at the 2018 AGM under a Special for more than six consecutive months without permission of the Resolution to make market purchases of the Companys own ordinary Directors from meetings of the Directors and the Directors resolve shares up to a maximum aggregate number of 8,587,471 shares that the office be vacated: or vi they are requested in writing, being approximately 10% of the issued share capital prior to that orbyelectronic form, by all the other Directors to resign.
AGM and subject to the conditions as to pricing set out in the authority.
This authority is also due to lapse at the 2019 AGM when it is proposed that shareholders grant a similar authority.
Amendment of Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended The authority contained in Resolution 23 will expire at the earlier bySpecial Resolution of the Company at a general meeting of of31 March 2020 or the conclusion of the 2020 AGM.
current intention of the Directors to renew this authority annually.
Inthe event that shares are purchased pursuant to the authority Powers of the Directors in relation to share capital granted under Resolution 23, the shares would either be cancelled The powers of the Directors are determined by the Companys and the number in issue would be reduced accordingly or retained Articles of Association, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions as treasury shares.
The Directors will only make purchases after given by the Company in general meeting.
The Companys Directors consideration of the possible effect on earnings per share, were granted authority at the AGM in 2018 to allot shares in the thelong-term benefits to shareholders and in consultation Company or to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any securities withadvisors.
into shares in the Company up to a a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 268,249 being approximately one third ofthe issued Notice required for shareholder meetings share capital prior to that AGM and b a further maximum aggregate The Shareholder Rights Directive was implemented in the UK by the nominal amount of 286,249 being approximately one third of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 on 3 August 2009. issued share capital prior to the AGM in connection with a rights The Regulations implementing this Directive increased the notice issue only.
This authority is due to lapse atthe 2019 AGM.
At the period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days, unless 2019 AGM, shareholders will be asked torenew the authority.
shareholders agree to a shorter notice period.
On the basis of a Specific details of the resolution and the number of shares covered resolution passed at the 2018 AGM, the Company is currently able by the renewed authority can be found in Resolution 20 on page to call general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on 110 of the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The Company would like to preserve this ability and Resolution 24 seeks such approval.
The approval will be effective The Directors were empowered at the 2018 AGM to make until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar non-pre-emptive issues for cash up to a maximum aggregate nominal resolution will be proposed.
In accordance with the Directive, the amount of 42,937 being approximately 5% of the issued share Company will offer an electronic voting facility for a general capital prior to that AGM.
This power is also due to lapse atthe meeting called on 14 days notice.
2019 AGM and shareholders will be asked to grant a similar power Resolution 21 of the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page111.
Directors fees Resolution 22 is in addition to Resolution 21.
As supported by the The Articles of Association of the Company limit the fees that Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles, as updated in March canbe paid to non-executive Directors.
This limit is currently at 2015, Resolution 22 will enable the Directors to allot shares for cash 400,000.
At the 2019 AGM, the Directors will be seeking shareholder or sell shares out of treasury up to a further nominal amount of approval by way of an Ordinary Resolution, in accordance with the 43,081, representing approximately 5% of the issued ordinary Articles ofAssociation, to increase this amount to 600,000.
The share capital as at 30 November 2018 the latest practicable date 400,000 limit has been in place since 2010 when the Board of the before the publication of the Notice of Annual General Meeting, Company was smaller in numbers.
Given the increase in the number other than to existing shareholders without first having to offer of Directors to ten in the current year, authority is sought to increase them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
In the maximum fee amount payable in line with comparable respect of the authority under Resolution 22, the Board confirms FTSE250companies.
that it will only allot shares or sell shares out of treasury pursuant tothis authority where the relevant acquisition or specified capital Conflict of interest duties investment is announced contemporaneously with the allotment, Procedures are in place to ensure compliance with the Directors orhas taken place in the preceding six-month period and is disclosed conflict of interest duties set out in the Companies Act 2006.
The in the announcement of the allotment.
The Directors have no current Company has complied with these procedures during the year and intention of exercising this authority.
If this authority is used, the the Board believes that these procedures operate effectively.
During Company will publish details of the placing in its next Annual Report the year, details of any new conflicts or potential conflict matters and Accounts.
were submitted to the Board for consideration and, where appropriate, The Directors recommend that shareholders vote in favour of these were approved.
Authorised conflict or potential conflict matters Resolutions 20 to 22 to maintain the Companys flexibility in relation will continue to be reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
to future share issues, including any issues to finance business opportunities should appropriate circumstances arise.
Annual Report 2018 Victrex plc 71 Corporate governance Directors report other statutory information continued Environmental matters Financial instruments Information on our greenhouse gas emissions required to be Information on the Groups financial risk management objectives disclosed by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and and policies and its exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk, interest Directors Report Regulations 2013 is set out in the Sustainability raterisk and foreign currency risk can be found in note 14 to the report on pages 28 to 39.
Such information is incorporated into financial statements.
Such information is incorporated into this thisreport by reference and is deemed to form part of this report.
report by reference and is deemed to form part of this report.
Directors indemnities Branches The Company has granted indemnities in favour of all of its Directors The Company and its subsidiaries have established branches in under Deeds of Indemnity Deeds.
These Deeds were in force anumber of different countries in which they operate.
during the year ended 30 September 2018 and remain in force as atthe date of this report.
The Deeds and the Companys Articles Donations ofAssociation are available for inspection during normal business The Group made no political donations in the UK or European Union hours on Monday to Friday excluding public holidays at the EU during the year ended 30 September 2018 2017: nil.
Companys registered office and will also be available at the Companys AGM from at least 15 minutes before the meeting FCAs Disclosure Guidelines and Transparency Rules untilit ends.
For the purposes of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Guidelines and Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
8R, Change of control this report and Directors report Strategic report on pages 69 to 72 None of the Directors or employees service contracts contain and pages 1 to 39 together comprise the management report.
provisions providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The rules Information required by LR 9.8.
4R oftheCompanys employee share plans set out the consequences There is no information required to be disclosed under LR 9.8.
4R ofachange in control of the Company on participants rights save in respect of allotments of equity securities for cash and underthe plans.
dividend waivers, which can be found on page 69 of this AnnualReport.
Generally, such rights will vest and become exercisable on a change of control subject to a separate determination as to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
Disclosure of information to auditor The Directors in office at the date of approval of this report each confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit Employment policies information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and The Groups policies as regards the employment of disabled persons thatthey have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken and a description of actions the Group has taken to encourage asaDirector to make themselves aware of any relevant audit greater employee involvement in the business are set out on pages informationand to establish that the Companys auditor is aware 38 and 39.
Such information is incorporated into this report by ofthat information.
reference and is deemed to form part of this report.
Auditor UK Corporate Governance Code An Ordinary Resolution will be put before the 2019 AGM to The Companys statement on corporate governance can be found in re-appoint  LLP as external auditor for the Corporate governance report on pages 41 to 73.
governance report forms part of this report and is incorporated into it by reference.
By order of the Board Louise Waldek General Counsel and Company Secretary 4 December 2018 72 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018
