Strategic report Introduction to strategy Dear shareholder, After my first full year as Chief Executive, it is clear that we have theright strategy to help drive our future growth and capture the significant opportunities that exist across our markets.
Polymer & Parts seeks to capture increased value from each application opportunity, for example not only by supplying polymer, but by developing selected product forms and parts which can offer a total solution to our customers.
Our core polymer business continues to be and will remain integral toVictrex in the future, but our emerging parts business offers significant opportunities to deliver the unmet need in specific applications, typically where no supply chain or capability exists, butwhere there is an opportunity to solve a problem for our customers and our markets.
With over 900 people waking up every day focused on making adifference to our customers and our markets, we continue to be theno.
My challenge is how we can drive forward Jakob Sigurdsson our strategy, helping to accelerate it where possible or considering Chief Executive Officer new ways to execute it.
Driving our core business Following on from a strong 2017, our core business performed well Polymer & Parts again this year.
We continue to gain specification of our product with end users, as well as helping develop incremental products or applications to deliver solutions and performance benefits for our driving future customers.
Sales volumes increased by 10% and we signalled the potential requirement of additional production capacity within the next few years if our growth momentum continues.
This reflects not only strong core growth but also the future opportunities from our growth mega-programmes our sizeable new product pipeline.
Cost efficiency remains a key focus area for Victrex, ensuring that we remain cost competitive in our manufacturing and across our business.
We also further enhanced a number of Continuous Improvement measures across our business during the year.
Differentiating through innovation With over 900 people waking up every Innovation is embedded in Victrexs culture.
Since our inception, dayfocused on making a difference to our wehave proven our capability to develop different polymer grades, todevelop new markets and consequently to grow our business.
In a customers and our markets, we continue competitive market, aligning ourselves to Polymer & Parts will help to tobe theno.
differentiate Victrex and ensure we remain the no.
In short, Victrex is creating new markets for our products, extending beyond simply manufacturing polymers.
A great example is in Automotive, where our PEEK Gears are replacing metal gears, savingweight and cost from quicker manufacturing, and offering reduced noise and other performance benefits.
Electric vehicles areanother emerging area with significant opportunity for us, including e-motors, actuators and other applications.
Strategy timeline Q1 2018 Q3 2018 Strong start to the year, Group volumes 30% Major Dental agreement with Straumann Q2 2018 Q4 2018 First PEEK Gears supplied to major New TxV Aero Composites European car manufacturer  commissioned 10 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Creating and delivering future value One of Victrexs key strengths is to understand the end market need and coming up with solutions to problems, often where existing Q&A materials or technologies are not delivering the required performance.
Through having over 900 focused employees and a global sales and technical team, we can leverage our know-how to develop a solution for our markets.
Many of these solutions are based on disruptive What have you learnt after a year technology, typically replacing metal across our markets.
we need to test and prove our solutions by delivering the burden That there are a wide range of growth opportunities ofproof, which includes using clinical data or prototypes.
We also forus across our markets.
Not only in our new product consider alliances, M&A and working with partners or Key Opinion pipeline our mega-programmes but in our core Leaders to deliver this burden of proof.
business, where we have been able to demonstrate growth in incremental applications again this year, for A large part of delivering future value is in our new product pipeline example in Home Appliances.
Victrex has always been and our mega-programmes, which each offer a 50m annual revenue about innovation and building new markets and applications opportunity in their peak sales year.
Whilst our sales from new products for our products.
The focus is on speed and delivery and remain around 4% of Group revenue, we aspire to reach 1020% we have shown good progress again this year.
of Group revenue over the medium term.
We delivered some notable milestones this year, including a major customer agreement with Straumann for our Dental product and further deployments for What have you changed so far or what Magmas flexible oil & gas pipe programme, and we are commissioning are you looking to change?
our TxV Aerospace Composite production facility in the US.
I have been very clear that the strategy and our Polymer& Parts offering is the right one.
We will remain Underpin: safety, sustainability and capability the no.
1 PEEK experts and we are not looking to Underpinning our strategy is a safe and sustainable business, become a broader diversified polymer business as there including effective recruitment of diverse global talent, business are plentiful growth opportunities within the PEEK efficiency and a clear sustainability plan.
As part of our focus on andPAEK family of polymers, as well as in composites.
keeping all of our key stakeholders informed I spent significant time Duringthe year we increased our efforts in Continuous across several of our global locations during the year.
This enabled Improvement CI, particularly within Manufacturing, me to meet employees, customers, suppliers and investors, gaining ensuring we can remain cost competitive.
We are also better first-hand knowledge of our business and our capability.
focusing on supply chain and how our demand planning Iremain in awe of our focused global team and our innovative can be enhanced further.
Going forward, the key change culture, a highly compelling strategy, a strong technology platform has got to be about speed andexecuting on our and significant growth opportunities.
With the benefit of currency, we recorded double-digit profit What are the highlights of your first year?
growth during 2018 and, whilst 2019 sees tougher comparatives and Firstly, delivering good growth in our core business, a currency headwind, our strategy is well set and I believe we are in withmore new opportunities to come: secondly, gaining a good position to show further progress over the coming years.
points on the board for our mega-programmes: and The Strategic report on pages 1 to 39 was approved by the Board thirdly, a recognition that our team is strong, with over and signed on its behalf by the Chief Executive Officer.
900 employees focused on Polymer & Parts and ensuring the best is yet to come for Victrex.
Jakob Sigurdsson Chief Executive Officer 4 December 2018 Medium-term opportunities Focused on delivering 1020% of sales from new products over the medium term Our strategy and key performance indicators Pages 12 and 13 Annual Report 2018 Victrex plc 11
