Corporate governance Board of Directors NON-EXECUTIVE Larry Pentz Pamela Kirby Jane Toogood N A N R A N R Chairman BS ChE MBA Non-executive Director BSc PhD Non-executive Director MA Hons Appointed Board in 2008 and Chairman Appointed Board in 2011 and Senior Appointed September 2015 in2014 Independent Director in 2014 Skills and experience Jane has a wealth Skills and experience Larry has over 30 years Skills and experience Pamela has detailed ofexperience across a number of business service within multinational corporations in a knowledge of the international pharmaceutical management, senior commercial and business variety of operational and general management industry, and was formerly CEO of Quintiles development roles within the global chemical positions, with extensive experience in Transnational Corp. based in North Carolina, industry, including Borealis, ICI and Uniqema, developing strategy for and successfully leading USA.
Pamela has also held a number of and also held a non-executive director role international growth businesses.
Larry was other senior positions in the international with NHS Harrogate and District Foundation instrumental in the acquisition and integration pharmaceutical industry including at Trust.
Jane holds an MA in natural sciences of multiple catalyst and chemical companies AstraZeneca PLC, where she was a regional chemistry from the University of Oxford.
for Johnson Matthey Plc, and was formerly director, and F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, External appointments Jane is the sector anexecutive director responsible for Emission where she was director of strategic marketing chief executive, efficient natural resources at Control Technologies of Johnson Matthey Plc.
She was previously Johnson Matthey Plc.
non-executive chairman of Oxford Immunotec Larry retired as an executive director of Limited and a non-executive director of Johnson Matthey Plc during 2016 where he Novo Nordisk A S and Smith & Nephew plc.
held board-level responsibility for Johnson Mattheys process technologies and fine External appointments Pamela is a chemicals divisions, as well as group-level non-executive director of DCC plc, Hikma responsibilities for operational excellence Pharmaceuticals plc and Reckitt Benckiser and environmental, health and safety.
Groupplc and serves on the supervisory board of Akzo Nobel.
External appointments Larry is nonexecutive chairman of Scapa Group plc.
Janet Ashdown A N R Brendan Connolly A N R David Thomas A N R Non-executive Director BSc Non-executive Director BSc Non-executive Director ACA Appointed February 2018 Appointed February 2018 Appointed May 2018 Skills and experience Janet has over 30 Skills and experience Brendan has over Skills and experience David was chief years experience of the international energy 35years experience in the international oil financial officer at Invensys plc from 2011 sector in a variety of senior executive roles & gas industry serving in a number of senior until his retirement in 2014, having held at BP plc, most recently as director, BP Oil executive roles.
Until June 2013, Brendan senior roles across the business since 2002.
UK Limited, and head of UK retail and was a senior executive at Intertek Group plc Prior to joining Invensys, he was a senior commercial fuels.
and had previously been chief executive partner in Ernst & Young E&Y, specialising officer of Moody International which was in long-term industrial contracting External appointments Janet is currently acquired by Intertek in 2011. businesses, and is a former member non-executive director and senior independent oftheAuditing Practices Board.
director of Marshalls plc and is chair of its External appointments Brendan is remuneration committee.
Janet is also a anon-executive director and senior External appointments David is a non-executive director of SIG Plc, chairs the independent director of Synthomer plc, non-executive director and chair of remuneration committee and is a member inaddition to being chairman of its theauditcommittee at Dialight Plc.
of its audit, nomination and governance remuneration committee and a member committees.
Janet has also been nominated ofits audit and nomination committees.
as a non-executive director to the Board Brendan is also a non-executive director ofRHI Magnesita N. V. oftwo private equity-backed companies, one of which he chairs.
42 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018 Corporate governance KEY TO COMMITTEES EXECUTIVE A Audit Committee N Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee R Committee Chair Jakob Sigurdsson Richard Armitage Chief Executive Officer BSc MBA Group Finance Director FCMA Appointed October 2017 Appointed May 2018 Skills and experience Jakob was Skills and experience Richard was appointed to the Board in October 2017. appointed to the Board in May 2018.
He Jakob has more than 20 years experience was previously group finance director of inlarge multinational companies, both listed Samworth Brothers, a UK-based branded and private, including nine years with Rohm and own-label food manufacturer, which he & Haas now part of Dow Chemical in the joined in 2014.
Prior to Samworth Brothers US, as well as chief executive officer of food he was chief financial officer of McBride plc.
manufacturer Alfesca inEurope andaschief His other roles include finance director for executive officer ofPromens.
Hisexecutive Premier Foods plcs grocery and chilled responsibilities havespanned marketing, divisions, and at Courtaulds, ICI and supply chain, business development, Bootsplc.
Richard trained through strategy and M&A, with particular emphasis theCourtaulds and ICI management on growth in new ordeveloping markets.
Between September 2016 and June 2017, Jakob was chief executive officer of VS, the largest Icelandic insurance and reinsurance company.
Jakob holds a BSc in chemistry from the University of Iceland and an MBA from Northwestern University in the US.
Tim Cooper Martin Court Executive Director BA Executive Director BSc Eng PhD Appointed October 2012 Appointed April 2015 Skills and experience Tim was appointed as Skills and experience Martin was an executive Director to the Board in October appointed to the Board as an executive 2012.
Tim joined Victrex in January2010 as Director in April 2015.
Martin joined Managing Director of Victrex Polymer Solutions.
Victrexin February 2013 as Managing Tim has over 30 years of international business Director of Invibio, Victrexs Medical management and commercial experience, business.
Martin has significant proven having held senior leadership positions in international experience in the medical and anumber ofindustries.
Prior to joining the high performance materials and chemicals Victrex business, Tim was with Umeco Plc, industries, including with Cytec Industries, initially as managing director of Aerovac and in a number of senior roles at both ICI Systems Ltd, but later becoming group and UCB.
He is an INSEAD alumnus and managing director of Umeco Composites holds a doctorate in the field of surface Process Materials.
He has been managing chemistry and fracture mechanics and a BSc director ofTellermate Plc and of Avery Berkel Eng degree in mineral technology from Ltd, having developed his international Imperial College of Science and Technology.
career with GEC, BP and Land Rover.
External appointments Tim is a non-executive director of Renold plc.
