OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS LONG-TERM VIABILITY AND GOING CONCERN LONG-TERM VIABILITY The prospects assessment key assumptions The assessment starts with the available liquidity headroom which is calculated as an Macro drivers are used to forecast how The UK Corporate Governance Code aggregation of cash and cash equivalents plus markets will evolve.
The following key available facilities as at 31 December 2018.
Provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate assumptions are made in order to prepare Then the five-year forecast is used to calculate Governance Code requires the Directors thefive-year forecasts: the cash position and available headroom over to assess the prospects of the Group over a Price of Brent crude oil the period taking into account the impact of the period significantly longer than 12 months and Expected FX rates downside scenario adjustments.
The downside whether they have a reasonable expectation scenario assumed an appropriate management Inflation and GDP growth that the Group will be able to continue in response to the specific events but not broader operation and meet its liabilities as they fall Employee salary increases mitigating actions which could be undertaken.
dueover the period of their assessment.
The assumptions are shared at local level to The assessment took account of the Groups ensure consistent forecasting across the Group.
current funding, forecast requirements The review period Assumptions are monitored by our planning and existing borrowing facilities.
It assumed division and updated on an annual basis.
We believe that a five-year period is the most that existing facilities could be refinanced as appropriate timeframe over which to assess the they mature.
Assessment of viability long-term viability of the Group.
This timeframe is supported by the strategic business planning Statement of longer-term viability Although the output of the Groups strategic cycle and matches the term ofour primary and financial planning process reflects the Based on the results of the analysis, the financing arrangements.
We have reasonable Directors best estimate of the future prospects Directors have a reasonable expectation that confidence over this time horizon which of the business, the Group has carried out a the Group will be able to continue in operation allows for an appropriate assessment of robust assessment of the potential financial and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the ourprincipal risks.
and operational impact of principal risks and five-year period of their assessment.
uncertainties facing the Group, including those Assessment of prospects that would threaten its business model, future GOING CONCERN performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Strategic Report provides information In accordance with provision C. 1.3 of the about our strategy, financial condition, A severe but plausible combined downside UKCorporate Governance Code, the cashflows and liquidity, as well as the factors, scenario has been modelled where Directors consider it appropriate to adopt the including the principal risks, likely to affect the following high impact principal risks going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Groups future prospects.
The Groups have materialised: the financial statements.
prospects are assessed primarily through Economic and governmental instability itsstrategic and financial planning process.
adversely affects a number of our local This Strategic Report has been approved On an annual basis the Directors approve a entities resulting in devaluation of local bythe Board detailed five-year strategic business plan, which currencies and unit margin decline forecasts the Groups cash flows and ability to in affected markets economic and BEN WALKER service financing requirements, pay dividends governmental instability and currency GENERAL COUNSEL and fund investing activities during the period.
& COMPANY SECRETARY A bottom-up budgeting model is followed as Higher supply costs in unregulated the plan is initially prepared at an operating 5 MARCH 2019 markets resulting in higher prices for unit level and later consolidated into a five-year ourproducts and lower unit margins plancentrally.
The final version of the plan is oilprice fluctuations.
then reported tothe Board for approval.
Significant negative impacts on our working capital due to oil price increases, security stock increases and an increase in DSO andinventory days and a decrease in DPO.
ASSESSMENT OF PROSPECTS ASSUMPTIONS PLANNING FINAL BOARD SETTING PLAN APPROVAL Assumptions include, for The annual planning process The fiveyear plans are updated The Board reviews and example, wage and salary starts in September with the for the Q3 financial reports in approvesthe consolidated growth rates, FX rates, operating units preparing a November, followed by reviews fiveyear Groupfinancial plan.
inflationand GDP growth, detailed, bottom up, fiveyear by the Executive Committee.
Individual operating units These plans are reviewed fiveyear plans are consolidated and challenged by the to an overall Group fiveyear Executive Committee.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 55 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE Our corporate governance report for 2018 shows how we fulfil the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We describe our governance arrangements, the operation of the Board and itsCommittees and how the Board discharged its responsibilities.
CONTENTS GOVERNANCE Chairmans letter 58 Board of Directors 60 Executive Committee 64 Our governance structure 66 Board effectiveness 69 Stakeholder engagement 70 Nomination Committee Report 71 Audit and Risk Committee Report 72 Directors Remuneration Report 76 Directors Report 96 Statement of Directors responsibilities 99 56 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 57
