Strategic Report 08 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Our business model Delivering value for societyand returns forourshareholders Our leading scale enables us to sustain our investments in superior gigabit infrastructure, delivering an excellent customer experience which both benefits society and drives our revenue growth.
Together with the substantial opportunity to improve all aspects of our business model through Differentiated digitalisation, this allows us to grow our cash flows, reinvest and provide attractive returns to our shareholders.
assets and leading scale 81bn invested over the past five years.
This comprises of: to modernise our mobile and 48bn IT networks and deploy fixed fibre 1 capex networksin Europe.
Leading co-leading market positions in to secure spectrum primarily for 4G.
15bn mobile supported by our 4G networks and spectrum deep spectrum positions.
1 and licences Europes largest fixed NGN network.
including cable companies in Germany, 18bn Global Enterprise scale and footprint.
M&A A strong brand and the best people.
36 Read more on our people and culture 32 Read more on our sustainable business Sustained reinvestment Delivering value for society and improving returns for our shareholders Our focus on driving revenue growth as well as cost efficiencies is driving an improvement in cash generation.
Free cash flow FCF pre-spectrum increased to 5.4bn in 2018 from 4.1bn in 2017.
After spectrum and restructuring we generated FCF of 4.0bn in 2018 vs 3.3bn in 2017.
A covered dividend post-spectrum and restructuring.
Improving cash flow 22 Read more on our financial performance 1 Including India.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 09 Mobile data We are monetising the rapid growth in mobile data usage through more-formore propositions and personalised offers.
Fixed and Convergence As demand for NGN grows we have awindow of opportunity to gain substantialmarket share in fixed line, andto drive convergence across our combined fixed mobile customer base.
Enterprise We are connecting the people, places andthings that matter to businesses.
15 Read more on Mobile data 16 Read more on Fixed and Convergence 17 Read more on Enterprise Growing revenue streams The dividend has grown at 2% for the past three years and is a key contributor to shareholder returns, along with share priceperformance.
At the same time we have announced several new key milestones on our journey to build a better tomorrow for the societies in whichwe operate.
3.9bn Dividends to shareholders in 2018 2017: 3.7bn 50m Additional female customers connected to mobile in emerging markets target by 2025 10m Supporting young people to accessdigital skills target by 2022 Digital Digital Vodafone transformation The Digital Vodafone programme is the next opportunity step in our strategic development and is expected to generate incremental revenue and cost opportunities.
We aim to deliver a leading digital customer experience, data driven decisions, simpler and automated operations.
13 Read more on Digital Vodafone
