Governance 70 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Remuneration Committee Letter from the Remuneration Following the approval of the Remuneration Policy Committee Chairman at our 2017 AGM, the Committee has continued to ensure remuneration levels are determined in line with Dear Shareholder our principles and in the context of evolving external On behalf of the Board, I present our 2018 Directors Remuneration considerations.
This report includes both our current policy and details of how our remuneration arrangements were implemented during the year Chairman under review.
Valerie Gooding Our current policy was last approved at the 2017 AGM where Members it received a vote in favour from shareholders of over 97%.
I would Dr Mathias Dpfner like to take this opportunity to thank our shareholders for engaging Renee James in what was a constructive and two-way dialogue during the policy Samuel Jonah consultation.
The relationship that exists between the Committee and our shareholders is greatly valued and we will work hard to ensure this continues.
Whilst our recently approved policy has just completed its first year of implementation, the Committee will continue to monitor its effectiveness and appropriateness for our business.
The policy was Key objectives: drafted to provide a degree of continuity in our arrangements and, To assess and make recommendations to the Board on the policies subject to any compelling and currently unforeseen reason to the for executive remuneration and reward packages for the individual contrary, it is intended that the current policy will remain in place for its Executive Directors.
Responsibilities: At the centre of this policy, and the decisions made by the Committee determining, on behalf of the Board, the policy on the during the year, are our principles of: remuneration of the Chairman of the Board, the Executive ensuring our remuneration policy, and the manner in which it is Directors and the senior management team: implemented, drives the behaviours that support our strategy and determining the total remuneration packages for these business objectives: individuals including any compensation on termination of office: maintaining a pay for performance approach to remuneration operating within recognised principles of good governance: and which ensures our incentive plans only deliver significant rewards if and when they are justified by business performance: preparing an Annual Report on Directors remuneration.
aligning the interests of our senior management team with those of The Committee met five times during the year and each meeting shareholders by developing an approach to share ownership that had full attendance.
The terms of reference of the Committee are helps to maintain commitment over the long term: and available on vodafone.
offering competitive and fair rates of pay and benefits.
Strategic Priorities Contents of the Remuneration Report The Committee is fully aware of its responsibility in ensuring that remuneration arrangements support and drive our strategic priorities.
73 Remuneration Policy These priorities are focused on leveraging our core programmes 74 The remuneration policy table of Network Leadership, Customer eXperience eXcellence and Fit for 78 Chairman and Non-Executive Directors remuneration Growth to build a sustainable competitive advantage.
79 Annual Report on Remuneration This advantage is set to be supported through the transformation 79 Remuneration Committee of ourbusiness model via Digital Vodafone.
This journey will ensure 80 2018 remuneration that we are equipped to compete in the Gigabit Society by allowing 86 2019 remuneration our growth engines of mobile data, fixed & converged and Enterprise to remain as competitive in the future as they are in the present.
87 Further remuneration information A core sign of our success along this journey will be how our customers judge our efforts.
As such the importance of ensuring that the remuneration of management remains linked to customer satisfaction remained a priority for the Committee during this years review.
The 40% weighting on customer appreciation KPIs under our short-term incentive will therefore remain in place for 2019 and will continue to be assessed robustly against a range of metrics as detailed further on page 86.
As communicated in previous years, cash generation continues to be the key driver of value creation.
The Committee therefore continues to believe that including a cash flow measure in both our short-term and long-term incentive plans remains vital in emphasising where our financial priorities lie.
Notwithstanding this, both service revenue and adjusted EBIT remain important metrics for ensuring an emphasis on cost discipline and will therefore continue to have an equal weighting with that of free cash flow under the GSTIP for the year ahead.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 71 Pay for Performance performance was above target, reflecting the progress we are making Over recent years the importance of cultivating a genuine pay for across the business in this area.
The combined performance under all performance culture has been reflected in the wider market by the of these measures during the year resulted in an overall payout of 64% actions of shareholders who have used their votes to send clear messages of maximum.
Further details on our performance under each measure to boards where they believe this principle has been neglected.
can be found on pages 80 and 81 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
During consultations and conversations with our shareholders I have The 2016 Global Long-Term Incentive award was subject to free cash been pleased to see that the Committees robust annual approach flow and TSR performance as measured over a three-year period ending to target setting is recognised.
The free cash flow measure finished below target during to ensuring that exceptional outcomes are only warranted in the cases this period whilst TSR performance was above the median of our TSR peer of exceptional performance continues to ensure that we deliver genuine group.
Overall payout for the award was therefore 66.7% of maximum.
variable pay, with the average payout over the last three years, including Pay in the wider context the year under review, for the GSTIP and GLTI being 56% and 45% During the year there were a number of external developments in the of maximum respectively.
areas of gender pay and all employee pay more generally.
For the Arrangements for the year ahead former, this involved certain UK companies having to publish details As has been announced, our Chief Executive, Vittorio Colao, has given of their gender pay gap for the first time, whilst for the latter this notice to the Board of his wish to retire.
Vittorios retirement will involved continued discussion around how corporate governance be effective 30 September 2018.
His leaving arrangements will be in line measures could be enhanced to ensure that employee conditions are with our shareholder approved remuneration policy and as such appropriately considered when reviewing executive pay levels.
will include no additional elements outside of our normal approach The Committee was presented with information on both of these areas to departing executives.
Vittorio will not receive a GLTI award in 2018. during the year and discussed our current positions as well as what Following the conclusion of our 2018 AGM, Nick Read currently activities were being undertaken to further improve our employee Chief Financial Officer will be appointed Chief Executive-Designate, conditions.
Our 2017 UK Gender Pay Gap can be found on our website with Margherita Della Valle currently Deputy Chief Financial Officer at vodafone.
com sustainablebusiness genderpay being appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer.
Nick Read will Our activity in the area of gender pay during the year was underlined subsequently be appointed Chief Executive on 1 October 2018. by the work of our Chief Executive who is one of ten business leaders Upon appointment to their new roles on 27 July 2018, Nick and to actively champion gender equality as part of the UN HeForShe Margherita will receive annual salaries of 1,050,000 and 700,000 campaign.
During the year we continued to engage in a number respectively.
This compares to current levels for these roles of activities to support the increase in the number of women of 1,150,000 and 725,000 respectively.
in management roles including our ground-breaking global maternity policy and the worlds largest international programme to recruit In addition, and in response to feedback we received during last women after a career break.
years shareholder consultation, on 27 July 2018 the pension opportunity for both Nick and Margherita will be revised from the current level of 24% In the wider area of all employee pay, we continue to undertake of salary to 10% of salary which will then be aligned with our wider an annual Fair Pay exercise to ensure that employees across our UK population.
markets are appropriately paid and, where issues are identified, that these are investigated and corrected.
During the year the Committee When viewing these two changes together, the net result is a 19.0% also engaged with the consultation on future changes to UK corporate decrease in fixed pay for the position of Chief Executive, and a decrease governance in particular efforts to improve the employee voice of 14.3% for the role of Chief Financial Officer.
In the case of the Chief and the likely future introduction of CEO pay ratios.
Executive the salary is lower than the level paid for the same role eight years ago.
In terms of the former, the Committee remains open to ideas on how to improve engagement with our employees and looks forward Further information on the forward-looking arrangements for Nick and to seeing the final recommendations.
In respect of the latter, given the Margherita can be found on pages 86 and 87 of the Annual Report current uncertainty regarding the methodology to be used, we do not on Remuneration.
plan to publish a ratio at this point but will of course comply with Finally, in respect of incentives, the Committee determined that disclosure requirements once they are in place.
no changes should be made to either the metrics or the weightings The Committee will continue to monitor all external developments used under the short-term and long-term incentive plans.
in these areas and respond as appropriate with the best interests of our The Committee will continue to monitor these arrangements closely stakeholders in mind.
to ensure that the current measures and their respective weightings remain appropriate in future years.
For 2018 19, Nick and Margherita will Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Dr. Mathias Dpfner, be eligible for incentives in line with our remuneration policy for their who will be stepping down from the Board at the 2018 AGM, for his work new respective positions.
and commitment whilst serving on the Committee.
Michel Demar will join the Committee on the same date as Mathias departure from it, Remuneration outcomes during 2018 and I look forward to the insight and experience that Michel will bring Annual bonus performance during the year was assessed against both to his new role.
Similarly, I would like to thank my fellow Committee financial and strategic measures.
The former constituted 60% of total members for their work during the year and look forward to working opportunity and consisted of the three equally weighted metrics of service with them and you, our shareholders, in the year ahead.
revenue, adjusted EBIT and adjusted free cash flow.
The latter constituted 40% of total opportunity and was linked to customer appreciation KPIs the assessment of which looked at metrics including net promoter score, brand consideration, churn, revenue market share and ARPU.
During the year service revenue performed in line with target, driven Valerie Gooding by strong performance in our European markets.
Adjusted EBIT and free Chairman of the Remuneration Committee cash flow performed above target, with the UK business performing 15 May 2018 particularly well across both measures.
Our Customer Appreciation KPI Governance 72 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Remuneration Committee continued Total target remuneration at a glance 2018 compared to 2019 The below table illustrates the arrangements in place during the year under review 2018 compared to those which will be in place for 2019.
2018 y e 31 March 2018 2019 y e 31 March 2019 Base salary Effective 1 July 2017: Effective 27 July 2018: Chief Executive: 1,150,000 no increase.
Chief Executive: 1,050,000 8.7% decrease to the role.
Chief Financial Officer: 700,000 3.4% decrease to the role.
Benefits Travel related benefits and private medical cover.
Travel related benefits and private medical cover.
Pension Pension contribution of 24% of salary for all Pension contribution of 24% of salary for all Executive ExecutiveDirectors.
Directors until 27 July 2018 from which date contributions will be reduced to 10% of salary for new executive incumbents.
GSTIP Opportunity % of salary : Opportunity % of salary : Target: 100% Target: 100% Maximum: 200% Maximum: 200% Measures: Measures: Service revenue 20%, adjusted EBIT 20%, adjusted FCF Service revenue 20%, adjusted EBIT 20%, adjusted FCF 20%, and customer appreciation KPIs 40%.
GLTI Opportunity % of salary : Opportunity % of salary : Target: Target: Chief Executive 230% Chief Executive 230% Other Executive Directors 210% Other Executive Directors 210% Maximum: Maximum: Chief Executive 575% Chief Executive 575% Other Executive Directors 525% Other Executive Directors 525% Measures: Measures: Adjusted free cash flow 2 3 of total award and Adjusted free cash flow 2 3 of total award and TSR 1 3 of total award.
Total target Chief Executive 5.2m Chief Executive 4.6m remuneration Chief Financial Officer 3.2m Chief Financial Officer 3.0m Shareholding Chief Executive 500% of salary Chief Executive 500% of salary guidelines Chief Financial Officer 400% of salary Chief Financial Officer 400% of salary Include post-employment holding requirements.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 73 Remuneration Policy No changes have been made to our policy since its approval at the 2017 annual general meeting which was held on 28 July 2017.
Our approved Policy Report is available on our website at vodafone.
com, and has been reproduced below exactly as it was set out in the 2017 Annual Report.
As such, a few phrases e. g. references to the 2017 annual general meeting and page number references are now out of date.
REMUNERATION POLICY FIRST PUBLISHED IN THE 2017 ANNUAL REPORT In this forward-looking section we describe our remuneration policy for the Board.
This includes our considerations when determining policy, a description of the elements of the reward package, including an indication of the potential future value of this package for each of the Executive Directors, and the policy applied to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
We will be seeking shareholder approval for our Remuneration Policy at the 2017 AGM and we intend to implement at that point.
A summary and explanation of the proposed changes to the current remuneration policy is provided on pages 67 to 70.
Subject to approval, we will review our policy each year to ensure that it continues to support our company strategy and if we feel it is necessary to make a change to our policy within the next three years, we will seek shareholder approval.
Considerations when determining remuneration policy Our remuneration principles which are outlined on page 67 are the context for our policy.
Our principal consideration when determining remuneration policy is to ensure that it supports our company strategy and business objectives.
The views of our shareholders are also taken into account when determining executive pay.
In advance of asking for approval for the remuneration policy we have consulted with our major shareholders.
We invited our top 20 shareholders and a number of key governance stakeholders to comment on remuneration at Vodafone and to provide feedback on the proposed changes to the current policy which was approved at the 2014 AGM.
A number of meetings between shareholders and the Remuneration Committee Chairman took place during this consultation period.
Further details of this consultation are provided on pages 67 to 69 whilst a summary of the proposed changes to our current policy, which are incorporated in this revised Remuneration Policy section, is provided on page 70.
Listening to and consulting with our employees is very important.
This can take different forms in different markets but always includes our annual people survey which attracts very high levels of participation and engagement.
We do not consult directly with employees on the executive remuneration policy nor is any fixed remuneration comparison measurement used.
However, when determining the policy for Executive Directors, we have been mindful of the pay and employment conditions of employees in Vodafone Group as a whole, with particular reference to the market in which the executive is based.
Further information on our remuneration policy for other employees is given on page 74.
Performance measures and targets Our Company strategy and business objectives are the primary consideration when we are selecting performance measures for our incentive plans.
The targets within our incentive plans that are related to internal financial measures such as revenue, profit and cash flow are typically determined based on our budgets.
Targets for strategic and external measures such as customer appreciation KPIs and total shareholder return TSR are set based on company objectives and in light of the competitive marketplace.
The threshold and maximum levels of performance are set to reflect minimum acceptable levels at threshold and very stretching levels at maximum.
As in previous Remuneration Reports we will disclose the details of our performance targets for our short and long-term incentive plans.
However, our annual bonus targets are commercially sensitive and therefore we will only disclose our targets in the Remuneration Report following the completion of the financial year.
We will disclose the targets for each long-term award in the Remuneration Report for the financial year preceding thestart of the performance period.
At the end of each performance period we review performance against the targets, using judgement to account for items such as but not limited to mergers, acquisitions, disposals, foreign exchange rate movements, changes in accounting treatment, material one-off tax settlements etc.
The application of judgement is important to ensure that the final assessments of performance are fair and appropriate.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee reviews the incentive plan results before any payments are made to executives or any shares vest and has full discretion to adjust the final payment or vesting downwards if they believe circumstances warrant it.
In particular, the Committee has the discretion to use either malus or clawback as it sees appropriate.
In the case of malus, the award may lapse wholly or in part, may vest to a lesser extent than it would otherwise have vested or vesting may be delayed.
In the case of clawback, the Committee may recover bonus amounts that have been paid up to three years after the relevant payment date, or recover share awards that have vested up to two years after the relevant vesting date.
The key trigger events for the use of the clawback arrangements include material misstatement of performance, material miscalculation of performance condition outcomes, and gross misconduct.
Subject to approval of this Remuneration Policy, the clawback arrangements will be applicable to all future bonus amounts paid, or share awards granted, following the 2017 AGM.
Governance 74 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Remuneration Policy continued The remuneration policy table The table below summarises the main components of the reward package for Executive Directors.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Base salary To attract and retain the best talent.
Salaries are usually reviewed annually and fixed for 12months Average salary increases for existing Executive Committee members including Executive None.
Decision is influenced by: Directors will not normally exceed average increases for employees in other appropriate parts of the Group.
Increases above this level may be made in specific situations.
These situations level of skill, experience and scope of responsibilities couldinclude but are not limited to internal promotions, changes to role, material changes to ofindividual: the business and exceptional company performance.
business performance, scarcity of talent, economic climate and market conditions: increases elsewhere within the Group: and external comparator groups which are used for reference purposes only made up of companies ofsimilar size and complexity to Vodafone.
Pension To remain competitive within the marketplace.
Executive Directors may choose to participate in the defined The pension contribution or cash payment is equal to 24% of annual gross salary.
contribution pension scheme or to receive a cash allowance inlieu of pension.
Benefits To aid retention and remain competitive within Travel related benefits.
This may include but is not limited to Benefits will be provided in line with appropriate levels indicated by local market practice in the None.
company car or cash allowance, fuel and access to a driver country of employment.
We expect to maintain benefits at the current level but the value of benefit may fluctuate Private medical, death and disability insurance and annual depending on, amongst other things, personal situation, insurance premiums and other health checks.
In the event that we ask an individual to relocate we would offer them support in line with Vodafones relocation or international assignment policies.
This may cover but is not limited to relocation, cost of living allowance, housing, home leave, education support, tax equalisation and advice.
Other benefits are also offered in line with the benefits offered to other employees for example, our all-employee share plan, mobile phone discounts, maternity paternity benefits, sick leave, paid holiday, etc.
Annual Bonus To drive behaviour and communicate the key Bonus levels and the appropriateness of measures and Bonuses can range from 0200% of base salary, with 100% paidfor on-target performance.
Performance over each financial year is Global Shortpriorities for the year.
weightings are reviewed annually to ensure they continue to Maximum is only paid out for exceptional performance.
measured against stretching targets set at Term Incentive support our strategy.
the beginning of the year.
To motivate employees and incentivise Plan GSTIP delivery of performance over the one year Performance over the financial year is measured against The performance measures normally operating cycle.
stretching financial and non-financial performance targets set at comprise of a mix of financial and strategic the start of the financial year.
Financial measures may include The financial metrics are designed to both drive but are not limited to profit, revenue and our growth strategies whilst also focusing on The annual bonus is usually paid in cash in June each year for cash flow with a weighting of no less than improving operating efficiencies.
The strategic performance over the previous year.
Strategic measures may include but measures aim to ensure a great customer are not limited to customer appreciation experience remains at the heart of what we do.
KPIs such as net promoter score and brand consideration.
Long-Term To motivate and incentivise delivery ofsustained Award levels and the framework for determining vesting The target award level is 230% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 210% for other Performance is measured against Incentive performance over the long term.
are reviewed annually to ensure they continue to support Executive Directors.
stretching targets set at the beginning of Global Longour strategy.
To support and encourage greater shareholder Minimum vesting is 0% of the target award level, threshold vesting is 45% of the target award Term Incentive alignment through a high level ofpersonal Long-term incentive awards consist of performance shares which level, and maximum vesting is 250% of the target award level.
Vesting is determined based on the Plan GLTI share ownership.
following measures: Maximum long-term incentive face value at award of 575% of base salary for the Chief The use of free cash flow as the principal All awards vest not less than three years after the award based on Executive and 525% for others Executive Directors.
adjusted free cash flow as our performance measure ensures we apply prudent Group operational and external performance.
operational performance measure: and The Committee has the discretion to reduce long-term incentive grant levels for directors who cash management and rigorous capital discipline Dividend equivalents are paid in cash after the vestingdate.
have neither met their shareholding guideline nor increased their shareholding by 100% of relative TSR against a peer group to our investment decisions, whilst the use of TSR salary during the year.
of companies as our external along with a performance period of not less than performance measure.
three years means that we are focused on the The awards that vest accrue cash dividend equivalents over the three year vesting period.
long-term interests of our shareholders.
Measures will normally be weighted 2 3 Awards vest to the extent performance conditions are satisfied.
There is a mandatory holding to adjusted free cash flow and 1 3 to period where 50% of the post-tax shares are released after vesting, a further 25% after the first relative TSR.
anniversary of vesting, and the remaining 25% will bereleased after the second anniversary.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 75 The remuneration policy table The table below summarises the main components of the reward package for Executive Directors.
Governance 76 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Remuneration Policy continued Notes to the remuneration policy table Existing arrangements We will honour existing awards to Executive Directors, and incentives, benefits and contractual arrangements made to individuals prior to their promotion to the Board and or prior to the approval and implementation of this policy.
For the avoidance of doubt this includes payments in respect of any award granted under the previous remuneration policy.
This will last until the existing incentives vest or lapse or the benefits or contractual arrangements no longer apply.
Long-Term Incentive GLTI When referring to our long-term incentive awards we use the financial year end in which the award was made.
For example, the 2017 award was made in the financial year ending 31 March 2017.
The awards are usually made in the first half of the financial year the 2017 award was made in June 2016.
The extent to which awards vest depends on two performance conditions: underlying operational performance as measured by adjusted free cash flow: and relative Total Shareholder Return TSR against a peer group median.
Adjusted free cash flow The free cash flow performance is based on the cumulative adjusted free cash flow figure over the performance period.
The detailed targets and the definition ofadjusted free cash flow are determined each year as appropriate.
The target adjusted free cash flow level is set by reference to our long-range plan and market expectations.
We consider the targets to be critical to the Companys long-term success and its ability to maximise shareholder value, and to be in line with the strategic goals of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee sets these targets to be sufficiently demanding with significant stretch where only outstanding performance will be rewarded with a maximum payout.
The cumulative adjusted free cash flow vesting levels as a percentage of the award subject to this performance element are shown in the table below with linear interpolation between points : Vesting percentage Performance % of FCF element Below threshold 0% Threshold 18% Target 40% Maximum 100% TSR outperformance of a peer group median We have a limited number of appropriate peers and this makes the measurement of a relative ranking system volatile.
As such, the outperformance of the median of a peer group is felt to be the most appropriate TSR measure.
The peer group for the performance conditionis reviewed each year and amended as appropriate.
The TSR vesting levels as a percentage of the award subject to this performance element are shown in the table below with linear interpolation between points : Vesting percentage % of TSR element Below median 0% Median 18% Percentage outperformance of the peer group median equivalent to 65th percentile 40% Percentage outperformance of the peer group median equivalent to 80th percentile 100% In order to determine the percentages for the equivalent outperformance levels above median, the Remuneration Committee seeks independent external advice.
Remuneration policy for other employees While our remuneration policy follows the same fundamental principles across the Group, packages offered to employees reflect differences in market practice in the different countries, role and seniority.
For example, the remuneration package elements for our Executive Committee are essentially the same as for the Executive Directors with some minor differences, for example smaller levels of share awards and local or regional performance conditions where appropriate.
The remuneration for the next level of management, our senior leadership team, again follows the same principles with local and individual performance aspects in the annual bonus targets and performance share awards.
They also receive lower levels of share awards which are partly delivered in conditional share awards without performance conditions.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 77 Estimates of total future potential remuneration from 2018 pay packages The tables below provide estimates of the potential future remuneration for each of the Executive Directors based on the remuneration opportunity to be granted in the 2018 financial year.
Potential outcomes based on different performance scenarios are provided for each Executive Director.
The assumptions underlying each scenario are described below.
Fixed Consists of base salary, benefits and pension.
Benefits are valued using the figures in the total remuneration for the 2017 financial year table on page 78 of the 2017 report.
Pensions are valued by applying cash allowance rate of 24% of base salary at 1 July 2017.
Base Benefits Pension Total fixed 000 000 000 000 Chief Executive 1,150 27 276 1,453 Chief Financial Officer 725 29 174 928 On target Based on what a Director would receive if performance was in line with plan.
The target award opportunity for the annual bonus GSTIP is 100% of base salary.
The target award opportunity for the long-term incentive GLTI is 230% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 210% for the Chief Financial Officer.
Weassumed that TSR performance was at median.
Maximum Two times the target award opportunity is payable under the annual bonus GSTIP.
The maximum levels of performance for the long-term incentive GLTI are 250% of target award opportunity.
We assumed that TSR performance was at or above the 80th percentile equivalent.
All scenarios Long-term incentives consist of share awards only which are measured at face value i. e. no assumption for increase in share price or cash dividend equivalents payable.
Vittorio Colao, Chief Executive 000 Nick Read, Chief Financial officer 000 12,000 12,000 10,366 64% 10,000 10,000 8,000 8,000 6,184 62% 5,248 6,000 6,000 50% 3,176 22% 4,000 4,000 48% 22% 23% 1,453 928 23% 2,000 28% 2,000 14% 29% 15% 0 Fixed On target Maximum 0 Fixed On target Maximum Salary and benets Annual bonus Long-term incentive Salary and benets Annual bonus Long-term incentive Recruitment remuneration Our approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay no more than is necessary and appropriate to attract the right talent to the role.
The remuneration policy table pages 72 and 73 sets out the various components which would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package for the appointment of an Executive Director.
Any new Directors remuneration package would include the same elements, and be subject to the same constraints, as those of the existing Directors performing similar roles.
This means a potential maximum bonus opportunity of 200% of base salary and long-term incentive maximum face value of opportunity at award of 575% of base salary.
When considering the remuneration arrangements of individuals recruited from external roles to the Board, we will take into account the remuneration package of that individual in their prior role.
We only provide additional compensation to individuals for awards foregone.
If necessary we will seek to replicate, as far as practicable, the level and timing of such remuneration, taking into account also any remaining performance requirements applying to it.
This will be achieved by granting awards of cash or shares that vest over a timeframe similar to those forfeited and if appropriate based on performance conditions.
A commensurate reduction in quantum will be applied where it is determined that the new awards are either not subject to performance conditions or subject to performance conditions that are not as stretching as those of the awards forfeited.
Service contracts of Executive Directors After an initial termof up to two years Executive Directors contracts have rolling terms and are terminable on no more than 12months notice.
The key elements of the service contract for executives relate to remuneration, payments on loss of office see below, and restrictions during active employment and for 12 months thereafter.
These restrictions include non-competition, non-solicitation of customers and employees etc.
Additionally, all of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control to the extent that any performance condition has been satisfied and pro-rated to reflect the acceleration of vesting.
Governance 78 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Remuneration Policy continued Payments for departing executives In the table below we summarise the key elements of our policy on payment for loss of office.
We will of course, always comply both with the relevant plan rules and local employment legislation.
Provision Policy Notice period and 12 months notice from the Company to the Executive Director.
compensation for Up to 12 months base salary in line with the notice period.
Notice period payments will either be made as loss ofoffice in normal iftheexecutive continues to work during the notice period or is on gardening leave or they will be made servicecontracts as monthly payments in lieu of notice subject to mitigation if alternative employment is obtained.
Treatment of annual bonus The annual bonus will be pro-rated for the period of service during the financial year and will reflect the extent to GSTIP on termination which Company performance has been achieved.
under plan rules The Remuneration Committee has discretion to reduce the entitlement to an annual bonus to reflect the individuals performance and the circumstances of the termination.
Treatment of unvested An Executive Directors award will vest in accordance with the terms of the plan and satisfaction of performance long-term incentive awards conditions measured at the normal completion of the performance period, with the award pro-rated for the GLTI on termination proportion of the vesting period that had elapsed at the date of cessation of employment.
underplanrules The Remuneration Committee has discretion to vary the level of vesting as deemed appropriate, and in particular to determine that awards should not vest for reasons which may include, at their absolute discretion, departure in case of poor performance, departure without the agreement of the Board, or detrimental competitive activity.
Pension and benefits Generally pension and benefit provisions will continue to apply until the termination date.
Where appropriate other benefits may be receivable, such as but not limited to payments in lieu of accrued holiday and legal fees or tax advice costs in relation to the termination.
Benefits of relative small value may continue after termination where appropriate, such as but not limited to mobile phone provision.
In exceptional circumstances, an arrangement may be established specifically to facilitate the exit of a particular individual albeit that any such arrangement would be made within the context of minimising the cost to the Group.
We will only take such a course of action in exceptional circumstances and where it is considered to be in the best interests of shareholders.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors remuneration Our policy is for the Chairman to review the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors annually following consultation with the Remuneration Committee Chairman.
Fees for the Chairman are set by the Remuneration Committee.
Element Policy Fees We aim to pay competitively for the role including consideration of the time commitment required.
We benchmark the fees against an appropriate external comparator group.
We pay fees to our Chairman and Senior Independent Director that include fees for chairmanship of any committees.
We pay a fee to each of our other Non-Executive Directors and they receive an additional fee if they chair a committee.
Non-executive fee levels are set within the maximum level as approved by shareholders as part of our Articles of Association.
Allowances An allowance is payable each time a non-Europe-based Non-Executive Director is required to travel to attend Board and committee meetings to reflect the additional time commitment involved.
Incentives Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any incentive plans.
Benefits Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any benefit plans.
The Company does not provide any contribution to their pension arrangements.
The Chairman is entitled to the use of a car and a driver whenever and wherever he is providing his services to or representing theCompany.
We have been advised that for Non-Executive Directors, certain travel and accommodation expenses in relation to attending Board meetings should be treated as a taxable benefit therefore we also cover the tax liability for these expenses.
Non-Executive Director service contracts Non-Executive Directors are engaged on letters of appointment that set out their duties and responsibilities.
Theappointment of Non-Executive Directors may be terminated without compensation.
Non-Executive Directors are generally not expected toserve for a period exceeding nine years.
For further information refer to the Nomination and Governance Committee section of the Annual Report.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 79 Annual Report on Remuneration Remuneration Committee In this section we give details of the composition of the Remuneration Committee and activities undertaken during the 2018 financial year.
The Committee is comprised to exercise independent judgement and consists only of the following independent Non-Executive Directors: Chairman: Valerie Gooding Committee members: Dr Mathias Dpfner, Renee James and Samuel Jonah The Committee regularly consults with Vittorio Colao, the Chief Executive, and Ronald Schellekens, the Group HR Director, on various matters relating to the appropriateness of awards for Executive Directors and senior executives, though they are not present when their own compensation is discussed.
Inaddition, Adrian Jackson, the Group Reward and Policy Director, provides a perspective on information provided to the Committee, and requests information and analysis from external advisers as required.
Rosemary Martin, the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, advises the Committee on corporate governance guidelines and acts as secretary to the Committee.
External advisers The Remuneration Committee seeks and considers advice from independent remuneration advisers where appropriate.
The appointed advisers, Willis Towers Watson, were selected through a thorough process led by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee at the time and were appointed by the Committee in 2007.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee has direct access to the advisers as and when required, and the Committee determines the protocols by which the advisers interact with management in support of the Committee.
The advice and recommendations of the external advisers are used as a guide, but do not serve as a substitute for thorough consideration of the issues by each Committee member.
Advisers attend Committee meetings occasionally, as and when required by the Committee.
Willis Towers Watson is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
This is based upon principles of transparency, integrity, objectivity, competence, due care and confidentiality by executive remuneration consultants.
Willis Towers Watson has confirmed that it adheres to that Code of Conduct throughout the year for all remuneration services provided to Vodafone and therefore the Committee is satisfied that it is independent and objective.
The Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct is available at .
Fees for services provided to the Committee 1 Adviser Appointed by Services provided to the Committee 000 Other services provided to the Company Willis Towers Watson Remuneration Advice on market practice: governance: 63 Reward and benefits consultancy: Committee provision ofmarket data on executive reward: provision of benchmark data: pension in 2007 rewardconsultancy: and performance analysis.
administration: and insurance consultancy services.
Note: 1 Fees are determined on a time spent basis.
2017 annual general meeting Remuneration Policy voting results At the 2017 annual general meeting there was a binding vote on our Remuneration Policy.
Details of the voting outcomes are provided in the table below.
Votes for % Votes against % Total votes Withheld Remuneration Policy 17,581,245,488 97.19 507,704,367 2.81 18,088,949,855 55,312,703 2017 annual general meeting Remuneration Report voting results At the 2017 annual general meeting there was an advisory vote on our Remuneration Report.
Votes for % Votes against % Total votes Withheld Remuneration Report 17,324,339,658 97.40 462,209,294 2.60 17,786,548,952 357,720,232 Meetings The Remuneration Committee had five formal meetings and one formal conference call during the year.
In addition, informal conference calls can also take place.
The principal agenda items at the formal meetings were as follows: Meeting Agenda items May 2017 2017 annual bonus achievement and 2018 targets and ranges 2017 Directors Remuneration Report 2015 long-term incentive award vesting and 2018 targets and ranges July 2017 2018 long-term incentive awards Large local market CEO remuneration November 2017 Corporate governance matters External insights January 2018 2019 annual bonus framework Review of Remuneration Policy Gender Pay Gap March 2018 2019 reward packages for the Executive Committee Committees Terms of Reference Chairman and Non-Executive Director fee levels Risk assessment 2018 Directors Remuneration Report Governance 80 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Annual Report on Remuneration continued 2018 remuneration In this section we summarise the pay packages awarded to our Executive Directors for performance in the 2018 financial year versus 2017.
Specifically we have provided a table that shows all remuneration that was earned by each individual during the year and computed a single total remuneration figure for the year.
The value of the annual bonus GSTIP reflects what was earned in respect of the year but will be paid out in cash in the following year.
Similarly the value of the long-term incentive GLTI reflects the share awards which will vest in June 2018 as a result of the performance through the three year period ended at the completion of our financial year on 31 March 2018.
The Remuneration Committee reviews all incentive awards prior to payment and uses judgement to ensure that the final assessments of performance are fair and appropriate.
If circumstances warrant it, the Committee may adjust the final payment or vesting downwards.
On this occasion, based on the fact that final annual bonus payout and final vesting level of long-term incentives awards under the GLTI were deemed to be an accurate reflection of performance and were considered fair and appropriate, the Committee did not use its discretion to adjust final outcomes.
Total remuneration for the 2018 financial year audited Vittorio Colao Nick Read 2018 2017 2018 2017 000 000 000 000 Salary fees 1,150 1,150 722 710 1 Taxable benefits 25 27 24 29 Annual bonus: GSTIP see below for further detail 1,471 1,087 927 675 Total long-term incentive: 5,061 3,791 2,648 2,029 2 GLTI vesting during the year 4,296 3,271 2,248 1,751 3 Cash in lieu of GLTI dividends 765 520 400 278 Cash in lieu of pension 276 276 173 171 4 Other 1 1 1 1 Total 7,984 6,332 4,495 3,615 Notes: 1 Taxable benefits include amounts in respect of: P rivate healthcare 2018: Vittorio Colao 2,482, Nick Read 2,482: 2017: Vittorio Colao 3,091, Nick Read 2,079 : Cash car allowance 19,200 p. a. : and Travel 2018: Vittorio Colao 2,864, Nick Read 2,479: 2017: Vittorio Colao 4,812, Nick Read 7,933.
2 The value shown in the 2017 column is the award which vested on 26 June 2017 and is valued using the execution share price on 26 June 2017 of 224.29 pence.
The value shown in the 2018 column is the award which vests on 26 June 2018 and is valued using an average of closing share price over the last quarter of the 2018 financial year of 211.81 pence.
3 Participants also receive a cash award, equivalent in value to the dividends that would have been paid during the vesting period on any shares that vest.
The cash in lieu of dividend value shown in 2018 relates to the award which vests on 26 June 2018.
4 Reflects the value of the SAYE benefit which is calculated as 375 2017: 250 x 12 months x 20% to reflect the discount applied based on savings made during the year.
2018 annual bonus GSTIP payout audited In the table below we disclose our achievement against each of the performance measures and targets in our annual bonus GSTIP and the resulting total annual bonus payout level for the year ended 31 March 2018 of 127.9% of target.
This is applied to the target bonus level of 100% of base salary for each executive.
Commentary on our performance against each measure is provided below the table.
Payout at Payout at Threshold Target Maximum Actual target maximum Actual performance performance performance performance 1 performance performance payout level level level level Performance measure 100% 200% % bn bn bn bn Service revenue 20% 40% 20.5% 43.4 45.7 48.0 45.7 Adjusted EBIT 20% 40% 30.0% 2.5 3.7 4.8 4.3 Adjusted free cash flow 20% 40% 32.7% 3.9 4.7 5.6 5.3 Customer appreciation KPIs 40% 80% 44.7% See below for further details Total annual bonus payout level 100% 200% 127.9% Notes: 1 These figures are adjusted to include the removal of the impact of M&A, foreign exchange movements and any changes in accounting treatment.
Financial Metrics During the year under review, service revenue performance was in line with the target performance level.
This reflected above target revenue performance in Germany, UK, Italy, and most of our other European markets as well as Egypt and Turkey.
However, this was offset by below target performance in Spain, India, and New Zealand.
Adjusted EBIT and free cash flow results were above target in nearly all markets, with particularly strong results in the UK, Germany, Italy, Egypt and Turkey.
Customer appreciation KPIs An assessment of performance under the customer appreciation KPIs measure was conducted on a market by market basis.
Each market was assessed against a number of different metrics which included: Net Promoter Score for both Consumer and Enterprise business units Brand consideration for Enterprise and both Consumer user and Consumer non-user Churn, revenue market share and ARPU In respect of the measures included under the customer appreciation KPIs, net promoter score is used as a measure of the extent to which our customers would recommend us, whilst brand consideration acts as a measure of the percentage of people who would consider using a certain brand as their telecoms provider.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 81 Both measures utilise data from our local markets which is collected and validated for quality and consistency by independent third party agencies.
The data is sourced from studies involving both our own customers and customers of our competitors for the NPS measure, and both Vodafone users and non-users for the brand consideration measure.
In formulating a final assessment of performance under the customer appreciation KPIs other relevant customer factors such as churn, customer growth and service levels are considered.
Overall Group performance was above target for the year reflecting our current market positions of: Being ranked number 1 for Consumer NPS in 19 of the 22 markets where we measure this metric.
Being ranked number 1 for Enterprise NPS in 12 of the 18 markets where we measure this metric.
Being ranked number 1 for both User and Non-User Consumer Brand Consideration in 17 of the 22 markets where we measure this metric.
During the year we increased the number of markets where we were number 1 for consumer NPS from 15 to 19 markets, but saw the number of markets where we were number 1 for Enterprise NPS decrease from 14 to 12.
The fact that overall performance against our Customer Appreciation KPIs metrics remains significantly below maximum opportunity reflects that, in our opinion, there is still work to be done to both maintain and improve our global customer service offering.
The aggregated performance for the regions and the Group is calculated on a revenue-weighted average to give an overall achievement.
Performance this year under this measure is as follows: Customer appreciation KPIs Achievement Europe 110.0% AMAP 115.9% Group 111.7% To provide a breakdown of overall performance, the table above sets out our achievement in both our Europe and AMAP regions.
The achievement percentage for Europe reflects strong performance in both Germany and Italy, with Portugal and Ireland also recording above target performance in this area.
The above target performance in Germany reflects our position as NPS leader in this market, with our overall NPS score improving year on year.
In Italy we hold the position of 4G customer leader with the average data usage increasing compared to the previous year.
The achievement percentage for AMAP reflects strong performance in India, South Africa and our other Southern African markets.
In South Africa we are the NPS leader in both Consumer and Enterprise with a significant lead above our second placed peers.
This market leading position is replicated in India despite particularly challenging market conditions.
Despite pricing pressures in this market we are the joint leader for both user and non-user Brand Consideration reflecting the effective implementation of our CXX programme despite difficult local conditions.
Base salary Target bonus 2018 payout Actual payment 2018 annual bonus GSTIP amounts 000 % of base salary % of target 000 Vittorio Colao 1,150 100% 127.9% 1,471 Nick Read 725 100% 127.9% 927 Long-term incentive GLTI award vesting in June 2018 audited The 2016 long-term incentive GLTI awards which were made in June 2015 and September 2015 will vest at 66.7% of maximum 166.9%of target in June 2018.
The performance conditions for the three year period ending in the 2018 financial year are as follows: TSR outperformance TSR peer group 0.0% p. a.
9.0% p. a. Bharti Orange Adjusted free cash flow measure bn Up to median 65th percentile equivalent 80th percentile equivalent BT Group Telecom Italia Below threshold 7.3 0% 0% 0% Deutsche Telekom Telefnica Threshold 7.3 50% 100% 125% MTN Target 9.0 75% 150% 200% Maximum 10.7 125% 187.5% 250% The adjusted free cash flow for the three year period ended on 31 March 2016 GLTI award: TSR performance 2018 was 8.7 billion.
This compares with a target of 9.0 billion and growth in the value of a hypothetical US$100 holding over the athreshold of 7.3 billion.
performance period, six-month averaging The chart to the right shows that our TSR performance against our 120 114 peer group for the same period resulted in an out-performance of the 115 108 median by 7.6% a year.
95 90 The combined vesting percentages are applied to the target number 87 85 86 83 of shares granted as shown below.
Governance 82 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Adjusted free cash Maximum Target flow performance Value of number number payout Overall vesting Number of shares vesting 2016 GLTI performance share awards vesting in June 2018 of shares of shares % of target TSR multiplier % of target shares vesting 000 Vittorio Colao 3,039,156 1,215,662 90.5% 1.84 times 166.9% 2,028,332 4,296 Nick Read 1,589,967 635,986 90.5% 1.84 times 166.9% 1,061,143 2,248 These share awards will vest on 26 June 2018.
Specified procedures are performed by  LLP over the adjusted free cash flow to assist with the Committees assessment of performance.
The performance assessment in respect of the TSR measure is undertaken by Willis Towers Watson.
Details of how the plan works can be found in the Policy Report that was approved at the 2014 AGM.
Long-term incentive GLTI awarded during the year audited The independent performance conditions for the 2018 long-term incentive awards made in August 2017 are adjusted free cash flow and TSR performance as follows: Adjusted FCF Performance Adjusted FCF performance Vesting percentage 2 3 of total award bn % of FCF element Below threshold 14.75 0% Threshold 14.75 18% Target 16.60 40% Maximum 18.45 100% TSR Performance Vesting percentage 1 3 of total award TSR outperformance % of TSR element Below threshold Below median 0% Threshold Median 18% Target 5.0% p. a.
80th percentile equivalent 100% TSR peer group Bharti BT Group Deutsche Telekom Liberty Global MTN Orange Royal KPN Telecom Italia Telefnica The awards made to Executive Directors in August 2017 were as follows: 1 Number of shares awarded Face value of shares awarded Proportion of Target maximum award vesting level Maximum Target Maximum vesting at minimum Performance 2018 GLTI performance share awards made in August 2017 40% of max vesting level vesting level vestinglevel performance period end 1 Vittorio Colao 1,180,803 2,952,008 2,644,999 6,612,498 5th 31 Mar 2020 1 Nick Read 669,374 1,673,437 1,499,398 3,748,499 5th 31 Mar 2020 Note: 1 Face value calculated based on the share price at the date of grant of 224.0 pence.
Dividend equivalents on the shares that vest are paid in cash after the vesting date.
Outstanding awards The structure for awards made in June 2016 vesting in June 2019 is set out below.
These awards vest subject to a combined vesting matrix as follows illustrated as a percentage of target with linear interpolation between points : TSR outperformance Up to 65th percentile 80th percentile Adjusted free cash flow measure Median equivalent equivalent Below threshold 0% 0% 0% Threshold 50% 75% 100% Target 100% 150% 200% Maximum 125% 187.5% 250% The structure for awards made in August 2017 vesting August 2020 is set out at the top of this page.
Further details on the structure of these awards can be found in the Annual Report on Remuneration of the relevant year.
All-employee share plans During the year, the Executive Directors were eligible to participate in the Vodafone Group 2008 Sharesave Plan which is open to UK all-employees.
The Vodafone Group 2008 Sharesave Plan is an HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approved scheme open to all staff permanently employed by a Vodafone company in the UK as of the eligibility date.
Options under the plan are granted at up to a 20% discount to market value.
Executive Directors participation is included in the option table on page 84.
Pensions audited The Executive Directors received a cash allowance of 24% of base salary during the 2018 financial year.
No Executive Directors accrued benefits under any defined contribution pension plans during the year or have participated in a defined benefits scheme while an Executive Director.
The Executive Directors are provided benefits in the event of death in service.
They also have an entitlement under a long-term disability plan from which two-thirds of base salary, up to a maximum benefit determined by the insurer, would be provided until normal retirement date aged 60.
In respect of the Executive Committee members, the Group has made aggregate contributions of 256,913 2017: 233,011 into defined contribution pension schemes.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 83 Alignment to shareholder interests audited Both of our Executive Directors have shareholdings in excess of their goals.
Current levels of ownership by the Executive Directors, and the date by which the goal should be or should have been achieved, are shown below.
The values are calculated using an average share price over the six months to 31 March 2018 of 217.58 pence.
Goal as a % Current % % of goal Number Value of Date for goal At 31 March 2018 of salary of salary held achieved of shares shareholding to be achieved Vittorio Colao 500% 2,306% 461% 12,190,562 26.5m July 2012 Nick Read 400% 634% 159% 2,113,416 4.6m April 2019 The shareholding goals include a post-employment condition whereby the Executive Directors will be required to continue to meet their guideline until all long-term incentives have vested.
If this condition is not met, then any unvested GLTI awards will normally be forfeited Collectively the Executive Committee including the Executive Directorsown more than 24 million Vodafone shares, with a value of over 54.3 million.
None of the Executive Committee members shareholdings amounts to more than 1% of the issued shares in that class of share, excluding treasury shares.
Directors interests in the shares of the Company audited A summary of interests in shares and scheme interests of the Directors who served during the year is given below.
More details of the performance shares and options follows.
Share plans Share options SAYE Total number Unvested GLTI shares unvested without At 31 March 2018 of interests in shares with performance conditions performance conditions Executive Directors Vittorio Colao 21,274,490 9,070,102 13,826 Nick Read 6,822,235 4,695,527 13,292 Total 28,096,725 13,765,629 27,118 The total number of interests in shares includes interests of connected persons, unvested share awards and share options.
Total number of interests At 31 March 2018 in shares Non-Executive Directors Sir Crispin Davis 34,500 1 Michel Demar Dr Mathias Dpfner 11,500 Dame Clara Furse 25,000 Valerie Gooding 28,970 Renee James 27,272 Samuel Jonah 30,190 Gerard Kleisterlee 107,078 1 Maria Amparo Moraleda Martinez David Nish 74,137 Notes: 1 On 15 May 2018 Michel Demar acquired an interest in 50,000 shares and Maria Amparo Moraleda Martinez acquired an interest in 25,000 shares resulting in a total interest in 50,000 shares and 25,000 respectively as at 15 May 2018.
At 15 May 2018 and during the period from 1 April 2018 to 15 May 2018, no Director had any interest in the shares of any subsidiary company.
Other than those individuals included in the tables above who were Board members at 31 March 2018 members of the Groups Executive Committee at 31 March 2018 had an aggregate beneficial interest in 10,695,611 ordinary shares of the Company.
At 15 May 2018 the Directors had an aggregate beneficial interest in 14,717,625 ordinary shares of the Company and the Executive Committee members had an aggregate beneficial interest in 10,695,611 ordinary shares of the Company.
None of the Directors or the Executive Committee members had an individual beneficial interest amounting to greater than 1% of the Companys ordinary shares.
With the exception of the acquisition of an interest in 50,000 shares by Michel Demar, and the acquisition of an interest in 25,000 shares by Maria Amparo Moraleda Martinez as outlined above, the Directors total number of interests in shares did not change during the period from 1 April 2018 to 15 May 2018.
Performance shares The maximum number of outstanding shares that have been awarded to Directors under the long-term incentive GLTI plan are currently as follows: 2016 award 2017 award 2018 award Awarded: June 2015 and September 2015 Awarded: June 2016 Awarded: August 2017 Performance period ending: March 2018 Performance period ending: March 2019 Performance period ending: March 2020 Vesting date: June 2018 Vesting date: June 2019 Vesting date: August 2020 GLTI performance share awards Share price at grant: 239.4 pence and 207.2 pence Share price at grant: 216.8 pence Share price at grant: 224.0 pence Vittorio Colao 3,039,156 3,078,938 2,952,008 Nick Read 1,589,967 1,432,123 1,673,437 For details of the performance conditions for the 2017 and 2018 awards please see page 82.
Details of the 2016 award are available on page 81.
Governance 84 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Share options The following information summarises the Executive Directors options under the Vodafone Group 2008 Sharesave Plan SAYE.
HMRC approved awards may be made under all of the schemes mentioned.
No other Directors have options under any schemes and, other than under the SAYE, no options have been granted since 2007.
Options under the Vodafone Group 2008 Sharesave Plan were granted at a discount of 20% to the market value of the shares at the time of the grant.
No other options may be granted at a discount.
Options Options Options At granted exercised lapsed 1 April 2017 during the during the during the Options Market or date of 2018 financial 2018 financial 2018 financial held at Option price on appointment year year year 31 March 2018 price exercise Date from Number Number Number Number Number which Gain on 1 Grant date of shares of shares of shares of shares of shares Pence exercisable Expiry date Pence exercise Vittorio Colao SAYE Jul 2014 9,607 9,607 156.13 Sep 2019 Feb 2020 SAYE Jul 2017 4,219 4,219 177.75 Sep 2022 Feb 2023 Total 9,607 4,219 13,826 Nick Read SAYE Jul 2012 10,389 10,389 144.37 Sep 2017 Feb 2018 213.75 7,208 SAYE Mar 2017 4,854 4,854 154.51 Apr 2022 Sep 2022 SAYE Jul 2017 8,438 8,438 177.75 Sep 2022 Feb 2023 Total 15,243 8,438 10,389 13,292 Notes: 1 The closing trade share price on 31 March 2018 was 194.22 pence.
The highest trade share price during the year was 238.00 pence and the lowest price was 190.90 pence.
At 15 May 2018 there had been no change to the Directors interests in share options from 31 March 2018.
Other than those individuals included in the table above, at 15 May 2018 members of the Groups Executive Committee held options for 47,592 ordinary shares at prices ranging from 154.5 pence to 189.2 pence per ordinary share, with a weighted average exercise price of 162.0 pence per ordinary share exercisable at dates ranging from 1 September 2018 to 1 September 2022.
Hannes Ametsreiter, Aldo Bisio, Antnio Coimbra, Ahmed Essam, Joakim Reiter, Ronald Schellekens and Serpil Timuray held no options at 15 May 2018.
Loss of office payments audited Other than amounts already disclosed in prior year reports, no loss of office payments were made during the year.
Payments to past Directors audited During the 2018 financial year Lord MacLaurin received benefit payments in respect of security costs as per his contractual arrangements.
These costs exceeded our fide minimis threshold of 5,000 p. a. and, including the tax paid, were 9,411 2017: 9,813.
Fees retained for external non-executive directorships Executive Directors may hold positions in other companies as non-executive directors and retain the fees.
During the year ended 31 March 2018, Vittorio Colao served as a non-executive director on the boards of Unilever N. V. and Unilever PLC.
Vittorio retained fees of 54,474 and 42,500 respectively for these roles 2017: 54,474 and 43,870.
Assessing pay and performance In the table below we summarise the Chief Executives single figure Nine-year historical TSR performance remuneration over the past nine years, as well as how our variable pay growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over nine years plans have paid out in relation to the maximum opportunity.
This can 310 be compared with the historic TSR performance over the same period.
325 322 285 288 The chart below shows the performance of the Company relative to the 267 287 275 279 276 STOXX Europe 600 Index over a nine year period.
The STOXX Europe 245 215 600 Index was selected as this is a broad-based index that includes 227 225 190 many of our closest competitors.
It should be noted thatthepayout 170 193 155 from the long-term incentive plan is based on the TSRperformance 175 168 167 shown in the chart on page 81 and not this chart.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 85 Change in the Chief Executives remuneration between 2017 and 2018 In the table below we show the percentage change in the Chief Executives remuneration salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus payment between the 2017 and 2018 financial years compared to the average for other Vodafone Group employees who are measured on comparable business objectives and who have been employed in the UK since 2017 per capita.
Vodafone has employees based all around the world and some of these individuals work in countries with very high inflation therefore a comparison to Vodafones UK-based Group employees is more appropriate than to all employees.
Percentage change from 2017 to 2018 Other Vodafone Group employees Item Chief Executive: Vittorio Colao employed in the UK Base salary 0.0% 4.9% Taxable benefits -7.4% 1.2% Annual bonus 35.3% 51.2% Relative spend on pay The chart below shows both the dividends distributed in the year and the total cost of remuneration in the Group.
Relative importance of spend on pay m 5,519 6,000 5,076 5,000 3,961 3,709 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 [ 0 2017 2018 2017 2018 Distributed by way of dividends Overall expenditure on remuneration for all employees For more details on dividends and expenditure on remuneration for all employees, please see pages 130 and 154 respectively.
2018 remuneration for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors audited 1 Salary fees Benefits Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 000 000 000 000 000 000 Chairman Gerard Kleisterlee 625 625 85 87 710 712 Senior Independent Director Valerie Gooding 157 140 10 12 167 152 Non-Executive Directors Sir Crispin Davis 115 115 5 10 120 125 Michel Demar appointed 1 February 2018 19 6 25 Dr Mathias Dpfner 115 115 5 10 120 125 Dame Clara Furse 115 115 6 13 121 128 2 Renee James 139 139 19 11 158 150 2 Samuel Jonah 151 145 12 9 163 154 Maria Amparo Moraleda Martinez appointed 1 June 2017 96 21 117 David Nish 132 115 24 13 156 128 Former Non-Executive Directors Nick Land retired 28 July 2017 47 140 6 3 53 143 Phil Yea retired 28 July 2017 47 140 3 2 50 142 Total 1,758 1,789 202 170 1,960 1,959 Notes: 1 We have been advised that for Non-Executive Directors, certain travel and accommodation expenses in relation to attending Board meetings should be treated as a taxable benefit.
The table above includes these travel expenses and the corresponding tax contribution.
2 Salary fees include an additional allowance of 6,000 per meeting for Directors based outside Europe.
Governance 86 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Annual Report on Remuneration continued 2019 remuneration Details of how the remuneration policy will be implemented for the 2019 financial year are set out below.
2019 base salaries Vittorio Colao, will retire from the Board effective 30 September 2018.
Following the conclusion of our 2018 AGM, Nick Read currently Chief Financial Officer will be appointed Chief Executive-Designate, with Margherita Della Valle currently Deputy Chief Financial Officer being appointed Chief Financial Officer.
Nick Read will subsequently be appointed Chief Executive on 1 October 2018.
The annual salaries for the two new incumbents effective 27 July 2018 are as follows: Chief Executive: Nick Read 1,050,000: and Chief Financial Officer: Margherita Della Valle 700,000.
The above salaries reflect a decrease on the current levels paid for these positions currently 1,150,000 and 725,000 respectively.
The Committee has sought to ensure that the revised salaries reflect the significant and relevant business experience and strong track records that both individuals will bring to the positions, and that overall arrangements remain fair and competitive.
The average salary increase for Executive Committee members will be 2.6% this compares to a budget of 2.5% which is based on an average of the relevant local market budget for each Executive Committee member, Pension Effective 27 July 2018, the pension contributions for all new Executive Directors will be reduced from 24% of salary to 10% of salary.
This revised level will apply to both Nick Read and Margherita Della Valle following their appointments to their new respective positions on 27 July 2018 and is now in line with the pension arrangements of our other people in the UK.
Total fixed pay The combined impact of the changes to salary and pension results in a reduction in fixed pay of 19.0% for the position of Chief Executive, and of 14.3% for the Chief Financial Officer.
Although external market data was not the determining factor when setting the salary positions, the Committee recognises that the revised base salaries for both the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer are towards the lower end of the market when compared to companies of a comparable size and complexity.
Further information on the Committees rationale for the revised salary position can be found in the Remuneration Committee Chairmans letter on page 71.
2019 annual bonus GSTIP The performance measures and weightings for 2019, which remain unchanged from 2018, are outlined below.
service revenue 20% : adjusted EBIT 20% : adjusted free cash flow 20% : and customer appreciation KPIs 40%.
This includes an assessment of Net Promoter Score NPS and brand consideration measures.
The assessment of NPS and brand consideration metrics utilises data collected in our local markets which is validated for quality and consistency by independent third party agencies.
Further details on how this data is collated and how the individual metrics used to measure customer appreciation KPIs are defined is provided on pages 80 and 81.
Due to the potential impact on our commercial interests, annual bonus targets are considered commercially sensitive and therefore will be disclosed in the 2019 Remuneration Report following the completion of the financial year.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 87 Long-term incentive GLTI awards for 2019 Awards for 2019 will be made in line with the arrangements described in our policy on pages 74 to 76.
Vesting of the 2019 award will be subject to the performance of adjusted free cash flow 2 3 of total award and TSR 1 3 of total award.
The details for the 2019 award targets are provided in the table below with linear interpolation between points.
Following the annual review of the performance measures which included a review of analysis provided by the Committees external advisers, the Committee decided that for the 2019 award the TSR outperformance range should remain unchanged from that used for the 2018 award at 5.0% p. a. at target and 10.0% p. a. at maximum.
The Committee also determined it appropriate to keep the same peer group constituents as used for the 2018 award.
Adjusted FCF Performance Adjusted FCF performance Vesting percentage 2 3 of total award bn % of FCF element Below threshold 15.15 0% Threshold 15.15 18% Target 17.00 40% Maximum 18.85 100% TSR Performance Vesting percentage 1 3 of total award TSR outperformance % of TSR element Below threshold Below median 0% Threshold Median 18% Target 5.0% p. a.
80th percentile equivalent 100% TSR peer group Bharti BT Group Deutsche Telekom Liberty Global MTN Orange Royal KPN Telecom Italia Telefnica 2019 remuneration for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors For the 2018 review, the fees for our Chairman and non-executives have been benchmarked against the FTSE 30 excluding financial services companies.
The Chairmans fee was last increased in April 2014 and, following the review, it was agreed that this fee should be increased from 625,000 to 650,000 with effect from 1 July 2018.
No changes will be made to the current non-executive fee structure.
Full details of the fee levels are provided in the table below.
Fee payable 000 Position role From 1 July 2018 1 Chairman 650 Non-Executive Director 115 Additional combined fee for Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 50 Additional fee for Chairmanship of Audit and Risk Committee 25 Note: 1 The Chairmans fee also includes the fee for the Chairmanship of the Nominations and Governance Committee.
For 2019, the allowance payable each time a non-Europe-based Non-Executive Director is required to travel to attend Board and Committee meetings to reflect the additional time commitment involved is 6,000.
Further remuneration information Dilution All awards are made under plans that incorporate dilution limits as set out in the guidelines for share incentive schemes published by the .
The current estimated dilution from subsisting executive awards, including the planned June 2018 awards, is approximately 2.7% of the Companys share capital at 31 March 2018 2.9% at 31 March 2017, whilst from all-employee share awards it is approximately 0.4% 0.3%at 31 March 2017.
This gives a total dilution of 3.1% 3.2%at 31 March 2017.
Service contracts The terms and conditions of appointment of our Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the annual general meeting for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting.
The Executive Directors have notice periods in their service contracts of 12 months.
The Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment do not contain provision for notice periods or for compensation if their appointments are terminated.
This report on remuneration has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: Valerie Gooding Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 15 May 2018
