Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 89 Directors report The Directors of the Company present their report together with the audited Change of control consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018.
Details of change of control provisions in the Companys revolving credit facilities areset out on page 148.
This report has been prepared in accordance with requirements outlined within The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Information on agreements between the Company and its Directors providing Regulations 2008 and forms part of the management report as required under for compensation for loss of office of employment including details of change Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule DTR 4.
Certain information that fulfils of control provisions in share schemes is set out on pages 77 and 78.
Subject to the requirements of the Directors report can be found elsewhere in this document that, there are no agreements between the Company and its employees and is referred to below.
This information is incorporated into this Directors report providing for compensation for loss of office of employment that occurs because by reference.
Responsibility statement Dividends As required under the DTR, a statement made by the Board regarding the Full details of the Companys dividend policy and proposed final dividend payment preparation of the financial statements is set out on pages 91 and 92 which also for the year ended 31 March 2018 are set out on page 21 and note 9 to the provides details regarding the disclosure of information to the Companys auditors consolidated financial statements.
and managements report on internal control over financial information.
Sustainability Going concern Information about the Companys approach to sustainability risks and opportunities The going concern statement required by the Listing Rules and the UK Corporate is set out on pages 32 to 35.
Also included on these pages are details of our Governance Code the Code is set out in the Directors statement of responsibility greenhouse gas emissions.
Political donations System of risk management and internal control No political donations or contributions to political parties under the Companies Act The Board is responsible for maintaining a risk management and internal control 2006 have been made during the financial year.
The Group policy is that no political system and for managing principal risks faced by the Group.
Such a system donations be made or political expenditure incurred.
is designed to manage rather than eliminate business risks and can only provide Financial risk management objectives and policies reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mistreatment or loss.
Disclosures relating to financial risk management objectives and policies, including This is described in more detail in the Audit and Risk Committee report on pages our policy for hedging are set out in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements 64to 69. and disclosures relating to exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash The Board has implemented in full the FRC Guidance on Risk Management Internal flow risk are outlined in note 22.
Control and related Financial and Business Reporting for the year and to the date of this Annual Report.
The resulting procedures, which are subject to regular Important events since the end of the financial year Details of those important events affecting the Group which have occurred since monitoring and review, provide an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Companys principal risks which can be found on pages 38 to 45. the end of the financial year are set out in the Strategic Report and note 31 to the consolidated financial statements.
Corporate governance statement Future developments within the Group The corporate governance statement setting out how the Company complies The Strategic Report contains details of likely future developments within the Group.
withthe Code and which includes a description of the main features of our internal control and risk management arrangements in relation to the financial reporting Group policy compliance process is set out on pages 47 to 87.
The information required by DTR 7.2.
6R can Each Group policy is owned by a member of the Executive Committee so that be found in the Shareholder information section on pages 191 to 197.
A description there is clear accountability and authority for ensuring the associated business of the composition and operation of the Board and its Committees is set out risk is adequately managed.
Regional Chief Executives and the senior leadership on pages 52 to 53. team member responsible for each Group function have primary accountability Strategic Report for ensuring compliance with all Group policies by all our markets and entities.
Our Group compliance team and policy champions support the policy owners The Strategic Report is set out on pages 4 to 45 and is incorporated into this Directors report by reference.
andlocal markets in implementing policies and monitoring compliance.
Code of Conduct Directors and their interests All of the key Group policies have been consolidated into the Vodafone Code The Directors of the Company who served during the financial year ended 31 March of Conduct.
This is a policy document applicable to all employees and those who 2018 and up to the date of signing the financial statements are as follows: Gerard work for or on behalf of Vodafone.
It sets out the standards of behaviour expected Kleisterlee, Vittorio Colao, Nick Read, Sir Crispin Davis, Michel Demar, Dr Mathias in relation to areas such as insider dealing, bribery and raising concerns through the Dpfner, Dame Clara Furse, Valerie Gooding, Renee James, Samuel Jonah, Amparo whistle-blowing process known internally as Speak Up.
Moraleda, Nick Land, Phil Yea and David Nish.
A summary of the rules relating to the appointment and replacement of Directors and Directors powers can be found Branches on page 62 to 63.
Details of Directors interests in the Companys ordinary shares, The Group, through various subsidiaries, has branches in a number of different options held over ordinary shares, interests in share options and long-term incentive jurisdictions in which the business operates.
Further details are included on page 169. plans are set out on pages 70 to 87.
Employee disclosures Directors conflicts of interest Vodafone is an inclusive employer and diversity is important to us.
We give full and Established within the Company is a procedure for managing and monitoring fair consideration to applications for employment by disabled persons and the conflicts of interest for Directors.
Details of this procedure are set out on page 62. continued employment of anyone incurring a disability whilst employed by us.
Training, career development and promotion opportunities are equally applied for all Directors indemnities our employees, regardless of disability.
Our disclosures relating to the employment In accordance with our Articles of Association and to the extent permitted by law, of women in senior management roles, employee engagement and policies are set Directors are granted an indemnity from the Company in respect of liability incurred out on pages 36 and 37. as a result of their office.
In addition, we maintained a Directors and officers liability insurance policy throughout the year.
Neither our indemnity nor the insurance By Order of the Board provides cover in the event that a Director is proven to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 The information on the amount of interest capitalised and the treatment of tax relief can be found in notes 5 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements respectively.
The remaining disclosures required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4 are not applicable Rosemary Martin to Vodafone.
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Capital structure and rights attaching to shares 15 May 2018 All information relating to the Companys capital structure, rights attaching to shares, dividends, the policy to repurchase the Companys own shares, details of Company share repurchases and othershareholder information is contained on pages 30 and 191 to 197.
