Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 15 Our growth engines In AMAP, data revenues grew strongly, The demand for mobile data supported by the relative scarcity of fixed has continued to grow rapidly internet access, low data penetration and During the financial year, data traffic across the success of our personalised offers our network increased by 63% Europe: Mobile data to customers.
Additionally, India data traffic increased fourfold following a steep Providing the best mobile We have launched new decline in data prices.
This reflected strong dataexperience worry-free services 4G customer growth, up 63% to 122 million customers an increase of 47 million in the In 2017, we launched Vodafone Pass, an year, together with increased data allowances.
innovative proposition which allows customers Context Smartphone usage also continued to grow, to buy passes that give worry-free access to The demand for mobile data is growing with customers using 2.5GB on average each social, media and video applications without rapidly.
Over the past three years data usage month, up 51% year-on-year Europe: 2.6GB, using their data allowance.
Vodafone Pass is now on our network has more than tripled AMAP 2.2GB, India 3.5GB.
available in 13 markets, with 13.0 million unique This is being driven by increased smartphone users enjoying over 19 million passes by the end adoption, customers moving to 4G which Sustained data growth of the year.
provides faster data speeds and lower latency 1 YoY growth % YoY growth PB Monthly usage GB for a better user experience, and an increasing trend towards bigger data bundles 13.0m 62 63 67 61 60 Customers want to use data in a worry-free unique Vodafone Pass users way, without incurring unexpected costs 2.5 whether using their mobiles at home or abroad 2.2 Following the introduction of Roam-like-atOur substantial network investments create 2.0 home regulation in Europe our customers 388 a strong platform to capture this demand and 1.7 can now also benefit from worry-free roaming 368 355 1.6 enable us to differentiate ourselves versus our across 35 markets where they can use their competitors on data quality 288 domestic voice and data allowances abroad 249 at no additional cost.
As a result, roaming data Our goals usage is up 132% YoY.
To monetise this growth in mobile data through a range of more-for-more The future is exciting propositions where we provide additional benefits to customers for a small incremental In November, we launched our new Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 monthly fee, as well as providing personalised 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 V by Vodafone consumer Internet offers supported by our advanced 1 iPhone and Android monthly average usage.
data analytics of Things IoT business.
Provide worry-free offers to customers This enables customers to connect Monetising data growth through tofurther encourage data usage both Vodafone branded and third party more-for-more propositions electronics products to Vodafones Further increase smartphone and data In Europe, we are monetising the growth penetration across our customer base.
in data usage through a range of more-forInEurope and AMAP smartphone penetration These products can be easily managed is 73% and 43% respectively more propositions as well as personalised using the V by Vodafone smartphone offers utilising advanced data analytics.
app, providing customers with a single Accelerate the adoption of new consumer IoT As a result, underlying consumer contract products and services, both using our own overview of all IoT-enabled products ARPU is stabilising across many of our markets, Vby Vodafone and third-party solutions registered to their account.
although regulatory drags and a mix shift Further improve and enhance our network to Customers pay a low-cost fixed monthly towards lower priced SIM-only contracts are provide the best data experience subscription for each V-Sim: initial products weighing on reported ARPU metrics.
include the V-Auto, V-Camera, V-Pet, V-Bag and V-Home connected devices.
Examples of our more-for-more and personalised offers More-for-more Vodafone Pass Germany Live in 13 markets In October 2017 all new customers received Available for different durations, for example, a monthly pass in return for 3 month in Egypt available on an hourly basis Segmented offers Personalised offers data analytics Portugal South Africa Youth segment Yorn Shake It prepaid 1.45 billion Just 4 You bundles sold this year, top-up gaming experience 99% year-on-year Strategic Report 16 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Our growth engines continued We have Europes Capital-smart infrastructure strategy largest NGN footprint Our fixed NGN footprint has continued to expand and now covers 107 million marketable Fixed and Convergence Buy households, an increase of 11 million in the year.
Within this, 36 million households are on Winning fixed share, combining our fully owned network on-net including fixed and mobile VodafoneZiggo in the Netherlands, and a Co self Strategic build pships further 7 million households are covered through strategic partnership agreements Context where we have attractive commercial access Over the next five years, the number of terms.
This provides us with a significant Rent households with NGN broadband i. e. fibre platform for growth.
or cable is expected to double within Vodafones European footprint.
This equates 2 European homes marketable toc.
50 million additional NGN households We are Europes fastest Q4 2018 million This shift to NGN represents a significant growing broadband provider window of opportunity for Vodafone to 100 165m Penetration of our European on-net NGN capture substantial and profitable market 1 households is 28%, leaving substantial room Total share gains homes for growth given competition primarily comes This opportunity is available to us as a result 84 139m from incumbents copper-centric networks.
of our flexible and capital-smart infrastructure Total Our off-net wholesale penetration is just 4%, strategy, which has enabled us to create incl.
Europes largest NGN footprint covering and NGN 65 107m 107 million households During the past year, we added 1.3 million NGN new broadband customers across the Group Gaining scale in fixed also allows us to sell wholesale 26 43m bundles of fixed and mobile services within and maintained our position as the fastest asingle contract to our combined base, growing broadband provider in Europe.
Strategic 22 providing the opportunity to lower customer wholesale 36m As a result, our total broadband customer base churn, grow ARPU through upselling additional partnerships across the Group is 16.1 million 19.7 million services and increase customer lifetime value including JVs and associates.
This strong Owned Demand for convergence across our European NGN commercial performance was supported network % of homes markets is moving at different speeds, but by record growth in our NGN customer base we are well prepared to capitalise on this of 2.0 million, reaching 9.9 million 13.2 million opportunity as it develops Using our flexible and capital including VodafoneZiggo.
smart infrastructure strategy Our goals Gaining momentum Our market-leading NGN footprint has in convergence To make substantial and profitable market been achieved using a flexible and capital share gains in fixed line efficient strategy which combines build Our momentum in convergence has co-build, strategic partnering, wholesale and accelerated with 0.8 million converged Further grow and optimise our NGN footprint acquisition buy options.
This approach allows utilising our capital-smart strategy customers added in the past year.
In us to continually optimise and improve our fixed total our Group converged customer Increase on-net penetration on our owned access position over time.
For example, during base now totals 4.5 million 5.5 million NGN network.
Today, penetration across our 1 the year we signed a number of strategically including VodafoneZiggo.
We are seeing European markets is 28% important agreements, these included: clear improvements in both customer Continue to grow fixed service revenue as a churn and NPS for converged customers.
percentage of our total service revenues.
Over Our Gigabit investment plan in Germany, The opportunity to grow our converged the last three years this percentage has grown where we intend to invest approximately base remains significant with c. 35% of from 22% to 25% today 29% in Europe 2 billion on ultrafast services by the end our consumer broadband base in Europe Drive convergence across our markets in a of 2021.
We expect this largely successincluding VodafoneZiggo taking both fixed disciplined way making our customer base based plan to drive incremental growth and mobile products.
increasingly secure and more valuable and attractive returns.
We aim to deploy fibre to around 2,000 business parks, The future is exciting Vodafone Germany: Converged working with partners and independently: customers have lower churn partner with local municipalities to reach In May 2018, we announced our Q3 2018 customer churn reduction % around 1 million rural consumer homes intention to acquire Liberty Globals 16 with FTTH: and upgrade our existing cable operations in Germany, theCzech Significant infrastructure to deliver 1Gbps speeds to Republic, Hungary and Romania.
-50% reduction in convergent This further accelerates our convergence households A long-term strategic partnership with strategy, enabling us to become the c. 8 CityFibre in the UK.
This provides us with leading NGN owner in Europe, expanding the ability to market FTTH to up to five our on-net footprint to 54 million cable million UK households by 2025 at attractive and fibre households covered and a total Mobile Converged commercial terms.
Our initial commitment reach of 114 million homes and businesses churn churn is to one million households.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 17 We are also highly focused on our cost base Organic Enterprise service and have implemented a multi-year margin revenue growth improvement programme.
This includes % retiring expensive-to-run networks and services 1 Reported Ex-regulation Enterprise and migrating legacy customers to more profitable solutions.
Through our own digital 2.4 Connecting the people, places and 2.1 transformation programmes, we are also 1.9 things that matter to businesses driving operational efficiencies by using Artificial Intelligence, machine learning and greater use of digital self-service tools.
0.9 Context The ability to turn inanimate objects into Outperforming peers 0.2 Q4 2018 revenue growth intelligent assets, collecting data and communicating, now makes it possible Mobile Fixed Total 1.5 for businesses of all sizes to create new -1.3 -1.6 -2.3 -5.3 -5.7 -12.7 1 Excludes the impact of EU regulation and mobile revenue streams and business models.
Digital transformation is now a means of competitive differentiation What differentiates us The divisions between mobile, fixed and We have a unique global footprint that spans IT have blurred and competition from OTT 25 countries where we own networks and providers is intensifying have partner agreements in 47 countries.
The growth of IoT, security and other value As a result, we have a cost advantage compared added services such as data analytics, to nationally based competitors who are forced artificial intelligence and virtual reality to wholesale at a higher cost in order to provide continues to accelerate services outside of their home footprint.
We are also able to provide global service level Our goals agreements SLAs to multinational customers as we own all of our infrastructure.
To help businesses, small and large, to succeed in a digital world Being a challenger in fixed line, we are not held In alphabetical order: AT&T Business Solutions, BT Business & Public Sector, We aim to maintain our strong mobile market back by either legacy infrastructure or the loss BT Global Services, Deutsche Telekom T-Systems, Orange Enterprise, Verizon Enterprise Solutions.
share and gain a profitable share in fixed line of fixed voice revenues and continue to gain and converged services market share.
Additionally, the upcoming technology shift to Software Defined We also aim to lead the market in integrating Challenges value added services for SOHO and SMEs and Networking enhances the opportunity for Consistent with the industry, we continue be the partner of choice for large enterprises us to provide new fixed services.
to experience downward pressure on mobile to connect their people, places and things to prices and ARPU, driven by aggressive the Cloud Our business also continues to benefit from competition and the consumerisation greater exposure to fast growing emerging of Enterprise services, such as the Bring Your markets, such as South Africa, Turkey and Our Enterprise business Own Device BYOD trend.
We are also reaching Egypt, which make up 17% of Enterprise Enterprise is a key part of our business, high smartphone penetration levels, and near service revenues.
representing 29% of Group service revenue.
ubiquitous availability of Wi-Fi that enables Finally, we have a market-leading platform During the year, we continued to grow enterprise OTT operators to offer substitute services.
in the rapidly growing Internet of Things IoT service revenue by 0.9%, led by the success For example, using WhatsApp to call when segment.
This provides us with the benefits of our world-leading IoT platform, despite abroad instead of roaming on our network.
of owner economics, and the ability to control headwinds from roaming regulation in Europe.
To off-set these challenges, we continue the platforms development and deployment Excluding the impact of regulation, we grew to develop value added services such as Device as customer demands evolve.
We also provide service revenue by 2.1% in the year.
Lifecycle Management and new tariffs that not just connectivity but truly end-to-end monetise data.
This year, we grew our IoT service revenue by 14%, adding more than a million SIMs per month and scaled our services The future is exciting businesses in key verticals including automotive Our performance in the IoT automotive and financial services.
In total, we now have segment remains particularly strong, with 68 million SIMs on our network.
over 14.4 million vehicles connected to This differentiation is reflected in our marketour IoT platform.
Vodafone is the only leading NPS scores, where we are the leader telco that is a Tier 1 supplier to automotive or co-leader in 19 out of 20 countries.
original equipment manufacturers OEMs, with customers including eight of Outperforming our peers the top ten car manufacturers globally.
These important differences have enabled We are continuing to expand our services us to maintain our service revenue growth in the automotive and insurance sectors over the past year while also continuing with five vehicle manufacturers taking to outperform our peers.
additional telematics services and we are now the second biggest provider of Usage Based Insurance information in Europe.
Vodafone Competitor 1 Competitor 2 Competitor 3 Competitor 4 Competitor 5 Competitor 6
