Strategic Report 10 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Our core programmes We are building a competitive advantage through our core strategic programmes Evolving our 4G network to be 5G ready We are continuing to evolve our 4G network towards delivering gigabit data speeds, increased network capacity, improved response latency times, and new service capabilities.
These network enhancements are being delivered through a range of advanced technological solutions.
Network leadership As an example, we are now rolling out massive MIMO multiple input and multiple output antennas in our markets.
These antennae fundamentally change the way in which we transmit radio signals.
Our sustained investment in Rather than the signal being transmitted everywhere, massive MIMO provides multiple beams network quality has enabled of signal and each beam is assigned to a unique user or group.
It therefore delivers a better and us to establish differentiated and more reliable user experience, creates less interference, and has the benefit of increasing the site market leading network positions capacity by improving spectrum efficiency.
This evolution of 4G combined with new 5G radio spectrum and antennae will provide the underlying network infrastructure for 5G.
Radio site evolution We continue to invest in our network and IT infrastructure to further expand Non-massive MIMO Massive MIMO coverage, improve reliability, and enhance data speeds.
As a result, we now have leading or co-leading mobile network NPS scores in 14 out of 20 markets, including India.
This strong and differentiated network position enables us to provide our customers with an excellent user experience, with 92% of all data sessions in Europe now at high definition video standard and a dropped call rate for voice of just 0.34%.
In fixed line, we have created Europes largest NGN footprint covering 107 million households including VodafoneZiggo, of which 36 million are owned cable or fibre and 7 million Future-proofing our fixed line infrastructure are through strategic partnerships with attractive wholesale rates.
As a result In fixed, we are upgrading our cable infrastructure to the latest DOCSIS 3.1 technology and we are able to market NGN services deploying fibre deeper into the network.
This delivers a significant improvement in maximum to 65% of our European footprint.
user speeds and network capacity.
The rollout of DOCSIS 3.1 is now well advancedin Spain, whilein Germany we have commenced a two year rollout programme starting in 2018.
In order to maintain our leadership position we will continue to enhance our network and deploy new market Vodafone Germany household cable coverage and speeds leading technologies.
Today 2020 Future 12.7m 12.7m 11m 7m 2.5m 100 500 1.00 10.0 200 400 Mbps Mbps Mbps Mbps Gbps Gbps Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 11 As the initiatives described below illustrate, we have made good progress this year in each of the areas covered by our CARE framework: C onnectivity that is secure and smart Customer eXperience Our Secure Net proposition is now live in ten markets, providing customers with extra security protection.
And we have mobile network guarantees in place across 17 markets, eXcellence CXX promising customers their money back if the network fails to meet their expectations within Delivering an outstanding their first month of use.
anddifferentiated experience A lways excellent value forourcustomers Through our Big Data platform, which is live in 15 markets, we are able to notify customers of personalised solutions which meet their specific needs.
Today, 35% of our communications with customers in these markets are supported by Big Data analysis.
The Groups CXX programme is our R eal-time relevant rewards core marketing strategy for brand and service differentiation.
Through our Loyalty and reward programmes have now been implemented in 18 markets and are CXX programme we aim to deliver an available either via the My Vodafone app or the Vodafone website.
In 14 markets, we have outstanding and differentiated user also introduced gamification activities to make redemption of these rewards a fun experience for our customers, experience, such as Shake, where customers shake their phone to receive rewards.
further building on our network leadership position.
E asy, personal instant access The My Vodafone app, which is now live across all of our markets, provides customers with The programme focuses on four key a flexible way of monitoring and managing their services online.
By the end of the financial aspects of our customers experience year, My Vodafone app penetration across the Group reached 60%, up 5% year-on-year with withVodafone, summarised by the customers on average using the app over nine times per month.
Given the strategic importance of the We continued to see the benefits of these CXX initiatives in our customer satisfaction scores.
programme, CXX performance indicators Overall we maintained our market-leading or co-leading position in consumer NPS in 17 out including Net Promoter Scores NPS and of 20 markets, and maintained the average gap between Vodafone and the third placed operator brand consideration represent up to 40% at 16 points.
Our Enterprise position is even stronger, with leading or co-leading positions in 19 out of the annual bonus award for employees of 20 markets.
We expect to further enhance our customers experience through digital channels and platforms.
The focus will be on scaling up real-time and personalised offers, deploying artificial intelligence AI across both service and sales touchpoints and simplifying the access and use of our services, for example, via touch ID login and integrated virtual assistants.
Market-leading net promoter score Consumer Improvement over the last three years points Gap to next best Gap to third Net promoter score improved 15 20 17 16 markets 14 17 20 Gap to next best improved markets 6 4 2 Average score improvement 8 to next best points 2016 2017 2018 Strategic Report 12 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Our core programmes continued We have continued to make good progress this year in lowering our operating cost base, reflecting the success of our Fit for Growth efforts.
These Group initiatives include centralising procurement, developing shared service centres in low cost regions, improving sales channel efficiency, standardising network design and zero based budgeting ZBB initiatives.
As a result, Fit for Growth we were able to lower our net operating costs on an organic basis for the second year running.
Importantly, this cost reduction was achieved while maintaining our robust commercial Our comprehensive cost momentum and despite a 63% increase in mobile data traffic during the year.
efficiencyprogramme Fit for Growth impact over three years Centralised Number of Network design Group support procurement full-time employees standardisation functions ZBB inShared Services savings savings Fit for Growth is a comprehensive cost 80% 19,000 340m 240m 20pp efficiency programme designed to drive operating leverage and margin expansion This sustained focus on cost efficiencies meant that for the third year in a row we were able across the Group.
to grow our adjusted EBITDA faster than service revenues, supporting a significant improvement This targeted programme uses in our adjusted EBITDA margins.
This improvement was broad-based, with 20 out of 25 markets external best in class benchmarks growing adjusted EBITDA faster than service revenue during the past year.
Overall, we achieved to determine cost saving opportunities a 1.3 percentage point improvement in the Groups underlying organic adjusted EBITDA margin both at a local market and a Group level, excluding EU regulation, UK handset financing, and settlements.
where our global scale can provide a competitive advantage.
Broad based adjusted EBITDA improvement from Fit for Growth At the start of this year we launched our 2018 YoY adjusted EBITDA margin movement pp second phase of Fit for Growth, enabling us to broaden and deepen our cost Controlled Joint ventures 1 2.4 saving initiatives.
2.1 2.0 1.6 1.4 1.2 We have also developed a new customer 1.0 2 0.4 profitability analytics platform, which 0.0 0.3 1.4 5.2 has now been rolled out across nine markets.
We see a substantial Germany Greece Portugal Ireland Turkey Spain Italy UK Vodacom Egypt opportunity for margin improvement as we take commercial actions to capitalise on these insights.
3 4 Netherlands India 1 Adjusted EBITDA excluding the impact of a German legal settlement.
2 Adjusted EBITDA excluding UK handset financing and regulatory settlements.
3 Based on US GAAP reporting.
4 Merger with Idea Cellular in India has not yet closed.
New cost teardown model implemented During the year we implemented a structured It does this by defining the absolute minimum teardown methodology to better understand our requirements AMR, increasing knowledge of costs at a component level.
The model enables discrete parts, and enabling design optimisation and an accurate should cost figure to be calculated trade-off of requirements.
This year, we have been which can then be used to better inform negotiations able to deliver procurement savings of 125 million with suppliers.
from the adoption of this methodology.
Our initial focus has been on hardware costs, while going forward we see further opportunity to expand into 125m services and customer premises equipment to deliver future savings.
Our cost teardown model has enabled us to deliver procurement savings of 125 million this year.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 13 Our goal: to lead the industry in the transition to digital Digital customer management Digital technology Digital operations Digital Vodafone March 2017 March 2018 March 2021 The next phase of the Groups CVM campaigns enabled by Big Data strategic development 15% 35% 100% 1 Better targeting of the base 2 Digital channels share of sales mix 9% 11% 40% Reduce reliance on indirect channels My Vodafone app penetration 55% 60% 95% Improve customer engagement Chatbots % of contacts 60% 0% 1% Moving from mostly human to mostly digital The Digital Vodafone programme 3 Frequency of contacts 1.2 1.9 1.7 develops and strengthens our existing Blending the best of digital and human interactions Customer eXperience eXcellence CXX Notes: programme and enables us to build 1 Average of EU4 Germany, Italy, UK and Spain.
3 FOC requiring human intervention per year.
on our Fit for Growth achievements.
2 Mobile and Fixed acquisitions and upgrades.
We aim to deliver the most engaging digital experience for our customers, Digital customer management blending the digital and physical assets of Vodafone to provide personal, instant We intend to increase the use of data analytics to provide predictive, proactive and personalised and easy interactions.
offers to our customers, optimising the efficiency of our marketing spend, enhancing ARPU andimproving our direct channel mix.
The My Vodafone app and our digital marketing channels By using advanced digital technologies will, over time, become our main customer acquisition and management platform.
our ambition is to enhance our customers We will also be able to meet any customer request through automated, digital support experience, generate incremental for example, by using chatbots and digital agents that utilise rapidly developing artificial revenues and continue to reduce net intelligence technologies, developed and shared on a Group-wide basis.
operating costs on an organic basis.
Digital technology management We will rapidly install new middleware on top of our legacy IT systems.
This Digital eXperience Layer will accelerate the deployment of new digital capabilities, fide-coupling them from the longer and financially costly upgrade cycles for our legacy billing and other systems.
In addition, real-time data analytics will enable even smarter network planning and deployment, as well as more precise ROI-based investment decisions.
Together with the ongoing effort to migrate 65% of our IT applications to the cloud, we aim to achieve significant capex and opex efficiencies, allowing us to re-invest based on customers actual and predicted profitability.
Digital operations We see substantial scope for digitalisation to accelerate the simplification and automation of standard processes, in both operational and support areas.
These include IT and network operations, customer management back office functions and all other administrative activities.
We have already established an automation unit and we have made good progress with over 200bots active in our Shared Service Centres.
