Strategic Report 06 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Industry trends We operate in a rapidly changing industry where innovation and scale are key Rising global smartphone penetration, ubiquitous superfast internet access, increasingly converged solutions and remarkable new technologies are rapidly transforming the way that we live and work, while simultaneously creating a range of new commercial, regulatory and societal challenges.
See pages 1517 of this report for Growing demand for mobile data, high speed broadband 15 furtherinsights and converged solutions Demand for mobile data is growing rapidly, Global mobile data traffic European fixed broadband driven by increased smartphone penetration, 1 000 petabytes 1 petabyte 1m gigabytes customers moving to 4G which provides customers m a significantly better data experience, % of customers on NGN Legacy copper the growing use of social, media, and 701 127 125 122 119 115 video applications and bigger data bundles.
110 106 On average, global consumers now use 516 81% 1.7GBper month up from 0.1GB five years 76% 71% 366 ago.
As a result, between 2012 and 2017 total 66% 59% mobile data traffic increased by an average 242 51% of 76% per annum and growth over the next 42% 144 four years is expected to average 48%.
In Europe, Source: Analysys Mason Source: Analysys Mason 1 In Vodafones footprint.
total mobile service revenues remained flat last year due to substantial unitary This represents a significant window The same motivations apply for businesses, price deflation, driven by technological of opportunity for operators with access which are increasingly taking advantage improvements, regulation and a high level to high quality NGN infrastructure.
Fixed of converged services that bring together of competitive intensity.
In emerging markets, revenue trends in Europe have grown by 2% communications tools that work across all revenue growth is stronger, supported over the last three years, supported by the fixed and mobile end points.
by a lack of fixed infrastructure andrapid shift to NGN.
Today, consumers are increasingly taking In fixed, demand for NGN high speed The future is exciting bundles of mobile, landline, broadband and broadband services over cable or fibre Vodafone has leading or co-leading TV services.
For the consumer this provides is also growing rapidly.
During the next five mobile network NPS scores in 14 out the benefit of simplicity one provider for years it is estimated that around 50 million of 20 markets, and we have Europes multiple services and better value.
For households in Europe will move to NGN largest NGN footprint covering 107 million operators this provides higher customer services almost double current levels European households.
This provides us loyalty as well as operational efficiencies.
with a significant platform to grow.
10 See page 10 of this report for further insights Rapid technological change Over the last 30 years mobile and fixed This will eventually enable average download Broadband download speeds have evolved networks have evolved significantly.
In the speeds in excess of 1Gbps combined with quickly from sub-64Kbps via the dial 1990s, second generation 2G mobile extremely low latency.
We expect 5G services up modem in the late 1990s to download networks primarily carried voice calls and in Europe to be commercially available speeds of 1Gbps today through high SMS data traffic i. e. texts.
The business case for 5G is driven speed NGN services.
Further technological phone users can experience 4G download primarily by the opportunity to provide advancements, such as DOCSIS 3.1 for cable speeds in excess of 800Mbps 4,000 times substantial inexpensive incremental capacity.
and deeper fibre penetration, will deliver even faster than 2G supported by the latest In time, 5G will also enable the development faster speeds of up to 10Gbps in the future.
technological advancements, such as carrier of new IoT services and niche fixed wireless aggregation and massive MIMO multiple solutions, as well as other new business cases.
The future is exciting input and multiple output antennae.
Our mobile networks are already The evolution of fixed networks has been benefiting from the evolution to 4G, The next technological evolution of mobile equally rapid, with legacy copper technology and this year we have started 5G trials.
networks will be to deploy 5G, supported being superseded by NGN infrastructure such In fixed, we are upgrading our cable largely by the infrastructure deployed for as cable and fibre-to-the-home FTTH.
infrastructure to DOCSIS 3.1, enabling 4G combined with new 5G radio spectrum us to deliver future-proof gigabit speeds.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 07 13 See page 13 of this report for further insights Digital transformation opportunity The world is undergoing a rapid digital By using advanced digital technologies The cost cutting opportunity alone for transformation.
New technologies including operators will be able to enhance their European telecoms has been estimated 1 smartphones, cloud computing, artificial customers experience, generate incremental to be as much as 60 billion.
intelligence and robotic process automation revenue opportunities, and reduce costs.
Speed of execution will be key in order are enabling companies to connect with for operators to further differentiate customers directly, proactively offering their services and retain the benefits personalised solutions, while simplifying from digitalisation.
and automating operational processes and improving the efficiency of all commercial The future is exciting and technological decisions.
The Digital Vodafone programme was launched across the Group this year.
Digitalisation is a key operational theme for This will enable us to deliver a leading the telecoms industry, which has a significant digital customer experience: leverage proportion of costs that can be automated, the latest data analytics techniques: while also having unrivalled insight into and automate and simplify our operations, customer usage trends.
underpinned by new agile ways of working.
1 Goldman Sachs 199 See page 199 of this report for further insights Regulatory intervention The remit of regulators is extensive, Historically the balance has been The future is exciting including wholesale charges between tilted towards consumers.
In the first Only 6.8% of our European service revenues operators, spectrum allocation, half of calendar 2018, the European now come from regulated roaming and and obligations in relation to consumer Commission is expected to complete the termination fees: the code if finalised rights.
Regulators are also responsible for overhaul of its existing telecoms rules according to the original proposals topics relating to data protection and cyber the European Electronic Communications is supportive of Vodafones position security.
The decision to regulate or not has Code.
The Commissions original proposals as Europes fastest growing fixed challenger.
struck a balance between investment incentives in networks and competition.
Regulators are tasked with protecting consumers and incentivising investment.
Highly competitive markets The telecommunication industry is highly In each of the countries in which we operate, In some markets, the uncompetitive competitive, with many alternative providers there are typically three or four mobile wholesale access terms offered by giving customers a wide choice of suppliers.
network operators MNOs, such as Vodafone, incumbents and the slow pace of NGN who own their own network infrastructure, infrastructure rollout has seen the emergence as well as several resellers that wholesale of alternative fibre builders, who are looking network services from MNOs.
In addition, to capitalise on the growing customer demand there are an increasing number of overfor gigabit speeds by offering attractive the-top OTT operators that provide wholesale access and terms to resellers.
internet-based apps for content and communication services.
In fixed, there is usually one national The future is exciting incumbent typically the former state owned Thanks to our substantial investments, operator, who is generally required to offer we offer market leading network quality wholesale access to its network at regulated and customer service levels positioning prices to resellers, while most markets will also us well forthe future.
have one or two cable or satellite operators.
32 See page 32 of this report for further insights Changing customer and societalexpectations Today, communication networks Few industry sectors can claim a closer Our industry needs to continue to make sure underpin every aspect of society.
alignment between their commercial these concerns are addressed in an ethical, Consumers have access to content and objectives and the achievement of responsible and transparent manner.
information of a breadthand depth that meaningful gains for society.
There are, The future is exciting was inconceivable even a decade ago.
however, areas within the communications Our sustainable business strategy aligns This is bringing about a revolution in the way industry that can be a source of public our commercial objectives with a clear millions of people across the world share, concern, including customer privacy, learn and access education, healthcare and social purpose to create long term value tax and digital human rights.
