GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT The Strategic Report is a requirement of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and can be found on pages 8 to 55.
The Company has chosen, in accordance with section 414C 11 of the Act, and as noted in this Directors Report, to include certain matters in its Strategic Report that would otherwise be disclosed in this Directors Report.
Certain information that fulfils the requirements of the Directors Report can be found elsewhere inthis document and is referenced to below.
This information is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
The Directors present their report for the year ended 31 December 2018: COMPANY DETAILS AND CONSTITUTION Vivo Energy plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales with company number 11250655.
The Companys Articles of Association may only beamended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
DIRECTORS REPORT CONTENT The Strategic Report, the Corporate Governance Report and Directors Remuneration Report are all incorporated by reference into this Directors Report and should be read as part of this Report.
MANAGEMENT REPORT For the purposes of Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule DTR 4, the Strategic Report and this Directors Report on pages 8 to 99 comprise the Management Report.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT As required under the DTRs, a statement made by the Board regarding the preparation of the financial statements is set out on page 98 which also provides details regarding the disclosure of information to the Companys auditors and Managements report on internal control over financial information.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The corporate governance statement setting out how the Company complies with the Code is set out on pages 58 to 95.
The information required by DTR 7.2.
6R can be found on pages 97 and 98.
A description of the composition and operation of the Board and itsCommittees is setout on pages 58 to 95.
DISCLOSURES REQUIRED UNDER LISTING RULE 9.8.
4R The Company is required to disclose certain information under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R in the Directors Report or advise where such relevant information is contained.
All such disclosures can be located as follows: Information Location in Annual Report Page s Directors compensation Remuneration Report 76 to 95 Relationship agreements Directors Report 98 Details of long-term incentive schemes Remuneration Report 92 The remaining disclosures required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4 R are not applicable to the Company.
GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY The going concern statement required by the Listing Rules and the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code is set out on page 55.
The longer-term viability statement is located on page 55.
SYSTEM OF RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL The Board has overall responsibility for monitoring the Groups system of internal control and risk management and for carrying out a review of its effectiveness.
In discharging that responsibility, the Board confirms that it has established the procedures necessary to apply the provisions of the Code, including clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
The Board reviewed these procedures both before and after Admission.
Business performance is managed closely and the Board and the Executive Committee have established processes to monitor: Strategic plan achievement, through a regular review of progress towards strategic objectives: Monitoring and maintenance of insurance cover to insure all risk areas of the Group: Financial performance, within a comprehensive financial planning and accounting framework, including budgeting and forecasting, financial reporting, analysing variances against plan and taking appropriate management action: Capital investment and asset management performance, with detailed appraisal, authorisation and post-investment reviews: and The principal risks facing the Group, ensuring that they are being identified, evaluated and appropriately managed.
The Board is supported by the Audit and Risk Committee in reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups risk process and internal control systems.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and it must be recognised that it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
A robust assessment of the principal risks faced by the Company has been undertaken by the Board.
The Chief Financial Officer, with the assistance of the finance function, is responsible for the appropriate maintenance of financial records and processes.
This ensures that all financial information is relevant, reliable, in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations and distributed both internally and externally in a timely manner.
A review of the consolidation and financial statements is completed by the Chief Financial Officer to ensure that the financial position and results of the Group are appropriately recorded, circulated to members of the Board and published where appropriate.
All financial information published by the Group is subject to the approval of the Board, on the recommendation of the Audit and Risk Committee.
96 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES The powers of the Directors are determined In accordance with the Companys Articles Disclosures relating to financial risk by the Act and the Articles of Association of Association and to the extent permitted management objectives and policies, including of the Company.
The Directors have by law, Directors are granted a deed of our policy for hedging are set out in note 3 been authorised to issue and allot shares.
indemnity from the Company in respect of tothe consolidated financial statements.
These powers are subject to annual liability incurred as a result of their office.
shareholder approval at the Annual General Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions FAIR, BALANCED Meeting AGM, and at the 2019 AGM as defined by section 234 of the Act were in AND UNDERSTANDABLE shareholders will be asked to renew and force during the year ended 31 December 2018 The Board considers the Annual Report and extend the authority, given to the Directors and remain in force.
In addition, the Company financial statements, taken as a whole, is fair, prior to the IPO, to allot shares in the Company, maintained a directors and officers liability balanced and understandable and provides or grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert insurance policy since Admission up to the date the information necessary for shareholders any security into, shares in the Company of this report.
Neither the indemnity nor the to assess the Companys position and for the purposes of section 551 of the Act insurance provides cover in the event that a performance, business model and strategy.
Director is proven to have acted dishonestly There are various activities, policies and or fraudulently.
The authority in the first part of the Allotment procedures in place for the Board to ensure Resolution will allow the Directors to allot a fair balanced and understandable Annual DIRECTORS INTERESTS new shares in the Company, or to grant rights Report.
These include, but are not limited to: The Directors interests in ordinary shares of to subscribe for, or convert any security into, the Company are shown within the Directors The Annual Report and the financial shares in the Company up to a nominal value Remuneration Report.
No Director has any statements have been prepared in which is equivalent to approximately one-third other interest in any shares or loan stock of accordance with the applicable reporting of the total issued ordinary share capital of any Group company.
No Director was or is and regulatory frameworks, including the Company.
materially interested in any contract, other International Financial Reporting Standards The authority in the second part of the than under their service contract or letter IFRS, FRS 102, UK Companies Act 2006, Allotment Resolution will allow the Directors of appointment, which was subsisting during UK Corporate Governance Code, the to allot new shares in the Company, or to or existing at the end of year and which was Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any significant in relation to the Groups business.
and Transparency Rules and UK GAAP.
security into, shares in the Company, only in Please refer to Relationship Agreements Accounting policies are used company-wide connection with a rights issue, up to a nominal section for information relating to the Groups to ensure accurate and correct accounting value which is equivalent to approximately an relationship with Vitol.
All financials are maintained additional third of the total issued ordinary according to those guidelines which There are procedures in place to deal with any share capital of the Company.
This is in line with ensurecompliance with IFRS.
conflicts of interest and these have operated corporate governance guidelines.
In addition, effectively during the year.
Further details are The Company has an extensive set of shareholders will be asked at the 2019 AGM set out on page 68. internal controls covering various areas to grant the Directors authority to disapply of the business.
The internal control pre-emption rights in line with corporate SHARE CAPITAL KPIs are monitored and measured on a governance guidelines.
The Companys issued share capital as at the monthly basis.
The finance departments On 1 March 2019, the Company issued date of this Report is composed of a single class have department manuals which detail 63,203,653 new shares to Engen Holdings Pty of 1,265,002,519 ordinary shares of US$0.50 the reporting process to be followed Limited pursuant to the Engen Transaction each.
This includes 824,366,781 ordinary shares and the controls in place to mitigate pursuant to a specific right to allot shares placed with institutional investors pursuant risk, theseinclude the Finance manual, granted by the shareholders to the Directors to the Companys initial public offering which Credit&Treasury manual and Tax manual.
There are no was completedon 10 May2018.
Shares in the Monthly reporting to the Board on present plans to undertake a rights issue or Company were admitted to trading on the financial performance.
to allot any further new shares other than in London Stock Exchange and the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, with the first day of trading connection with the Companys share schemes IMPORTANT EVENTS SINCE THE END having beenthe10 May 2018. and plans.
OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR Details of those important events affecting the The Company did not repurchase any shares SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS Group which have occurred since the end of during the financial year ended 31 December The major shareholders of the Company are the financial year are set out in the Strategic 2018.
At the 2019 AGM shareholders will Vitol Africa B. V. and VIP Africa II B. V. together Report and note 32 to the consolidated be asked to grant authority to the Directors Vitol and HIP Oils Newco SARL and HIP Oil financial statements.
under section 701 of the Act to make market 2 B. V. together Helios.
purchases of ordinary shares up to a maximum DIRECTORS In addition, on 1 March 2019, the Company of 126,500,251 shares.
As at 5 March 2019, the The details of the Directors of the Company issued 63,203,653 new shares to Engen Company did not hold any shares in treasury.
who held office during the year and up to the Holdings Pty Limited pursuant to the Any ordinary shares purchased may be date of signing this report can be found on EngenTransaction.
Further details on the cancelled or held in treasury.
pages60 to 63. transaction can be found on page 11.
Details regarding the notifications received by the Company in relation to material shareholdings pursuant to the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules can be foundon page 159.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 97 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED SHAREHOLDERS RIGHTS underwriting banks the Banks, directly or BRANCHES Each ordinary share of the Company carries indirectly offer, issue, lend, sell or contract to The Group, through various subsidiaries, has the right of one vote at general meetings of sell, issue options in respect of or otherwise two registered branches, details are included the Company.
There are no restrictions on the dispose of, directly or indirectly, or announce onpages 155 to 157. transfer of ordinary shares in the capital of the anoffering of any ordinary shares.
Company other than certain restrictions which EXTERNAL AUDITORS Each of the other shareholders prior to may from time to time be imposed by law.
So far as each Director is aware, there is no Admission agreed that, subject to certain There are no requirements for prior approval relevant information of which the Companys exceptions, during the period of six months of any transfers and there are no limitations External Auditor is unaware.
Each Director from the date of Admission, they would not, onthe holding of ordinary shares in the capital has taken all steps that ought to have been without the prior written consent of the Banks, of the Company.
taken as a Director to make himself aware of directly or indirectly offer, issue, lend, sell or any relevant audit information and to establish In accordance with applicable law and the contract to sell, issue options in respect of or that  LLP PwC Companys share dealing policy, certain otherwise dispose of, directly or indirectly, or areaware of that information.
employees are required to seek approval announce anoffering of any ordinary shares.
before dealing in any Company securities.
As detailed on page 75, the Audit and Risk CHANGE OF CONTROL Committee recommended, and the Board The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to The Companys subsidiary, Vivo Energy approved, the proposal that the current receive the Companys reports and accounts, Investments B. V. has in place a credit facility Auditors, PwC, be reappointed as Auditors to attend and speak at general meetings of the agreement under which a change in control of of the Company at the AGM.
Resolutions to Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise the Company would in certain circumstances reappoint PwC as the Companys Auditors voting rights.
None of the shares carry any trigger prepayment provisions.
In addition, until the conclusion of the AGM in 2020 and special rights with regards to control of the the Groups brand licence arrangements and to authorise the Directors to determine Company.
There are no restrictions on the shareholders agreement in relation to Shell their remuneration, will be proposed to voting rights attaching to the ordinary shares and Vivo Lubricants B. V. could be subject to shareholders at the AGM.
other than a 48-hour cut off for the casting change of control termination provisions in ofproxy votes prior to a general meeting.
AGM There are no arrangements of which the The Companys first AGM will be The Companys share plans including the Company is aware under which financial rights held at 2.00 p. m. on 7 May 2019 at the IPOand LTIP awards granted to the Executive are held by a person other than the holder ConradHotelStJames, 22-28 Broadway, Directors and senior management contain London SW1H0HB United Kingdom.
of the shares, and no known agreements clauses which may cause options and awards relating to, or restrictions on, share transfers to vest on a change in control, in some cases The Notice ofthe AGM contains a full orvoting rights.
subject to the satisfaction of performance explanation of thebusiness to be conducted atthe AGM andcan be found on our website.
The Company is not DIVIDENDS party to any other significant agreements Full details of the Companys dividend policy EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT thatwould take effect, alter or terminate and proposed final dividend payment for the The Company considers it important that its upona change of control following a takeover.
year ended 31 December 2018 are set out employees are involved and engaged at all levels on page 158 and note 22 to the consolidated No Director or employee is contractually within the organisation.
entitled to compensation for loss of office or that employees are updated with matters employment as a result of a change in control.
of interest through a variety of formal RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENTS and informal communication channels.
As at 31 December 2018, Helios held 31% and RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Further details on employee involvement can Vitol held 38% of the Companys shares in issue The Group sources fuel products from be found in the Strategic Report on page 18. and were therefore classified as a controlling VitolS.
A. and certain of its affiliates shareholders under the Listing Rules.
together, Vitol Fuel under a supply EMPLOYMENT OF DISABLED PEOPLE agreement.
The supply agreement is The Groups policy is to provide equal Pursuant to Listing Rule 9.2.
2AD 1 the a framework agreement under which opportunity for all its employees, including Company has entered into relationship VitolFuel is the Groups preferred supplier.
the consideration of all applications regardless agreements with both Helios and Vitol which Details of the transactions under the supply of any disability and all efforts will be made shall only be terminated in the event that agreement whichtook place during the year, to retain, re-train, and make adjustments for the respective shareholder and its associates are disclosed in note 31 to the consolidated disabled colleagues employed by the business.
ceases to hold at least 10% of the shares in financial statements.
the Company, or if the Company ceases to be Further details on the employment of disabled admitted to listing on the premium segment people can be found in the Strategic Report on SUSTAINABILITY ofthe Official List and traded on London Stock page 19.
Information about the Companys approach to Exchanges Main Market for listed securities.
sustainability is set out in the Strategic Report Throughout the period under review, the MODERN SLAVERY on page 24, which also includes details of our Company has complied with provisions and In compliance with the Modern Slavery greenhouse gas emissions.
obligations in the relationship agreements, Act 2016, the Companys statement on andas far as the Company is aware, both ModernSlavery can be found on our website.
POLITICAL DONATIONS Helios and Vitol have also complied.
No political donations were made The Directors Report was approved by the from Admission to the financial year Board on 5 March 2019.
The Companys policy is that no The Directors and the shareholders of By order of the Board political donations be made or political theCompany prior to Admission have each expenditure incurred.
BEN WALKER COMPANY SECRETARY The Directors agreed that, subject to certain FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS WITHIN exceptions, during the period of 12 months THEGROUP 5 MARCH 2019 from the date of Admission, they will not, The Strategic Report contains details of possible without the prior written consent of the lead future developments within the Group.
98 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
