The Weir Group PLC 8 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 How we succeed How we succeed: People If we are to become the most Improve sustainable engagement admired engineering business in our markets we need to deliver distinctive value to our and organisational effectiveness stakeholders.
We have chosen four areas where we think we can make the biggest impact People, Customers, Technology and Performance.
These are central to the way we look at strategic progress and reward.
We are committed to enabling our employees to actively contribute to and have a positive impact on the success of our business.
During 2018 we focused on identifying how we can provide a more consistent and positive employee experience and on building a sustainable workforce which enables employees and leaders to continuously grow, and to do the best work of their lives at Weir.
This included: Implementing a continuous listening strategy including the launch of our first ever global employee engagement survey Developed a Group-wide view of talent and strengthened our talent pipeline into Group Executive roles Created a vision for the future for the Weir employee experience Revisited our reward philosophy and strategy to ensure global clarity and consistency in reward behaviours Undertook work in preparation for our first ever all employee share plan.
Developed Occupational Effectiveness definition and measures for implementation in 2019 How we succeed: People Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 9 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Left: On a frack site in Oklahoma, USA Inclusion and diversity Enhancing our employee experience We believe that we will achieve great success if we can combine our common goals as set Through a series of stakeholder interviews, out in our We are Weir framework, with the an extensive data collection process and uniqueness that each of us bring as individuals.
Design Thinking Workshops, we deepened To help us shape our approach to Inclusion & our understanding of employer and leader Diversity I&D going forward, we have created experiences and created a vision for the future a brand new global Inclusion & Diversity for the Weir employee experience.
Steering Committee, comprised of employees To support this vision, we also secured from all walks of life, who represent many of commitment for a significant investment to the regions and businesses that make up The implement a Group wide global HR system Weir Group.
Following an initial meeting in 2018, and standardised people processes delivered the Committee will work together during 2019 through a global operating model.
to re-define and implement our refreshed global approach to I&D.
In addition we will implement the Groups first ever global employee share plan in 2019 Employee voice ensuring everyone has the chance to build a stake in our business.
To help ensure that all our people can have a Leadership and talent positive influence on our future success, we developed and implemented the first phase of development a global continuous listening strategy, aimed at fostering genuine and meaningful dialogue We continued to build a sustainable workforce across the organisation.
Our People rated which enables employees and leaders to This builds on the many ways in which we continuously grow.
We made progress in already listen to the views of our people strengthening our talent pipeline, piloting a us 7.7 10 as a good and provides us with further opportunities strategic talent and people planning process to to create insight and then act upon the define future capability requirements and for the place to work feedback to make a positive difference to our first time ever, allowed us to conduct a global working environment.
In our first ever global all-employee survey, The senior leadership of the Group has been Employee engagement we asked our people how likely it would strengthened through a mix of internal and be that they would recommend Weir as a external hires and a number of key roles have For the first time ever, we conducted a global place to work.
Overall, they rated us as 7.7 been introduced in support of our technology engagement survey using the very latest in out of 10, ahead of industry benchmarks.
We continue to invest employee insights digital technology.
84% of The survey also gave us great insight into in our talent pipeline with our graduate employees participated in the survey, which development programmes.
why so many of our people love working was available in 29 languages, giving us at Weir and where we can improve so that We also continued with the investment in incredible opportunities to capture, analyse and we are a business where people can do the our leadership development programmes, act upon the valuable insights of our people.
including Weir Leader 4.0 and the Weir Having completed our first global survey we Business Management and MBA programmes, plan to conduct these surveys two times a year complemented by the introduction of a new from 2019 onwards, to ensure we can take Weir Leader framework which is aligned with regular temperature checks on engagement, our We are Weir framework.
and more frequent opportunities for employees to help shape Weirs future.
The Weir Group PLC 10 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 27% increase in Groupcontinuing How we succeed: Customers operations orders Increase market share The Group delivered a 27% increase in orders with Minerals and Oil & Gas recording doubledigit growth.
This performance was supported by our commitment to staying close to our customers and providing unrivalled service.
Read more in our operational reviews from pages 34-46.
The Group serves a diverse range of customers across the world including theworlds major miners and oilfield service companies as well as medium andsmaller enterprises.
As providers of mission-critical equipment it is crucial that we have close and enduring relationships with our customers.
The original equipment we supply to a new mine site for instance might be in place for the lifetime of the development, which could last many decades.
Throughout that time, it will need ongoing maintenance and support to ensure it continues to help the customer achieve their production objectives efficiently and sustainably.
Similarly, in oil and gas, the frack pumps we provide are used in high abrasion applications that lead to ongoing demand for spares and services.
The costs of unplanned downtime in our markets are significant and therefore our customers attach real value to both the quality and reliability of the original equipment we provide and our ability to meet their aftermarket demand for spares and services quickly.
The mutual dependence between Weir and our customers, often nurtured through long term relationships, also supports our new product development and ensures the Group remains relevant and responsive to our customers needs.
How we succeed: Customers Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 11 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 A Warman pump, photographed at our Weir Minerals facility in Artarmon, Australia.
Trusted global brands Unrivalled service The Group offers a range of market-leading In our main markets the Group has developed brands including Warman, ESCO and SPM an unrivalled service network to ensure that each of which are technology leaders in their we have engineers close to customer sites so respective slurry handling, extraction and that they can develop deep relationships and frack applications.
respond to any issues quickly.
In 2018, Warman celebrated its 80th Minerals has a service centre within 200km anniversary, reflecting its longevity as a brand of every major mine, sometimes embedded that has been trusted by generations of mining on site, while Oil & Gas has service coverage engineers to keep their plants moving.
in every major shale basin in North America.
In 2018, Minerals opened new facilities to The addition of ESCO to the Group also support customers in Africa, Asia-Pacific, means Weir is the only provider of premium Northand South America and Europe.
solutions to mining customers from extraction toconcentration.
In the first quarter of 2019, Oil & Gas will open its first supercentre in the Permian basin of Customer-led innovation Texas, the most prolific oil-producing region of the USA.
The division also launched the Weir Edge programme to provide rapid on-site root Ensuring the voice of the customer is clearly cause analysis of performance issues.
heard is at the heart of our new product development programme.
Alongside deploying Solutions mindset more engineers and managers to customer sites to understand their challenges directly, the Group also operates a key account management The Group is moving from a traditional focus on programme that develops strategic partnerships individual products to more of a solutions mindwith major customers.
Where previously our engineers would have looked after one brand they now take a In addition, we are upgrading our customer more holistic approach where they first seek to relationship management systems to provide a understand our customers biggest challenges more comprehensive view of customer trends and then design a package of solutions which and target those areas where we can offer the solve those problems.
In 2018, Minerals Integrated Solutions strategy generated an additional 93m in orders while Oil & Gas leveraged their expanded product portfolio in International markets to expand their rig to grid integrated solution.
See more in the operational review section frompage 34.
The Weir Group PLC 12 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Frack site of the future The frack site of the future will also focus on increasing efficiency, deploying smart, connected How we succeed: Technology products and increasing sustainability.
Our engineers are currently working on innovations Increase revenues from that will deliver incremental improvement and potentially more disruptive change.
new solutions This includes meeting demand for lower total costs and increased uptime.
Our asset tracking and monitoring technology is reducing leaks and improving emissions reporting.
We are also Innovation is part of the Groups DNA.
companies where we can leverage our significantly reducing the footprint of frack sites, Back in 1871, our founders, James and combined expertise to better serve making them safer places to work.
George Weir, were engineers who our customers.
invented a way to make steamships more We are investigating alternative ways to Our incremental innovation is focused on efficient.
They were passionate problem make sources of energy to support more continuous improvement of our core product solvers whose curiosity led to important sustainable frack operations including working ranges to enhance performance and longevity breakthroughs that helped make the with a range of partners to develop potentially in the high abrasion applications they are world around them more efficient.
We run trials on customer sites Today, the Groups focus is on mining and comparing our solutions with competitors.
More immediately our continued investment upstream oil and gas markets but our passion This has the benefit of testing our innovations in R&D is delivering a range of answers to for innovation and leading the technology in real-world settings and giving customers our customers challenges over efficiency.
change in our markets is as strong as ever.
insight into performance enhancements they For example, our SPM QEM 3000 technology could achieve by using Weir equipment.
can reduce the number of pumps required Our new product development process on a typical frack site by up to 40% given its includes working in partnership with our Our longer-term technology strategy is continuous duty capability.
Our simplified frack customers to understand their priorities.
aimed at continuing to lead the change in our system is also making it easier to rig-up a site, If we identify an opportunity for fundamental markets though materials science, advanced saving time and money while also making research, we work with our university manufacturing and design, digital platforms operations safer with up to 85% fewer leak paths partners around the world.
Academics work and increasing water and energy efficiency: as a result of the new technology.
alongside our engineers to develop new areas where we can add the most value to the solutions.
We also work with other technology mine and frack sites of the future.
Frack site of the future Efficient Smart Sustai nable Efficient Smart Sustainable Customer challenge Our solutions Customer challenge Our solutions Customer challenge Our solutions Total cost of ownership Continuous duty Deeper insights Asset tracking Improve safety Reduced footprint Reliability Reduced complexity Unplanned Performance Reduce emissions Electric frack solutions maintenance monitoring Rig-up efficiency Site integrity Enhance performance Intelligent controls How we succeed: Technology Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 13 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Efficient Mine Smart Mine Sustainable Mine Mine sites process millions of tonnes of rock.
Our Smart products include our Synertrex IoT Mining is a large consumer of water and On a copper mine for instance, one of our solution that provides condition monitoring and energy.
This imposes costs on both miners pumps can typically process over 1,000 metric big data analysis of equipment performance and the environment which the industry tonnes of ore per hour.
The cost on unplanned toreduce unplanned downtime.
downtime can therefore be extremely costly.
Our asset tracking tools help prevent loss Our engineers are developing a range Were working on solutions to improve of teeth from the massive mining machines of solutions that will make operations recoveries through hybrid separation.
If a tooth dislodges and gets more sustainable.
into the crusher it can cost millions of dollars We are also developing ore hoisting technology In comminution applications, where rock is inlost production.
that could lead to significant reductions in the crushed, ground and screened, our crusher number of truck journeys from underground to ESCO is also pioneering automated change technology also enables significant savings the surface.
outs to increase safety by taking people out of up to 35% compared to traditional ofharms way.
We are also working closely with customers to improve tailings management.
This includes solutions that help dewater the slurry enabling the tailings to be recycled, re-processes or re-purposed as shotcrete or concrete to be used in infrastructure such as building roads or tunnels.
42m R&D investment The Group is committed to increasing itsresearch and development investment to 2% of revenues over the medium term.
In2018, we spent 42m 2017: 40m on R&D, which represented 1.5% of revenues.
Mine of the future Smart Sustai nable Efficient Smart Sustainable Customer challenge Our solutions Customer challenge Our solutions Customer challenge Our solutions Increase productivity Hybrid separation Increase safety Digitisation Reduce energy HPGR technology and big data Reduce waste Hydro ore hoisting Automation and Reduce water Dry tailings control Automated Optimise recoveries Condition monitoring Manage tailings Repurpose & recycle change-outs Remote monitoring Asset tracking The Weir Group PLC 14 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 How we succeed: Performance Sustainably higher margins through the cycle As a business that designs, manufactures and supports a broad product portfolio, operational excellence is a key enabler of the Groups overall performance.
Our business serves a diverse range of customers based around the world with regional manufacturing operations that support customers local needs from new build to aftermarket.
This results in us having to configure our manufacturing capabilities and broader supply chain to satisfy their requirements whilst also allowing us to efficiently manage businesscritical areas such as financial forecasting, delivery timelines and levels of inventory.
In 2018 we prioritised improving customer insights, segmentation and fulfilment strategies to improve the efficiency of our operations from quotation to delivery.
We invested in our people with award winning training programmes that improved our capabilities across all areas of the value chain.
These initiatives will help ensure we deliver mutual benefit to stakeholders, including customers and suppliers.
These initiatives helped increase efficiency, with working capital as a percentage of sales falling 180bps on a like-for-like basis.
The Groups margin goals are for Minerals to remain in its normal 17%-20% range with ESCO moving towards 17%.
We also plan to move Oil & Gas margins back towards 20%.
How we succeed: Performance Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 15 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Members of Weirs Value Chain Excellence team receive the APICS award on behalf of the Group.
in supporting their drilling, well completion, Value Chain Excellence production and downstream operations.
This project also allowed us to improve leadTo continue to improve the Groups operational time and responsiveness whilst fundamentally excellence we undertook 80 Value Chain strengthening our working relationships.
This led Excellence projects across our businesses to a long-term contract for the provision of our focused on lean, value chain mapping and products and services.
Our value stream segmentation included Building value chain capability tailoring our offering to customers differing needs and putting in place fulfilment strategies To achieve sustainable business improvement, to meet the requirements of each customer strong and widespread end to end value chain segment.
This had benefits for improved on capability is required.
To deliver this, we invest in time delivery and customer satisfaction.
both internal and external training programmes.
These initiatives also contributed to the 180bps In 2018, our value chain people development reduction in working capital as a percentage programme was recognised by the global of sales.
supply chain industry body APICS with both its Certificate in Production and the Prestigious Optimising our operations APICS 2018 Corporate Award for Educational Excellence for our inventory management The Group consolidated our Novatech programme.
APICS recognised our ability manufacturing facility in Texas into our Fort to apply APICS theory into our working Worth campus to improve operational efficiency.
We also restructured our Pressure Control and In addition to these programmes we also Eastern Hemisphere oil and gas businesses provide Lean for Leaders and Lean Mastery to provide a stronger platform for international training.
These initiatives provide strong value expansion, building on the divisions presence chain excellence project deployment capability inthe Middle East and South East Asia.
Operational improvements in Flow Controls downstream oil and gas business also contributed to its turnaround in profitability aftera challenging 2017.
Minerals also upgraded its facilities in the UK and Australia while exiting its Malaysia foundry operations.
Customer collaboration The Groups customer focus also extends to using Voice of the Customer insights to configure our operations to meet their needs in the best way possible and build a more intimate, mutually beneficial relationship.
For example, our experts visited a leading oil field service customers site and mapped the end to end journey our products play
