The Weir Group PLC 16 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 How we behave Our values are our guiding principles We want all our people to live our values.
Every person, every day whether running a business or operating a machine tool or driving a fork lift truck.
These are the guiding principles that apply across our Group and help define the kind of business we are.
Think safety first Delight our customers Deliver Quality Do the right thing Embedding Lifesaving Behaviours across the globe The Group is committed to excellent Safety, activities so that they keep themselves safe in their Health and Environment SHE performance.
workplace and feel empowered to stop unsafe acts Keeping each other and our trading partners by others.
Explore and innovate safeis the most important thing we do.
In late 2017 and early 2018, a significant The Groups headline SHE strategy for 2018 was the communications and engagement plan was rolled introduction of our Lifesaving Behaviours campaign, out for the Lifesaving Behaviours initiative supported which forms a central part of our overall zero-harm by highly visual material in several formats, translated strategy.
The cornerstone of this rollout was the monthly tool box talks, town halls and re training The Lifesaving Behaviours target eleven of our higher sessions reminding people of the risks involved in risk activities with an overarching behaviour that allows the activities, and the behaviours that will prevent everyone working on behalf of the Group to right to serious injury and potentially save life.
None of the stop any activity, anywhere, if they think it might be activities that the behaviours target are new to people unsafe.
This authority to stop unsafe acts is provided within the Group, so there was a clear emphasis on by the CEO and means that regardless ofstatus reviewing and updating protocols, work instructions or experience or expertise, every person canbe and Standard Operating Procedures SOPs where alife saver.
the lifesaving behaviours were relevant and reminding The main objective of this campaign is to reduce people of the critical behaviours and states of mind the number of SHE incidents associated with these associated with these activities.
It is about focusing on activities by targeting the behaviour of those planning, the behaviour surrounding the activities themselves.
A supporting Read more objective is to improve awareness and encourage the right behaviour of everyone who undertakes these See pages 53-58 How we behave Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 17 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Harnessing a culture of innovation The essence of the Weir Innovation Network is that anyone in Weir can be an innovator.
This initiative is aimed at building on nearly 150 years of successful innovation, to get more teams and individuals around the globe sharing ideas, working collaboratively and adopting cultural best practices.
To do this, the Weir Innovation Network will develop the three core requirements needed for successful innovation: culture, process and great ideas.
To address these needs, Weir has invested in a dedicated global Innovation Team: a leading software platform to facilitate global innovation knowledge sharing: and the adoption of an iterative framework to underpin a global innovation processes.
The Innovation Team aim to empower and engage all in Weir through greater know-how being distributed across products, services, divisions and geographies: the transparent generation and discussion of ideas focused at addressing the businesses needs.
Furthermore, the Innovation Team objective is to have even more employees skilled in the art of innovation and the practical understanding of what it takes to make great ideas a reality.
The software aspect of the Weir Innovation Network is critical.
Based on a social media style of interaction, employees can post and view ideas in relation to a variety of challenges that are set by business sponsors.
The extensive network of employees throughout Weir can then collaborate to develop these ideas, provide their input into what ideas are deemed to be the best in relation to the challenge, and ultimately be rewarded and recognised for their efforts.
Engaging with a wide network early in the innovation process allows for quick validation of ideas, contributing to a Fail Fast Fail Safe culture.
The recent No Time to Waste sustainability challenge received over 7,000 votes from Weir employees as part of the evaluation phase, demonstrating that the drive and desire to be a part of innovation in Weir is as healthy as ever.
Read more See pages 12-13 Consolidating our Code of Conduct Following the Groups acquisition of ESCO Corporation in July 2018, we undertook a comparative assessment of Weirs policies and ESCOs policies.
As part of this assessment, we have updated our Code of Conduct and plan to disseminate the updated policy throughout the organisation during 2019.
The updated document will be translated into at least 10 languages to facilitate understanding across our organisation, and training will be provided to Weir personnel across the globe to re-enforce the core messages set out within the document.
