The Weir Group PLC 2 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 How we engage Local open days to better Our vision understand our operations Collaborations with local schools To be the and universities Supporting employment and apprenticeship schemes most admired engineering How we engage Group-wide Board member responsible for business in representing employee voice All-employee survey our markets Monthly CEO Briefing and direct What do they care about most?
Ask Jon CEO email address Knowing their voice is heard Global webcasts and Ensuring everyone is social media channel treated fairly What does being the most No compromise on our Safety, Health or admired mean?
Environmental standards Feeling alignment between To us, it is when all our personal and company values stakeholders see Weir as a Employees truly outstanding business to be associated with.
We know we are getting there if we consistently deliver the following How we engage on a How do we respond?
businesslevel outcomes: Global employee Town Hall meetings: communications and Growing faster than our end toolbox talks engagement strategy markets and delivering strong Safety stand-downs Commitment to building a truly inclusive culture returns to our investors.
Employee safety committees Continuous prioritisation of Innovation network Attracting and retaining the safety above all else to become a zero harm workplace best talent by being the place Ongoing engagement with our where our employees can do We are Weir framework the best work of their careers.
Developing enduring strategic How do we respond?
partnerships with customers What do they care about most?
Increased investment in and suppliers.
Safety research and development Efficiency Technology roadmaps And always doing business the developed through Voice Smart technologies right way, living by our values of Customer Sustainability and Code of Conduct.
Comprehensive global Trusted long-term partnerships service network Like all businesses, we depend Ever-present service on a range of different resources and relationships to succeed.
How we engage This requires being a good Embedded sales and partner to our stakeholders engineering teams through regular engagement.
Key account management Voice of Customer Customers technology roadmaps Developing disruptive technologies Our vision Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 3 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 How we engage What do they care about most?
Jobs and investment Clearly defined supplier quality policy That we are good neighbours, Supplier visits operating safely and ethically Technology trials That we actively help and and collaborations support local communities Suppliers What do they care about most?
Providing direct employment to Trusted partnerships 17,515 people Collaborative relationships Investing in our facilities to Responsive communication Communities provide a safe, nurturing and stretching environment Investing in school, graduate and PhD programmes How do we respond?
Face-to-face meetings with suppliers Key account support Equal opportunity policies for all suppliers Strong safety culture VISION and learnings To be the most admired engineering business in our markets What do they care about most?
Clear strategy and good execution Financial discipline Strong returns and management through the cycle Protecting and enhancing the reputation of the Group How do we respond?
We are Weir strategic framework Regular reporting of performance Growing ahead of our end markets Code of Conduct and risk assessments Shareholders How we engage Annual Report and General Meeting One-to-one meetings Investor conferences Visits to company facilities
