The Weir Group PLC 6 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 What we do At the heart of We are Weir is what we do our business model and divisional platforms How we generate value The value we create Investors We operate a large and growing installed base of Strong returns from growth ahead of our highlyengineered original equipment used in abrasive end markets enabled by a clearly defined operating environments.
This, in turn, drives demand and well-executed strategy.
for aftermarket spares and services, providing earnings Dividends paid to shareholders: resilience through the cycle.
The embedded nature of ourcustomer care means we can help our customers 111m 15% identify opportunities to improve the efficiency and sustainability of their operations.
Employees A safe and engaged workplace that supports innovation, high performance and continuing personal development.
Amount paid in wages and salaries: 575m 14% Customers A solutions mindset that is innovative, collaborative and fosters enduring strategic partnerships.
Group continuing operations orders Mission-critical solutions Highly engineered equipment We focus on solutions that are essential to We are the technology leaders in our core 2.5bn 27% our customers operations and where our markets, supported by almost 150 years of engineering expertise enables them to achieve innovative engineering with leading brands that their business objectives safely, efficiently are known for their reliability and performance.
A solutions mindset that is innovative, collaborative and fosters enduring strategic partnerships.
Amount paid to suppliers of materials and services: 1.5bn 15% Governments and communities Engaging with key stakeholders openly and transparently and ensuring we always do business the right way, guided by Intensive aftermarket care Comprehensive global support our Code of Conduct.
Corporation tax paid: We provide solutions that are used in some Our global service centre network is the most of the worlds most extreme operating extensive in our core markets, delivering rapid environments.
These harsh conditions support to customers in the need-it-now 73m 20% generate ongoing demand for attractive industries we serve.
What we do Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 7 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Our three operating divisions See more in the operational reviews from pages 34-46 Weir Minerals Weir ESCO Weir Oil & Gas What we do What we do What we do Minerals is a global leader in the ESCO is the worlds leading provider Oil & Gas provides highly engineered provision of mill circuit technology of ground engaging tools GET used and mission-critical solutions to and services as well as the market on large mining machines.
leader in slurry handling equipment The division also provides highly Products include pressure pumping and associated aftermarket support engineered GET solutions to and pressure control equipment and for abrasive high wear applications.
infrastructure markets including aftermarket spares and services.
Its differentiated technology is used in construction, dredging and sand Internationally, it provides equipment mining, oil and gas and general industrial and aggregates.
repairs, upgrades, certification and asset markets around the world.
Highlights Highlights Highlights 1 2 1 14% increase in orders 11% increase in pro forma revenues 17% increase in orders Integrated solutions 170bps margin improvement Operating margin impacted by strategy delivered 93m in post acquisition market slowdown in second half additional revenues Targeting revenue synergies of at Developed first supercentre in Global service centre network least US$50m over the next 5 years Permian basin of Texas increased to 109 Revenue by original equipment Revenue by original equipment Revenue by original equipment aftermarket aftermarket aftermarket 72% 95% 76% Aftermarket Aftermarket Aftermarket Aftermarket 72% Aftermarket 95% Aftermarket 76% Original Equipment 28% Original Equipment 5% Original Equipment 24% 1 2017 restated at 2018 average exchange rates.
2 Pro forma figures are based on ESCOs adjusted unaudited US GAAP management accounts.
