The Weir Group PLC 4 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Our mission To enable our customers to sustainably and efficiently deliver the energy and resources needed by a growing world To do this successfully we need to understand our place in a world that is constantly evolving.
Here is our view of the potential impact some of the largest global trends could have on Weir.
Global population and Climate Globalisation Technology migration trends driven change acceleration Global population continues to There is wide international The global economy continues to The rise of the digital economy increase.
The United Nations support to hold the rise in grow but the benefits of increased has led to disruption across 1 projects it will reach 8.5 billion global temperatures.
In 2018 globalisation are being called many industries and advances by2030 approximately 1bn more the Intergovernmental Panel on into question, including in major in manufacturing capabilities, than 2017, its last revision year.
This, Climate Change suggested efforts economies.
This has been reflected materials science and performance alongside increasing urbanisation, to meet a 1.5C reduction would in the recent trade wars between monitoring all have the potential will support increased demand require rapid and far-reaching the USA and China, the worlds to impact industrial markets in for natural resources and energy, transitions in energy, land, urban and two largest economies.
These will provide particularly in emerging economies.
infrastructure including transport also a continuing debate about the challenges to incumbents but also and buildings, and industrial role of businesses in society and opportunities to leverage their systems.
how they generate value beyond competitive advantages to develop financial results for a broader range new solutions for customers of stakeholders.
and increased productivity in their operations.
Our response Our response Our response Our response Aligned to markets that benefit from Supporting efficient supply of Broad exposure to developed and Continuous innovation in our these structural trends commodities such as copper and emerging economies core product range to maintain natural gas that will support transition market leadership Supporting economic growth Regular engagement with major to lower carbon economy and infrastructure development stakeholders to listen to their views Technology strategy that has with equipment that supports the Reducing customers energy and digitisation and advanced Code of Conduct that ensures we do efficient extraction and processing water consumption as part of our manufacturing at its core business the right way ofnatural resources technology strategy Technology partnerships Global footprint with 38% of Developing our own sustainability with leading universities revenues from emerging economies strategy to reduce our environmental andcommercial partners impact while supporting business goals 1 https: esa.
org unpd wpp Publications Files WPP2017 KeyFindings.
pdf Our mission Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 5 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Here are some examples of how we are helping our customers use less water and energy and operate more safely Safer, more efficient fracksite A traditional hydraulic fracturing site will contain many steel pipes and connectors Repurposing tailings, reducing waste linking equipment such as the pumps to the wellhead.
It makes set up complicated and time consuming and can increase the The process of crushing, grinding and processing Firstly, water is extracted from the tailings using Weirs likelihood of injury.
rock on a mine site uses a large amount of water portfolio of products.
To combat these issues the Oil & Gas division has and produces a by-product known as tailings.
Secondly, we recombine the fide-watered components developed the Simplified Frac System.
This is essentially waste rock that has been ground to form a dry concrete-like substance that can be Its single large-bore design reduces the number to the consistency of silt.
On a large mine, the tailings reused for applications including building roads ofrequired connections and eliminates much of dam, where the by-product is stored, will contain and tunnels.
the ground iron found on frack sites.
millions of tonnes of tailings and once constructed The result is a win-win for the local environment these dams are designed to stay in place for up to The result is a safer frack site that is quicker to set and miners.
It reduces the need for ever-expanding 1,000 years.
up and fide-rig saving unnecessary and expensive dams while also reducing costs of raw materials used downtime and making frack operations simpler This poses a major challenge to mining companies: in infrastructure.
what to do with the tailings by-product other than to Read more on our Minerals Division store it in a dam for centuries?
Read more on our Oil & Gas Division See pages 34-37 Working in partnership with our customers, our See pages 42-45 engineers have designed a solution that allows tailings to be repurposed.
Protecting local water 3000 feet above sea level supplies Mines are often located in remote areas where access to water resources is limited and so groundwater reservoirs are used to support operations.
c. 200km pipeline However, the demands this puts on local resources means that miners are looking for alternative and more sustainable sources of supply.
In Chile, some of our products are helping with the process of pumping millions of gallons of water from a desalination plant by the coast to the mine site which is almost 200km away and 3,000m above sea level, high in the Atacama Desert, one of the driest regions on earth.
Read more on our other sustainability projects See pages 62-66 Desalination plant
