The Weir Group PLC 114 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Directors Report The Notice of Meeting, along with an explanation given in note 29 to the Group financial statements The Directors present their report for the of the proposed resolutions, are set out in on pages 173 to 181. year ending 31 December 2018. a separate circular to shareholders which Share capital and rights attaching to the accompanies this Annual Report and can be Companys shares The Directors Report includes the downloaded from the Companys website.
Details of the issued share capital of the Corporate Governance Report from page The Company conducts the vote at the AGM by Company, which comprises a single class of 67 to 113, together with the sections of the poll and the result of the votes, including proxies, ordinary shares of 12.5p each are set out in note Annual Report incorporated by reference.
is published on the Companys website after 24 to the Group financial statements on page The Company has chosen to disclose the the meeting.
The rights attaching to the shares are set following information in the Strategic Report Dividend out in the Companys Articles of Association.
on pages 1 to 66: The Directors have recommended a final There are no special control rights in relation to Particulars of any important events, if dividend of 30.45p per share for the period ended the Companys shares and the Company is not any, affecting the Company which have 31 December 2018.
Payment of this dividend is aware of any agreements between shareholders occurred since the end of the financial year.
subject to shareholder approval at the 2019 AGM.
that may result in restrictions on the transfer of An indication of likely future developments securities and or voting rights.
Substantial shareholders in the business of the Company.
The Company has been notified in accordance During the period, a total of 34,922,489 ordinary An indication of the activities of the with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure shares with an aggregate nominal value of Company in the field of research Rules and Transparency Rules DTR 5 that the 4,365,311.13 were issued and allotted.
following held, or were beneficially interested in, The Group has an employee benefit trust with Details of employee policy and involvement 3% or more of the voting rights of the Companys the trustees Estera Trust Jersey Limited the pages 114. issued share capital as at 31 December 2018: Estera EBT.
Information on greenhouse gas emissions pages 65 to 66.
Percentage During the period, the Long Term Incentive Plan Principal risks and uncertainties pages Number of of voting the LTIP vested and the trustees of the Estera Shareholder voting rights rights % 51 to 55.
EBT transferred 379,422 ordinary shares to BlackRock, Inc. 27,511,610 10.60% The Strategic Report and the Directors employees to satisfy the LTIP awards.
Report constitute the management report FMR LLC 11,630,611 5.18% During the period, the ESCO Stock Incentive Plan as required under the Disclosure and 2010 the ESCO Plan vested and the trustees of Between 31 December 2018 and 26 February 2019, the Transparency Rule 4.1.
Company was notified of the following changes to the table the Estera EBT transferred 10,707 ordinary shares above.
to employees to satisfy the ESCO awards.
Information to be disclosed under the Listing TR-1 received from BlackRock Inc. on 7 January 2019.
4 is set out in the table below.
The Group also had an employee benefit trust voting rights 27,308,442.
with the trustees SG Kleinwort Hambros TR-1 received from BlackRock Inc. on 9 January 2019.
Number of Page voting rights 25,539,350.
Trust Company CI Ltd the Kleinwort EBT.
Subject matter reference The Kleinwort EBT was closed on 15 January Employment policy and involvement 2019.
During the period, the trustees of the The average number of employees in the Group Allotment of shares Kleinwort EBT transferred 3,803 ordinary shares 167 during the period is given in note 4 to the Group for cash LR 9.8.
Waiver of dividends 114 Both EBTs agreed to waive any right to all LR 9.8.
4 12 Group companies operate within a framework dividend payments on shares held by them, with of HR policies, practices and regulations Paragraphs 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13 and the exception of shares held in respect of awards 14 of Listing Rule 9.8.
appropriate to their market sector and country which have a dividend entitlement.
Policies and procedures for recruitment, training and career development Details of the shares held by the Estera and This Annual Report has been prepared for, and promote equality of opportunity regardless of Kleinwort EBTs are set out in note 24 to the Group only for, the members of the Company, as a gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, financial statements on page 167. body, and no other persons.
The Company, its disability, race, religion or other beliefs and The 94,163 shares held in the Estera EBT for the Directors, employees, agents and advisers, do ethnic or national origin.
At Weir, we strive to LTIP and SRP bonus share awards and the ESCO not accept or assume responsibility to any other build an inclusive culture in which all employees Plan restricted share awards are the shares in person to whom this document is shown or have the opportunity to succeed and to be able respect of which dividends have not been waived.
into whose hands it may come, and any such to do the best work of their lives.
The Group The Estera EBT holds, through nominee account responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
remains committed to the fair treatment of CGWL Nominees Ltd, 0.04% of the issued share This Annual Report may contain statements people with disabilities regarding recruitment, capital of the Company as at 31 December 2018. which are not based on current or historical training, promotion and career development.
fact and or which are forward looking in nature.
Meaningful dialogue with our employees is 0.02% of this is held in trust for the benefit of Please refer to the cautionary statement on actively encouraged.
Further details are included certain senior executives of the Group, and page 212. in the People section on pages 8 to 9.
0.02% is held in trust on behalf of the Company for satisfaction of any future vesting of the Financial instruments Company number awards granted under the LTIP, the SRP and the The information required in respect of financial The Weir Group PLC is registered in Scotland ESCO Plan.
instruments as required by Schedule 7 of The under company number SC002934.
Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups With the exception of the shares held for the 2019 Annual General Meeting Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 is benefit of certain senior executives, the voting The Annual General Meeting will be held on rights in relation to these shares are exercised by Tuesday 30 April 2019 at 2.30 pm.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 115 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 the trustees.
The Estera EBT may vote or abstain Appointment and replacement of directors be repaid to that lender at the expiry of such from voting with the shares or accept or reject The provisions about the appointment and notice period.
any offer relating to shares, in any way they see re-election of Directors of the Company are The Company has in issue fixed rate private fit, without incurring any liability and without being contained in the Articles of Association.
placement notes with a range of maturities: required to give reasons for their decision.
Powers of Directors US$210m at an interest rate of 3.69% due on Repurchase of shares The business of the Company is managed by 18 February 2019, US$590m at an interest rate of At the 2018 Annual General Meeting, the Directors who may exercise all the powers 4.27% due on 16 February 2022 and US$200m shareholders renewed the Companys authority of the Company, subject to the provisions of at an interest rate of 4.34% due on 16 February to make market purchases of up to 22.4m the Companys Articles of Association, any 2023.
Under the terms of the applicable note ordinary shares representing approximately 10% special resolution of the Company and any purchase agreements, if there is a change of of the issued share capital excluding treasury relevant legislation.
control of the Company, the notes must be shares.
No shares were purchased under this offered for prepayment by the Company within Directors indemnities authority during the year ended 31 December seven days of the change of control.
The Company has granted indemnities to each 2018 and at the forthcoming Annual General of its Directors in respect of all losses arising out There are no agreements between the Company Meeting, the Board will again seek shareholder of or in connection with the execution of their and its Directors or employees providing for approval to renew the annual authority for the powers, duties and responsibilities as Directors compensation for loss of office or employment Company to make market purchases at the to the extent permitted by the Companies Act whether through resignation, purported same level.
2006 and the Companys Articles of Association.
redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of Voting rights In addition, Directors and Officers of the a takeover bid.
The Companys Articles of Association provide Company and its subsidiaries and trustees of its Confirmations that on a show of hands at a general meeting of pension schemes are covered by Directors and So far as each of the Directors is aware, there the Company, every holder of ordinary shares Officers liability insurance.
is no relevant audit information as defined by present in person and by proxy and entitled to Pension scheme indemnities section 481 of the Companies Act 2006 of which vote shall have one vote and on a poll, every The Group operates two closed defined benefit the Companys auditors are unaware.
member present in person or by proxy and pension schemes in the UK which provide Each of the Directors has taken all of the steps entitled to vote shall have one vote for every retirement and death benefits for employees and that he or she ought to have taken as a Director ordinary share held.
The Notice of the AGM former employees of the Group.
The corporate to make themselves aware of any relevant audit specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights trustees of the pension schemes are The Weir information and to establish that the Companys and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in Group Pension Trust Limited, a subsidiary of auditors are aware of that information.
relation to resolutions to be passed at the AGM.
The Weir Group PLC, and The Weir Group The Company conducts the vote at the AGM by Going concern Senior Executives Pension Trust Limited.
poll and the result of the poll will be released to The Directors have a reasonable expectation that Qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions, the London Stock Exchange and posted on the the Group has adequate resources to continue to as defined in section 235 of the Companies Companys website as soon as practicable after operate for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, Act 2006, were in force for the financial year the meeting.
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in ended 31 December 2018 and remain in force preparing the financial statements.
In forming this The Articles of Association may only be amended for the benefit of each of the directors of the view, the Directors have reviewed the Groups by a special resolution passed at a general corporate trustees of the pension schemes.
budgets, plans and cash flow forecasts, including meeting of shareholders.
These indemnity provisions cover, to the extent market downturn sensitivities.
In addition, the permitted by law, certain losses or liabilities Transfer of shares Directors have considered the potential impact of incurred as a director or officer of the corporate There are no restrictions on the transfer of credit risk and liquidity risk detailed in note 29 to trustees of the pension schemes.
ordinary shares in the Company, other than as the Group financial statements on pages 173 to contained in the Articles of Association: Change of control significant agreements 181.
Each of these items has been considered in The following significant agreements contain The Directors may refuse to register any relation to the Groups banking facilities described provisions entitling the counterparties to require transfer of any certificated share which is not in note 19 on pages 158 and 159. prior approval, exercise termination, alteration or fully paid up, provided that this power will not The Directors Report has been approved by similar rights in the event of a change of control of be exercised so as to disturb the market in the the Board of Directors in accordance with the the Company.
The Directors may also refuse to register The Group has in place a US$950m multiOn behalf of the Board of Directors the transfer of a certificated share unless it currency revolving credit facility the Facility is delivered to the Registrars office, or such with a syndicate of 12 banks due to mature in other place as the Directors have specified, September 2021 and a GBP 300m Term Loan accompanied by a certificate for the shares to from four banks due to mature in December 2020. be transferred and such other evidence as the Under the terms of these Facilities, if there is a Directors may reasonably require to prove title change of control of the Company, the Company of the intending transferor.
has 30 days from the date of the change of Graham Vanhegan Certain restrictions may from time to time be control to agree terms for continuing the Facility.
Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary imposed by laws and regulations, for example, If at the end of the 30 days no agreement is 27 February 2019 insider trading laws, in relation to the transfer reached, between the Company and the banks, of shares.
then any lender may request, by not less than 30 days notice to the Company, that its commitment be cancelled and all outstanding amounts
