The Weir Group PLC 24 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Minerals and ESCO: How we generate value Creating a unique mining Mission critical solutions services provider Premium solutions across the mining value chain Mining customers are focused on improving productivity by increasing throughput, ESCO Cable Shovel Bucket with debottlenecking, and reducing costly Nemisys Tooth System downtime.
They want a service provider with a broad portfolio of integrated solutions that Custom-engineered to match the can help deliver their priorities sustainably conditions of each mining operation.
ESCOs materials handling and extraction in the surface mine is adjacent to Minerals position in comminution and concentration, resulting in an expanded Weir portfolio across the mining value chain, supported by unrivalled service and support.
Increased touch points with customers will also support better understanding of their needs and provide future opportunities to further increase Weirs relevance.
With ESCO and Warman brands spanning the mining value chain, Weir will be uniquely positioned as a premium provider of mission critical solutions that help customers achieve their objectives.
Read more See pages 26-27 No 1 player with c. 40% market share in surface mining ESCOs customers include the leading global mining companies with ESCO product installed on c. 40% of large primary mover machines.
ESCO GET typically last significantly longer than rival products and are easier to maintain and replace.
ESCOs extensive GET installed base includes more than 3,000 lip systems used on large mining machines.
Once engaging equipment is ESCO Dragline Bucket with ESCO Wheel Loader Bucket with fitted with ESCOs proprietary technology, the Nemisys Tooth System Nemisys Tooth System abrasive nature of the applications means that regular replacements are required, with typical ESCO dragline buckets perform Designed for optimum loading annual revenues from spares and services consistently across the wide variety performance in tough mining equivalent to 100% of the original equipment of digging conditions in a mine plan.
Consequently, the business currently Tapers are optimised for faster generates 95% of annual revenues from filling with less drag energy.
Read more See pages 38-41 ESCO products Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 25 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 How we generate value Highly engineered Intensive Comprehensive equipment aftermarket care global support Warman MC pumps Cavex Hydrocyclones GEHO Piston and Piston Diaphragm pumps Designed to easily manage large Our innovative Cavex Hydrocyclone size particles in dense abrasive slurries design provides excellent efficiency Our robust range of GEHO pumps and offer the right combination of and hydraulic capacity, reducing the are built to handle the most abrasive, ruggedness, durability, hydraulics number of hydrocyclones required corrosive and high temperature and materials.
Enduron Crushers Enduron High Pressure Grinding Rolls HPGR Our crushers provide outstanding performance and extra-long life, Our innovative grinding technology is supported by Weirs unrivalled backed by continuous research and global service network.
in-house pilot scale HPGR test facilities in Europe, Australia, North America and Latin America.
Linatex Rubber Lining Our Linatex rubber sheet products are expertly manufactured to deliver outstanding wear performance in the toughest wet abrasive environments.
WEIR comminution products WEIR mill circuit products The Weir Group PLC 26 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Minerals and ESCO: Leveraging our unrivalled service centre network ESCO products WEIR comminution products Minerals has 4x the service centre Building on each others strengths coverage of ESCO ESCO is a global business with 10 manufacturing Leveraging Weirs global network will significantly facilities, 6 foundries and 22 service and supply increase the number of direct customer relationships centres in 19 countries around the world, with its available to ESCO.
The ESCO business will also provide core strength in North America, representing 52% strong support for Weirs growing comminution offering, of its revenue.
This compares with Weirs unrivalled with an extensive footprint and dealer network in North global minerals equipment service network, with America and Europe representing a clear opportunity for 4 times more than 100 service centres ensuring we are close Minerals crusher portfolio.
to every major mine site in the world.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 27 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 ESCO products WEIR comminution products ESCO Service Centres Weir Minerals Improving ESCO margins Revenue synergies ESCO maintained relatively stable gross margins Since the acquisition closed we have delivered cost through the mining downturn, reflecting the synergies with a run rate of $15m, contributing to strength of its brand and the quality of its products.
a 170bps operating margin improvement for the Our base case assumption is that ESCO performs divisionto 13%.
in line with the GET market which on average is US$50m We are now also targeting revenue synergies of at least expected to deliver mid-single digit percentage US$50m in the next five years as we build on each growth.
We are targeting moving ESCOs EBITA others strengths.
margins towards Minerals with a target of achieving 17%, supported by improving volumes and delivery of the cost synergies.
