Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 47 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Risk Review Managing risk effectively The risk agenda all the way up to Group level assessments, During the year, the Board has reviewed the thereby providing an integrated bottom-up and Introduction effectiveness of the systems of risk management top-down approach to risk management.
and internal control and conducted a robust Ultimately, the Board is responsible for the We operate in a complex global assessment of the principal risks affecting the Groups risk and internal control framework.
environment, where opportunities Group in line with the Risk Appetite Statement.
It has set out the decisions, and hence the level come with corresponding risks.
These activities meet the Boards responsibilities of risk, which can be delegated to the Group Because our markets are dispersed in connection with Risk Management and Executive and divisional and operational company and decentralised, our objective is to Internal Control set out in the UK Corporate management without requiring escalation.
allow our people to be decisive, so Governance Code.
This is articulated in a series of Group policies we can take advantage of attractive The aim of the Risk Appetite Statement remains and delegated authority matrices, as well as the opportunities whilst ensuring we to highlight the risks that we should be willing to parameters within the approved Risk Appetite are not exposing the organisation to take, as well as those which are unacceptable.
The Board and committee structure excessive risk.
The statement includes a series of risk assertions can be viewed on page 74. which are aligned to our strategy, together with The bottom-up risk reporting approach requires the risk parameters within which we expect key risks identified, and reported, at project our people to work.
The risk appetite is all of level to be escalated to the operating company the risk assertions and the parameters taken management, which in turn may be escalated together.
The parameters can apply to more than to divisional management, and ultimately to one risk assertion, and therefore the individual the Risk Committee and the Board.
This is risk assertions should not be read in isolation.
achieved through risk dashboard reports, which Compliance with the Risk Appetite Statement are maintained at divisional and Group levels.
is monitored through the Groups functional The dashboards provide a summary of the major and front line controls including oversight and net risks at each respective level, as well as a reporting mechanisms.
The Board will continue to summary of the key mitigating controls and review and update the Risk Appetite Statement actions, and further control actions required.
The Risk Committee monitors quarterly risk Details of the review of the internal control and dashboard reports from the divisions.
In addition, risk management systems undertaken during the the Risk Committee has oversight of the Group year are contained in the Audit Committee Report Risk Dashboard, along with a routine review of on page 87. key controls identified to manage each risk and Risk management the sources of controls assurance, providing The management of risks is at the core of the an update to the Board at each Board meeting.
We have a risk The Board obtains assurance over risks and management policy which defines how we risk management through the internal control expect risks to be identified, assessed and framework.
More information on the internal managed throughout the organisation.
control framework can be found within the Corporate Governance Report on page 73 and Risks are assessed, and quantified, in terms of within the Audit Committee Report on page 87. impact and likelihood of occurrence, both before and after control mitigation.
Assessing the gross The specific risks identified across the business risk before control mitigation allows the business generally fall under one of the categories within to review the relative impact of the existing the Risk Universe as shown overleaf.
controls by comparing the gross and net risk assessment.
This also allows the business to avoid wasting resources on mitigating controls and actions which have a negligible impact on the risk assessment.
The impact of risks is quantified across a range of factors including: financial: strategy: reputation: people and property: ability to perform services: regulation: safety, health and environment: and investors and funding.
The risk management policy includes defined criteria for each risk impact factor, supporting a consistent measurement approach.
Risk management takes place at the grassroots level, for example in individual projects, Policies and decisions The Weir Group PLC 48 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Risk Review continued Risk responsibilities & reporting Risk universe Strategic risk Industry and market volatility.
Board and sub-committees Technological advances or disruption.
Group Executive Hazard risk Political and social instability.
Natural disasters and other major incidents.
Risk committee External and internal fraud and corruption.
Operating company management Compliance risk Laws and regulations.
Identify the risk Debt and interest rates.
the gross risk Accounting and reporting.
Monitor, Not all risks are controllable or assure and foreseeable, a key example being Identify report natural disasters.
Our response to the existing such risks is having controls which mitigating lessen the impact to our business actions and should they occur.
For example, in controls the case of natural disasters, we Identify have controls in place to reduce the if further risk of harm to our people, as well as actions and response planning protocols, with controls are clear accountability, to minimise Quantify required disruption to operations and the net risk our customers.
Reporting Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 49 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Risk Appetite Statement The Weir Group is strategically positioned in markets with good long-term growth prospects.
We will pursue ambitious growth targets, and we are willing to accept a higher level of risk to increase the likelihood of achieving or exceeding our strategic priorities, subject to the parameters below.
Risk assertions Risk parameters Investment of resources will be consistent with divisional strategies and expected 1.
Organic growth divisional compound annual growth rates over five year plans.
We will rigorously pursue divisional organic growth strategies to meet our market growth objectives.
Post-tax returns should exceed our cost of capital within three years of 2.
Mergers and acquisitions M&A the acquisition.
We will actively pursue M&A opportunities that enhance our strategic platform subject to meeting investment criteria.
Short term margin dilution is acceptable in gaining market entry but over the cycle we 3.
Returns and profitability aim for top quartile operating margins and returns on capital.
We will not pursue growth at all costs, however, we expect high margins, strong returns on capital and working capital discipline together with cash generation.
Local country cash flow projections for investment appraisal purposes discounted at 4.
Capital allocation country specific rates to account for risk weighted returns.
We will encourage capital expenditure in pursuit of our growth ambitions subject to Internal Rate of Return IRR hurdles and capital structure targets.
Capital structure We will seek to maintain the ratio of net debt EBITDA below two times current We are prepared to use leverage in pursuit of our growth agenda and will financial covenants 3.5 times and will retain adequate headroom within our debt actively seek low cost debt to fund the Group but, recognising cyclicality facilities at all times.
in our end markets, will maintain significant headroom against our financial covenants.
No tolerance for breaches of: 6.
Reputation and stakeholders We will avoid manage situations or actions that could have a negative impact Legislative statutory requirements.
on our reputation and stakeholders.
We aim to be transparent with all of our Weir Code of Conduct.
stakeholders unless prejudicial to our collective interests.
No tolerance for breaches of Weir Group Safety, Health and Environment Charter.
Safety, Health and Environment SHE Active community and environmental engagement is expected.
We will not undertake or pursue activities that pose unacceptable hazard or risk to our people, the communities in which we operate, or the broader environment.
No tolerance for breaches of: 8.
Country presence We are prepared to enter new countries which offer opportunities for growth Legislative statutory requirements.
consistent with our overall strategy.
We will not enter, or will exit, countries Weir Code of Conduct.
which present a high risk of harm to our people, damage to our reputation, or International sanctions.
Target research and development spend of 2% of revenues.
Innovation We will invest in technology, research and development to innovate our customer offering allowing us to maintain and expand our market share.
Third line of defence Second line of defence First line of defence The Weir Group PLC 50 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Risk Review continued Role and responsibilities The key roles and responsibilities for risk management are set out below.
Group Risk management responsibilities Annual review and ongoing monitoring of the effectiveness of the risk management and internal Board control frameworks.
Overall responsibility for the Groups Annual review of the Groups risk appetite.
risk management and internal control Principal risks presented in every CEO report.
frameworks, and strategic decisions within On a bi-annual basis, receive a report from the Risk Committee which sets out the current the Group.
assessment of each principal risk, the effect of mitigating controls on each risk, the direction of travel of each risk versus the prior year, the extent to which each could potentially impact the Groups strategic goals and any relevant findings relating to significant control failings or weaknesses which have been identified.
Taking decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
Annual assessment of the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control frameworks.
Audit Committee Review of reports from the internal and external auditors.
Delegated responsibility from the Board to Review of the results from the six-monthly self-assessment compliance scorecards.
review the effectiveness of the Groups risk and internal control frameworks.
Group Executive Managing risks which have the potential to impact the delivery of the Groups strategic objectives.
Monitoring business performance, in particular key performance indicators relating to Executive committee with overall strategic objectives.
responsibility for managing the Group to Taking strategic decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
ensure it achieves its strategic objectives.
Escalating issues to the Board as required.
Review of the design and operation of the Group Risk Management Policy and Framework.
Risk Committee Identification and assessment of the key risks facing the Group, identification of the key controls Management committee responsible for mitigating those risks and identification of further actions where necessary.
governance of the Groups Risk Management Review of the Divisional Risk Dashboards, considering the appropriateness of managements Policy and Framework.
responses to identified risks and assessing whether there are any gaps.
Reporting key Group and divisional risks to the Board.
Executive Committee representation to drive improvements in our safety performance throughout Chief Executives Safety Committee the Group.
Safety Committee with responsibility to set and monitor the Groups SHE principles, priorities and actions.
Monitoring the management of key risks across the Group associated with the respective remits of Excellence Committees the Excellence Committees.
Engineering Monitoring performance and compliance with Group objectives, policies and standards related to the Safety, Health and Environment respective remits of the Excellence Committees.
Finance Taking decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
HR Escalating issues to the Group Executive as required.
Group Information Services Reviewing the results from relevant assurance activities.
Value Chain Management committees with representatives from across the Group in their respective areas of focus.
The committees govern activities and performance in the individual functional areas.
Managing risks which have the potential to impact the delivery of the divisions strategic objectives.
Divisional management Monitoring performance and compliance with Group objectives, policies and standards within the Responsible for managing the businesses divisions and with regard to the outputs from the Excellence Committees.
within the divisions to ensure divisional Taking decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
strategic objectives are achieved and there Escalating issues to the Group Executive as required.
is compliance with Group policies and Reviewing the results from relevant assurance activities.
Managing risks which have the potential to impact the delivery of their companys strategic objectives.
Operating company management Monitoring performance and compliance with Group objectives, policies and standards within Responsible for ensuring company objectives their company.
are achieved and business activities are Taking decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
conducted in accordance with Group policies Escalating issues to divisional management and Excellence Committees as required.
Reviewing the results from relevant assurance activities.
