STRATEGIC REPORT Strategy Principal risks and uncertainties The Companys strategy is to acquire freehold and facing the Company leasehold buildings and to obtain the necessary In the course of normal business, the Company permissions to convert them into Wetherspoon pubs.
continually assesses significant risks faced and takes The buildings are normally in or near town centres or in action to mitigate their potential impact.
Our aim is to increase like-for-like The following risks, while not intended to be a sales, profits and earnings per share.
comprehensive analysis, constitute in the opinion of Our strategy is to seek a return on capital in excess of the board the principal risks and uncertainties currently the cost of the capital which will provide profit for new facing the Company: pub developments, dividends and funds for Strategic risks reinvestment in the existing business.
Economic outlook Business model The Company aims to improve its customer offering Wetherspoon owns and operates pubs and hotels continually, so that it remains competitively placed in throughout the UK and Ireland and aims to sell highthe market in which it operates.
Adverse economic quality products, at reasonable prices, in attractive and conditions can theoretically have an effect on the well-maintained premises.
The Company aims to make Companys performance, although, historically, these lots of small improvements to its pubs, once they are effects have been muted.
open, so that sales and profit are maintained or improved.
Regulation of the sale of alcohol The pub business is highly regulated, with frequent The Company aims to recruit and retain a high increases in alcohol duty and other taxes a feature of standard of employee, partly by allocating a the industry for many decades.
considerable percentage of profit as bonuses to pub employees and partly through a number of training Succession-planning programmes which help to achieve these objectives.
The Company is reliant on the knowledge and experience of its executive management team.
The Business review and future trends Company involves the broader senior management A review of the Companys business and the team in decision-making to provide it with key measures of its performance, sometimes called sufficient exposure, so that, if the need to replace a key performance indicators KPIs, can be found in the member of the executive management team were to chairmans statement under the financial performance arise there are well-qualified internal candidates.
The chairmans statement also discusses trends and factors likely to affect the future Commercial risks development, performance and position of the Company.
The Companys KPIs are listed Cost increases in the financial highlights section of this report.
Inflationary pressures on the Companys costs pose a risk to profits, although the Company has been Environment and human rights able to achieve satisfactory arrangements with its As regards human rights, our policy is to observe a suppliers, up until now, in both good and difficult wide range of legislation, designed to encourage and economic conditions.
promote equal opportunities and protect human rights.
Wetherspoons main contribution in this area relates to Operational risks creating jobs for large numbers of people, paying a Recruitment and retention reasonable percentage of its profits as bonus for those Ensuring that our pubs are sufficiently staffed is crucial working in our pubs and head office, training large to their successful operation.
Reductions in the pool of numbers of staff and paying a significant percentage of available labour will make it harder for the Company to our sales as taxes to the government.
All of these staff its pubs.
factors help to create income for employees and the government, contributing directly and indirectly To attract and retain employees, the Company offers to the promotion of human rights.
bonuses, free shares, long-services awards, paid training, staff discounts and a genuine opportunity to Further information about the Companys progress within the business.
environmental, employee and social policies is published on the Companys website: Health and safety jdwetherspoon.
com The Company endeavours to ensure that all reasonable standards of health and safety are met, Employee diversity by trying to identify risks and taking action to The table below shows the breakdown of directors, avert problems.
Male Female Supply chain risks Directors 5 3 It is fundamental to our operations that we should Senior managers 736 479 be able to supply our pubs with the required goods All employees 19,625 21,042 and services.
36 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds STRATEGIC REPORT It is important that we understand our supply chain Sales, profitability, debt requirements and and have accurate information relating to provenance, cash flow are reviewed weekly by a team which ingredients and ethical practices.
includes the chairman, chief executive, finance director and senior finance managers see note 23.
We work closely with our suppliers and central distribution partners, in order to maintain availability Interest-rate risk of products, at all times.
The Company has dealt with the risks of an increase in interest rates by swapping the majority of its floatingThe Company conducts audits of its supply chain rate borrowings into fixed rates which expire in 2028 and standards are assessed in accordance with see note 23. our Supplier Charter.
During the 52 weeks ended 29 July 2018, if the interest Food safety rates on UK-denominated borrowings had been 1% Achieving and maintaining food hygiene standards higher, with all other variables constant, pre-tax profit are critical to any organisation which prepares for the year would have been reduced by 1,007,000 food for public consumption.
Ensuring the safety of our and equity increased by 29,187,000.
The movement customers and employees is a priority for the in equity arises from a change in the mark to market Company.
The Company takes food hygiene very valuation of the interest-rate swaps into which the seriously: extensive operational procedures have Company has entered, calculated by a 1% shift of the been implemented to embed best practice in our pubs.
The Company considers that a The Company monitors the results of food hygiene 1% movement in interest rates represents a reasonable audits and provides its pubs with the necessary sensitivity to potential changes.
However, this analysis resources and support to ensure that standards are is for illustrative purposes only.
Credit risk Head office and national distribution centre The Company does not have a significant Any disasters at the Companys head office concentration of credit risk, as the majority of its in Watford or its national distribution centre revenue is in cash.
At the balance sheet date, in Daventry could seriously disrupt its daily the Company was exposed to a maximum operations.
Various measures have been undertaken credit risk of 0.7m, of which 0.3m was overdue.
by the Company, including a comprehensive disasterrecovery plan, seeking to minimise the impact of any Cash deposits with financial institutions and derivative such incidents.
transactions are permitted with investment-grade financial institutions only.
The Company receives a Information technology small amount of income from properties which it has The Companys daily operations are increasingly reliant sublet to third parties, but the sums involved from any on its information technology systems.
Any prolonged one letting are immaterial.
or significant failure of these systems could pose a risk to trading.
The Company seeks to minimise this risk by Liquidity risk ensuring that there are technologies, policies and The Company regularly monitors cash flow forecasts procedures to ensure protection of hardware, software and endeavours to ensure that there are enough funds, and information by various means, including a including committed bank and finance lease facilities, disaster-recovery plan, a system of backups and to meet its business requirements and comply with external hardware and software.
The Company recognises that cyber threats pose The risks in this area relate to miscalculating cash flow a significant risk to the hospitality industry.
requirements, being unable to renew credit facilities or The Company continually assesses the risks posed by a substantial fall in sales and profits.
cyber threats and makes changes to its technologies, Foreign currency policies and procedures to mitigate identified risks.
Foreign exchange exposure is currently not significant Reputational risk to the Company.
The Company monitors the growth The Company is aware that, in operating in a and risks associated with its overseas operations consumer-facing business, its business reputation, and will undertake hedging activities as and when built over many years, can be damaged in a they are required.
The Company, By order of the board therefore, in its daily business, maintains substantial efforts in this area to improve operational controls.
Financial risks Capital risk management The Company aims to maintain reasonable levels of Nigel Connor capital and debt.
Debt always involves risk, although Company Secretary the Company has always been able to fulfil its 13 September 2018 obligations under its loan agreements.
J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 37
