DIRECTORS REPORT Directors requests: facilities will lapse 10 days after the change The directors of the Company who were in office of control, if the terms on which they can continue have during the year and up to the date of signing the not been agreed on.
Any borrowings, including financial statements are listed on page 43. accrued interest, will become immediately repayable on such lapse.
Dividends The board proposes, subject to shareholders consent, There are no other significant agreements to which the to pay a final dividend of 8.0p 2017: 8.0p per share, Company is party which may be subject to change-ofon 29 November 2018, to those shareholders on the control provisions.
register on 26 October 2018, giving a total dividend for There are no agreements with the Companys directors the year of 12.0p per share.
or employees which provide for compensation for loss Return of capital of office or employment which occurs because of a At the annual general meeting of the Company, held on takeover bid.
9 November 2017, the Company was given authority Statement of directors responsibilities to make market purchases of up to 15,825,155 of its The directors are responsible for preparing the annual own shares.
During the year to 29 July 2018, 3,497,500 report, the directors remuneration report and the shares were purchased, with a nominal value of financial statements, in accordance with applicable law 70,000, for a total consideration of 36,205,000, and regulations.
This represented 3.21% of the called-up share capital.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors interest in contracts directors have prepared the Company financial No director has any material interest in any contractual statements in accordance with International Financial agreement, other than an employment contract, Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the subsisting during or at the end of the year, which is European Union.
Under company law, the directors or may be significant to the Company.
must not approve the financial statements, unless they Takeover directive disclosures are satisfied that they give a true, fair and balanced The Company has an authorised share capital view of the state of affairs of the Company and comprising 500 million ordinary shares of 2p each.
of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
As at 29 July 2018, the total issued share capital In preparing these financial statements, the directors comprised 105,501,035 fully paid-up shares of 2p are required to: each.
The rights to these shares are set out in the select suitable accounting policies and Companys articles of association.
There are then apply them consistently.
no restrictions on the transfer of these shares make judgements and accounting estimates or their attached voting rights.
which are reasonable and prudent.
Details of significant shareholdings at year end state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the and as at 27 July 2018 are given on page 59.
European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the No person holds shares with specific rights regarding financial statements.
prepare the financial statements on the goingconcern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume The Company operates an employee share incentive that the Company will continue in business.
However, no specific rights with respect to the control of the Company are attached to these shares.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate In addition, the Company operates a deferred accounting records, sufficient to show and explain the bonus scheme, whereby, should a takeover occur, Companys transactions and which disclose, with all shares held in trust would be transferred to the reasonable accuracy, the financial position of the employee immediately.
The accounting records enable the directors to ensure that the financial statements The Company is not aware of any agreements among and the directors remuneration report comply with the holders of securities known to the Company which may Companies Act 2006 and that the Companys financial result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or statements comply with article 4 of the IAS regulation.
The directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for taking reasonable The Company has the power to issue and buy back steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and shares as a result of resolutions passed at the other irregularities.
It is the Companys intention to renew these powers: the resolutions The directors are responsible for the maintenance and approving them are found in the notice of the integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the annual general meeting for 2018.
United Kingdom governing the preparation and In the event of a change of control, the Company is dissemination of financial statements may differ from obliged to notify its main bank lenders.
The lenders legislation in other jurisdictions.
shall not be obliged to fund any new borrowing 44 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds DIRECTORS REPORT The directors consider that the annual report and reduced margins and increased borrowing costs.
It is accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and assumed that the Companys financial plans would be understandable and provide that information necessary adjusted in response to each scenario.
for shareholders to assess the Companys In making this statement, the directors carried out performance, business model and strategy.
a robust assessment of the principal risks and Each of the directors, whose names and functions uncertainties facing the Company, including those are listed in the section headed directors, officers which would threaten its business model, future and advisers, confirms, to the best of his or her performance, solvency or liquidity.
Principal risks and knowledge, that: uncertainties set out on pages 36 to 37 are the result of internal risk management and control the Companys financial statements, which have processes, with further details set out in the been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted audit committees report on pages 56 and 57. by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of Going concern the Company.
The directors have made enquiries into the adequacy of the Companys financial resources, through a review the strategic report includes a fair review of the of the Companys budget and medium-term financial development and performance of the business and the plan, including capital expenditure plans and cash flow position of the Company, together with a description of forecasts: they have satisfied themselves that the the principal risks and uncertainties which it faces.
Company will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to so far as he or she is aware, there is no adopt the going-concern basis, in preparing the relevant audit information of which the Companys Companys financial statements.
Greenhouse gas GHG emissions he or she has taken all steps which he or she ought to have taken as a director, in order to make himself GMG Emissions Unit Quantity or herself aware of any relevant audit information 2018 2017 and to establish that the Companys auditors are Scope 1 Tonnes CO e 2 50,725 50,805 aware of that information.
Scope 2 Tonnes CO e 2 115,315 138,864 Tonnes CO e 2 Directors indemnities Intensity 98.0 114.2 m revenue As permitted by the Articles of Association, the directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is a Conversion factors are those published by the qualifying third-party indemnity provision, as defined by Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs.
section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
The indemnity was in force throughout the last financial year and is Reported data is for the year ended 31 March 2018. currently in force.
The Company also purchased and Scope 1 combustion of gas: maintained, throughout the financial year, directors Scope 2 purchase of electricity.
and officers liability insurance, in respect of itself Refrigerant emissions from our pubs are and its directors.
not reported, as they are immaterial.
Viability statement Overseas branches In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate The Company has an overseas branch Governance Code 2014, the directors confirm that they in the Republic of Ireland.
have a reasonable expectation that the Company will Listing Rule 9.8.
4 R continue to operate and meet its liabilities, as they fall Information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4 R due, for the next three years.
starting on page indicated, if applicable : The directors have determined that a three-year Details of long-term incentive schemes page 15 period is an appropriate period over which to assess Provision of services by a controlling shareholder, viability, as it aligns with the Companys capital Agreements with controlling shareholders, Corporate investment plans and gives a greater certainty over the governance DTR 7.2.
9 R pages 46 to 58 forecasting assumptions used.
The Company intends to refinance its borrowings during the viability period.
Events after the reporting period The details of events after the reporting period The directors assessment has been made with can be found in note 29 on page 31. reference to the Companys current position, financial plan and its principal risks and uncertainties set out By order of the board on pages 36 to 37, specifically economic, regulatory, reputational and interest-rate risks.
To assess the impact of the Companys principal risks Nigel Connor and uncertainties on its long term viability, Company Secretary scenarios were applied to the Companys financial 13 September 2018 forecasts in the form of reduced like-for-like sales, J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 45
