Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Other disclosures The directors have assessed the prospects of the Group over Corporate responsibility programme a three year period, taking into account its recent historical WHSmith has a long-standing commitment to high standards performance, forecasts, a robust assessment of the principal of corporate responsibility CR.
Our strategy plays an important risks facing the Group and mitigating factors.
A three year period role in risk management, business development and delivering is considered the appropriate timeframe to assess the Groups the expectations of our stakeholders.
The four pillars of our CR prospects as it is consistent with the Groups strategic planning programme enable the business to identify and manage risks and review period, management incentive schemes and medium in the areas of environmental responsibility, sourcing within term financing considerations.
the marketplace, managing our workforce and our impact on The strategic review incorporates plans at both the Group and local communities.
The plans consider the Groups cash Accountability for each area rests with named members of flows, committed funding liquidity positions, forecast future our Board, who, in turn, are supported by senior executives funding and key financial metrics.
responsible for delivering our objectives.
In this way we Using the strategic plan as a base, we have modelled a ensure our CR work is embedded across our organisation.
range of severe but plausible scenarios reflecting the Groups The Board carries out annual reviews to ensure the successful principal risks to establish their effect on the Groups cash and implementation of the CR strategy, monitoring performance bank facilities.
These scenarios include material reductions in both High Street The following pages provide a summary of our CR work this and Travel sales, margin reduction and the loss of key contracts year.
We have addressed the new requirements for non-financial in Travel.
reporting introduced as part of the UK Companies Act, and have included details of policies, activities and performance for our We have also modelled the adverse impact following the UKs key risk areas.
More detailed information, including performance vote to leave the European Union, including reduced consumer data and future targets, is available in our full CRreport, spending, input cost inflation from increased tariffs and a available at www.
Taking account of the above matters, and the Groups current Environment position and principal risks, the directors have a reasonable Our main environmental impacts relate to: expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation greenhouse gas GHG emissions from the energy used and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period topower our stores and distribution centres, and fuel used ending 31 August 2021. fortransport and distribution of products from our suppliers to our stores: and the production and disposal of waste materials from primary and secondary packaging used to protect our products.
We are committed to minimising the impact on the environment from our operations and the products that we sell.
We regularly review progress against our objectives and targets, aiming for continual improvement year on year.
A copy of our Environmental Policy is available at www.
co. uk docs Environmental Policy.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 25 Strategic report Other disclosures continued Greenhouse gas emissions Global greenhouse gas emissions data for period We have been working for many years to reduce the amount 1September 2017 to 31 August 2018 intonnes of CO e 2 of energy we use, recognising the opportunity to minimise Percentage our overall greenhouse gas footprint and to reduce operating of carbon 2017 18 footprint 2016 17 costs for the business.
We have now met our objective to cut GHG emissions from stores and distribution centres by 45 Scope 1 emissions per cent per square foot by 2020 from a 2007 baseline, this Combustion of gas to heat and year achieving a 61 per cent reduction against the baseline.
cool WHSmith stores, offices and distribution centres.
2,659 10 2,653 The ownership for energy consumption sits with our store managers who have direct accountability for energy costs, Scope 2 emissions driving high levels of awareness and engagement among our Electricity purchased for store teams.
WHSmiths own use used to power, light and heat stores, This year we completed a three-year project to roll-out energy offices and distribution centres.
18,667 67 21,419 efficiency best practice to stores, altering energy settings Scope 3 emissions for lighting, heating and air conditioning to minimise energy Combustion of fuel for the consumption, whilst maintaining a welcoming and comfortable transport of products from environment for customers.
We have introduced additional distribution centres to stores air-conditioning controls to 229 High Street stores and 369 Travel using vehicles owned by third stores.
These conserve energy by switching off air-conditioning parties.
Also emissions from units when temperatures are within an optimal range.
WHSmith employee business travel by air, rail and owned and WHSmiths transport and distribution network is a long and non-owned motor vehicle.
6,430 23 7,094 complex one, delivering from our distribution centres to well Total 27,756 100 31,166 over 1,000 stores across the length and breadth of the UK.
The emissions from our fleet of lorries make up a significant Scope and methodology part of our GHG footprint and we work hard to maximise Our methodology for the reporting of GHG emissions has efficiency wherever we can.
We set ourselves a long-term target been developed using the following guidance: GHG Protocol to reduce our GHG emissions per pallet by 20 per cent by 2020 including the Corporate Standard and Scope 2 and 3 guidance against a 2007 baseline.
We have now met this target, achieving documents : CDP guidance including the 2018 Climate Change a reduction against the baseline of 28 per cent this year.
Responders Pack and the Technical Note on Accounting of Scope 2 Emissions : and the Climate Disclosure Standards We work with our transport providers to carry out regular Board.
We have also begun to incorporate the recommendations and in-depth reviews of our transport operations to help us to of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosure into optimise routing and delivery frequency.
The addition of double our reporting.
Conversion factors from the UK Government deck trailers which are suitable for both High Street and Travel department for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA distribution centres has helped to achieve greater efficiencies by have been used to calculate GHG emissions.
Scope 2 emissions enabling more stock to be transported in fewer journeys.
are reported using the location-based method.
This data covers the continuing activities undertaken by our retailing operations in the UK.
Emissions from directly-run international stores are approximately 2,000 tonnes CO e. Assurance of greenhouse gas 2 emissions has been provided by Corporate Citizenship.
WH Smith PLC 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Waste management Our sourcing teams work with our suppliers to help them Waste is not only damaging to the environment but also understand our requirements and how the data they provide is costly for our business, so we are focused on reducing excess needed to demonstrate that the pulp used in a WHSmith product materials and maximising recycling wherever we can.
In our is sourced from a certified or recycled source.
We have made High Street stores, we operate a recycling system which enables significant progress and this year we have achieved our 2020 the stores to recycle most forms of waste, including cardboard, target, with 95 per cent of paper in our own-brand products now paper, plastics and metals.
Waste is also segregated in our originating from certified and recycled material.
Overall 87 per cent of our waste was recycled during 2017 18.
Ethical trading and respect for The number of food lines that we sell is growing, and eliminating human rights food waste is a priority for our Travel business.
One of the main One of our key social risks is the need for us to source products sources of food waste is from unsold sandwiches which have sustainably, ensuring that workers in our supply chain are reached their use by date.
We have implemented a number of treated well, and that their human rights are respected.
initiatives over the past two years, including a new stock control WHSmith is a member of the Ethical Trading Initiative, an system to improve forecasting and ordering of chilled food sales, alliance of companies, trade unions and NGOs that promotes so that we only stock the chilled food that we expect to sell, respect for workers rights around the globe.
Our Ethical reducing waste volumes.
We have also instigated changes in our Trade Code of Conduct www.
co. uk docs Ethical markdown strategies for chilled food to reduce waste volumes Trading Code of Conduct.
pdf is based on the ETI Base Code as far as we can.
This year we delivered a 28 per cent reduction and underpins our strategy and sustainable sourcing activities.
We will only place orders with suppliers who are committed to working towards compliance with this Code, and we endeavour Packaging materials are designed to protect items to maintain to bring about continual improvement through a programme of quality and enhance product shelf life.
However, excessive factory audits and ongoing engagement.
packaging can negatively impact the environment, because energy and raw materials such as forestry products or oil are Our in-house ethical audit team in China conducts audits of used in the manufacturing process, and it can also impact the our own-brand suppliers at least every two years, assessing air, land and marine environments when it is no longer needed.
compliance with our Code of Conduct and grading suppliers Black, Bronze, Silver and Gold.
We use a mix of announced We regularly review the type and quantities of packaging we use, and unannounced audits and a factory must be graded Bronze including primary packaging of our own-brand products and or above if we are to work with them.
The Board reviews our the secondary packaging used to protect goods during transit ethical trade strategy annually, looking in detail at our audit and and distribution.
We seek to identify opportunities to minimise engagement programmes, emerging trends and risks, targets packaging where possible, and use more environmentallyand performance.
preferable solutions such as cardboard and reusable skips for internal transfer of stock.
This year we have removed all plastic To supplement the information we gain from supplier audits, stirrers, replaced plastic straws with compostable ones and our team also spends a significant part of its time engaging introduced re-usable cups into our Coffee House coffee shops with suppliers on an on-going basis to build stronger and more and office restaurants.
We have also introduced a much wider transparent relationships.
Engagement focuses on resolving range of refillable water bottles into most of our High Street and specific issues identified during audits, as well as wider Travel stores.
projects working with a range of suppliers on key issues such as worker representation or health and safety.
We also have an Sustainable forestry independent hotline for supply chain workers to report issues Paper-based products are a core part of WHSmiths business they are concerned about, which we then investigate and followand sustainable timber sourcing is one of our key CR priorities.
up with suppliers to address.
We are committed to minimising the environmental impact of the paper used in our own-brand products, and aim to ensure Our understanding of modern slavery risks continues to grow, that all virgin i. e. non-recycled material in our products is from and we have developed a due diligence process to make sure we known, legal, well-managed and credibly-certified forests.
are identifying and assessing any potential and actual risks, and providing appropriate risk control, mitigation and remedy where As part of our work towards this objective and in line with the needed.
We have reported on this area in detail in a separate requirements of the EU timber regulations, we carry out an Modern Slavery Statement, available at www.
co. uk in-depth and rigorous assessment of supplier forest sourcing docs Modern Slavery Statement FINAL.
We have set certified or recycled timber as a minimum standard, which gives additional assurance that pulp is from low risk sources.
A copy of our Forest Sourcing Policy is available at www.
co. uk docs Forest Sourcing Policy.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 27
