Corporate governance Directors report The directors present their report and the audited consolidated Share capital financial statements for the financial year ended 31 August 2018.
WH Smith PLC is a public company limited by shares.
The issued The Company is the ultimate parent company of the WH Smith share capital of the Company, together with details of shares group of companies the Group.
WH Smith PLC is registered issued during the year, is shown in Note 25 to the financial in England and Wales Number 5202036 and domiciled in the statements on page 102.
The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 August 2018 The Company has chosen, in accordance with Section 414C 11 6 was 109,385,804 ordinary shares of 22 67p each.
These shares of the Companies Act 2006, to include certain information in are listed on the London Stock Exchange and can be held in the Strategic report that would otherwise be required to be certificated or uncertificated form.
disclosed in this Directors report, as follows: The Company is not aware of any agreements between Information Page number shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of Likely future developments in the business 8 to 17 securities and voting rights.
Branches outside the UK 13 There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares Disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions 26 in the Company other than certain restrictions imposed Employment of disabled persons 28 by laws and regulations such as insider trading laws and Employee involvement 28 market requirements relating to closed periods, including the requirements of the EU Market Abuse Regulation and the Listing Other information, which forms part of this Directors report, can Rules, and also the Companys Share Dealing Code whereby be found in the following sections of the Annual report: directors and certain employees of the Company require Board approval to deal in the Companys securities.
Section Page number Corporate governance report 30 to 38 The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary Directors biographies 39 shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, a Statement of directors responsibilities 63 copy of which can be obtained from the Companys website, Information on use of financial instruments 99 to 102 www.
The holders of ordinary shares are This Directors report including information specified above entitled to receive the Companys report and accounts, to attend as forming part of this report fulfils the requirements of the and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint Corporate governance statement for the purposes of DTR 7.2. proxies and to exercise voting rights, and to receive a dividend, if declared, subject to the deduction of any sums due from the The information required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4R is disclosed on holder of ordinary shares to the Company on account of calls the following pages of this Annual report: or otherwise.
Changes to the Companys Articles of Association must be approved by special resolution of the Company.
Subject matter Page number 45 Directors The Trustee of the WH Smith Employee Benefit Trust holds Allotment of shares for cash remuneration report ordinary shares in the Company on behalf of the beneficiaries pursuant to the WH Smith Note 25 on page 102 of the Trust, who are the employees and former employees of employee share incentive plans of the financial statements the Group.
If any offer is made to the holders of ordinary shares Arrangement under which the to acquire their shares, the Trustee will not be obliged to accept WH Smith Employee Benefit Trust or reject the offer in respect of any shares which are at that has waived or agreed to waive 58 Directors time subject to subsisting options, but will have regard to the dividends future dividends remuneration report interests of the option holders and can consult them to obtain their views on the offer, and subject to the foregoing, the Trustee Profit and dividends will take the action with respect to the offer it thinks fair.
1 The Headline Group profit before taxation for the financial year ended 31 August 2018 was 145m 2017: 140m.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend for the year of 38.1p per ordinary share on 31 January 2019 to members on the Register at the close of business on 11 January 2019.
This final dividend and the interim dividend of 16.0p per ordinary share paid on 2 August 2018 make a total dividend of 54.1p per ordinary share for the year ended 31 August 2018 2017: 48.2p.
1 H eadline Group profit before tax excludes non-underlying items as explained in the Financial review on page 15.
A reconciliation from Headline Group profit before tax to Group profit before tax is provided in the Group income statement on page 71.
See Glossary on page 116 for an explanation of the Groups alternative performance measures.
WH Smith PLC 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Purchase of own shares Directors conflicts At the 2018 AGM, authority was given for the Company to The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to purchase, in the market, up to 11,049,893 ordinary shares of consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a 6 22 67p each, renewing the authority granted at the 2017 AGM.
director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, The Company used this authority to facilitate its ongoing strategy with the interests of the Company Situational Conflicts.
of returning surplus cash to shareholders by way of dividends The Board has a formal system in place for directors to declare and share buybacks, thereby increasing total shareholder Situational Conflicts to be considered for authorisation by those returns and the net asset value per share.
The total return of directors who have no interest in the matter being considered.
cash to shareholders since 2009 is shown in the chart on page 9.
In deciding whether to authorise a Situational Conflict, the The directors will only exercise the authority when satisfied that non-conflicted directors must act in the way they consider, it is in the best interests of shareholders generally and that it in good faith, would be most likely to promote the success of would result in an increase in earnings per share.
The Company the Company, and they may impose limits or conditions when purchased 1,297,022 of its own shares during the financial giving the authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this is year, representing 1.2 per cent of the issued share capital as at appropriate.
Any Situational Conflicts considered by the Board, 31 August 2018, at an average price of 20.16.
The aggregate and any authorisations given, are recorded in the Board minutes amount of consideration including costs paid by the Company and in a register of conflicts which is reviewed regularly by for the purchases during the financial year was 26m.
purchased by the Company were cancelled.
During the period 1 September 2018 to 10 October 2018, the Company purchased Directors indemnities and subsequently cancelled a further 289,585 of its own shares, The Company maintains directors and officers liability representing 0.3 per cent of the issued share capital, at an insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action average price of 20.86.
All shares purchased by the Company brought against its directors.
The Company has provided and were cancelled.
This authority is renewable annually and continues to provide an indemnity for its directors, which is a approval will be sought from shareholders at the AGM in 2019 to qualifying third-party indemnity provision for the purposes of renew the authority for a further year.
Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
Issue of new ordinary shares Companys shareholders During the financial year ended 31 August 2018, 144,575 ordinary Information provided to the Company pursuant to the shares of the Company were issued under the Sharesave Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure Guidance Scheme at prices between 1147.20p and 1434.40p.
The Articles and Transparency Rules DTRs is published on a Regulatory of Association of the Company provide that the Board may, Information Service and on the Companys website.
As at subject to the prior approval of the members of the Company, 31 August 2018, the following information had been received, be granted authority to exercise all the powers of the Company in accordance with DTR5, from holders of notifiable interests to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any in the Companys issued share capital.
It should be noted that security into shares, including new ordinary shares.
these holdings may have changed since notified to the Company.
However, notification of any change is not required until the next Significant agreements change of control applicable threshold is crossed.
A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid % as at may cause a number of agreements to which the Company Nature of date of or its trading subsidiaries, WH Smith High Street Limited and Holder Number notification holding WH Smith Travel Limited, is party, such as commercial trading Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 5,608,298 4.95 Indirect contracts, banking arrangements, property leases, licence Blackrock Inc. 5,535,683 5.02 Indirect and concession agreements to take effect, alter or terminate.
Marathon Asset Management LLP 5,448,186 4.95 Indirect In addition, the service agreements of some senior executives Prudential Plc Group 5,514,930 5.03 Indirect and employee share plans would be similarly affected on a change of control, including, in the case of some employees, in Royal London Asset relation to compensation for loss of office.
ManagementLtd 3,383,867 3.03 Direct The Company has an unsecured 140m multicurrency revolving The Company received no other notifications in the period credit facility with Barclays Bank PLC, HSBC Bank PLC, between 31 August 2018 and the date of this report.
Santander UK PLC and BNP Paribas for general corporate and working capital purposes.
If there is a change of control of the Political donations Company, and agreeable terms cannot be negotiated between It is the Companys policy not to make political donations and the parties, any lender may cancel the commitment under the no political donations, contributions or EU political expenditure facility and all outstanding utilisations for that lender, together were made in the year 2017: nil.
with accrued interest, shall be immediately payable.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 61 Corporate governance Directors report continued Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors that are likely to affect its future developments, performance and position, are set out in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 29.
The Financial review on pages 14 to 17 of the Strategic report also describes the Groups financial position, cash flows and borrowing facilities, further information on which is detailed in Notes 21 to 24 of the financial statements on pages 98 to 102.
In addition, Note 24 of the financial statements on page 99 includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Strategic report on pages 20 to 25 also highlights the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The directors report that they have reviewed current performance and forecasts, combined with expenditure commitments, including capital expenditure, proposed dividends and share buybacks, and borrowing facilities.
The directors have also carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue its current operations, including contractual and commercial commitments for a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
For this reason, they have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The directors have also assessed the prospects of the Company over a three-year period.
The longer-term viability statement is in the Strategic report on pages 24 and 25.
Independent auditors PwC has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditors of the Company.
A resolution to re-appoint PwC as auditors to the Company and a resolution to authorise the Audit Committee to determine its remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
Disclosure of information to the auditors Having made the requisite enquiries, as far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined in Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each of the directors has taken all steps he or she should have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Annual general meeting The AGM of the Company will be held at the offices of Herbert Smith Freehills LLP, Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2EG on 23 January 2019 at 11.30am.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting is given, together with explanatory notes, in the booklet which accompanies this report.
This report was approved by the Board on 11 October 2018.
By order of the Board Ian Houghton Company Secretary 11 October 2018 WH Smith PLC 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2018
