Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Corporate governance Directors biographies Henry Staunton Stephen Clarke Robert Moorhead Chairman Group Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer Robert Moorhead is Chief Financial Officer Henry Staunton joined the Board of WH Smith Stephen Clarke is Group Chief Executive and and Chief Operating Officer CFO COO and in September 2010 and became Chairman joined the Board of WH Smith in June 2012, joined the Board of WH Smith in December on 1 September 2013.
He is also Chair of the becoming Group Chief Executive on 1 July 2008.
He is a Chartered Accountant and joined Nominations Committee.
He joined WH Smith in August 2004 WH Smith in 2004 as Retail Finance Director.
finance, media and retail expertise and is as Marketing Director for WH Smith High Previously, he was Group Finance Director Chairman of Capital and Counties Properties Street.
In 2006 he was appointed Commercial at Specsavers Optical Group and Finance plc and Phoenix Group Holdings.
He was and Marketing Director and in 2008 became and IT Director of World Duty Free Europe.
previously the Finance Director of Granada and Managing Director of WH Smith High Street.
He also held a number of roles at B&Q and ITV, Chairman of Ashtead Group, BrightHouse He began his career at the Dixons Group Kingfisher Group.
He started his career at Group PLC and Vice Chairman of Legal and where he carried out a number of store, Price Waterhouse.
Suzanne Baxter Annemarie Durbin Drummond Hall Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Suzanne Baxter is a non-executive director Annemarie Durbin is a non-executive Drummond Hall is a non-executive director and joined the Board of WH Smith in February director and joined the Board of WH Smith and joined the Board of WH Smith in 2013.
She is a Chartered Accountant having in December 2012.
He is the Senior Independent trained at Price Waterhouse, and is Chair of director and Chair of the Remuneration Director and Chair of the Remuneration the Audit Committee.
She is a Commissioner Committee of Santander UK plc.
He is a non-executive director and on the Board of the Equality and Human Rights she was a non-executive director of Ladbrokes Chair of the Remuneration Committee of The Commission and is a member of its Audit Coral Group plc and was Chair of the Listing Sage Group plc and is the Senior Independent and Risk Assurance Committee and Treaty Authority Advisory Panel.
She has 25 years Director of First Group plc.
He spent the early Monitoring Commissioner Working Group.
international banking experience, particularly part of his career with Procter & Gamble, Mars She was formerly the Group Finance Director across Asia, Africa and the Middle East, and PepsiCo Inc, and from 2002 to 2006 was of Mitie Group Plc.
She has also been the operating at Board and Executive Committee Chief Executive of Dairy Crest PLC.
He was Chair of the Business in the Community South level.
In addition to her directorships, previously Chairman of Mitchells and Butlers West Strategic Advisory Board, Deputy Chair Annemarie is an executive coach, a conflict and a non-executive director of TNS.
of Opportunity Now and Chair of the Business mediator and provides Board governance Services Association.
Ian Houghton is Company Secretary and Legal Director and was appointed in September 1998.
Board Committees Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Suzanne Baxter Chair Henry Staunton Chair Drummond Hall Chair Annemarie Durbin Suzanne Baxter Suzanne Baxter Drummond Hall Stephen Clarke Annemarie Durbin Annemarie Durbin Henry Staunton Drummond Hall WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 39
