Strategic report Our markets Travel High Street Travel units sell a range of products serving High Street sells a wide range of products in the customers in travel locations and in need of a following categories: Stationery including greetings convenience offer.
Travels typical customer has less cards, general stationery, art and craft, and gifting, time to browse and is more interested in purchasing News and Impulse including newspapers, magazines, convenience and impulse products such as food, drink confectionery and drinks and Books.
High Streets and confectionery, travel accessories and souvenirs, trading is seasonal, peaking at Christmas and in as well as reading materials for a journey.
August September for back to school.
Travel units are typically located in higher footfall locations than The High Street business operates 607 stores with an extensive High Street stores, with higher operating and occupation costs reach across the UK and a presence on nearly every significant and rents paid as a percentage of sales subject to minimum UK high street and mainly in prime locations.
Travel is less affected by the Christmas trading High Street also includes our online business period than high street retailers.
co. uk which sells a range of Stationery, Books, during the summer holiday season, particularly in airports, Magazines and Gifts.
Our online personalised greetings card contributes to a summer peak in sales.
com, is part of the broader greetings card Travel is impacted by macroeconomic trends including any market and has grown strongly.
During the year, we acquired impact arising from the process of exiting the European Union Cultpens.
com a leading online specialist pen retailer with over and other factors which influence the number and nationality 18,000 products.
This acquisition complements our existing of travelling customers.
These include levels of employment stationery ranges in both our High Street stores and online at and investment, the cost of travelling, as well as specific www.
co. uk as well as enhancing our customer offer.
category trends such as the growth of consumable products High Streets performance is dependent upon overall growth anddigital accessories.
in consumer spending including any impact arising from the Where we have reliable data on passenger trends, we see process of exiting the European Union, growth in the nona correlation between changes in passenger numbers and food, non-clothing sector, its ability to take share in its product our sales.
Travel faces competition in its product categories markets as well as specific category trends such as the impact primarily from other retailers in air, rail, motorways and of digitisation on printed products.
Additionally, trends in the hospitals.
The growth of these retailers may take market share book market are impacted mainly by the strength and quality from Travel.
High Streets competition comes primarily from other high street specialists, discounters, Travel operates in 149 air units, 127 rail units, 131 hospital units supermarkets and online retailers.
The growth of these formats and in other locations in the UK, and 286 units outside of the UK.
may take market share away from the High Street business andreduce footfall in the locations in which we operate.
WH Smith PLC 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2018
