Strategic report O ur business model and strategy to create value Business model and strategy WHSmith is one of the UKs leading retailers Our business model explains what we do and withtwo distinct businesses Travel and High how we create value.
We aim to do this through Street.
Atthe heart of both our businesses are improving our profitability and cash flow, and our people and our customers.
Our goals Travel High Street Our goal is to be the leading retailer in Our goal is to be Britains most popular high street news, books and convenience for the worlds stationer, bookseller and newsagent.
We aim to deliver our goals through our strategic priorities and initiatives.
These are detailed on the following page.
Travel and High Street are run by separate management teams reflecting the different customers, strategies, operating models and coststructures.
WH Smith PLC 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Travel High Street Driving like-for-like sales, profit growth Delivering sustainable andhigh levels of cash generation with profit and agrowing International business cash generation Forensic focus on space and category returns Optimise returns Margin growth tomeet the changing needs of our customers from a forensic from category focus on space mix management Improved execution and service Cost efficiency Winning new space and Utilising our assets and Delivering developing new formats third party partnerships to and channels in the UK enhance our customer offer shareholder and internationally e. g. Post Offices returns Focused Use of Cash Investing in the business where returns aregreater than our cost of capital Value accretive acquisitions Return surplus cash to shareholders through a progressive dividend policy and share buybacks Right Operating Our people responsibly customers and skills You can read more about You can read more about You can read more about our approach to corporate our values, employees and our markets on page 6. responsibility on pages diversity on pages 28 and 29.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 5
