Strategic report Strategic report Force for Good We have a responsibility to act as a Force for Good for all our stakeholders and we take this seriously, which is why I am really pleased to have the responsibility for sustainability at Whitbread.
Sustainability is core to what we do and is integral to our business strategy and long-term commercial success, so it makes sense to reflect this in the way wereport.
This year we will not be publishing a separate sustainability report, we are integrating our sustainability reporting into our Annual Report and Accounts.
Look out for our Force for Good updates and case studies signposted by our logos shown on page 15.
We established our corporate social responsibility programme, Good Together, in 2009 and weve made a lot of progress.
While it was agreed that the programme structure largely worked Chris Vaughan across our brands, we decided to review General Counsel whether it focused on the right trends and whether we could set more ambitious targets.
To ensure the new programme was the Enabling people to live best fit for our brands, we completed two related pieces of work during 2017: and work well a materiality assessment that analysed the views of internal and external stakeholders about which sustainability Whitbread has always developed and areas, linked to the UN Sustainable Development Goals, are the most changed with the times, but our core important to Whitbread and why: and a review of the current and future values of investing in people and being consumer-related sustainability a Force for Good in our communities trends that are likely to impact our brands now and over the next five remain as true today as they were in 1742. to ten years.
The overall and consistent theme emerging from the work is that if we were going to build a sustainability programme around anything, and set ahigher level of ambition, it should be We have committed to reduce around the broad theme of people.
our carbon emissions intensity by People are at the heart of our business and our success is anchored in our teams.
But this is more than simply running great training and development: 50% 100% it is about providing healthier products by 2025 procured renewable energy that our customers can trust and the supplying owned sites since role we play in our communities and across our entire supply chain.
August 2017 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 14 Strategic report We launched our new programme, takeaway cups and health and nutrition.
including our ground breaking cup Force for Good, in July 2017.
Force for Weare committed to finding new and recycling programme, our work on Good is about helping everyone our innovative ways to be a Force for Good sugar reduction and the WISE customers, team members and suppliers in these areas.
For example, we are apprenticeship programme.
continuing to take the lead in recycling I am excited about how Force for Good plastic waste through our cup recycling We have identified three key pillars: will continue to make a real difference commitment, the removal of plastic Opportunity, Community and toour teams, customers and suppliers, straws in Costa and by offering to refill Responsibility.
Each of these pillars enabling them to live and work well.
water bottles for free in over 300 has its own commitments and Read on to find out how we have Whitbread sites.
stretching targets: from raising a huge continued to make progress on our 30 million for our charity partners by We will continue to communicate our commitments and set more ambitious 2021, to becoming the most inclusive performance in an open and honest way targets for the coming year.
and report on our performance through our Annual Report and Accounts and We are pleased to have made real third-party assessments such as the progress since launching our new Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
Information on how Force for Good data has been assured weare progressing against our targets Chris Vaughan by an independent third-party company can be found in the table on pages 16 General Counsel and the full statement can be found on and 17.
Force for Good focuses on improving This year has been an excellent year the issues that are most material for our forour new programme and I am brands, team members, society and the particularly proud of the achievements environment.
We recognise emerging highlighted in the Force for Good table: issues around single-use plastics, Enabling people to live and work well Opportunity Community Responsibility A team where everyone can reach their Making a meaningful contribution Always operating in a way that respects potential no barriers to entry and no tothe customers and communities people and planet limits to ambition weserve This year we have published our Our ground-breaking WISE We have raised over 4.6million this commitment to reduce our carbon Whitbread Investing in Skills year for our charity partners Great emissions intensity by 50% by 2025.
&Employment programme has Ormond Street Hospital and the This year, we have recovered almost enabled apprentices to gain over Costa Foundation.
14million cups for recycling, but we 1,200 industry qualifications thisyear.
This year we have committed want to continue to take a lead on Whitbread is a member of the to the out-of-home Code of Practice coffee cup recycling.
We have 30%Club with the aim to improve to reduce sugar by 20% by 2020, committed to recycle the same gender diversity in our senior to do this we have been working volume of takeaway cups that our leadership teams.
hard to make changes to recipes, customers use every year we intend review portion sizes and introduce to recycle 500 million cups per year healthier options.
by 2020, by paying a supplement of 70 to waste collectors for every tonne of cups collected, which will increase their value by 150%.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 15 Strategic report Strategic report Force for Good continued As the UKs largest hospitality business, we have a responsibility and an opportunity to drive change within the industry.
We have made great progress against our ambitious targets.
Force for Progress against Target Update on progress and Focus area 2020 target Good pillar 2020 targets status plans for the future 5,000 apprenticeships The Whitbread Apprenticeship Programme continues to be on track to meet our 3,199 Teams and communities 7,500 work experience placements We have a strong presence in offering opportunities for all.
We are working with 4,082 started since 2014 15 our resourcing teams to transition the way we can offer work experience and work placements to students from our website to increase opportunities.
6,500 employment placements We are continuing to work with our local communities to highlight career 3,736 started since 2014 15 opportunities and engage future talent through work placements and have reviewed our partnerships and reporting system over the last year to continue improvement.
10 million raised for Great Ormond We are delighted to have hit our 2020 target early.
We have now announced a new 11.5 million Street Hospital Charity target to raise a further 10 million to go towards a much-needed sight and sound centre at Great Ormond Street Hospital.
15 million raised for 100 Costa We are pleased to have raised almost 14 million for the Costa Foundation to date and 13.8 million Foundation School projects we are on track to exceed our targets.
We have completed 78 school projects so far.
Whitbreads critical commodities We have been working hard to meet our 2020 target to source our cotton, coffee, On track Customer 100% accredited against robust meat, fish, sugar, soy, timber and palm oil to sustainable standards.
For example, all standards our coffee is all Rainforest Alliance Certified.
wellbeing Added sugar in all Costa drinks We have been working hard on our Costa range to look at healthier choices, 15% per portion reduced by 25% against 2014 15 reformulation and portion size review.
We have now achieved an overall reduction baseline for Costa drinks of 15% per portion, and 33% per 100g.
For hot drinks, we have seen a 23% reduction.
A dded sugar in Costa Ice range We are now at the halfway point with our Costa Ice range and are on target for 16% per portion reduced by 30% against 2014 15 a 16% reduction per portion.
baseline S alt in Costa sandwich range reduced We are extremely pleased that we have exceeded the 5% reduction target for 14% per portion by 5% against 2014 15 baseline Costa sandwiches with 14% reduction per portion.
We continue to make excellent progress to the Public Health England 2017 Salt Guidelines with all Costa categories meeting the category average.
Reduced carbon by 15% relative to In 2016 17 we exceeded our carbon reduction target.
We have now set a new 20.91% Environment sales turnover against 2014 15 science-based carbon target.
This is a target which aligns Whitbread to the global baseline Paris Climate Change agreement made at COP 21 in 2015.
Reduced water use by 20% relative We continue to install water efficient appliances across our estate.
However, due to 3.4% to sales turnover against a some changes, such as the growth of larger floor space in Costa Drive Thrus, we 2014 15baseline have been tracking behind our target.
To tackle this, we are working with external partners to review how we can protect water resources in our operation.
Increased direct operations recycling We are continuing to recycle many of our waste streams across our estate, including 67% rate to 80% across hotels, restaurants coffee cups and coffee grounds and intend to extend our backhaul waste solution to and coffee shops include additional waste streams to help us reach our recycling target.
Applies to UK and international business.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 16 Strategic report Key On track or ahead of target.
Not currently on track, but plan in place to achieve target.
At risk of missing target.
Force for Progress against Target Update on progress and Focus area 2020 target Good pillar 2020 targets status plans for the future Awards 5,000 apprenticeships The Whitbread Apprenticeship Programme continues to be on track to meet our 3,199 Teams and started since 2014 15 target and is now live across all our brands.
communities 7,500 work experience placements We have a strong presence in offering opportunities for all.
Evening Standard Corporate Citizen of the Year 6,500 employment placements We are continuing to work with our local communities to highlight career 3,736 We are tremendously proud that the started since 2014 15 opportunities and engage future talent through work placements and have Costa Community Programme and reviewed our partnerships and reporting system over the last year to continue achievements of our teams has been improvement.
recognised with Costa being awarded the Evening Standard Corporate Citizen of the Year for 2017.
15 million raised for 100 Costa We are pleased to have raised almost 14 million for the Costa Foundation to date and 13.8 million MSC Newcomer of the Year Foundation School projects we are on track to exceed our targets.
All our wild caught fish is sustainably sourced and certified to the Marine Stewardship Council MSC standard.
Inthe 2017 MSC Awards, we were Whitbreads critical commodities We have been working hard to meet our 2020 target to source our cotton, coffee, On track Customer delighted to win Newcomer of theYear.
100% accredited against robust meat, fish, sugar, soy, timber and palm oil to sustainable standards.
wellbeing Added sugar in all Costa drinks We have been working hard on our Costa range to look at healthier choices, 15% per portion 2018 Sustainability Yearbook reduced by 25% against 2014 15 reformulation and portion size review.
We have now achieved an overall reduction baseline For the second year running, Whitbread for Costa drinks of 15% per portion, and 33% per 100g.
For hot drinks, we have seen was named amongst the worlds most a 23% reduction.
sustainable companies in RobecoSAMs 2018 Sustainability Yearbook.
Added sugar in Costa Ice range We are now at the halfway point with our Costa Ice range and are on target for 16% per portion reduced by 30% against 2014 15 a 16% reduction per portion.
baseline Salt in Costa sandwich range reduced We are extremely pleased that we have exceeded the 5% reduction target for 14% per portion by 5% against 2014 15 baseline Costa sandwiches with 14% reduction per portion.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 17 Strategic report Strategic report Working hard to give you the best nights sleep 72,000 rooms the length and breadth of the UK relax... and recharge Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 18 St Str rat ate eg gi ic c r re ep po or rt t The UKs No.
1 hotel 97% brand goes from of all guests book with us directly strength to strength With over 70,000 rooms the length and breadth of the UK, Premier Inns position as the No.
1 hotel brand goes from strength to strength.
Substantial investment in opening new hotels, refurbishing existing hotels and innovating the brand proposition ensures that guests can always enjoy a high quality product at great value for money, wherever they choose to stay.
Recent innovations in Premier Inns digital offer have led to an enhanced online and booking experience for guests, with over 95% of all guests choosing to book with usdirectly, driving guest satisfaction, preference and loyalty.
For our business account customers our new booking tool gives them access to a dedicated online portal with information tailored to their needs, making it even easier and more cost-effective to book with Premier Inn.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 19
