Strategic report Strategic report Operating review Winning Teams We employ over 50,000 team members across all our brands.
Our approach Itsthe continued dedication of our We recruit, reward, train and develop our team members to Winning Teams that makes every build highly engaged teams who deliver a great experience day experiences special for our to our customers.
Ensuring our teams We offer an industry-leading apprenticeship programme to are engaged and supported is grow talented leaders and we provide exciting international important to us.
Listening to our Winning Teams Listening to our people continues to be a vital activity at the heart of our strategy.
Our annual engagement Costa survey YourSay, carried out by Korn Ferry Hay Group, provides our teams with an opportunity to tell us whether Whitbread is a great place 16,000 to work.
In 2017, 83% of our people took part in YourSay over 40,000 employees team members.
Overall, Whitbreads engagement score is 78%.
Our Winning Teams continue to 74% have high levels of engagement in all engagement score brands 80% Premier Inn, and 74% Costa.
In Costa China, our team hadoutstanding engagement and enablement results at 94% and 96% respectively.
We also track enablement a measure of whether our teams feel equipped and supported to do their Premier Inn job which is at81%.
A number of areas across our brands have made significant progress year on Shaping your future and ours 34,000 Connected and always on the pulse year, for example our exciting restaurant your passion for interaction will give our guests a new kind of hotel employees brand Bar Block has increased team experience engagement by 9% and our Premier Inn housekeeping teams are some of the most highly enabled teams across 80% hospitality worldwide.
Nevertheless in engagement score all areas we have robust action plans to address any opportunities or issues raised by our teams.
Force for Good We have set a target to raise 30m for our chosen charity partners by 2021 Read more pg 24 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 20 Strategic report We have a strong track record in We also combined our Premier Inn 6,500 team members across Premier enabling our teams to deliver a great andrestaurants UK learning and Inn and our restaurants have attended experience for our customers, but we development teams, bringing greater a development workshop at one of our recognise that there is still more to do.
value and mutual learning across our skills academies.
We are planning significant investment joint sites.
Our three food and beverage Internationally, in our Costa Poland across our sites and in the support skills academies continue to deliver skills business, we are delighted that our centre to address the feedback, with training for our restaurant kitchen teams internal talent development programme particular focus on the following areas: and our skills academies now include Carrier Path has successfully supported training for our Premier Inn team personal development for our teams internal progression and, across the year members.
This has led to a large to learn and develop their careers: a significant proportion of management increase in learning delivery and, positions have been filled by internal over the course of 2017 18, over continuing to modernise our working environments: and improving our technology to enable Our 2017 YourSay survey results our teams to perform at their best.
are encouraging and tell us: Retaining our Winning Teams We understand and appreciate the importance of retaining our teams and 84% 87% 89% 88% in 2017 18 we have shifted our focus andmeasurement to the underlying feel like a valued of team members are treated say that their drivers of team retention, including pay member of have received the fairly and with team works progression and ongoing development.
their team correct training to respect by their together to We are delighted that in all our brands do their job well line manager deliver for we have seen positives in a challenging customers year with an improved retention rate versus the prior year.
Positive momentum from last year continues into 2017 18 and we are pleased that our Pay for Progression Premier Inn Clinical Building proposition continues to ensure our Work began on the Premier Inn Clinical The Premier Inn Clinical Building will make team members across all our brands are Building at Great Ormond Street Hospital an incredible difference to the amazing and fairly rewarded for the transferable skills GOSH in 2014 and the new facility dedicated teams of medical and nursing they attain.
We are being proactive in opened its doors to its first patients in staff, helping them to provide care for developing initiatives to support our November 2017.
We were delighted to thousands more seriously ill children, in managers in improving the retention of announce the Premier Inn Clinical world classfacilities.
their teams through quality recognition Building was officially opened in January We are delighted to announce that our and learning and development 2018 by HRH The Duchess of Cambridge.
partnership with GOSH will continue to opportunities.
Thanks to the tremendous generosity grow as we work towards our next big Developing our Winning Teams ofour team members, customers and project raising 10 million to build another Our team members deliver the brand suppliers, the Premier Inn Clinical ground-breaking new facility for children standards and service every day for Building, which sits within The Mittal with sight and hearing impairments.
our customers, therefore ensuring our Childrens Medical Centre provides 141 people have the opportunity and new beds 97inpatient, nine ICU and 35 day-cases, for children being treated at support to reach their full potential and GOSH.
It hasseen children move out of 7.5m the means to develop their careers is old facilities and into brand new, modern critical to our success.
In Costa UK over Our teams have hit our target wards with en-suite bedrooms where 1,000 store managers have attended to raise 7.5 million towards the parents can stay comfortably with their targeted leadership training across Premier Inn Clinical Building child overnight.
In addition to this, we have continued to focus on line manager capability and almost 50 leaders have attended our Leadership Development workshop, LEAD.
We have continued to run skills workshops and in Costa China a numberof team members have attended a two-day advanced coffee training programme.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 21 Strategic report Strategic report Operating review continued Winning Teams continued team members.
Furthermore, our Rewarding and recognising our indicators.
Furthermore, across Premier Premier Inn Germany team have Winning Teams Inn and Costa, we continue to celebrate launched specific coaching sessions Personalised recognition is fundamental those teams that achieve an all green designed to train and developour internal to our engagement strategy and we WINcard, having met every target set talent for future management positions: continue to look for ways to celebrate on the WINcard across the year.
these coaching sessions are designed to and recognise our teams.
Throughout strengthen our pipeline of future hotel 2017 18 over 400,000 was paid to managers.
We also continue to support team members via the MyRewards Joblinge, an organisation that assists platform as part of local recognition Creating a no limits to ambition the employment of young people.
awards in Premier Inn and our environment restaurants.
MyRewards enables our This year, we have continued to run our We have continued to make managers to reward teams in the highly successful graduate schemes progressagainst our Force for Good moment when it is most relevant and both operationally and functionally: and commitment to become the most valued.
Similarly, in Costa over 1 million we welcomed over 40 graduates onto inclusive hospitality business.
is uploaded annually to our Feelgood our schemes in September 2017.
Our Werepassionate about creating an portal to award Baristas and Barista operational scheme within Premier Inn is environment where everyone can reach Maestros for great customer service and worth highlighting.
The scheme provides their potential, with no barriers to entry sales performance.
hands-on operational experience and and no limits to ambition.
We recognise develops graduates through a detailed We have built on last years momentum that diverse teams bring significant training programme designed to give and Premier Inn and our restaurants business benefits and we must cultivate them the skills required to lead a winning have invested significantly into the environment for diversity of thought team.
Our functional schemes have also MyRewards to support fun and to flourish.
continued within HR, Finance and IT, all engaging team member incentives: Gender representation continues to of which provide a strong internal talent driving focus and energy in areas be a key focus of our diversity and pipeline.
The schemes include regular important to our customers.
This year we have rotations, relevant training and restaurants, one key focus has been on introduced challenging internal targets guarantees development.
The our Kitchens of Excellence programme for gender representation in our senior opportunity to gain detailed knowledge which awards every single team roles and formally joined the 30% of the business and learn a specific member when their team collectively Club, aiming fora minimum of 30% function or specialism is highly valued.
achieves their core kitchen performance representation atour most senior Im still in shock that Barista of the Year I have won Barista of We have again, for the 12th year, the Year.
The whole celebrated our annual Barista of the Yearcompetition.
Barista of the Year is journey has been integral to Costa and sees baristas from all over the world take to the stage to amazing and it was demonstrate their pride, passion and personalities whilst competing to secure such an honour to the ultimate title Champion of even make the final Champions.
The competition commences in June with store, area and regional and meet other heats and culminates in January with a two-day final, the second day of which is Costa Baristas.
held in London in front of a live audience andstreamed to colleagues around the world.
Following this amazing two-day Kinga Sobczynska final, we were extremely proud to Barista of the Year 2017 18 announce that our Barista of the Year 2017 18 Champion of Champions is Kinga Sobczynska from the UK.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 22 Strategic report Derwen College and Premier Inn This year marked the one-year anniversary of Premier Inns fantastic new training centre at Derwen College, Shropshire.
Derwen College is a specialist residential education centre for young people with learning difficulties and disabilities.
It equips young people aged 16-25 with the skills they need to be independent and prepares them for the workplace.
To make the training as effective as possible, we converted a space in the college into a fully functioning Premier Inn training centre.
The training centre consists of a reception area, three en-suite bedrooms and a linen room creating a real-life work setting for students to gain industry standard training in hospitality.
Students are given work experience opportunities in local Premier Inn sites during their time at the college, which hopefully go on to become permanent positions in our hotels across the country.
We are continuing to build on the success of our partnership with Derwen College and we are extremely proud that 102 students have directly benefitted from working in the Premier Inn training centre since its opening.
Six students are now in full time positions and 36 students have had external placements with Premier Inn since 2013. levels in all functional areas.
This of Stonewall, we continue to seek We are delighted that, over the year, year we reached over 30% female guidance and support from them to Whitbread has had over 800 apprentices representation in our top 200 roles ensure that we create an environment in learning with an ambitious target overall, although we recognise that we where LGBTQ team members can truly of 1,500 apprentices within two years.
have much further to go and we will be themselves at work.
A key focus for our apprenticeship continue to work hard to ensure men programme is to improve employee and women are equally balanced retention, a business-critical challenge in all our senior leadership teams.
To and one that is at the heart of our supportthis we are also collaborating Winning Teams strategy.
Whitbreads WISE with the 30% Club external mentoring apprenticeship programme also strives Whitbread launched WISE Whitbread programme for our female future to fill management positions internally Investing in Skills and Employment, leaders and we continue to invest and to inspire more people to choose in 2012.
WISE is a key part of our in ourWOW group Women of a career in hospitality.
We are proud of Force for Good strategy and is a Whitbread, which now has chapters all the fact that a significant proportion structured and quality assured over the country aiming to tackle the of our operations managers either are, programme that provides opportunities barriers to career progression at team or have been, an apprentice.
This is and supports people into the world level across all functions and brands in fantastic testament to the quality of work.
WISE addresses attraction, our business.
As we introduce further of our apprenticeship programme retention and progression challenges advances to our technology we are able and demonstrates the value of our through providing structured work to encourage agile working across the apprenticeships in developing experience, twoor four-week work group to support all of our diversity and our talented people and providing placements and a suite of intermediate inclusion initiatives.
Due During 2017 18 Whitbread has We also continue to encourage the to the success ofour  12 apprenticeship activities of GLOW Gay & Lesbian focused apprenticeship programmes, programmes to the new industry Outat Whitbread, to raise awareness in November 2017 WISE launched standards and is currently setting amongst all employees of the Level 3 and 4 Business Administration up new processes to deliver importance of inclusion and share Apprenticeships.
the new End Point Assessment tangible actions to improve.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 23 Strategic report Strategic report Operating review continued Winning Teams continued Audrey Gillespie, Regional Operations Director, Costa in Scotland, said Im extremely proud to be involved with our Modern Apprenticeship Programme.
It offers all of our team the opportunity toachieve qualifications while gaining valuable on job experience.
Over the last few years weve had the pleasure ofseeing many of our team progress through the various apprenticeship levels while, at the same time, advancing their careers.
This combination of advancing skill and education in parallel has seen many progress to supervisory and managerial roles.
This secures our leadership pipeline for our future growth with a strong base in our workforce in terms of their engagement and capability ensuring an eager and enabled team moving forward.
Our charitable partners Whitbread team members have a long history for supporting and giving to charity.
As a business we recognise that some of our team members want to support other charities and good causes, as well as supporting our corporate charity partners.
The Raise & Match charity scheme was put into place to support team members who want to Charlotte Maloney fundraise in their own time for causes Each apprenticeship Charlotte Maloney joined Whitbread they are personally passionate about, sixyears ago as a team member in and through this scheme our team has taught me Premier Inn.
Charlotte saw opportunities members have raised 120,000 with the to reach her potential with us and build different skills and Company matching 50,000, making a career while working, instead of going a total benefit of 170,000.
The Give & leadership abilities, to university.
Match Payroll Giving Scheme supports Charlotte started her intermediate our team members in donating to helping me to become apprenticeship as a team member and charities of their choice on a regular worked her way through to advanced the first person to basis by double matching the team apprenticeships as a team leader before members first donation and paying complete all levels, starting on her higher hospitality all the administration charges for management apprenticeship in 2016. processing the donation.
Through and to win the Charlotte gained the knowledge, skills this scheme our team members have and confidence to set her career up for Samuel Whitbread donated a total of 273,500 with success and gained promotions following Whitbread matching 13,500, making a each apprenticeship programme.
total benefit to the charities of 287,000 In 2017 Charlotte completed her higher and the business also paying 13,000 apprenticeship and was appointed into in administration.
her first operations manager role in Charlotte Maloney Great Ormond Street Hospital Charity Manchester.
The apprenticeship Thanks to the pride, passion and Whitbread apprentice programmes have supported Charlotte support of our team members, along to be a more confident person stretching her knowledge and giving with the kindness and generosity of our her time and space to learn and customers and suppliers, we are proud develop into a more rounded person, that we have the ability to change lives manager and future leader.
here in the UK and around the world through our successful partnerships with Great Ormond Street Hospital Charity GOSH and our very own Costa Foundation.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 24 Strategic report When we established our partnership 2017 saw the 11th year of the Costa with GOSH in 2012, we wanted to make Foundation Three Peaks Challenge a significant impact to the hospital event.
This fantastic event raised a huge through fundraising.
We are extremely 92,000 by 23 teams and over 180 Costa Community Programme proud to be the largest corporate participants.
This year also marked our The work we do has an impact beyond fundraiser for GOSH and thanks to the first mass participant event The our doors.
Our Costa Community combined efforts of our customers, Twilight Walk.
More than 800 members Programme continues to make a positive teams and suppliers, we are delighted to of our store teams and the wider Costa difference in the local communities near have raised over 2.6 million in 2017 18, community across the UK took part in our stores.
In 2017 over 1,300 of our store totalling more than 11 million to date.
walking 10km across 20 locations, all in teams completed more than 2,400 aid of the Costa Foundation.
different community projects and have Costa Foundation volunteered over 16,000 hours of We are tremendously proud of the Doing business, the right way community support.
work that the Costa Foundation has Continuing our partnership with Stop achieved over the past ten years, the Traffik one of the UKs leading This year was our third year of supporting The Great British Spring Clean with over building and funding school projects modern slavery and human trafficking 400 stores helping to collect ten tonnes in coffee-growing communities around non-governmental organisations, we of rubbish.
2017 was also the second year the world.
The Foundations strategic developed a training programme for of our Costa Reading Week which saw mission is to improve the life chances of team members working across our hotel over 500 stores participate in hosting girls and boys by providing them with sites.
The training was delivered through reading activities in their stores, the opportunity for a safe, quality a series of working groups, supported encouraging parents, carers and teachers education.
Foundation schools deliver by an e-learning module and focused on to spend one-on-one time reading both academic and extra curricular raising awareness of human trafficking with their children.
During this week, programmes that enhance health, and modern slavery, empowering our our Costa store teams donated around gender equality and environmental teams to identify potential indicators of 30,000 books and other resources to awareness.
This year we have raised human trafficking abuse in our sites and their local schools.
more than 1.96 million and six new provide them with the tools to report it school projects have been completed.
Within 30 days of joining, every team 40,000hrs member must undertake an e-learning of community work since the module on Whitbreads Code of beginning of our Costa Conduct, and then refresh their Community Programme knowledge on an annual basis.
The code in 2014 covers a number of topics, including Whitbreads vision and values, and the speaking out process and phoneline.
It also covers areas of compliance, such as gifts and hospitality, inside information, and bribery and corruption.
There is a separate anti-bribery e-learning module, which is mandatory for all team members to complete, and covers Whitbreads policy on bribery and the Bribery Act.
We are proud to support many children and communities in our work in coffee growing communities around the world, communities that are often overlooked.
Under the Modern Slavery Act we are Piers Blake proud to publicly report our progress Costa Foundation Director in tackling the risk of modern slavery across our business and supply chain.
Jerusalen fide Minaro Our second Modern Slavery Report Primary School, Peru has been published in line with our Annual Report and can be found at www.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 25 Strategic report Strategic report Working hard to delight and innovate 8 stores in the new design Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 26 Strategic report Voted the Nations Favourite Coffee Shop Brand 8 years in a row Costa innovates with new store design Always looking to stay ahead of hospitality trends and delight customers with new products and experiences, Costa is refreshing the environment and design of its stores to make them even more welcoming and appealing.
Eye-catching features of the new store design include a lighting display made of Costa cups and bespoke wall art that add a bright, contemporary feel where customers can relax and chat in colourful comfy armchairs or find a quiet spot to work.
Coffee is absolutely at the heart of the experience with coffee imagery decorating the walls and a state-of-the-art Brew Bar serving the latest coffee innovations of Nitro Cold Brew and Pour Over filter coffee.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 27
