Governance Governance Board of Directors A strong leadership team N R Adam Crozier Alison Brittain The Board of Directors Chairman Chief Executive There are eight members of the Board including the Chairman and Chief Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: Executive.
There are four independent April 2017 September 2015 non-executive directors on the Board Age: 53 Date of appointment as Chairman: and three executive directors.
March 2018 Experience: Alison joined Whitbread from Lloyds Banking We believe that it is vital for the Board Age: 54 Group, where she was Group Director of the to include a diverse range of skills, Experience: Retail Division, with responsibility for the Lloyds, Adam was Chief Executive of ITV plc from backgrounds and experiences, to Halifax and Bank of Scotland retail branch 2010-2017.
Prior to that, Adam was former Joint enable a broad evaluation of all matters networks, remote and intermediary channels Chief Executive of Saatchi & Saatchi, Chief considered and to contribute to a and products, along with the Retail Business Executive of the Football Association and then positive culture of mutual respect and Banking and the wealth businesses.
Prior to Royal Mail Group.
joining Lloyds Bank, Alison was Executive constructive challenge.
The mix of skills External appointments: Director for Retail Distribution and Board and experience represented on the Vue International Non-executive Chairman Director at Santander UK PLC.
She previously Board is outlined below.
Stage Entertainment BV Non-executive held senior roles at Barclays Bank.
Chairman External appointments: Marks and Spencer Group plc Non-executive director Princes Trust Council Trustee Board experience Number of directors Retail sector 6 Travel and hospitality sector 5 Marketing 4 Legal 1 Financial 7 Nicholas Cadbury Louise Smalley International 7 Group Finance Director Group HR Director Commercial property 2 Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: Technology and digital 4 November 2012 November 2012 Age: 52 Age: 50 Human resources 4 Experience: Experience: Nicholas joined Whitbread in November 2012 as Louise joined Whitbread in 1995 and has held Corporate social responsibility 4 Group Finance Director.
He previously worked at the position of Group HR Director since 2007.
Dixons Retail PLC, in a variety of management During her time at Whitbread, Louise has held Media 3 roles, including Chief Financial Officer from 2008 a variety of HR roles across the Whitbread to 2011.
Nicholas also held the position of Chief businesses, including HR Director of David Lloyd Financial Officer of Premier Farnell PLC, which he Leisure and Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants.
Nicholas originally qualified as an She previously worked in the oil industry, with accountant with Price Waterhouse.
Chair of the committee External appointments: External appointments: N Nomination Committee Land Securities Group PLC DS Smith Plc Non-executive director Non-executive director R Remuneration Committee A Audit Committee Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 58 Governance Composition of the Board Chairman1 Executive directors3 Independent non-executive directors4 A N R A N David Atkins Chris Kennedy Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: January 2017 March 2016 Age: 52 Age: 54 Experience: Experience: Tenure David is Chief Executive of Hammerson plc, Chris is Chief Financial Officer of Micro Focus former Chairman and Executive Board member International plc, which he joined in January 2018.
0-3 years5 of the European Public Real Estate Association Prior to that, Chris was Chief Financial Officer of 3-6 years2 EPRA and past President and committee ARM Holdings plc for over two years, Group 6 years1 member of Revo formerly BCSC.
Finance Director of easyJet plc for five years, having previously spent 17 years in a variety of External appointments: senior roles at EMI.
Hammerson plc Chief Executive Revo Member of the advisory panel External appointments: British Property Federation Micro Focus International plc Committee Member Chief Financial Officer Reading Real Estate Foundation Director The EMI Group Archive Trust Trustee and Trustee Great Ormond Street Hospital Trust Trustee Gender Male4 Female4 N R A N Deanna Oppenheimer Susan Taylor Martin Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: January 2017 January 2012 Age: 60 Age: 54 Experience: Experience: Deanna spent over 25 years in a number of senior Susan has held a number of roles at Thomson roles in banking at both Barclays Bank PLC and Reuters, including President, of Thomson Reuters Washington Mutual Inc. where she ran retail Media, President of Global Investment Focus banking across leading national branch Accounts and Managing Director of Legal in the franchises in the UK and US.
Since 2012, through UK and Ireland.
Prior to this she was Global Head, her familys hospitality business, she invests in Corporate Strategy for Reuters, which she joined boutique hotels in western US.
External appointments: External appointments: Hargreaves Lansdown plc Thomson Reuters President, Legal Non-Executive Chair Thomson Reuters Foundation Trustee CameoWorks Founder Tesco PLC Senior Independent Director AXA SA Non-executive director Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 59 Governance Governance Executive Committee The Executive Committee meets on a monthly basis and is chaired by Alison Brittain.
It has authority to manage the Alison Brittain Mark Anderson day-to-day operations of the Groups Chief Executive Managing Director, Property and businesses, with the exception of those Premier Inn International matters reserved for the Board, within the financial limits set by the Board.
The Committees responsibilities include: formulation of strategy for recommendation to the Board: management of performance in accordance with strategy and budgets: talent and succession: risk management: capital investment decisions where Nicholas Cadbury Nigel Jones Board approval is not required : Group Finance Director Group Operations and Transformation Director cost efficiency, procurement and organisational design: reputation and stakeholder management: and culture, values and sustainability.
Nigel Jones joined the Executive Committee in August 2017, when he joined the Company as Group Operations and Transformation Director.
Nigel is responsible for managing Whitbreads supply chain and leading the overall Whitbread transformation Simon Jones Dominic Paul plan.
He has recently taken on Managing Director, Premier Inn Managing Director, Costa Coffee responsibility for our IT transformation.
and Restaurants UK Mark Anderson has been with the Company for ten years and has led the property function since 2008.
He is Managing Director of Property and Premier Inn International.
Simon Jones joined Whitbread in 2011, and has led on key initiatives such as network planning, pricing and marketing.
Simon is Managing Director of Premier Inn and Restaurants UK.
Dominic Paul joined Whitbread in June 2016 as Managing Director of Costa Coffee and Chris Vaughan has been General Counsel since joining the Louise Smalley Chris Vaughan Company at the end of 2015.
Group HR Director General Counsel Biographical details for Alison Brittain, Nicholas Cadbury and Louise Smalley can be found on page 58.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 60 Governance Corporate governance The agenda for each Board meeting is The Senior Independent Director meets Board activities during agreed with the Chairman and the Chief annually with all non-executive directors the year Executive so that current events and to discuss the performance of the potential future issues can be discussed Chairman.
Standard In advance of each Board meeting, There is a schedule of matters reserved items for each meeting are a review of a set of Board papers, including monthly exclusively to the Board: all other progress on action points, reports from financial and trading reports, is decisions are delegated to management.
the Chief Executive, the Group Finance circulated so that directors have Those matters reserved exclusively to Director, the Group HR Director, the sufficient time to review them and the Board include: Managing Directors of Premier Inn and arrive at the meeting fully prepared.
Restaurants and Costa together with the approval of Group financial statements The Board has a rolling forward agenda General Counsels report.
The General and the preliminary announcement of which sets matters to be considered Counsel keeps minutes of the meetings half and full-year results: throughout the year ahead.
Two and produces a list of agreed actions for strategy days are held each year.
changes relating to the Groups capital each meeting.
Following these sessions, the Board structure: the annual budget and the At the meetings during the year, the agree the significant topics to be Groups business plan: Board discharged its responsibilities and discussed at its meetings during the approving capital projects, acquisitions considered a range of matters as shown year.
The rolling agenda is then updated and disposals valued at over the limit in the table at the bottom of this page.
to ensure that there is a structured set out in the matters reserved to the approach to the consideration of topics Board processes and topics to be Board: and that recurring issues are evenly discussed are continually reviewed to spread across the calendar.
The Board approval of interim dividends and ensure that the correct focus is given to gives its attention to each area of the recommendation of final dividends: the key issues highlighted at the strategy business in turn so that a strong and days.
understanding of the entire Company is establishment of Board committees.
The rolling agenda is The Chairman meets with the regularly reviewed and updated and is non-executive directors without the The schedule of matters reserved circulated as part of the General executive directors present after was reviewed in January 2018 Counsels report before each meeting.
and is available on the Companys website: www.
Board agenda 2017 18 Standing agenda items Chief Executive's report Health and safety report quarterly HR Directors Report Group Finance Director's report General Counsels report Approval of capital projects Q1 Q2 Approval of year-end documentation and final dividend Everyday Efficiency Information technology update Sustainability update Risk Management overview cyber security Germany expansion plan Talent, culture and succession Premier Inn UK Acquisition of Yueda joint venture Costa China Costa UK Approval of international hotel disposals Strategy day including Group structure Q3 Q4 2017 18 Interim results and approval of interim dividend Corporate governance review Risk appetite Appointment of Adam Crozier as Chairman Pure update Pensions update Group Transformation update Review of cladding Health and Safety Cyber security Costa Express strategy Restaurants growth plan Premier Inn UK Strategy day including Group structure at Basildon Costa UK Roastery China visit Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 61 Governance Governance Corporate governance continued Board meetings and attendance Insurance cover Training and development The Board generally holds regular The Company has appropriate Directors attend external training scheduled meetings during the year directorsand officers liability eventsto update their skills and and on an ad hoc basis as and when insurancein place.
In addition to this, knowledge.
11 meetings were held during theCompany provides an indemnity byBoard members during the year the year and attendance at meetings fordirectors against the costs of onarange of issues including: by the directors is set out below.
defending certain legal proceedings Governance: andgenerating claims over and Members of the executive team abovethose covered by insurance.
GDPR: attended Board and committee These are reviewed periodically.
Market Abuse Regulation: and CSR.
Board meetings and attendance Audit Nomination Remuneration Investor relations and market updates Board Committee Committee Committee were presented to the Board, together Number of scheduled meetings 11 4 5 6 with regular updates from each of the brands.
1 10 11 4 4 5 5 David Atkins Deep dive sessions were also held on 2 Richard Baker 9 10 3 3 6 6 certain issues to improve knowledge, Alison Brittain 11 11 including: 11 11 Nicholas Cadbury Costa China: 3 6 6 1 2 4 4 Sir Ian Cheshire Costa Express: 4 Adam Crozier 8 9 - 1 1 5 5 Chris Kennedy 11 11 4 4 5 5 Premier Inn Germany: 1 10 11 4 4 5 5 Susan Taylor Martin Transformation programme: 11 11 5 5 6 6 Deanna Oppenheimer Technology: Louise Smalley 11 11 5 4 4 2 2 3 3 Stephen Williams Health and Safety: and 1 David Atkins and Susan Taylor Martin each missed one meeting due to pre-arranged meetings elsewhere.
2 Richard Baker stepped down from the Board on 28 February 2018.
The one meeting he missed was to discuss his own succession.
One of the Board strategy days was held 3 Sir Ian Cheshire stepped down from the Board on 21 September 2017. at the Basildon Roastery in order to give 4 Adam Crozier was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2017.
The one meeting he missed was to discuss his appointment as Chairman.
the Board the opportunity to gain a 5 Steve Williams stepped down from the Board on 21 June 2017. deeper understanding of the site and how it runs.
Board and committees Director, was appointed as Chairman All directors have access to independent It is believed that the Board and its of the Board the following day.
professional advice at the Companys committees have the appropriate The search for a new Senior expense.
Directors serving on the Board balance of skills, experience, diversity, Independent Director is still ongoing at and committees confirmed that they independence and knowledge the time of publication and there will be were satisfied that they received of the Company to enable them an announcement once an appointment sufficient resources to enable them to to discharge their responsibilities has been made.
After assessing director has access to the General independence against the Code, Details of the appointment procedures Counsel for advice on governance.
the Board considers all non-executive can be found in the report of the directors to be independent in Nomination Committee on pages The General Counsel prepares a monthly judgement and character, and also 70 to 71. report that includes updates on considered the Chairman to be secretariat and legal matters, along with Commitment independent on appointment.
During the year all directors including This report is presented and discussed During the year, there have been a the non-executive directors, committed at each Board meeting.
number of changes to the Board.
significant time to the Company in Sir Ian Cheshire stepped down from accordance with the requirements Induction process his role as Senior Independent Director specified in their service contracts and On appointment, all directors receive a and resigned from the Board on 21 letters of appointment.
On behalf of the full and formal induction that is tailored September 2017.
Adam Crozier, who Board, the Nomination Committee has to their specific needs.
Adam Crozier joined the Board on 1 April 2017, became reviewed the extent of other interests of joined the Board on 1 April 2017 as a the new Senior Independent Director the non-executive directors.
As part of his on the same day.
is satisfied the Chairman and each of the induction, Adam met with the Chief non-executive directors commit Executive, Group Finance Director and Following the completion of his sufficient time to their duties and fulfil the members of the Executive nine-year term, four of those as their obligations to the Company.
We ensure that each Chairman of the Board, Richard Baker newmember of the Board has the announced his retirement on 4 January No executive director has taken on more opportunity to visit Premier Inn and 2018, and resigned from the Board on than one non-executive directorship in a Costa sites.
Adam Crozier, who FTSE 100 company.
was serving as the Senior Independent Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 62 Governance Board performance evaluation Board and committee review cycle 2017 18 internal evaluation An evaluation of the Board, its In 2017 18, the Board conducted the committees, individual directors and annual evaluation of its performance, the Chairman is carried out each year.
and that of its three main committees, Year 1 by using an online evaluation tool.
Financial year 2015 16 An externally facilitated board Each director completed a Externally facilitated review evaluation was carried out in 2015 16. questionnaire and the General The next externally facilitated Counsel collated and presented the board evaluation will be conducted responses of the evaluation for during the financial year ending consideration by the Board.
The 28 February 2019. outcome of the evaluation was such Year 2 that the directors considered that the Financial year 2016 17 Board is operating effectively and has Internal review been able to develop clear objectives of its future strategy.
Year 3 Financial year 2017 18 Internal review Areas identified for Progress made in Further work to be Identified areas improvement in 2017 18 undertaken during Although no significant concerns 2016 17 internal 2018 19 were raised, the directors evaluation considered that the opportunities identified for improvement in To provide opportunities During the year, progress The Board has agreed the 2016 17 evaluation were still for the non-executive has been made in this to retain its focus on relevant areas of focus for the directors to spend more area with members of the giving directors forthcoming year.
The table on time in the business, Board visiting China and opportunities to spend the right shows the process that outside of the formal Germany.
has been made against these areas board meeting cycle.
board evaluation also and further work that is planned highlighted this as for the coming year.
an opportunity for further work.
An additional area for improvement in 2018 19 will be a greater focus on To increase the level of During the year, progress We will continue to discussion and management of board awareness of has been made in this identify opportunities to succession planning at middle customer perceptions area, with improvements enhance board papers management and board level.
and developments in the to the KPI pack and together with KPI packs markets in which we monthly reports, and with and monthly reports.
Individual directors operate, whilst ensuring the periodic deep dives The Chairman has one-to-one that the Companys into the businesses also meetings with all directors to performance is containing material on discuss their performance and to adequately monitored customers and identify whether they continue to against its peers.
contribute effectively to the Board and demonstrate commitment to the role.
To further increase During the year, work The Board will continue Chairman focus on key risks and has been undertaken to to build on the progress The Senior Independent Director mitigation plans.
focus on this area with made last year, with meets with the non-executive one-to-one meetings further discussion on directors, without the Chairman held with the Board and principal risks and risk present, to discuss the performance Executive Committee to appetite.
The Senior understand their risk Independent Director also speaks appetite.
The findings with the executive directors to gain from these meetings their views before discussing the were presented back to results with the Chairman.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 63 Governance Governance Corporate governance continued Conflicts of interest Interaction with institutional Share capital Directors are required to disclose any shareholders The information that is required by conflicts of interest immediately as and The Chief Executive, Group Finance DTR 7.2.
6 relating to the share capital of when they arise throughout the year.
In Director and Director of Investor the Company can be found within the addition, a formal process is undertaken Relations hold meetings with directors report on page 89. in January each year when all directors institutional investors following the Statement of the directors in respect confirm to the Board details of their full-year and interim results.
of the Annual Report and Accounts external interests including any other The Chairman meets with institutional As required by the Code, the directors directorships which they hold.
confirm their responsibility for preparing These are assessed by the Board to the Annual Report and Accounts and The Chief Executive and Group determine whether the directors ability to consider that the Annual Report, taken Finance Director also meet with act in the best interests of the Company as a whole, is fair, balanced and investors on request.
If there are no understandable and provides the such potential or actual conflicts, the information necessary for shareholders The Board receives updates on the external interests are authorised by the to assess the Companys position and views of major shareholders from the Board.
All authorisations are for a period performance, business model and Companys brokers.
No director is counted as strategy.
Further detail on how this part of a quorum in respect of the conclusion was reached can be found Interaction with private shareholders authorisation of his or her own conflict.
in the report of the Audit Committee on Live webcast presentations of the pages 66 to 69. full-year and interim results.
It is recognised that all organisations are Going concern potential customers of Whitbread and, in Electronic communications with The directors going concern statement view of this, the Board authorises all shareholders including use of the can be found in the Directors Report directors current external directorships.
Shareholder relations The Annual General Meeting In accordance with the Code, the Board Viability statement The AGM provides all shareholders with recognises that it has responsibility for The viability statement can be found the opportunity to communicate directly ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue on page 52. with the Board which encourages their with shareholders takes place and any Business model and strategy participation at the meeting.
major shareholders issues and concerns Information on the Groups business are communicated to the Board through In accordance with the Code, the Notice model and the strategy for delivering the Chairman.
of AGM and related papers are sent to the objectives of the Company can be shareholders at least 20 working days The Company communicates with both found on pages 8 to 9. before the meeting.
The Company the institutional and private shareholders Board committees proposes a separate resolution on each through the following means: The Board is supported by three substantially separate issue including a committees: the Audit Committee, the Interaction with all shareholders specific resolution to approve the Nomination Committee and the The Companys website Report and Accounts.
co. uk, where resolution, proxy appointment forms of reference are reviewed regularly and information and news is regularly provide shareholders with the option to updated in line with best practice.
vote in advance of the AGM if they are They are available in full on the unable to attend in person.
All valid The Annual Report and Accounts, Companys website.
proxy votes received for the AGM are which sets out details of the properly recorded and counted by Companys strategy, business model A detailed report from the Chairman of Whitbreads registrars.
and performance over the past the Remuneration Committee is set out financial year and plans for future on pages 72 to 87.
Reports for the Audit As in previous years, all voting by growth.
and Nomination Committees can be shareholders at this years AGM will be found on pages 66 to 71. by poll using electronic handsets.
The The AGM, where all shareholders can voting results, including proxy votes vote on the resolutions proposed and received, will be displayed on a screen at to put questions to the Board and the end of the meeting.
In addition, the executive team.
audited poll results will be disclosed on Presentations of full-year and interim the Companys website following the results to analysts and shareholders, meeting, and announced through the that are also available on the regulatory news service.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 64 Governance Accountability and internal control Internal control and risk management The Board is responsible for the Groups systems of internal control and risk management, and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
They can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups principal risks.
This process was in place throughout the 2017 18 financial year and up to the date of this report.
The process is reviewed by the Board and accords with the internal control guidance for directors in the Code.
A report of the principal risks, together with the viability statement, can be found on pages 52 to 55.
Group financial policies, controls Assurance Risk analysis and procedures are in place and are The Audit Committee approves The Board identifies the principal regularly reviewed and updated.
the audit programme which ensures risks of the Company on a regular that the significant areas of risk basis and throughout the year it The Whitbread Code of Conduct, identified are monitored and reviews the actions in place to setting out required levels of ethics reviewed.
mitigate the risks together with and behaviour, is communicated to assurance and monitoring activity.
employees and training is provided.
The programme and the results of The analysis covers business and An externally hosted whistleblowing the audits are regularly assessed operational risks, health and safety, system is also available.
financial, market, operational and reputational risks which the The Code of Conduct makes reference The Audit Committee reviews the Company may face as well as to specific policies and procedures major findings from both internal specific areas identified in the which have to be followed.
business plan and budget process.
Employees are required to undertake Internal audits are carried out Each of the businesses also carries tailored training on risk areas under the control of the Director out its own risk analysis together including IS security, data protection, of Internal Audit.
The reports are with the Director of Internal Audit anti-bribery and anti-trust law.
reviewed by the Audit Committee and this is reviewed regularly by the and, on a monthly basis, by the Management is responsible for Premier Inn and Costa executive Executive Committee to ensure ensuring the appropriate maintenance committees.
that the actions required to address of financial records and processes that issues identified are implemented.
All major capital and revenue ensure that financial information is projects, together with significant relevant, reliable, in accordance with The Director of Internal Audit change programmes, include the applicable laws and regulations and reports annually to the Audit consideration of the risks involved is distributed both internally and Committee on the effectiveness and an appropriate action plan.
of operational and financial controls across the Group.
A review of the financial statements Controls is completed by management to Deloitte LLP, the Companys The Company reviews and confirms ensure that the financial position and external auditor, reviews and its level of compliance with the results of the Group are appropriately reports on the significant issues Code on an annual basis.
identified in its audit report.
The matters reserved to the Board All financial information published by An internal control evaluation require that major projects and the Group is subject to the approval of process is overseen by the programmes must have specific the Audit Committee and the Board.
management team which assesses board approval.
the level of compliance with the An annual review of internal controls Limits of delegation and authority controls, policies and processes is undertaken by the Board with the are prescribed to ensure that the and the results are reviewed and assistance of the Audit Committee.
appropriate approvals are obtained tested on a sample basis by the if board authority is not required internal audit team.
to ensure appropriate segregation Post completion reviews of of tasks.
major projects and investments are carried out and reported on to the Board.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 65
