Strategic report Strategic report Group HR Directors review Our customers continue toreport that positive engagement with our teams is critical to the quality of their experience with us, on every visit.
Therefore retaining andoffering our people the opportunities to grow and develop their careers, remains core to our strategy.
Louise Smalley Group HR Director 2017 18 has been another strong year for Whitbread, due to the Delivering exceptional daily efforts of our 50,000 team members.
service every day We have continued to invest in developing our team members at all levels.
Our YourSay survey results As outlined in previous years we care hugely demonstrate that we have maintained about ensuring our 50,000 team members high engagement levels across our teams.
We need to ensure local remain motivated and engaged to deliver managers are consistently working to make Whitbread an even better place exceptional service every day for our guests.
We remain focused on the improvements to our core people strategies as follows: engaging our Winning Teams continued, consistent listening with more two-way dialogue: fair and transparent reward strategies to motivate all team members: creating a no limits to ambition environment building diverse teams: and enabling our people through new technology and great places to work.
2,500 800 Engaging our Winning Teams in two-way dialogue new jobs created apprentices in learning We have long known that listening to our team members who are closest to our customers will drive our business success.
83% of our people took part in our annual YourSay survey this year.
We 78% 3,000 have continued to improve the depth and range of consultation mechanisms at all team engagement apprenticeships started since levels of the Company, for example WISE began Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 12 Strategic report through our Restaurants Forum which leadership team.
We have set gender Board Directors has been operating nationally to improve targets for each area of the business Male4 communication between our field and, over the year ahead, we will Female4 operations teams and support centre.
continue to address any barriers to Costa and Premier Inn continued to progression with a particular focus engage teams through regular on recruitment and succession.
conferences, regional meetings and We continue to prioritise broader leadership engagement.
Our Workplace representation across our business.
Forum for those team members based at We have conducted extensive research our Whitbread Court support centre has into the changing nature of the labour discussed ways to improve the working market in the UK.
This has identified environment and has proven to be an how we can improve our engagement effective two-way conversation on how with populations not currently well to prioritise investment and improve represented including women not ways of working.
currently in work and those over 55 years Over 2018 19 we will be extending and old.
We have conducted fieldwork in connecting this work further to establish a number of locations and the initial Senior leaders formal consultation forums in all brands findings demonstrate the scale of the Male36 so that employees opinions on strategy opportunity and some actions for us to Female11 and transformation plans can be heard implement, for example making applying in more detail by leadership and by for a job at Whitbread easier, and better the Board.
communicating our flexible shift patterns.
Enabling our people through new Fair and transparent reward strategies technology and great places to work to motivate all team members We monitor not only engagement of our Since the introduction of our Pay for teams, but also enablement the extent Progression strategy in 2015 which to which our employees feel that their links team member pay to skills working conditions allow them to development team members flourish and that there are no major perception of fair and transparent pay barriers to them doing their job well.
On the question This feedback has allowed us to target I believe I am paid fairly for the work investment more effectively, having I do we continue to outperform the heard a degree of frustration with our high performing norm of benchmark systems and support centre environment.
Investment here has Whitbread Leadership contributed to retention and a better Forum We are underway with a programme guest experience as a result.
Male143 to implement a new HR Information Female71 In April 2018 we changed our pensions System Workday with tools that will scheme, giving our employees more be available to all team members.
This choice and flexibility in the way they will benefit team members and line save for retirement.
We engaged our managers through simpler processes teams in consultation about proposed and better access and governance of regulatory changes, using an online personal information.
This represents forum to reach the largest possible a major financial investment in HR audience.
We had the biggest response technology over four years which we we have ever had to any pensions believe will radically transform our consultation with extremely balanced teams experience.
We have commenced with an extensive Creating a diverse no limits programme of works at Whitbread to ambition environment Court, our support centre, to implement In 2017 18 we have continued to a modern working environment, make progress against our ambition encouraging a more flexible workspace All Whitbread to become the most inclusive for our teams so that they can work employees hospitality business.
Male19,036 Overall, we are confident that these A major focus this year has been in Female33,680 investments in our teams will contribute analysing and understanding our gender to healthy and sustainable businesses pay gap.
Our analysis has demonstrated for the future.
that we have a mean gender pay gap of 12.65%, with our senior leadership remaining 70% male.
If we achieved a 50:50 representation of men and women across all grades, our gender pay gap would reduce to 0.39%.
This, of Louise Smalley course, means that we need to do more Group HR Director to ensure that men and women are 24 April 2018 equally balanced in our senior Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 13
