Strategic report Strategic report Key performance indicators Whitbreads plan is to deliver long-term growth in earnings and dividends, combined with a strong return on capital.
This will be achieved through disciplined deliver results for our shareholders in Information on our key performance execution of our three strategic priorities: the short term.
To do this we focus on indicators can be found on this page and details of a wide range of retaining a strong Customer Heartbeat, 01 Grow and innovate in our other strategic measures can be seen which means supporting our Winning core UK businesses on page 11.
Teams as they provide an excellent experience for our customers.
02 Focus on our strengths to Team engagement, like for like sales, grow internationally There are a number of measures that Premier Inn occupancy and electricity we review on a regular basis, both to consumption are still measured but, as 03 Build capability to support make sure we are on track to meet our they are no longer incentivised WINcard long-term growth strategic objectives, but also to check measures are not included as key Whilst we work to deliver on our that we are meeting the needs of key performance indicators.
long-term ambitions we must also stakeholders in the shorter term.
Operational team Brand performance Underlying EPS We have a robust way of Underlying EPS is an important retention measuringhow our customers measure of the effective delivery of Team retention is important because, rate our performance in terms of profitable growth for our shareholders.
if team members stay with us longer, recommendations and preference we can provide a better service to our over other brands.
customers and reduce the cost of recruitment and training.
This measures the proportion of employed team members retained over a three month period taken throughout the pts financial year.
pts pts pts 0.8%pt 5.6% Premier Inn p Restaurants p Costa Underlying profit Brand expansion Group return on capital Growing, both in the UK and Our investors want to be able to before tax overseas, is integral to our strategic judge how well we are investing As with all businesses, we measure priorities and it is important that we their money in comparison to other our financial success by the measure our progress.
We also profits we make through growing want to compare the performance our brands and operating our of our businesses and assets in order businesses efficiently.
Measuring returns helps us to do this.
4.5% 20 bps Premier Inn UK rooms opened gross m Costa net stores opened m Costa Express net machines installed D efinitions of all APMs are included in the glossary on page167.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 10 Strategic report In March 2017, Costas state of the art new sustainable roastery was opened in Basildon, quadrupling Costas roasting capability and supporting its long-term growth.
02 01 03 Grow and innovate in the Focus on the strengths developed Build and enhance the necessary core UK markets for by Whitbread in the UK to grow capabilities and infrastructure to Premier Inn and Costa internationally, in particular in support long-term growth and Premier Inn in Germany, Costa in efficiency China, and Costa Express in multiple countries Winning Teams Premier Inn Premier Inn 89% team retention Germany 3,000 apprenticeships Network Network st Property 4,385 net rooms opened 1 acquisition 19 hotels 4,600 rooms added to pipeline 5,500 rooms in pipeline 14,500 rooms in pipeline over 85% rooms in latest format 3 hotels opening in 2018 19 56m sale and leaseback proceeds 152 Costa global store churn Performance Performance Digital 79.3% occupancy 62% occupancy over 85% Premier Inn direct 97% booking directly 100% booking directly digital booking 4.2 avg.
TripAdvisor score 1.3m active Costa App users 30 Costa Express machines trialling loyalty Costa Costa International Efficiency 105m cumulative savings Stores Stores 145m committed further savings 243 stores opened, 39 closed 198 stores opened, 113 closed c. 40% sales with Costa Club joint venture buy out in Force for Good South China c. 40% food capture rate 16 Chinese stores in latest format 4.6m charitable contributions almost 14m coffee cups recovered Express Express 1,187 new machines 249 net new machines 805 partners 6 countries Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 11
