Overview Overview Business overview How our business works Whitbread is the UKs leading hospitality company We have built two of the UKs most successful hospitality brands, Premier Inn and Costa, through consistent operational excellence andproviding a great customer experience.
We measure our progress through our balanced scorecard or Whitbread In Numbers WINcard for Winning Teams, Profitable Growth, Customer Heartbeat, Force for Good and Everyday Efficiency.
Force for Good Everyday E ciency We serve our customers in the UK and beyond through our two businesses: Premier Inn Costa Premier Inn is the UKs leading Costa is the UKs favourite coffee hotel business.
Our unique joint site shop.
We have a multi-channel model means that more than half strategy, with equity stores, of our hotels are located alongside franchise stores and stores our own restaurant brands.
operated by joint ventures, as wellas a wholesale operation.
785 2,422 UK hotels coffee shops in the UK 1,399 72,466 stores in 31 international rooms across the UK markets Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 02 Overview We are focused on three strategic priorities: 1 2 3 Grow and innovate in Focus on our strengths Build the capability our core UK businesses to grow internationally and platform to support long-term growth 37 38 40 for more information for more information for more information We work hard to deliver great customer service and create real job opportunities Our focus on delivering high standards for our customers through strong employee engagement is at the heart of our strategy.
We create job opportunities for people from varied and diverse backgrounds and help our people to reach theirpotential through training and coaching in a supportive and inclusive environment.
20 for more information We are committed to doing business responsibly and sustainably Our Force for Good programme has three pillars: Opportunity: Community: and Responsibility.
We are delivering tangible improvements in each of these areas against our existing targets, whilst also setting ambitious new targets.
14 for more information Maintaining high standards in corporate governance Supported by a strong risk is vital to supporting our financial performance.
management and governance framework and a disciplined By understanding and responding to risks we can make informed decisions that strengthen approach to capital management our capacity to build value.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 03
