Strategic report Strategic report Operating review continued Customer Heartbeat Our approach Our 50,000 team members continue to provide outstanding experiences to our millions of customers.
We make sure we listen to what our customers want and use this insight to enhance our customer experience and build brand satisfaction and loyalty.
We offer customers the greatest choice of locations We invest in our sites to maintain their quality We design our coffee shops, restaurants and hotels to create a warm and welcoming experience for our customers We innovate to meet customer needs and expectations We offer customers a great choice of high quality and nutritionally balanced food and drink We use digital technology to enhance the customer experience Another award-winning year Over the year our leading brands, Costa Premier Inn and Costa, have continued to cement their positions as the UKs favourite hotel chain and coffee shop 23.5m 49% chain respectively.
For the eighth year customers per month net recommend score in a row Costa was voted the Nations Favourite Coffee Shop Brand by Allegra.
56% Premier Inn was named the UKs 8yrs in a row Top-Rated Hotel Chain for a third drink quality scores voted Nations Favourite consecutive year in the Which?
Hotel Coffee Shop Brand Chain Survey, and was awarded the Which?
Recommended Provider for 14m a third year in a row.
Premier Inn also 87% picked up the award for Best UK takeaway cups recovered of customers say they are Economy Hotel brand at the British for recycling likely to revisit Travel Awards 2017.
Premier Inn also featured heavily in the TripAdvisor Travellers Choice Awards and over 600 of our hotels secured Premier Inn Certificates of Excellence, many for the fifth consecutive year.
5.5m 9 10 customers per month Premier Inn guests say they will definitely consider staying again 3yrs in a row voted UKs top-rated hotel Our individual brand guest satisfaction chain by Which?
surveys provide us with a valuable tool to find out what is important to our customers and how we can improve upon their experience.
These surveys show that our teams are already doing Force for Good a great job serving our customers, with nine out of ten Premier Inn guests saying Making a meaningful they will consider staying again and 87% contribution to the customers of Costa customers saying they are likely and communities we serve to revisit a store.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 28 Strategic report The only hotel brand to deliver on quality UKs favourite coffee shop 8th year in a row Brand Preference: Costa is the UKs favourite and value YouGov BrandIndex Hilton Marriott Holiday Inn Costa Holiday Inn Express Starbucks Ibis Travelodge AirBnb Caff Nero - Value score All years based on 12-month averages to the end of the financial year.
Premier Inn is the only brand to deliver on both quality Source: 2008 2014: YouGov Q.
If there were a Costa Coffee, Starbucks and value, securing wider market appeal and Caff Nero next door to each other, which one would be your FIRST N ote: Scores are net i. e. positive % minus negative %.
20152018: TNS One CostaTracker, Market Monitor, BrandIndex 52-week moving average as at 22 February 2018 2,000 Nat Rep respondents perquarter We use YouGov BrandIndex and Brand Preference trackers to monitor our progress against competitors and you can see on the above how Premier Inn and Costa continue to hold the leading position in their respective markets.
A Great Place to Start Premier Inn has continued to develop and evolve its successful Great Place to Start multi-channel advertising campaign, with the launch of three new TV advertisements.
The campaign features different storylines reflecting how and why guests choose Premier Inn to start their day, whether thats two colleagues off to deliver some knockout pitches in the world of printer sales or the Pedal Squad starting out on their cycling adventure.
The Bridesmaids Tale is the latest in Premier Inns new series of TV advertisements.
When a bridesmaid and groomsman lock eyes across the Premier Inn breakfast buffet, the film morphs into an all-singing, all-dancing dream sequence.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 29 Quality score Strategic report Strategic report Operating review continued Customer Heartbeat continued Innovating at Costa British summer weather.
Costa had a Future proofing our stores Costa remains at the forefront of record-breaking Christmas with strong Building on the success of our Britains growing love affair with coffee year on year growth and saw Costa Wandsworth concept store, Costa and this year introduced Costa Cold Express feature Christmas drinks for rolled out eight new stores of the Brew: a smooth, refreshing drink made the first time ever.
future this year delivering light and from a carefully selected single-origin airy spaces forcustomers to enjoy an Costa continues to expand its food Colombian blend designed for a rich enhanced selection of fresh food and range ensuring those customers and balanced flavour profile.
Thestore layout also includes looking for a gluten-free and vegan in-store for 20 hours to bring out the a newly designed bar to increase the option are catered for.
This year Costa coffees natural sweetness, this delicious, store teams productivity.
The coffee has expanded its salad range and hand-crafted coffee experience has machines have been moved to the front introduced new hot foods including excited coffee lovers looking to try of the bar to allow customers to learn the ever-popular mac and cheese.
and engage more with our teams whilst looking for gluten-free products have their handcrafted coffee is being made.
As the nations palates mature and been enjoying new wraps and salads, The pace of refurbishment will customers seek milk alternatives for whilst our vegan Christmas mince pie significantly increase this year.
their coffee, Costa introduced a went on to be one of the biggest selling coconut-based milk alternative across its impulse purchases this Christmas.
The dairy alternative showcases the perfect partnership of Costas Mocha-Italia blend and the light, fresh taste of coconut.
The past year saw Costa launch its biggest and boldest summer selection yet.
With the return of cool favourites as well as fresh new additions, there was something on offer for everyone throughout the predictably unpredictable 20hrs to bring out the natural sweetness in our Cold Brew coffee Best-seller this Christmas was the vegan mince pie Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 30 Strategic report Innovating in Premier Inn and our restaurants hub by Premier Inn continues to grow, with four new hotels opened this year, Leading the way in nutrition The ambition is to encourage the in Kings Cross, Westminster Abbey Across all its brands, Whitbread continues out-of-home sector to join the alliance and Goodge Street in London, as to demonstrate leadership in providing in their support for the Governments well as Rose Street in Edinburgh.
These its customers with credible choice and a Obesity Plan and Public Health compact, city centre hotels continue to nutrition programme aimed at supporting Englands sugar reduction programme.
delight guests, providing contemporary government goals to improve the nations To ensure progress against these room design and excellent connectivity health by offering healthier, fresher food commitments, the group will be advised at good value for money.
With an and drink options.
by independent expert organisation, ambitious target of over 3,000 rooms the British Nutrition Foundation.
As part of our nutrition strategy, this year by 2020, we continue to host guests in saw Whitbread lead an out-of-home Sugar reduction the heart of cities up and down the industry group to develop a Code of Increasing customer demand for an country at an affordable price.
Practice, in which a number of leading enhanced food offer with greater choice restaurant and coffee shop companies and healthier options is driving our good In October 2017 Whitbread launched have committed to cut sugar in their food development.
We are doing this through a itsbrand new pub restaurant concept, and drink by 20% by 2020.
The Code also mix of reformulating existing products and Cookhouse & Pub, in Oldbury, West commits to driving responsible behaviour introducing new products and healthier Midlands.
The new pub restaurant aims within the industry on reformulation, new versions of a few of our favourites.
to reinvent the pub dining experience, product development and customer delivering quality food and service in communications.
an informal, all-day casual restaurant with the relaxed vibe and affordability of a pub.
With an additional five sites now open, Cookhouse & Pub received aMidas award for menu innovation in a new pub restaurant concept and has received positive guest and team feedback.
The new concept is a strong addition to Whitbreads restaurant portfolio and is expected to continue 16% to drive strong covers growth alongside reduction of sugar per portion Beefeater, Bar Block, Brewers Fayre, in our Brewers Fayre core desserts Table Table and Whitbread Inns.
Premier Inn continues to lead the way digitally, providing our customers with 14% technology that allows them to search, sugar reduction in Costas hot book and pay online with ease, via a chocolate, coffees with sugar-free syrup, website or mobile app.
Frostino and cooler ranges Following significant investment in our in-house digital teams, this year Premier Inn launched Business Booker, an online 7.8% portal designed to save time and money sugar reduction in Costas chocolate for businesses.
The platform simplifies tiffin has resulted in nearly three tonnes the process of booking and includes of total sugar removed from this Business Flex rates, offering faster product since July 2017 booking, spending caps, employee allowances, and downloadable reports.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 31 Strategic report Strategic report Operating review continued Customer Heartbeat continued A digital revolution Costa Collect The ability for our During the year our in-house digital customers to pre-order and pay for teams launched a range of new and a coffee via the mobile app.
This is Delivering quality exciting digital services to ensure our being piloted in 16 busy London stores Customers know they can rely on us to customers get the best possible before adding enhanced features and deliver quality and value.
But they also experience at Costa.
rolling out to more stores later in the trust us to make sure the products they year.
A great offering to give our A massive piece of work was undertaken enjoy are sourced responsibly and with customers a new way to grab their to migrate all of our loyalty customers to integrity and that we take our favourite coffee: and a brand new digital platform, giving us a responsibility to both people and planet stable platform to build and innovate Express Loyalty as an industry first, seriously.
From coffee cups to cotton, upon.
In October 2017 Costa Digital took customers can now collect Coffee well find opportunities to make a a huge step forward by launching a new Club loyalty points on purchases at positive impact for the environment look app with an exciting modern feel, our Costa Express machines, currently across our whole supply chain and well improved navigation and an infinitely being trialled across 21 sites and 30 make sure that our suppliers and the more accurate store locator.
An exciting new way for our people who work with us are always app has been positively received by our Express customers to enjoy the treated fairly and with respect.
customers, driving an increased level of benefits of the Costa Coffee Club.
At Whitbread we are committed to customer satisfaction and allowing us to playing our part to tackle the very grow our user base to around 1.3 million.
serious issue of plastic waste and coffee cup recycling and being a Force for This strong momentum continued with Good in this area.
This year Costa has the launch of two exciting new pilots been a driver for change setting up the later in the year: first nationwide in-store recycling scheme recycling almost 14 million takeaway cups and committing to becoming the first ever coffee chain in the UK to recycling the same volume of Social media presence Across the brands we continue to grow 1.3m our social media presence and enjoy users of the app high levels of engagement in the content we post.
1.7m Costa Facebook likes 260,000 Premier Inn Facebook likes 237,000 Costa Twitter followers 76,000 Premier Inn Twitter followers Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 32 Strategic report We have now begun to implement cups it puts onto the market 500 human rights audits in our supply chain million a year by 2020.
We have made it programme to ensure people in our commercially and financially attractive supply chain are treated fairly and with for waste collectors to put in place the Sustainable cotton respect.
243 of our critical suppliers infrastructure and processes to collect, Working in partnership with Cotton have now been on-boarded to our sort and transport coffee cups to Connect, we have mapped our cotton ethical audit programme and over 80 supply chain down to the farms in recycling plants, meaning fewer cups independent ethical audits have now Pakistan where it is grown.
This has will end up in landfill.
been completed as part of our wider allowed us to have fully traceable and Costa has played an active role in the Responsible Sourcing programme.
sustainable cotton in our supply chain Governments Environment Audit in the past year.
Committee inquiry, providing both written and oral evidence and continues to work closely with the Government to help increase recycling rates.
1,600 This year we also launched two new farmers enrolled via Cotton Connect multi-purpose cups, fit for purpose in in 2017 18 our Costa Express machines and offer 25p for customers using a reusable cup in store.
MSC Fish As we look beyond just coffee cups, this All the wild-caught fish we serve is year we also committed to replacing all sourced to the Marine Stewardship plastic straws across all Whitbread Council MSC standard.
We are the brands with plastic alternatives and were largest hotel and restaurant chain the first UK business to sign up to Refill in the UK to be awarded the MSC offering over 3,000 sites across the UK Chain of Custody standard and were where consumers can refill their water delighted to win MSCs Newcomer bottles for free.
of the Year award this year in recognition of our achievement.
Sourcing with integrity We are committed to sourcing our products responsibly and ethically and we work closely with our suppliers to that end.
Respecting human rights 3,000 across our supply chain is a key priority places across the country for for us and we have made good progress people to refill their water bottles this year in measuring, monitoring and remediating our suppliers performance against the standards set out in our responsible sourcing policy.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 33 Strategic report Strategic report Working hard to create new opportunities Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 34 5,700 rooms in Germany by 2021 Strategic report Expanding our reach th 31 5 in Germany Premier Inn hotels in Frankfurt Premier Inn This year we have made significant and exciting Germany by 2021 5th in the TripAdvisor steps in our ambitious growth plans for the Travellers Choice Awards Premier Inn brand in Germany, where we already Top 25 Bargain hotels in have one hotel welcoming guests in Frankfurt.
Germany In addition to our organic pipeline of 11 hotels we have agreed to purchase a hotel portfolio of 19 hotels, 13 of which are open and trading, with the remaining six hotels expected to open within the next two years.
All of the hotels, which we expect to rebrand to Premier Inn in around two years time, are in prime locations in key German cities.
They are of high quality providing the perfect platform on which to establish our brand as a major player in this attractive and important market as we develop an international business of scale.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 35
