Strategic report Strategic report Operating review continued Profitable Growth Whitbread has produced another strong financial performance with Our approach Group revenues up 6.1% to 3.3 billion.
We invest in high returning, profitable sites Underlying profits before tax increased by 4.5% to 591 million, with statutory We innovate with new formats to provide further growth profit before tax increasing 6.4% to opportunities 548 million.
This performance has been built on the strength of We are growing in selected international markets Whitbreads two UK market-leading Our Premier Inn joint site model provides efficiency and businesses which have continued to creates incremental returns grow this year, with 4,385 rooms added to the Premier Inn UK network, 204 Costa uses a number of ownership models, including equity Costa UK stores and 1,187 UK Express stores, franchise and joint venture machines added.
Premier Inn increased underlying operating profits by 6.5% to 498 million and Costa increased 0.5% to 159 million.
A full analysis of financial Premier Inn performance can be found in the Group Finance Directors Review on pages 44 to 49.
498m 5.2% Whitbread has a clear plan to deliver underlying operating profit Premier Inn grew total sales by long-term growth in earnings and was up 6.5% 5.2% and UK hotel like for like dividends, combined with a strong sales by 2.2% return on capital.
This is achieved through disciplined execution in three key areas: 6.4% 79% number of rooms available increased by 6.4%, with 4,385 net total occupancy remained high 01 Grow and innovate new UK rooms opened in the year in our core UK businesses 02 Focus on our strengths to grow internationally Costa 03 Build capacity and infrastructure to support 159m 289 long-term growth underlying operating profit net new stores worldwide The Board has for some time been fully was up 0.5% aligned to the view that separating Premier Inn and Costa at the right time would enhance focus and enable value 7.5% 1.2% to be optimised for shareholders over total sales growth UK like for like sales growth the longer-term.
Given the significant strategic progress that has been made and the momentum in the remainder of the plan, the Board is confident that both Premier Inn and Costa will soon be businesses of sufficient strength, scale and capability to enable them to thrive Force for Good as independent companies.
The Board, Operating with integrity and therefore, believes that it is in the best transparency underpins the long-term interests of Whitbreads many way we work.
stakeholders to separate Premier Inn and Costa, via a demerger of Costa.
Announcing the demerger of Costa will provide clarity to shareholders, team D efinitions of all APMs are included in the glossary on page167.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 36 Strategic report members and other stakeholders on Whitbreads strategic direction.
Superior capacity Balanced pipeline Attractive unit The Board has carefully considered the growth over last of new capacity economics optimal timing of the demerger of Costa 3 years rooms Committed and concluded it will be pursued as fast pipeline of 14,500 as practical and appropriate to optimise rooms to 2020 1-3 year value for Whitbreads shareholders and maturity duration is expected to be completed within 24 months.
This timeframe will allow both Premier Inn and Costa to maintain 13% momentum, complete critical and New catchments 40% complex transformation and ROC at maturity Premier Inn 13,842 Low capacity infrastructure objectives, and drive Travelodge 3,454 catchments 30% international expansion, putting each Holiday Inn Express 1,392 High capacity business in a strong position to create Ibis 562 catchments 30% further value as separate entities.
Strategic priority Premier Inn UK estate metrics 2017 18 2016 17 Change 01 Grow and # hotels 785 762 3.0% # rooms 72,466 68,081 6.4% Direct booking 97% 96% 1ppt innovate in Occupancy 79% 80% 1 ppt Average room rate 62.87 62.02 1.4% our core Revenue per available room 49.85 49.77 0.2% Total accommodation and food & beverage F&B revenue growth 5.4% 4.6% 80bps UK businesses Like for like accommodation sales growth 2.2% 2.5% 30 bps Return on capital 13.4% 13.0% 40bps Premier Inn UK Committed pipeline rooms 14,750 14,500 Good revenue growth of 5.2% to over 2 billion from market leading occupancy and room growth of 6.6% and occupancy at 79%.
This Underlying operating profit increased rooms by 2020 with line of sight beyond significant network growth has been to almost 500 million through that to 100,000.
Premier Inns network delivered whilst maintaining a good disciplined cost action planning and property expertise have return on capital.
Combined with a been paramount in delivering high Continued strong occupancy food and beverage offer integral to the quality new capacity at good returns.
throughout the UK whilst adding The skills and data available to Premier Premier Inn experience, total Premier Inn significant new capacity Inn enable the ongoing delivery of new revenue including F&B grew 5.4% in capacity in attractive locations, without 2017 18 to just over 2 billion.
Industry leading rate of customers diluting return on capital once the booking directly at 97% A consistent and high-quality hotel matures.
Of the committed new experience is vital to the overall Accelerating the competitive room pipeline: Premier Inn customer offer.
Many of advantage as the UKs best value 40% will be opened in catchments Premier Inns customers visit multiple hotel for business and leisure with no existing Premier Inn supply: hotels every year and value a consistent experience across the network of Over the past three years Premier Inn 30% will be opened in catchments 785 hotels.
Therefore, the ongoing has added more than 13,700 new rooms with limited Premier Inn supply: and refurbishment of rooms is critical to in the UK, 2.5 times more than the ensure consistency.
To balance the 30% will be opened in catchments combined total added by Travelodge, demands of customers for consistent with higher Premier Inn supply but Holiday Inn Express and Ibis.
Against high quality and the capital required to also higher demand such as London this material addition of new capacity, deliver this, Premier Inn has developed and city centres.
Premier Inn has held occupancy at a more efficient model to refurbish industry leading levels, increased the rooms.
This has resulted in faster Over the previous three years, Premier proportion of customers booking refurbishment, which minimises Inn has opened almost 4,000 London directly to 97%, improved guest disruption and lowers the refurbishment rooms with total accommodation feedback scores and increased return cost by more than 30%.
This has sales growth for 2017 18 of 9.1% whilst on capital to 13.4%.
enabled Premier Inn to have 87% of maintaining an excellent occupancy level Premier Inns committed pipeline of new its72,466 rooms in the latest formats.
In the regions, over 9,700 rooms freehold and leasehold hotels currently including 2,900 from extensions to Core to Premier Inns success has been stands at over 14,700 rooms.
Combined existing properties have been opened its investment in digital capabilities.
This with the current estate of c. 72,500, in the previous three years with total began with re-platforming Premier Inns Premier Inn expects to have c. 85,000 accommodation sales growth in 2017 18 core trading website, introducing a yield Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 37 Strategic report Strategic report Operating review continued Costa metrics Profitable Growth 2017 18 2016 17 Change continued # high street stores 455 441 3.2% # shopping centres & retail park stores 409 383 6.8% # drive thru stores 81 54 50.0% # concessions & transport & office stores 427 402 6.2% management system, investing in # franchise stores 1,050 938 11.9% enhanced digital marketing capabilities and introducing a business-focused # Costa Express machines 7,248 6,061 19.6% booking tool which took over 500,000 bookings in the year.
As a result, the UK equity stores like for like sales growth 0.4 % 2.0% 240 bps number of visits to Premier Inns website UK Express like for like sales growth 7.2% n. m. n. m. has increased to seven million visits per Total UK like for like sales growth 1.2% n. m. n. m. month, whilst consistently retaining over Return on capital 46.0% 45.4% 60bps 85% of total bookings directly through Premier Inns digital channels.
Costa UK economic model of high return on Costa is also trialling the connection Strong UK revenue growth of 7.3% capital and short, flexible lease of the loyalty programme to Express delivered through disciplined delivery structures ensures that Costa can machines, which has the potential of new outlets continue to tailor the store portfolio to increase the number of Express toward these high-growth areas.
customers visiting stores to Consistently strong growth of Costa redeem points.
Express with UK total sales increasing With changing consumer preference for 18% to 210 million convenience and shorter-term pressures on consumer confidence, many of Underlying UK operating profit of Strategic priority Costas stores in traditional shopping 151 million as cost pressures and a locations are experiencing declining like challenging consumer environment for like sales.
In these destinations Costa are mitigated by the investment in 02 Focus on can limit the impact of declining footfall new capacity and efficiency savings through enhancing the overall customer Good progress in rebalancing UK our strengths offer and increasing average transaction store network to convenience-based values.
Costa expects this trend to channels & locations continue in the medium term.
However, to grow with a total return on capital in excess of Food range enhancement gaining 45%, less than 2% of the Costa estate traction with over 1ppt increase in just 29 stores makes a cash loss.
With internationally food capture rate short leases Costa has flexibility to churn New point-of-sale till rollout these sites to better locations or substantially complete in all UK stores negotiate lower rent.
Premier Inn Germany | Significant Costa has made significant progress in Costa is part-way through a multi-year acquisition of 19 hotels agreed to delivering new and innovative food and transformation programme designed accelerate network growth coffee ranges, with a good uplift in the to improve the customer experience The German hotel market is 35% larger savoury food capture rate following the through innovation in the coffee and than the UK and similar to the UK ten launch of a new breakfast offering in food offer, investing in the stores and years ago and it is experiencing a May.
This uplift was sustained with an broadening the channels in which Costa structural shift from independent hotels improved salad range available in stores operates.
During the year, despite the to branded hotels.
The branded budget from June and a new hot lunch range well-publicised level of external hotel sector is the fastest beneficiary of launched in September.
The overall food challenges from decreased footfall in this shift, but still only represents a 6% capture rate for the Costa UK equity traditional shopping locations and market share, compared to 24% in the business increased by 1ppt to 42.6%.
increased levels of inflation, Costa has UK.
With only moderate growth made significant progress in its The Costa point-of-sale terminal expected from other brands, Premier transformation.
upgrade programme is now also Inns strong quality and value credentials substantially complete and has allowed provide a long-term opportunity to Fundamental to Costas ongoing us to trial mobile order & collect in 16 establish a major hotel brand and success in the UK is ensuring it can London stores.
The new terminals will develop a successful business of scale in servecoffee to customers when and enhance the customer experience this attractive market.
Traditionally, this through faster transaction times and wasprimarily in high street and Given the scale and attractive nature greater menu flexibility, enable new shopping centre locations.
With of the opportunity in Germany, initiatives to enhance store efficiency, increased adoption of coffee, consumers Whitbread accelerated the development and improve customers digital are demanding a more convenient of an organic new hotel pipeline and experience including the trial of mobile purchase.
Costa has been fulfilling this announced a significant agreed order & collect.
In addition, Costa will demand with the majority of new acquisition of a portfolio of hotels.
also begin to trial the use of targeted capacity being added to retail parks, Together, the organic pipeline and offers to the five million active Costa drive-thrus, transport locations and acquisition will deliver 31 hotels, Club loyalty programme members.
Costas comprising 5,720 rooms across 15 key cities, by 2021.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 38 Strategic report Work to improve the proposition in China has continued alongside the ownership changes, to ensure store level economics support the strong growth planned.
Following trials last year, with new store formats, products and enhanced team training, the performance has been pleasing.
In line with the strategy to focus on core cities, 39 stores were closed in the year.
The experience gained from Costas trials provides confidence in the customer offer and the opportunity to extend the store network to more than 1,200 stores by 2022, with significant opportunity beyond this over the longer term.
Other international activity Whitbread has now completed the exit of all non-core international operations for both Premier Inn and Costa.
This activity has included the closure of the equity-owned Costa business in France and the disposal and exit of all 11 hotels and management agreements in India, Thailand, Singapore and Indonesia.
These exits have been completed slightly ahead of previous financial guidance and now enable the teams to focus international efforts on German hotel pipeline developing Premier Inn in Germany and Costa inChina.
Organic To be acquired Total Costa Poland performed well with Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms stores and Express machines in like Open and trading 1 210 13 2,140 14 2,350 for like sales growth.
There are now Committed pipeline 11 2,400 6 970 17 3,370 approximately 140 Costa stores across Total 12 2,610 19 3,110 31 5,720 22 cities and nearly 300 Express machines.
During the year, new products were successfully launched including bacon baguettes and cold brew coffee.
This acquisition represents an important The pipeline of new capacity in Germany step in accelerating Whitbreads existing is now a mix of hotels to be acquired and Costa Express continued its international international strategy and in replicating the accelerated organic pipeline of new expansion with a further 200 machines Premier Inn UKs success and network leasehold and freehold sites.
in Europe, the Middle East and Malaysia.
scale in this key strategic market.
The entry into Malaysia has been Costa China | Completed buy-out of Whitbread will continue to explore received well following a tailored launch South China joint venture partner options to further accelerate growth with iced coffees, and over 150 machines On 10 October 2017 Whitbread in Germany, through a mix of freehold installed to date.
There are now around announced the buy-out of the 49% property developments, leasehold 1,000 machines in six countries and, share in the South China joint venture sites and acquisitions of small existing although the business in Canada will be held by Yueda for RMB 310 million hotel portfolios.
exited, there are a further three 35million.
The South China operation countries in trial.
The transaction and consideration are comprises approximately 250 stores.
conditional upon obtaining consent The partnership with Yueda was Premier Inn in the Middle East continues from landlords to rebrand the hotels and essential in the first phase of Costas to perform well against tough market upon the termination of the franchise development in China, but full control conditions, with good occupancy levels agreements with the current franchisor.
enables a greater level of focus on and strong customer feedback.
Premier This could take up to two years for the improving the overall proposition and Inn has a productive partnership with 13 trading hotels.
The hotels being reshaping the store network to have Emirates, with a hotel recently opened in acquired will continue trading under broader and deeper representation in Doha, comprising 219 rooms, and plans their current brand, in advance of being key cities.
Costas strong joint venture for one further 389-room hotel in Dubai, refurbished in to the Premier Inn brand.
partnership with BHG in North China due to open in 2018 19.
Costa in the The acquisition is expected to deliver willcontinue unaffected.
Middle East has also experienced tough returns in excess of Whitbreads cost of market conditions, resulting in a decline capital and be earnings enhancing the in sales during the year.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 39 Strategic report Strategic report Operating review continued delivered new mobile applications for Profitable Growth both Costa and Premier Inn: replaced Premier Inns core finance continued Science-based carbon target systems: and In 2017 18 we set a new science-based installed workforce planning systems carbon target for Whitbread.
We have for both Costa and Premier Inns F&B committed to reduce our carbon Strategic priority emissions intensity by 50% by 2025 operations.
This target aligns Whitbread Further essential work still needs to be 03 Build to the global Paris Climate Change done, and for the next 24 months the agreement made at COP 21 in 2015.
This focus remains on the complex process commitment ensures we are continuing of replacing legacy systems with capability to to set high targets to ensure we remain sustainable platforms that meet dedicated to tackling climate change as customer demands and enable we grow.
support long operational efficiencies and innovation.
This vital work includes: term growth leveraging the expertise in the shared 50% digital team to extend the Costa mobile order & collect trial and further reduction enhance the offering to its five million Whitbread is focused on securing loyal customers: in our carbon emissions intensity the cost efficiencies needed to offset by 2025 replacing Costas legacy finance structural cost pressures in the hotel and systems to allow greater efficiency coffee markets.
Whitbreads property and insight, utilising knowledge gained expertise underpins the consistent from Premier Inns recent successful quality and competitive advantage combination of procurement benefits finance transformation: enjoyed by both Premier Inn and and shared services.
During the year, Costa over rivals, whilst Whitbreads more than 65 million of savings replacing legacy HR systems across technology skills have undergone a were achieved through structural Premier Inn and Costa, supporting step-change as work is conducted to reorganisation, store and site efficiency, team retention and efficiencies: and replace legacy systems and become an procurement and supply chain savings in Premier Inn, replacing its hotel increasingly  and process re-engineering.
The next booking system by 2020. and effective business.
phase of activity will involve further shared procurement and evolving the Winning Teams supply chains for both Premier Inn and Property expertise The breadth and scale of Whitbread Costa.
Whitbreads progress so far and Premier Inns success in the UK has facilitates superior attraction and confidence in the next phase of activity, been delivered through its unique retention of talented people.
As has enabled an increase in ambition asset-backed, owner-managed model.
Whitbread entered a new phase of from 150 million of savings to The balanced property ownership growth, a different mix of skills has 250 million, with 100 million to be model provides Premier Inn significant been required.
The executive team delivered over the next two years.
competitive advantages, including: was completed in September with This will help to offset a substantial the appointment of a new Group superior market access with flexibility proportion of the inflationary pressures Transformation Director, responsible to acquire freehold sites without over the coming years.
for improving Whitbreads supply additional external finance and chain, procurement and IT shared favourable leasehold access: Improving technology capabilities service capability.
Over the last two and a half years, a proven model of value creation Whitbread has undergone a significant A lean central Group team provides through capture of development profit investment programme to improve the governance and strategic oversight and and the ability to extend and refurbish core infrastructure, internal support Whitbreads shared services facilitate hotels: systems and customer facing systems in transformation and efficiency both Premier Inn and Costa.
This low-cost funding, with corporate debt programmes across the IT, procurement programme has been delivered by a costs lower than leasehold finance and and supply chain functions.
For the next newly created shared support team, the ability to recycle capital through two years this structure will provide the ensuring Whitbread has the scale and selective sale and leaseback Premier Inn and Costa management capabilities to deliver.
So far, the transactions: and teams a significant amount of freedom Group-wide technology team has: to focus on delivering growth and ensuring a strong and flexible innovation in Whitbreads UK and substantially completed the upgrade operating model with lower financial international markets.
of all Costa point-of-sale terminals: gearing, avoidance of rent escalation and underpins Whitbreads credit Everyday Efficiency upgraded Costas loyalty data rating, covenant strength and pension.
In 2016 Whitbread began a five-year management system: programme to generate 150 million re-platformed Premier Inns core of efficiency savings and mitigate trading website: inflationary cost pressures.
This programme has already delivered implemented a yield management 105 million of savings from a system for Premier Inn: Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 40 Strategic report Update on Group structure | Costa will soon be businesses of completing the complex and critical Creating two high-quality sufficient strength, scale and IT and business system upgrades independent companies capability to enable them to thrive as and improvement programmes, The Board regularly reviews the independent companies.
The Board, which are delivered by Whitbread strategic direction of Whitbread and therefore, believes that it is in the best shared resources: the structure of the Group.
These long-term interests of Whitbreads delivering the recently upgraded reviews are designed to protect and many stakeholders to separate efficiency programme, which will enhance the long-term value of the Premier Inn and Costa, via a demerger offset a significant proportion of businesses within Whitbread for its of Costa.
Announcing the demerger the current high level of industry shareholders and to ensure that the of Costa will provide clarity to inflation and minimising disruption businesses continue to effectively and shareholders, team members and to trading and product innovation responsibly serve their customers other stakeholders on Whitbreads activities, particularly in the UK: and communities.
This approach has strategic direction.
delivered considerable long-term further develop the international The Board has carefully considered returns for shareholders, created strategies in both Premier Inn and the optimal timing of the demerger substantial employment and career Costa, to build the foundations for ofCosta and concluded it will be opportunities for Whitbreads team long-term profitable growth: and pursued as fast as practical and members, and played a part in the appropriate to optimise value for appropriately managing the daily lives of millions of consumers Whitbreads shareholders and is Whitbread pension fund deficit throughout the UK and internationally.
expected to be completed within andfunding facilities and ensuring The Board has for some time been of 24months.
This timeframe will allow both Whitbread and Costa have the view that separating Premier Inn both Premier Inn and Costa to appropriate governance structures and Costa at the right time would maintain momentum, complete in place to thrive as separate enhance focus and enable value to be critical and complex transformation entities.
optimised for shareholders over the and infrastructure objectives, and longer term.
Given the significant drive international expansion, putting Regular updates on progress will be strategic progress that has been each business in a strong position given as part of Whitbreads standard made and the momentum in the tocreate further value as separate financial reporting cycle.
remainder of the plan, the Board is entities.
These objectives include: confident that both Premier Inn and Costas success in the UK and Reducing our internationally has also been a environmental Impact consequence of Whitbreads successful By encouraging simple but effective property strategy.
Whitbreads behaviours to reduce the energy and The Roastery asset-backed model, combined with resources we use we can reduce our On 13 March 2017, Costa opened its new prudent leverage and strong operating environmental footprint while also state-of-the-art roastery in Basildon.
businesses, ensures Whitbread has driving business efficiencies.
By As well as quadrupling Costas roasting a superior covenant in negotiating investing in new technologies and ways capacity and being one of the largest for leased sites for Costa stores.
of working, we are able to test and roasteries in Europe, it is also one of the As a result, Costa is supported with demonstrate higher sustainability worlds most sustainable manufacturing a material competitive advantage standards, whilst setting challenging buildings.
We are proud that our roastery through enhanced access to sites at targets to build further momentum.
is the first industrial process site to be attractive rates.
built to BREEAM Outstanding standard.
BREEAM is an assessment based on Whitbread is also actively managing its sustainability metrics and indices that property portfolio and has completed covera range of environmental issues four sale and leaseback transactions fromenergy and water use, health, over the last two years with total cash pollution, transport, materials, waste, proceeds to date of 242 million.
ecology and management processes Saleand leaseback transactions are throughout the design, procurement, construction and operation of the building.
appropriate for properties which have It aims to reduce the negative effects of fulfilled their development potential and construction and development on the can secure attractive rental yields.
Outstanding is the highest level of sale and leaseback transactions achievement awarded through BREEAM.
will continue to be reviewed subject to disposal opportunities in the UK and investment opportunities in the UK and Germany.
In line with Premier Innsstrategy of operating F&B outlets which complement the Premier Inn proposition, seven standalone restaurants have also been sold, with 16remaining.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 41 Strategic report Strategic report Working hard to grow internationally 449 stores in China 1,200 stores by 2022 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 42 Strategic report Focus on our strengths No.
2 to grow internationally coffee shop brand in China China presents an exciting opportunity for the Costa brand and our decision this year to buy-out the 49% share of our joint venture partner in South China marks a significant step towards our goal to establish Costa as the undisputed No.
2 coffee shop brand in this large and fast-growing market.
With over 400 stores today we are working hard to improve Costas brand proposition to ensure it meets the demands ofChinas highly aspirational consumers and our trial of a new store concept with innovative store design, new coffee and food products and enhanced employee training is proving very popular with customers.
The success of the customer offer coupled with our newly acquired strategic and funding flexibility provides the opportunity to grow our network to around 1,200 stores by 2022, with significant scope beyond this over the longer term.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 43
