Governance Governance Directors report The directors present their Report and Accounts for the year ended 1 March 2018 sickness full salary for a maximum of 3. all of the other directors who must 12 months in any three-year period or comprise at least three people pass for a maximum of nine consecutive a resolution or sign a written notice months: and requiring the director to resign: non-compete for six months after 4. they are or have been suffering from leaving.
mental or physical ill health and the directors pass a resolution removing the director from office: The dates of the executive directors service contracts are as follows: 5. they have missed directors meetings whether or not an alternate director Alison Brittain 21 May 2015 appointed attends those meetings Nicholas Cadbury 3 September 2012 for a continuous period of six months Louise Smalley 25 October 2010 without permission from the directors and the directors pass a resolution Powers of directors removing the director from office: The business of the Company is managed by the directors who may 6. a bankruptcy order is made against Chris Vaughan exercise all the powers of the Company, them or they make any arrangement General Counsel subject to the Companys Articles of or composition with their creditors Association, any relevant legislation and generally: any directions given by the Company by 7. they are prohibited from being a passing a special resolution at a general Certain information required for director under any applicable meeting.
In particular, the directors may disclosure in this Report is provided in legislation: or exercise all the powers of the Company other appropriate sections of the Annual to borrow money, issue shares, appoint 8. they cease to be a director under any Report and Accounts.
These include the and remove directors and recommend applicable legislation or are removed corporate governance and remuneration and declare dividends.
from office under the Companys reports and the Group financial Articles of Association.
Appointment and replacement statements and Notes to those financial of directors statements and accordingly these are Directors indemnity Directors shall be no less than two and incorporated into the report by reference.
A qualifying third-party indemnity no more than 20 in number.
Directors provision was in force for the benefit of may be appointed by the Company, by The Board the directors during the financial year.
ordinary resolution or by the Board of In addition, a qualifying pension scheme Board of Directors Directors.
indemnity provision was in force for the The directors at the date of this report In accordance with the UK Corporate benefit of Whitbread Pension Trustees are listed on pages 58 and 59.
There Governance Code the Code all during the financial year.
have been a number of director directors will stand for annual re-election changes throughout the year, which Compensation for loss of office at each AGM.
are shown on page 62 of the corporate There are no agreements between the governance report.
The Company may, by special resolution, Company and its directors or employees remove any directors before the providing for compensation for loss of Details of directors training are given in expiration of his her term of office.
office or employment that occurs as a the corporate governance report on result of a takeover bid.
Directors automatically stop being directors if: Directors service contracts Directors share interests The key terms of the executive directors Details regarding the share interests of 1. they give the Company a written service contracts are as follows: the directors in the share capital of the notice of resignation at the date Company, including with respect to such notice expires : notice period six months by the options to acquire ordinary shares, are director and 12 months by the 2. they give the Company a written set out in the remuneration report on Company: notice in which they offer to resign page 83. and the other directors decide to termination payment details of the accept the offer: termination policy are set out in our remuneration policy, which can be found on the Companys website www.
co. uk : Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 88 Governance shares, those shares will no longer give Both B and C shares represent Shares that shareholder any right to vote at a significantly less than 0.01% of the total Share capital shareholders meeting.
Details of the issued share capital can be found in Note 25 to the accounts.
Restrictions on transfer of shares Purchase of own shares There are the following restrictions on The Company is authorised to purchase Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to the transfer of shares in the Company: its own shares in the market.
Approval to attend and speak at general meetings of renew this authority will be sought from the Company, to appoint one or more certain restrictions which may from the shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
The proxies and, if they are corporations, time to time be imposed by laws and Company did not purchase any of its corporate representatives to attend regulations for example, insider own shares during the year.
12.1 million general meetings and to exercise voting trading laws : shares are held as treasury shares rights.
Holders of ordinary shares may 2 March 2017: 12.1 million.
pursuant to the Companys share receive a dividend and on a liquidation, dealing code, the directors and senior Employee share schemes may share in the assets of the Company.
executives of the Company require Whitbread does not have any employee Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to approval to deal in the Companys share schemes with shares which have receive the Companys Annual Report shares: rights with regard to the control of the and Accounts.
Subject to meeting Company that are not exercisable certain thresholds, holders of ordinary where a person with at least a 0.25% directly by the employees.
shares may requisition a general interest in a class of shares has been meeting of the Company or the proposal served with a disclosure notice and of resolutions at AGMs.
has failed to provide the Company Major interests with information concerning interests As at the end of the financial year, Voting rights in those shares: the Company had received formal On a show of hands at a general notification, under the Disclosure and meeting of the Company, every holder the subscriber ordinary shares may Transparency Rules, of the following of ordinary shares present, in person or not be transferred without the prior material holdings in its shares the by proxy and entitled to vote, has one written consent of the directors: percentages shown are the vote unless the proxy is appointed by the directors can, without giving any percentages at the time of the more than one member in which case reason, refuse to register the transfer disclosure and have not been the proxy has one vote for and one vote of any shares which are not fully paid: re-calculated based on the issued against if the proxy has been instructed share capital at the year-end : by one or more members to vote for the transfers cannot be in favour of more resolution and by one or more members than four joint holders: and % of issued to vote against the resolution and on a Number of share the directors can refuse to register the poll every member present in person or shares capital transfer of an uncertificated share in by proxy and entitled to vote has one the circumstances set out in the BlackRock Inc. 9,821,688 5.35 vote for every ordinary share held.
uncertificated securities rules as Voting rights for any ordinary shares MFS Investment defined in the Companys Articles of held in treasury are suspended.
of the ordinary shares carry any special Longview rights with regard to control of the The Company is not aware of any Partners 9,240,506 5.04 Company.
Electronic and paper proxy agreements between shareholders that Aberdeen Asset appointments and voting instructions may result in restrictions on the transfer Management 9,155,869 4.99 must be received by the Companys of shares or on voting rights.
registrars not later than i 48 hours Sachem before a meeting or adjourned meeting B shares and C shares Head Capital excluding non-working days, or ii 24 Holders of B shares and C shares are Management LP 6,200,000 3.40 hours before a poll is taken, if the poll is entitled to receive an annual nonSince the year end, the Company not taken on the same day as the cumulative preferential dividend received four further notifications meeting or adjourned meeting.
calculated at a rate of 75% of six month from BlackRock Inc.
The latest LIBOR on a value of 155 pence per B Unless the directors decide otherwise, notification was received on 3 April share and 159 pence per C share a shareholder cannot attend or vote at 2018 where the Company was respectively, but are not entitled to any any general meeting of the Company or informed BlackRock Inc. had further right of participation in the at any separate general meeting of the increased its holding to 10,127,653 profits of the Company.
They are also holders of any class of shares in the shares representing 5.51% of the total entitled to payment of 155 pence per B Company or upon a poll or exercise any voting rights.
The Company also share and 159 pence per C share other right conferred by membership in received a notification from Elliott respectively on a return of capital on relation to general meetings or polls if he Capital Advisers L. P on 13 April 2018 winding-up excluding any intra-group or she has not paid all amounts relating where the Company was informed reorganisation on a solvent basis.
to those shares which are due at the they had increased their holding to Except in limited circumstances, the time of the meeting.
9,727,854 shares representing 5.30% holders of the B shares and C shares are of the total voting rights.
No other Where a shareholder with at least a not entitled in their capacity as holders changes to the above have been 0.25% interest in a class of shares has of such shares, to receive notice of any disclosed to the Company in been served with a disclosure notice in general meeting of the Company nor accordance with Rule 5 of the relation to a particular holding of shares to attend, speak or vote at any such Disclosure and Transparency and has failed to provide the Company general meeting.
Rules between the end of the with information concerning those financial year and 24 April 2018.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 89 Governance Governance Directors report continued Scope 1 includes emissions from the Environment policies Additional disclosures fuels we use in our hotels, restaurants, Whitbread businesses depend upon Other information that is relevant to the offices and coffee shops such as natural theenvironment to operate hotels, Directors report can be found in the gas and liquid petroleum gas.
It also restaurants and coffee shops through following sections of the Annual Report: includes CO e from business owned the energy we use and the services and 2 vehicles which includes company cars products we provide to our customers.
Information required Section and food logistics vehicles as we own Our main environmental impacts are Conflicts of interest Corporate the lease arrangements.
CO e from from the use of natural resources, water 2 governance company cars is calculated using the consumption and generation of residual report manufacturers stated performance waste and from GHG emissions Financial risk Financial multiplied by an uplift stated in the associated with energy and fuel use.
management statements, DEFRA standards methodology paper.
Whitbreads strategic drive is provided objectives and policies Note 22 Scope 2 relates to the indirect emissions by the corporate responsibility Force Future developments Strategic report associated with the generation of the forGood programme which includes Research and N A electricity consumed in our sites.
energy, water and waste reduction development activities.
We are committed to The increases in emissions between Existence of branches N A minimising our impact on the 2016 17 and 2017 18 are caused by environment, preventing pollution estate growth and increased reporting Disclosures required pursuant to Listing andpromoting good environmental scope.
New availability of data has Rule 9.8.
4R can be found in the practices.
Further details can be found allowed for the inclusion of F Gas following sections: on pages 14 and 17. emissions from Costa China, Poland Listing Information and Singapore in 2017 18, which was Employment policies Rule required Section previously excluded.
Whitbread has a range of employment 9.8.
4R Statement of Fixed assets policies covering such issues as diversity, When defining the scope of our data 1 capitalised Note 13 employee wellbeing and equal wedo not report on operations under interest opportunities.
Joint Venture agreements, or are fully 9.8.
4R Not applicable Not applicable franchised, where we do not have The Company takes its responsibilities 2 5-14 operational control such as Premier Inn to the disabled seriously and seeks not 9.8.
For reasons of materiality, small, to discriminate under any circumstances 4 incentive report one man, offices in Australasia and the including in relation to training, career schemes Far East have been excluded.
All other development and promotion against sites throughout the world are included.
current or prospective employees Additional information because of any disability or for any other Where possible we have reported billed reason.
Fair and full consideration is Mandatory Green House Gas Reporting or AMR data.
For those operations given to applications for employment In order to comply with the which are currently beyond our made by disabled persons, having requirements of the Companies Act reporting capabilities, we have used an regard to their aptitudes and abilities.
2006 Strategic and Directors Report estimation approach using known sales Employees who become disabled Regulations 2013.
We have adopted data and local conversion factors.
For during their career at Whitbread will thefollowing environmental report further information about our estimation be retained in employment wherever methodology.
techniques and the number and location possible and given help with of Whitbread sites please view the We have considered the six main GHGs rehabilitation and training.
corporate responsibility pages on our and report in CO e for our Scope 1 2 website www.
Employee involvement direct and Scope 2 indirect CO 2 The importance of good relations and emissions.
We have used the GHG communications with employees is Protocol Corporate Accounting and fundamental to the continued success Reporting Standard methodology to ofour business.
Each of the Groups calculate our emissions as well as operating businesses maintains DEFRA and International Energy employee relations and consults Standards GHG Conversion Factors employees as appropriate to its own forCompany Reporting.
In addition, our employee opinion survey, YourSay, is Source of emissions 2016 17 2017 18 Change % conducted annually to provide insight Gas Scope 1 55,681 65,052 16.83% into the views of employees.
LPG 3,285 3,155 -3.96% Our employees are actively encouraged Fuel Oil 193 230 19.06% to take part in our Sharesave scheme, F-gas 2,749 9,088 230.59% which is available to all employees and Business Travel 12,848 19,837 54.40% offers an option price discounted Electricity Scope 2 200,295 177,090 -11.59% by20%.
Gross Emissions 266,074 274,452 3.15% Turnover millions 3,109.60 3,295.10 5.97% Tonnes carbon per 1 million turnover 85.57 83.29104 -2.66% Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 90 Governance Political donations Annual General Meeting Results and dividends The Company has not made any political The AGM will be held at 2.00pm donations during the year and intends to on 27 June 2018 at Church House Group underlying profit continue its policy of not doing so for Conference Centre, Deans Yard, before tax 591m the foreseeable future.
The Group profit before tax 548m Notice of Meeting is enclosed with this Interim dividend paid 31.40p per Auditor report for shareholders receiving hard on 15 December 2017 share Deloitte LLP has expressed its copy documents, and is available at Recommended final 69.75p per willingness to continue in office as www.
co. uk for those who dividend share auditor of the Company and a resolution have elected to receive documents proposing its reappointment will be Total dividend for 101.15p per electronically.
At the 2018 AGM, all putto shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
the year share voting will be by poll.
Electronic Afterproper consideration, the Audit handsets will be utilised and results Details on the Groups dividend Committee is satisfied that Deloitte LLP will be displayed on the screen at policy can be found on page 47 in continues to be objective and independent the meeting.
the Group Finance Directors review.
In coming to this conclusion the Audit Committee gave Approved by the Board on 24 April 2018 Subject to approval at the AGM, full consideration to any non-audit work and signed.
the final dividend will be payable on carried out by Deloitte LLP, and has 4 July 2018 to the shareholders on concluded that certain services will the register at the close of business notbe carried out by Deloitte LLP, as on 25 May 2018. outlined in the Committees terms ofreference.
Chris Vaughan Regular internal communications are Disclosure of information to auditor General Counsel and Company made to all employees to ensure that The directors have taken all reasonable Secretary they are kept well informed of the steps to make themselves aware of performance of the Group and of relevant audit information and to Registered Office: financial and economic factors that may establish that the auditor is aware of that Whitbread Court affect the Companys performance.
The directors are not aware Houghton Hall Business Park of any relevant audit information which Porz Avenue Further information on employee has not been disclosed to the auditor.
Dunstable involvement can be found in the Winning Bedfordshire Teams section on pages 20 to 25.
Going concern LU5 5XE The Groups business activities, together Amendment of the Companys Articles with the factors likely to affect its future Registered company number: 04120344 of Association development, performance and position Any amendments to the Articles of are set out in the strategic report on Association of the Company may be pages 4 to 55.
The financial position of made in accordance with the provisions the Company, its cash flows, net debt of the Companies Act 2006 by way of and borrowing facilities and the maturity special resolution.
of those facilities are set out in the Significant agreements Group Finance Directors review on The Companys facility, bond and private pages 44 to 49. placement loan notes agreements, In addition there are further details in the details of which can be found in Note 19 financial statements on the Groups to the accounts, contain provisions financial risk management, objectives entitling the counterparties to exercise and policies Note 22 and on financial termination or other rights in the event instruments Note 23. of a change of control of the Company.
A combination of the strong operating Contractual arrangements cash flows generated by the business The Group has contractual and the significant headroom on its arrangements with numerous thirdcredit facilities supports the directors parties in support of its business view that the Group has sufficient funds activities, none of which are considered available for it to meet its foreseeable individually to be essential to its business working capital requirements.
The and, accordingly, it has not been directors have concluded that the going considered necessary for an concern basis remains appropriate.
understanding of the development, performance or position of the Groups The viability statement can be found on business to disclose information about page 52. any of those third-parties.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 91
