Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 18 Board of Directors and Executive Committee ALWAYS LISTENING Composition of the Board The Board is independent and contains an appropriate mixture of skills and experience.
The Board is satisfied that all Non-Executive Directors, including the Non-Executive Chairman, 1 remain independent according to the definition contained in the Code.
The criteria used to determine independence are set out in the corporate governance compliance statement which can be found in the investor relations section of the Groups website, www.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors has committed and is able to commit an appropriate amount of time in fulfilling effectively their role and responsibilities on the Board.
Rooney Anand Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Senior Independent Officer Non-Executive Director C R N C C R N 5.
Paula Vennells Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director Director Director A C R N A C R N A C R N A C R N 1.
Tony van Kralingen Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointment Andrew joined the Group as Deputy Trevor joined the Group in June 2009 Neil joined the Board as a Non-Executive Tony joined the Board as a Non-Executive Chairman and Chairman Elect in October as Commercial and Operations Finance Director on 1 October 2015.
He became Director on 1 September 2017.
2014 and became Chairman at the end Director.
In June 2011, he became Finance Chair of the Corporate Compliance and Experience of January 2015.
Director Corporate and took responsibility Responsibility Committee on 1 January 2016.
Tony has a very broad experience across for the Companys productivity Experience Experience a number of disciplines including marketing, programmes.
Trevor joined the Board Andrew brings significant Board, Neil has had an extensive career in supply, procurement and manufacturing as Chief Financial Officer on 10 April 2013. commercial, retail and leadership manufacturing, starting with Northern and human resources.
Tony served 35 years experience to the Board.
Andrew is a Experience Foods PLC where he rose to become at SABMiller PLC, 14 of which he was on the former Executive Director of Tesco PLC Prior to joining Morrisons, Trevor worked Managing Director of its milk division.
He held a number having spent 15 years on the Main Board, for Tesco PLC in a number of roles until He subsequently became CEO of Express of positions including Group Director: first as Finance and Strategy Director, and his appointment as UK Property Finance Dairies PLC and then Arla PLC.
He is Integrated Supply, Chairman and Managing latterly as Chief Executive of their Retailing Director in 2006 and subsequently UK currently Chair of the Youth Sport Trust Director SAB, and Chairman and CEO: Services business.
His early career was with Planning and Reporting Finance Director.
and has also been a Non-Executive Director Plzensky Prazdroj.
He is also currently an Unilever, Guinness, Laura Ashley and the Trevor began his career with Arthur of Produce Investments PLC, Persimmon Honorary Professor of Global Corporate Burton Group.
Andrew was previously the Andersen and is a member of the Institute PLC and Northern Recruitment Group PLC.
Chairman of Poundland Group PLC, Senior of Chartered Accountants in England External Roles External Roles Independent Director of BSkyB PLC and and Wales.
Chairman of OptiBiotix Health PLC Chair of Crown Commercial Services a Non-Executive Director of the Rugby External Roles Football Union.
Paula Vennells External Roles Appointment Appointment Chairman of N Brown Group PLC 4.
Rooney Anand Belinda joined the Board as a NonPaula joined the Board as a Non-Executive Appointment Executive Director on 1 September 2015.
Non-Executive Director of Woolworths Rooney joined the Board as a She became Chair of the Audit Committee Holdings Limited Experience Non-Executive Director and Senior on 1 January 2016.
Paula has significant experience in Chairman of Evergreen Garden Care Independent Director on 1 January 2016.
Experience commercial, marketing and supply chain.
Experience Belinda had a career in professional services Paula is currently Chief Executive of the 2.
David Potts Rooney is a highly experienced retail and for over 25 years, where she operated as Post Office, a role she has held since April Appointment fast moving consumer goods FMCG a senior adviser in corporate finance and 2012.
Paula joined the Post Office in 2007.
David joined the Group as Chief Executive executive.
Following a career with United strategy.
She was a corporate finance Previously she was Group Commercial on 16 March 2015.
Biscuits and then Sara Lee, he joined partner at Deloitte and Global Head of Director of Whitbread PLC having started Experience Greene King PLC in 2001 as Managing Merger and Separation Advisory Services her career with Unilever and LOral.
Paula David is a vastly experienced retailer who Director of its brewery company.
Belinda serves on the Advisory has held directorships in sales and joined Tesco PLC at the age of 16 and appointed CEO in 2005.
Group of Audit Committee Chairmen at marketing with a number of major retailers worked there for 39 years.
He rose to the Financial Reporting Council, is a including Dixons Stores Group and Argos.
External Roles become CEO of its Ireland business, its UK member of the Governing Council of the Chief Executive Officer of Greene King PLC External Roles retail stores business and then CEO of Centre for the Study of Financial Innovation Chief Executive of the Post Office Tesco Asia.
David was also on the Tesco PLC Chairman of Purity Soft Drinks Limited and is a Trustee of the Youth Sport Trust.
Board from 1998 until he left in 2011.
Prior Non-Executive Chair of First Rate Exchange External Roles to his appointment as CEO of Morrisons, Services Limited Senior Independent Director and David held several advisory positions with Remuneration Chair of Grainger PLC a number of private equity and consultancy firms and developed his own retail concept Non-Executive Director of Monks to sell general merchandise.
He also worked Investment Trust PLC on two extensive retail projects in the UK.
Non-Executive Director of Phoenix External Roles Group Holdings PGH 1 On 6 February 2018, Belinda Richards was None Non-Executive Director of Schroder appointed Trustee of the Youth Sport Trust, Japan Growth Fund PLC a national charity, of which Neil Davidson is Chairman.
The Board has considered this cross-directorship and is satisfied that it does not compromise the independence of Belinda or Neil.
30 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information Composition of the Board Executive Committee The Board is independent and contains an appropriate mixture of skills and experience.
The Board is satisfied that all Non-Executive Directors, including the Non-Executive Chairman, The Executive Committee is driving a culture of listening to all of our key stakeholders 1 remain independent according to the definition contained in the Code.
The criteria used to determine independence are set out in the corporate governance compliance statement within the business.
which can be found in the investor relations section of the Groups website, www.
Trevor Strain Non-Executive Company Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Director Secretary A C R N C 9.
Darren Blackhurst Appointment Jonathan was appointed as the Groups Group Customer and Group Commercial Kevin joined the Board as a Non-Executive Company Secretary on 15 February 2017, Marketing Director Director Director on 1 February 2018. replacing Mark Amsden.
Experience Experience Kevin has significant fast moving consumer As a qualified accountant and Company goods FMCG industry experience, most Secretary, Jonathan has worked at recently having been a member of the Morrisons for over 25 years holding C Executive Committee at Unilever and various finance, compliance and project President of Global Refreshment, which roles.
He also previously held the role comprises of Unilevers drinks and ice of Company Secretary between 2001 5.
Kevin is a Trustee of the and 2009.
Group People Group Retail British Council and a Trustee of The Director Director Eden Project.
External Roles Non-Executive Director of Fevertree PLC Attendance at meetings 1.
Clare Grainger See Board of Directors on page 30 Appointment Board Nomination Remuneration Audit CCR Clare joined Morrisons in February 2009 and Andrew Higginson 8 8 4 4 6 6 5 5 was appointed Group People Director on 2.
Trevor Strain David Potts 8 8 5 5 1 September 2015.
See Board of Directors on page 30 Experience Trevor Strain 8 8 3.
Andy Atkinson Clare started her career at Asda and held Rooney Anand 8 8 4 4 6 6 5 5 Appointment a number of roles both within Head Office Neil Davidson 8 8 4 4 6 6 6 6 5 5 Andy joined Morrisons in 2011 and and the Retail division.
She progressed was appointed as Group Customer through a variety of senior human Kevin Havelock and Marketing Director in January 2016 resources HR roles including Head of HR Tony van Kralingen 3 3 1 1 2 2 3 3 2 2 having held the interim position for at HBOS Lloyds Banking Group, where she Belinda Richards 7 8 4 4 6 6 6 6 5 5 over five months.
led a number of programmes to drive differentiation in both sales and services.
Paula Vennells 8 8 4 4 6 6 6 6 5 5 Experience Andy previously held a number of senior On the rare occasions that a Director is unavoidably unable to attend a meeting, the Director will Commercial and Trading roles within the still receive and consider the relevant papers allowing them to share and discuss any comments 6.
Prior to joining Morrisons, or input with the other members of the Board before the meeting.
Appointment Andy held a variety of senior commercial Gary joined Morrisons in August 2015 roles within Boots, progressing to as Group Retail Director.
Andy started his Experience career at Coca-Cola before roles at Walt Gary has more than 30 years retail Disney and then LOral.
experience, with Stewarts Supermarkets in Northern Ireland and then with Tesco 4.
Darren Blackhurst PLC where he held a variety of senior Appointment positions including Retail Director for Darren joined Morrisons in June 2015 Convenience and Retail Director for as Group Commercial Director.
the North and Northern Ireland.
Garys Experience experience covers all areas of retail and Darren started his career at Tesco in 1988, all formats, including supermarkets holding a number of buying roles in fresh and convenience stores.
In 1994, he was seconded to Tescos French business Catteau before holding a number of category director Committee key positions.
Darren became Commercial A Audit Committee Director for Tesco Lotus Thailand in 2002.
He joined Asda in 2006 as Executive Trading C Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committee Director for Food and in 2008 was appointed Chief Merchandising Officer.
In R Remuneration Committee 2011, he joined Matalan as Chief Executive before moving to B&Q as Commercial N Nomination Committee Director in 2014.
Committee Chairman 31 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 18 Corporate governance report continued The decisions delegated by the Board to its Committees during the financial year 2017 18 are shown in the table below and on the following page.
See pages 34 and 37 for details of activities.
Function Main Board Executive Leadership around the business Committee Andrew Higginson Neil Davidson David Potts Darren Blackhurst Members Chair 1 Chair Kevin Havelock Clare Grainger David Potts 2 Trevor Strain Tony van Kralingen Gary Mills Trevor Strain Andy Atkinson Belinda Richards Rooney Anand Paula Vennells David Potts, Chief Executive Overall conduct of the business and Implementation of strategy and actions Key strategysetting.
in respect of financial planning and objectives performance: day-to-day management of operations.
Clare Grainger, Group People Director Understanding, reviewing and responding Developing and implementing Responsibilities to views of all stakeholders: the strategy: Developing and approving the strategy Understanding, reviewing and and key policies of the Group: responding to the feedback from stakeholders including customers Managing culture and values: and colleagues: Monitoring progress towards achieving Maintaining oversight of: all Board objectives: financial performance, reporting Monitoring of financial performance, critical andcontrol: operational issues and risks by reviewing risk management: performance against strategy, objectives, operational improvement business plans and budgets: programmes: and Approving communications to Gary Mills, Group Retail Director review and supervision of shareholders, including the Annual Report : and Financial Statements, half-yearly Making recommendations to the financial report and interim management Board in respect of: statements: budgets and long-term plans: Approving changes to the Groups capital dividend levels: structure, external financial reports, major Group risk register: and expenditure: and ad-hoc events: Approving membership of the Board on Managing succession planning for recommendation of the Nomination all colleagues including senior Committee.
management: and Organising Sub-Committees which are responsible for key operational oversight and decision making including: management of capital expenditure: departmental performance reviews: oversight of improvements to process for suppliers: and Andy Atkinson, Group Customer and Marketing GSCOP Compliance.
Director 1 Kevin Havelock was appointed to the Board, Audit, Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committee, Remuneration and Nomination Committee on 1 February 2018.
2 Tony van Kralingen was appointed to the Board and as Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 1 September 2017.
He was appointed to the Audit, Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committee and Nomination Committee on 9 September 2017.
32 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information Structure of the Board and its Committees Chairman Key objective: Governance of the Board Main Board Corporate Executive Audit Compliance and Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Audit Corporate Compliance and Remuneration Nomination Committee Responsibility Committee Committee Committee 3 2 1 Belinda Richards Neil Davidson Andrew Clappen Tony van Kralingen Neil Davidson Andrew Higginson Kevin Havelock Chair Chair 1 Chair 1 Chair 2 Kevin Havelock Kevin Havelock Tony van Kralingen Neil Davidson Andrew Higginson 2 Andrew Higginson Rooney Anand Tony van Kralingen Belinda Richards Belinda Richards 1 Kevin Havelock David Potts Rooney Anand Neil Davidson Belinda Richards Paula Vennells Paula Vennells 2 Tony van Kralingen Rooney Anand Paula Vennells Paula Vennells Darren Blackhurst Effective governance of financial Developing and implementing of the Groups Developing and implementing of the Groups Advising the Board on Board and reporting, internal controls and risk policies on corporate compliance and remuneration framework and policies for senior management appointments management systems: review of corporate responsibility.
Reviewing and Directors and colleagues including all and succession planning: monitoring significant accounting judgements, ensuring compliance with those policies incentives, bonuses and pensions.
of the composition ofthe Board assumptions and estimates: and ethical and governance standards.
management of the relationship and appointment of the external auditor: monitoring and review of the effectiveness of the Groups Risk and Internal Audit function.
Reviewing and making Maintaining oversight of strategy and Setting the remuneration policy for Evaluating the current and required mixture recommendations to the Board on: process in areas of corporate the Groups Chief Executive, Chairman, of skills and experience on the Board: the integrity of financial reports, responsibility, including: Executive Directors and Executive Reviewing succession planning for including reviewing significant Groceries Supply Code of Practice Committee: the Board: financial reporting issues and GSCOP : Agreeing remuneration of the Executive Sourcing and selecting Board candidates considering how these issues have food safety and food integrity: Directors and Executive Committee: more information can be found on been addressed: health and safety: Engaging with shareholders in respect page 37 : whether the Annual Report is fair, gender pay: of remuneration polices: Maintaining general oversight of people balanced and understandable: cyber security: Reviewing the terms and operation of the and capability within the business, and the effectiveness of the Groups ethical trading: Share Ownership Guidelines: and their diversity more information can internal control and risk modern slavery: be found on page 37 : Reviewing the Chief Executive and management system: environmental and competition Chairmans expenses.
Reviewing the talent pool for the compliance: the effectiveness of the Risk and Executive Committee and levels below governance and reputation: Internal Audit function: Executive Committee: and General Data Protection Regulation the independence, effectiveness GDPR : and Reviewing and setting policy on diversity.
and appointment of the external The Morrisons Foundation and auditor, approval of their fees: and charitable giving.
monitoring of the Groups policy on non-audit services: approval of Tax and Treasury policies: and pensions.
3 Andrew Clappen is the Group Corporate Services Director.
Andrew joined Morrisons in 2012 and is responsible for the Corporate Affairs and Policy, Corporate Social Responsibility CSR & Ethical Trading, Agriculture and Technical Services Food and General Merchandise Technology, Safety, Quality, Compliance and Health & Safety of the Group.
Prior to Morrisons, Andrew was the Senior Vice President responsible for Food Safety, Quality Assurance & Regulatory Affairs at Loblaw Companies Ltd in Canada.
33 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 18 Corporate governance report continued Board and Committee activities Main Board Executive Committee Activities in 2017 18 Activities in 2017 18 During the year the Board has: During the year the Executive Committee has: set the strategy and plans for the Group: driven trading performance and reviewed financial performance: reviewed the results and forecasts and approved the reduced the cost base of the organisation: regulatory announcements: considered regular updates on customer views including attending reviewed the annual business plan and received regular updates from customer listening sessions and shopping trips with customers: the Executive Committee regarding its delivery: implemented the Groups six priorities: ensured the conduct of the business in accordance with its values: overseen the Groups compliance with its obligations under the reviewed the performance of the Chief Executive: Groceries Supply Code of Practice GSCOP : approved the 2018 19 budget and commercial plans, including overseen the Groups commitment to corporate social responsibility productivity savings required to invest in the customer offer: in particular in minimising food waste, in supporting the Groups charity partner CLIC Sargent and in supporting the charitable approved the plan for the Groups balance sheet and capital Morrisons Foundation: structure strategy: overseen the Groups continued development of its wholesale, online approved the proposed dividends: and manufacturing operations: considered feedback received from customers, colleagues, suppliers approved capital budgets: and shareholders: determined the draft budget and long-term plan: discussed compliance to regulations with the Grocery Code Adjudicator GCA : reviewed the talent, capability and capacity within the Group: approved the Groups continued operations and growth opportunities listened to views of colleagues including reviewing the Your Say survey in online, wholesale and manufacturing: and results and agreement of improvement actions: reviewed the governance structure and activities of the sub-committees periodically reviewed performance against strategic objectives: of the Board.
determined principal risks for the Group: reviewed the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR Board evaluation compliance plans: The assessment of the Board was completed this year in line with the reviewed changes to speed up and simplify the business: UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
This assessment was agreed improvements to the Groups technology infrastructure: facilitated by Consilium Board Review which does not have any other connection with the Group.
recommended the dividend to the Board: and Six suppliers were asked to tender for this work, and Consilium Board continued to review the Groups reduction programme in energy Review was selected from a shortlist of three that were interviewed and plastic.
by the Chairman and Company Secretary.
Following a comprehensive briefing provided by the Chairman and Audit Committee Company Secretary, Consilium Board Review completed the review.
This comprised of a paper questionnaire, individual interviews with Activities in 2017 18 each Director and key members of the Groups management team and attending the July Board and Committee meetings.
During the year, the Committee has: The review concluded that both governance and compliance are strong, considered the appropriateness of the Groups Annual Report and and that the Board operates in an effective and efficient manner.
It was Financial Statements and Half-yearly report: also noted that the Board takes a serious and responsible approach considered the effectiveness of the internal controls and the work of towards governance, compliance ethics and controls, and that the Board Risk and Internal Audit and discussed key risks described in more detail has installed an effective governance framework.
on page 36 : The review recommended some actions that could be taken to further considered reports produced by Internal Audit covering topics including improve the performance of the Board.
The Board action plan for 2018 19 regulatory compliance and the control environment: will include: reviewed key policies including those governing tax and treasury: ensuring the Board agendas are set to allow additional time for the reviewed the recognition of commercial income and the controls Board to consider strategic matters: and in place over compliance with GSCOP: increasing the informal interaction time of the Board within the understood the Corporate Governance Code and reporting next year.
requirements: and During the year, the Group also reviewed and considered the assessed the proposed viability statement, reviewed and challenged effectiveness of its principal advisers to ensure they remain appropriate the scenarios modelled.
and relevant to the Groups needs.
34 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information In respect of financial reports, the Committee has focused on: Commercial income is accounted for as a deduction from the cost of purchase, and it is recognised in accordance with signed supplier the accounting judgements and estimates made by management that agreements, with most income subject to little or no subjectivity could have a significant effect on the Groups financial results: or judgement.
the clarity of disclosure of financial information including Alternative Commercial income continues to be an area of focus for the Committee, Performance Measures APMs : despite reduced complexity and size, due to industry focus and its whether the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and judgemental nature.
In considering the appropriateness of commercial understandable the Directors statement on this can be found income recognised in the year and the financial position at the year end, on page 54 of this Annual Report: and the Committee has reviewed reports from management and Internal reviewed the impact of upcoming changes to accounting standards, and Audit outlining the accounting judgements and the control environment.
managements assessment of the impact on future financial statements.
The Committee understood the key judgements in this area and considers them to be appropriate.
Financial reporting matters Stock The Audit Committee has considered whether suitable accounting policies have been applied and has reviewed key accounting Stock is a material balance in the Groups financial statements, with stock judgements and estimates made by management.
This section outlines held across a large number of locations.
As such, this remains an area the key judgements and financial reporting matters considered by the of focus for the Committee.
Stock count procedures have remained Committee during the year.
consistent with the prior year.
Judgement is required in determining provisions for shrinkage and Impairment of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and valuation and the Committee reviews these judgements as part of the onerous property contracts annual review of judgements and estimates.
The Committee has reviewed Impairment and onerous property contracts continue to be a focus area the level of stock provision and assumptions underpinning the provision for the Committee on the basis of their materiality and level of inherent and considers these to be appropriate.
The Groups policy to assess impairment on an annual basis, or where changes in circumstances indicate impairment Pensions or impairment reversal, is disclosed in note 3.1 of the financial statements.
The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes.
The impairment review is comprehensive, covering non-financial Accounting for defined benefit pension schemes requires the application assets, principally the Groups property portfolio, technology assets of a number of assumptions which have an impact on the valuation and goodwill.
of the schemes assets and liabilities.
The IAS 19 valuations are performed Management estimates the recoverable amount of assets to determine by an independent actuary.
the extent of any impairment charge or whether a reversal of a previous The Committee has reviewed the assumptions used in the schemes impairment charge is required.
This assessment led to a reversal of valuations.
The Committee has considered the appropriateness and previous impairment of assets in certain cash generating units and an sensitivity of the assumptions used by the independent actuaries impairment charge being recognised on others, resulting in a net credit in the valuation, including the discount rate.
The Committee has of 7m recognised, as disclosed in note 3.3 of the financial statements.
concluded that the assumptions are appropriate.
The Committee reviewed reports produced by management detailing The Committee considered the legal advice the Group has obtained the outcomes of the impairment assessment.
This review focused on with regard to the recognition of a pension surplus for the Groups understanding the methodology, the basis of key assumptions discount defined benefit pension schemes, as disclosed in note 8.5 of the financial rate and long-term growth rate and a review of the outcomes of the statements and considered the treatment appropriate.
impairment assessment performed by management.
The Committee has also reviewed managements key assumptions around the market The Committee reviewed the accounting treatment resulting from the valuation of the store portfolio.
set-up of the new defined contribution scheme.
This resulted in a net 13m credit recognised in the year, as an adjustment to underlying earnings In addition, for property contracts where the expected future as disclosed in notes 1.4 and 8.6.
This credit represents the difference cash flows are less than the future contract commitment, an onerous between the expected back dated contributions and the cost based on contract provision is recognised.
This work resulted in a net 1m release actual participation rates.
The Committee concluded that this treatment in relation to provisions for onerous contracts being recognised and was appropriate.
a net 2m increase in accruals for onerous commitments during the year.
The Committee reviewed the key judgements and understood Presentation of financial statements the reasons for any movements in provisions.
The Committee has considered the Guidelines on Alternative The Committee reviewed the key assumptions along with their impact Performance Measures APMs, issued by the European Securities and on the impairment and onerous contract provisions and is satisfied the Markets Authority ESMA in 2016.
The Group now includes additional assumptions applied by management are appropriate.
disclosure on the APMs used by the Group in a Glossary on page 127.
Commercial income In addition, the Committee has considered the use of APMs, in particular the items presented as adjustments to underlying earnings presented in The Groups definition of commercial income is disclosed in note 1.1 of the the financial statements.
The Committee is satisfied the classification of financial statements and is consistent with the definition in the prior year.
these items is appropriate and consistent and that the level of disclosure provided in note 1.4 is appropriate.
35 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 18 Corporate governance report continued Board and Committee activities Internal control and risk management Internal Audit The Board has overall accountability for ensuring that risk is effectively The Committee is regularly updated on the work and findings of Internal managed across the Group.
Risks are reviewed by the Executive Audit throughout the year, including: Committee twice a year and results are brought to the Board.
approval of the terms of reference of the Internal Audit function: The Groups principal risks are set out on pages 24 to 25. approval of the Internal Audit plan for the year: On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has responsibility for review of findings from work of Internal Audit completed during the reviewing the effectiveness of internal control including financial, year: and operational and compliance controls.
review of the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
In order to do this, as a matter of course in any one year, the focus of The review of the effectiveness of Internal Audit conducted during the Committee includes: year took the form of a survey completed by Non-Executive Directors, receiving and agreeing appropriate actions in response to regular reports members of the Executive Committee and Leadership Team and from the Risk and Internal Audit function on: other key stakeholders.
The effectiveness assessment also included a comparison to the Institute of Internal Auditors Best Practice standard.
the status of internal control and risk management systems across An external review of the effectiveness of Internal Audit is conducted the Group: every five years.
the departments findings, annual plan and the resources available to it to perform its work: and External audit tenure any concerns expressed by colleagues about possible malpractice As noted in last years Annual Report, the Board appointed or wrongdoing:  LLP PwC as external auditor in June 2014. reviewing financial whistleblowing reports from colleagues: The lead audit partner, Andrew Paynter has held the position for three years.
reviewing the external auditors report on internal financial control: seeking reports from senior management on the effectiveness The Group confirms that it has complied with the provisions of the of the management of key risk areas: and Competition and Markets Authoritys Order in respect of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use monitoring the adequacy and timeliness of managements response of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities to identified audit issues.
These systems and processes have been in place throughout the period Each year the Audit Committee considers the effectiveness and and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
independence of the external auditors in making the decision regarding The main features of the Groups internal control and risk management the proposal of re-appointment of the auditors, which is tabled each systems relating to the accuracy and reliability of financial reporting, year at the AGM.
including the process for preparing consolidated accounts, are: Independence of the external auditor the recruitment of suitably qualified and experienced finance colleagues: The independence and objectivity of the Groups external auditors the segregation of duties, clear lines of accountability and delegation is a fundamental safeguard which the Committee keeps under review.
of authority: In order to ensure the independence of PwC during the year, the policies and procedures that cover financial planning and reporting, Committee has: preparation of financial information, and capital expenditure: considered the terms, areas of responsibility, duties and scope of work a robust period end review process including review and commentary of the external auditor as set out in the engagement letter: from process owners: considered the Groups policy for provision of non-audit services: a tiered review process for external financial reports involving internal stakeholders from relevant areas of the business: reviewed details of the non-audit services provided in the year: information and data security policies and procedures: and considered the letter from the external auditor confirming its independence and objectivity: and self certification by each function of the business.
understood and approved the basis for the audit fee.
The Committee regularly reviews the Groups process for risk management and internal control and annually conducts a formal review The policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply nonof these processes.
No significant failings or weaknesses of internal audit services is set out in the investor relations section of the Groups control were identified during these reviews.
Limited weaknesses and website see www.
PwC has provided certain areas where controls could be further automated were identified.
non-audit services throughout the year.
This was in line with the policy Clear action plans are in place to address these weaknesses and and the ratio of audit to non-audit services was within the 1:0.7 limit set are captured as part of functional risk registers with defined in the policy.
Details of the external auditors remuneration is disclosed management responsibility.
in note 1.6 of the financial statements.
The Committee is satisfied that this non-audit activity carried out by the statutory auditors is subject to The Committee understands the importance of a robust risk safeguards to avoid a threat to the auditors independence or objectivity.
management process and control environment and looks to progressively These safeguards include separate teams for audit versus non-audit work.
36 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information Effectiveness of the external auditor Nomination Committee The Committee considered the effectiveness of PwC as auditor during the year.
The Committee holds meetings with the auditor without Activities in 2017 18 management present.
The purpose of these meetings is to understand the auditors views on the control and governance environment and During the year, the Nomination Committee has: managements effectiveness within it.
reviewed colleagues throughout the organisation including diversity, When assessing the effectiveness of the external auditor, the succession planning, capability and capacity.
More information on this Committee considered: can be found on pages 14 to 15: the content and quality of the audit work plan for the Group: recommended the appointments of Tony van Kralingen and Kevin the detailed findings of the audit, including a discussion of any Havelock to the Board: and major issues that arose during the audit: considered the Boards structure.
managements responses to the auditors findings: Diversity the quality and knowledge of the audit team: At the end of the 2017 18 financial year, the Board included two female the level of professional scepticism and independence applied: and members representing, 22% of its total composition.
The Boards policy the output of an effectiveness survey completed by the Directors is that female representation should be maintained at not less than and management.
20% and aspires that this should be higher than 30%.
The Executive An independent assessment of the effectiveness of the external auditors Committee comprises one woman and five men, resulting in 17% female representation.
The diversity of the Leadership Team and a review of the is conducted annually by Internal Audit.
The assessments takes the form of a questionnaire gathering feedback from key stakeholders including diversity of the general population of Morrisons colleagues is outlined on page 15 of this report.
Non-Executive Directors, Executive Committee members and other key members of the management team.
The survey covers the robustness of The Committee also adhere to the Group-wide policy on diversity audit approach, quality of reporting and quality of people and services.
Other areas of focus Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committee The Committee spent time reviewing succession planning for both the Board and Executive Committee as well as reviewing the talent pool for Activities in 2017 18 levels below Executive Committee.
During the year, the Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committee Board appointments has reviewed: The Committee follows a rigorous approach for selecting and GSCOP compliance including training and results of internal reviews: recommending the appointment of Non-Executive Directors.
cyber and technology security risk: The Group appointed Ridgeway Partners to assist in identifying a long list health and safety incidents and actions taken and progress of health of candidates with the requisite skills and experience for the role of Chair and safety initiatives: of the Remuneration Committee.
Ridgeway was deemed independent energy strategy and carbon reduction measures: with no other connections to the Group.
From Ridgeways search, Tony ethical trading: van Kralingen was identified as a suitable candidate for this role and added to a shortlist of potential candidates.
Potential candidates were then redistribution of food waste: interviewed by the Chairman and other Directors, following which Tony food safety and improvements: was put forward to the Nomination Committee for their consideration.
Market Abuse Regulation compliance: Through advisers Stork & May, the Group was advised that Kevin Havelock food integrity and testing: was stepping down from his role as Executive Committee Member at plastic waste: Unilever PLC.
Kevin was seen as having an excellent balance of fast moving General Data Protection Regulation GDPR : consumer goods industry based skills, particularly in relation to brand and digital marketing, that would considerably enhance the strength of the supply chain human rights: Board.
Following interviews with the Chairman and other Directors, Kevin modern slavery: and was proposed to the Nomination Committee for appointment to the non-financial whistleblowing reports.
The Committee felt it highly unlikely that external searches would identify other candidates who would More detail on the Groups Corporate responsibility activities can improve on the specific knowledge and expertise that Kevin offers the be found on page 21.
Stork & May are deemed independent of the Group.
