STRATEGIC REPORT Our strategy THE MANAGEMENT OF WITAN The Companys activities are directed by the Board, which delegates the full range Active of day-to-day activity to the Executive team, headed by the Chief Executive Officer, who is a director of the Company.
Whilst the third party managers appointed are responsible for stock selection in their individual portfolios, the global multiCompanys Board and Executive team are responsible for the overall delivery of performance to shareholders, through the following means: manager setting the investment objective: selecting a benchmark for performance comparison that reflects the markets from which investment most of the investments are selected: selecting good managers, who are expected to outperform a relevant benchmark: overall portfolio construction consistent with a long-term investment horizon: operating appropriate portfolio, corporate governance and risk management controls: adjusting asset allocation according to opportunity: the judicious use of borrowings with the aim of adding to performance: direct investment in specialist funds: selective use of exchange-traded derivatives for efficient portfolio management: and clear communication of Witans objective and results to shareholders and potential investors.
10 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS typically over 85% to its selected third periods with the flexibility of short-term WITANS BENCHMARK party investment managers, the returns facilities whichcan be readily repaid.
The Companys equity benchmark from those portfolios are expected to be consists of 30% UK, 25% North America, the principal driver of performance.
DERIVATIVES 20%Europe ex-UK, 20% Asia Pacific and 5% Emerging Markets.
These markets cover Witans use of derivatives prioritises The overall asset allocation and portfolio the investment universe from which most transparency, cost-effectiveness and the risk are managed by the Executive team, of the portfolios holdings are chosen.
The minimisation of counterparty risk.
Inrecent which seeks to add to performance by component weightings reflect the Boards years, exchange-traded index futures have adjusting the level of gearing, by the belief that returns derive from the been the only instruments used.
These are selective use of exchange-traded changing opportunities as economies readily tradable, give exposure to a derivatives to adjust the asset allocation, evolve, more than relative market specified market index, and depend upon and by the use of specialist funds to gain capitalisation.
the creditworthiness of the exchange, not exposure to areas viewed as offering an individual firm.
In essence, the The portfolio is actively managed and Company seeks to have sufficient levers does not aim to track or be constrained by The use of index futures enables Witan to to pull to adapt to different conditions the benchmark or any other combination adjust its investment exposure or asset andtake advantage of a wide range of of indices.
Performance is likely to vary, allocation quickly and flexibly without investment opportunities.
sometimes considerably, from benchmark interfering with our investment managers returns, while aiming for long-term objective of picking stocks that will grow in The Executive team operates within outperformance.
value and outperform their benchmarks.
delegated parameters that are The operation of this investment area is periodically reviewed by the Board THIRD PARTY MANDATES theresponsibility of the CEO, acting under anditsAIFM.
guidelines set and supervised by the Board.
The selection of individual investments The Companys third party managers are islargely delegated to third party DIRECTLY HELD INVESTMENTS not permitted to use derivatives and may managers, who are chosen by the Witan Up to 12.5% of the portfolio may be not gear their portfolios.
and WIS Boards, after a selection process invested by the Executive team, with focused on the managers areas of theobjective of outperforming Witans expertise and scope to add value as part equity benchmark.
Up to 10% at the time of the overall portfolio.
The number of of investment may be invested in INVESTMENT POLICY managers is not fixed, but in recent years specialist collective funds, which may has been around ten.
represent undervalued asset categories The Company invests primarily in or funds viewed as longer-term listed companies across global Witans approach is to use different generators of superior returns.
Upto 2.5% equity markets, using a multigeographical mandates and investment may be allocated in smaller mandates to manager approach.
The Companys approaches, creating a combined third party managers with strong potential actively managed portfolio covers a portfolio which is able to profit from the to add value, which are newly established broad range of markets and sectors, managers ability to outperform over time.
or in highly specialised investment areas.
offering a distinctive way for The selection process seeks managers investors to access the focusing on fundamental value drivers The Direct Holdings portfolio is actively opportunities created by global rather than short-term trends.
managed with no fixed allocation.
capital is invested when opportunities Under its Articles of Association, the The intention is to retain appointed arise and the allocation falls when sales Company may borrow up to 100% of managers for the long term, rather than to occur and there is a shortage ofattractive the adjusted total of shareholders make changes to reflect stylistic fashions new ideas.
However, the Boards in the market or short-term performance.
longstanding policy is not to allow However, performance as well as the GEARING gearing as defined on page 91 to consistency and coherence of the rise to more than 20%, other than investment process are monitored The result of using borrowings temporarily in exceptional regularly to ensure that the assumptions orgearing leverage is to amplify circumstances.
Where appropriate, and hopes underlying the appointments the effect of portfolio gains or losses the Company may hold a net cash remain valid.
Attention is also paid to on shareholders returns.
structural changes in the investment the Company seeks to set gearing at Selective and controlled use of world that may call for changes in the levels appropriate for market conditions, specialist financial instruments managers used.
borrowing more when markets are derivatives will be considered, attractively valued and less when toassist with efficient portfolio The proportion of Witans assets managed returns are expected to be poorer.
by the managers and their performance calculation of gearing takes account The investment policys objective during the year are set out on page 16. ofcash balances and the full nominal isto achieve an investment total value of any derivatives held.
return exceeding that of the THE EXECUTIVE TEAMS ROLE IN Companys benchmark over the INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT A blend of long-term and short-term long term, together with growth in borrowings is used, to balance the certainty Since the Company delegates the the dividend ahead of inflation.
of cost from locking in fixed rates for longer management of the majority of its assets Witan Investment Trust plc 11 Annual report 2018
