Board of Directors Susan Searle Scott Brown Chairman of the Board and the Management Engagement Member of the Management Engagement Committee and a member of the Audit Committee and Audit Committees Susan served as the chief executive of Touchstone Innovations Scott is chief executive of Nexeon Limited, an Imperial College plc formerly known as Imperial Innovations Group plc and now spin-out focused on developing silicon anode technology for part of IP Group plc from January 2002 to July 2013, where she next generation Li-ion battery technology.
During his tenure, led funding rounds totalling circa 250m.
During her tenure, he has led the change in the companys strategy to successfully Touchstone Innovations invested 121m in a portfolio of move from an IP licensing business model to one of material healthcare, engineering and software businesses linked to production and supply.
Previously, Scott was executive vice major universities.
president at Cambridge Display Technology CDT, responsible for commercial and IP activities of the company.
Prior to CDT, Previously, she worked at Montech in Australia science Scott was global R&D director for the electronic materials commercialisation, Signet Group plc, Bank of Nova Scotia and business at Dow Corning now a wholly-owned subsidiary of Shell Chemicals in a variety of business development and Dow Chemical, a US-headquartered multinational corporation commercial roles.
Susan currently serves as non-executive with over US$6bn in annual revenues.
Scott holds a PhD in director of Horizon Discovery Group plc, Benchmark Holdings Chemistry and is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry.
plc and QinetiQ Group plc.
She is also Chair of Mercia Technologies plc, an investment business that invests in Scott was appointed as a Director of the Company on high-growth technology businesses with a focus on the 13 February 2015.
Susan has an MA in Chemistry from Oxford University.
Susan was appointed as a Director of the Company on 13 February 2015.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 31 Board of Directors CONTINUED Carolan Dobson Steven Harris Member of the Management Engagement Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the and Audit Committees Management Engagement Committee Carolan Dobson has a background in fund management and Steven is chief executive of Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc.
is an experienced non-executive director in public and private He is a bioscience entrepreneur with extensive experience of sector organisations, including a diverse portfolio of founding and leading specialty pharmaceutical companies.
She spent her executive career at Murray Prior to co-founding Circassia in 2006, he was a founding Johnstone Ltd, where she managed Murray Income plc and was member of the team that grew Zeneus Pharma Ltd into a leading a main board director, and later joined Abbey National Asset specialty pharmaceuticals company.
Prior to Zeneus, he spent seven years at PowderJect Carolan is currently the Chair of JP Morgan European Smaller Pharmaceuticals plc as chief financial officer, where he was Companies Trust plc retiring July 2019, The Brunner Investment a key member of the team that grew the early-stage private Trust plc, Baillie Gifford UK Growth plc and BlackRock Latin biotechnology organisation into an integrated, profitable public American Investment Trust plc.
company, which became the worlds fifth largest vaccines business before being acquired by Chiron Corporation in 2003.
Steven holds a BSc from Southampton University and is a Carolan was appointed as a Director of the Company on Chartered Accountant and member of the Institute of Chartered 28 July 2016.
Accountants of England and Wales.
Steven was appointed as a Director of the Company on 13 February 2015.
32 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Dame Louise Makin Alan Hodson Member of the Management Engagement Member of the Management Engagement and and Audit Committees Audit Committees Louise joined BTG plc, a growing global specialist healthcare Alan Hodson is the chairman of JPMorgan Elect plc and a company in the FTSE 250, as chief executive in October 2004. non-executive director of HarbourVest Global Private Equity During her time with the company, Louise has overseen a Limited.
He joined Rowe and Pitman subsequently SG Warburg, strategic business review leading to a focus on life sciences, SBC and UBS in 1984 and worked in a range of roles, all related expansion into the US and a series of acquisitions.
Prior to joining to international equity markets.
He became global head of BTG, Louise was with Baxter Healthcare initially as vice equities in April 2001 and was a member of the executive president, strategy & business development Europe, and then committee of UBS Investment Bank and of the UBS AG Group as president, biopharmaceuticals Europe, where she was Managing Board.
responsible for Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
Alan retired from UBS in June 2005 and has since held positions Louises previous roles include director of Global Ceramics at on a variety of financial and charity boards.
He joined BlackRock English China Clay and a variety of positions at ICI between 1985 Commodities Income Investment Trust plc in 2005, as chair of and 1998.
Louise is a non-executive director of Intertek Group the Board, a role he held until 2015, on completion of his plc, chair of the 1851 Trust, and a trustee of the Outward Bound nine-year tenure.
He was a partner at Mill Street Asset Trust.
Louise holds an MA and PhD in Materials Science and Management from 2006 to 2014, and a member of the Advisory is an Honorary Fellow of St. John's College, Cambridge.
Board of Norges Bank Investment Management between 2006 and 2011.
Louise was appointed as a Director of the Company on 13 February 2015.
In addition to his commercial board roles, Alan has served on the boards of a number of charities, including as chairman of trustees of the Great Ormond Street Hospital Children's Charity 2007-2015.
Alan was appointed as a Director of the Company on 28 July 2016.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 33
