Key performance indicators Performance and indicators The Portfolio Manager is committed to greater transparency on the Performance is measured against the Company's objective of in total cost of investing.
All transaction costs, in addition to the excess of 10 per cent growth per year.
During the period to ongoing charges figure, have been disclosed monthly on its website 31 December 2018, the Company's NAV increased by 6.9 per cent.
to help investors better understand the total, true cost of investing.
A more detailed explanation of the Company's performance can be found in the Portfolio Manager's review on pages 9 and 10 and the Gearing Chairman's statement on page 8.
As at 31 December 2018, the Company had gearing of 149,966,000 19 per cent of NAV, in respect of an overdraft.
The key performance indicators KPIs monitored by the Board are the progress that the top 10 holdings in the portfolio make against Portfolio diversification commercial, operational and technical milestones.
Progress on the The Board reviews the portfolio at every Board meeting and expects next 10 holdings is also reviewed with less frequency.
New entrants it to become more concentrated around a number of larger assets.
and emerging portfolio company progress are also discussed.
By order of the Board Link Company Matters Limited Performance against other trusts Secretary The Company is positioned within the AIC's UK All Companies sector 4 April 2019 by most investment company broker analysts.
The Board does not have a specific comparative benchmark against which performance is measured.
It believes that operational progress is the KPI in this unique portfolio of quoted and unquoted assets.
Share price premium discount to NAV per share During the Companys first financial period to 31 December 2015, it issued a total of 827,000,000 ordinary shares in order to meet natural market demand.
Subsequent to the year end, on 6 March 2019 the Company issued 81,639,238 ordinary shares.
The Company's shares traded at an average discount of 11.3 per cent to its NAV cum income throughout the year to 31 December 2018.
Ongoing charges The Portfolio Manager does not receive a fee for managing this investment trust, unless it delivers cumulative annual returns in excess of 10 per cent.
The ongoing charges cover the general administrative and management costs associated with running the Company.
The Company calculates the ongoing charges ratio as a percentage of average shareholders' funds and expenses, excluding finance costs, performance fees and taxation, in accordance with AIC guidelines.
This gives an indication as to the Company's expenses to its shareholders and potential investors.
As at 31 December 2018, the Company's ongoing charges ratio was 0.2 per cent.
28 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Directors report
