CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Directors Report STATUTORY INFORMATION SUBSTANTIAL SHARE INTERESTS The directors present the annual report of the Group for the year As at 31 December 2018, the Company had not been notified of ended 31 December 2018. any substantial interests in the Companys voting rights.
ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW There have not been any new holdings notified between the year end and the date of this Report.
A review of the business is given in the strategic report on pages 1 to 31 including the Chairmans and Chief Executives reports on ASSETS pages 12 to 18.
The directors are required by the Companies Act to prepare a strategic report for each financial year, which contains At 31 December 2018 the total net assets of the Group were a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year 1,773.4m 2017: 1,980.5m.
At this date the net asset value ended 31 December 2018 and of the position of the Group at the perordinary share was 995.1p 2017: 1109.8p.
end of the year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
This information can befound REVENUE AND DIVIDEND within the strategic report on pages 21 to 22.
The loss for the year was 164m 2017: profit 317m.
A profit of 46m is attributable to revenue 2017: 43m.
The profit for the The Corporate Governance Statement on pages 34 to 39 forms year attributable to revenue has been applied as follows: part of this Directors Report.
000 INVESTMENT POLICY Distributed as dividends: The Companys investment policy is set out on page 11.
First interim of 5.25p per ordinary share paid on 18 June 2018 9,357 STATUS Second interim of 5.25p per ordinary share Witan Investment Trust plc the Company is incorporated in paid on 18 September 2018 9,357 theUnited Kingdom and registered in England and Wales and Third interim of 5.25p per ordinary share domiciled in the United Kingdom.
It is an investment company as paid on 18 December 2018 9,357 defined in section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as an investment trust in accordance with section 1158 of the Fourth interim of 7.75p per ordinary share Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The Company has received payableon 21 March 2019 13,764 confirmation from HM Revenue and Customs that it has been Added to the Companys revenue reserve 4,724 accepted as an approved investment trust with effect from 46,559 1 January 2012, provided it continues to meet the eligibility conditions of section 1158 and of the ongoing requirements for The directors have declared a fourth interim dividend instead of approved companies in the Investment Trust Approved afinal dividend in order to ensure that, as in previous years, the Company Tax Regulations 2011. distribution is made to shareholders before 5 April.
SUBSIDIARY COMPANY DIRECTORS The Company has one subsidiary company, Witan Investment The current directors of the Company are shown on pages 32 Services Limited, which provides marketing services and and33.
investment products to the Company and executive management and marketing services to third party investment All the directors held office throughout the year under review.
Witan Investment Services Limited is authorised and Mr Yates was appointed as a director on 3 May 2018 and will seek regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority to act as the election by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
Mr Rogoff will Companys AIFM, provide investment advice to professional retire in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association investors and manage savings schemes for investors.
and, being eligible, will seek re-election by shareholders.
Mr Henderson, Mr Watson and Mr Bell will also retire and stand for As reported in the Chairmans statement, the decision has been re-election, as each of them has served as a director for more taken to close the Witan Wisdom and Jump Savings Plans in May than nine years and is eligible to stand for re-election.
The impact of this decision on the Groups results is not considers them to be independent despite their length of service.
This is explained in more detail in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 35.
ISAs The Company intends to continue to manage its affairs so that its The Board has reviewed the performance and commitment of shares fully qualify for the stocks and shares component of an ISA the directors standing for re-election and considers that each of and a Junior ISA.
them should continue to serve on the Board as they bring wide, current and relevant experience that allows them to contribute effectively to the leadership of the Company.
The Boards policy on the frequency of the re-election of directors is set out on page 36 in the Corporate Governance Statement.
Witan Investment Trust plc 53 Annual report 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors Report continued The Board believes that its arrangements for the authorisation During the year the membership of the Audit Committee ofconflicts operate effectively.
The Board also confirms that its comprised Mr Boyle Chairman, Mrs Claydon, Mr Perry and procedures for the approval of conflicts of interest have been Mr Watson until Mr Boyles retirement in May 2018, when Mr Perry followed by all the directors and that there are currently no was appointed as Chairman of the Committee.
During the year conflicts of interest.
the membership of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee comprised Mrs Claydon Chairman, Mr Henderson DIRECTORS INDEMNITY and Mr Oldfield until Mrs Claydons retirement in May 2018, when Mr Oldfield was appointed as Chairman and Mr Yates as a The Companys Articles of Association allow the Company, member of the Committee.
subject to the provisions of UK legislation, to: No director was a party to, or had an interest in, any contract or a indemnify any person who is or was a director, or a director of arrangement with the Company at any time during the year or to any associated company, directly or indirectly against any the date of this report.
With the exception of Mr Bell, no director loss or liability, whether in connection with any proven or has or had a service contract with the Company.
alleged negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust by him or her, or otherwise, in relation to the Company or any DIRECTORS INTERESTS associated company: and The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 45. b purchase and maintain insurance for any person who isor was a director, or a director of any associated company, DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST against any loss or liability or any expenditure he or she may incur, whether in connection with any proven or alleged Directors have a duty to avoid situations where they have, or negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust by him could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly or her, or otherwise, in relation to the Company or any could conflict, with the Companys interests.
The Companies Act associated company.
2006 the Act allows directors of public companies to authorise such conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, but only Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in place in if the Articles of Association contain a provision to this effect.
respect of the directors and was in place throughout the year TheAct also allows the Articles of Association to contain other under review.
provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to avoid abreach of duty.
DIRECTORS FEES There are two circumstances in which a potential conflict of The report on the directors remuneration is set out in the interest can be permitted: either the situation cannot reasonably Directors Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 52. be regarded as likely to give rise to a conflict of interest or the matter has been authorised in advance by the directors.
The INVESTMENT MANAGERS Companys Articles of Association, which were adopted by It is the opinion of the directors that the continuing appointment shareholders on 27 April 2010, give the directors the relevant of the investment managers listed on page 16 is in the interests of authority required to deal with conflicts of interest.
the Companys shareholders as a whole and that the terms of engagement negotiated with them are competitive and Each of the directors has provided a statement of all conflicts of appropriate to the investment mandates.
The Board and the interest and potential conflicts of interest, if any, applicable to the Companys AIFM review the appointments of the investment Company.
A register of conflicts of interest has been compiled managers on a regular basis and make changes as appropriate.
and approved by the Board.
The directors have also undertaken to notify the Chairman as soon as they become aware of any new ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION potential conflicts of interest that need to be approved by the It is proposed that the Company Articles of Association should be Board and added to the register, which is reviewed annually by updated to reflect recent regulatory changes.
This will require the Board.
It has also been agreed that directors will advise the shareholder approval at the forthcoming AGM.
The proposed Chairman and the Company Secretary in advance of any changes are set out in the explanatory notes to the Notice proposed external appointment and new directors will be asked of AGM.
to submit a list of potential situations falling within the conflicts of interest provisions of the Act in advance of joining the Board.
The Chairman will then determine whether the relevant appointment causes a conflict or potential conflict of interest and should therefore be considered by the Board.
Only directors who have no interest in the matter being considered would be able to participate in the Board approval process.
In deciding whether to approve a conflict of interest, directors will also act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success in taking such a decision.
The Board can impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if the directors consider this to be appropriate.
54 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual report 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At the AGM in April 2018 a special resolution was passed giving the SHARE CAPITAL Company authority, until the conclusion of the AGM in 2019, to The Companys share capital comprises: make market purchases for cancellation of the Companys own 2.7% preference shares and 3.4% preference shares up to a a ordinary shares of 25p nominal value each shares maximum of all those in issue.
This authority has not been used.
The voting rights of the shares on a poll are one vote for every four Accordingly, as at 31 December 2018 the Company had valid shares held one vote per 1 of nominal value.
At 31 December authority, outstanding until the conclusion of the AGM in 2019, to 2017 there were 200,071,000 shares in issue.
During the year, make market purchases for cancellation of 500,000 2.7% 240,221 shares were bought back and are held in treasury and at preference shares and 2,055,000 3.4% preference shares.
No 31 December 2018 there were 21,861,632 shares held in treasury.
preference shares were bought back between the year end and These shares do not carry voting rights or the right to receive the date of this report.
Accordingly, the Company has valid dividends and thus the number ofvoting rights was 44,552,342 on authority to make market purchases for cancellation of 500,000 a poll.
Since the year end, 763,601 shares have been bought back 2.7% preference shares and 2,055,000 3.4% preference shares.
The and at the date of this report there were 200,071,000 shares in directors intend to seek a fresh authority at the AGM in May 2019. issue of which 22,625,233 were held in treasury.
There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in The Companys Articles of Association permit the Company to the Company: no special rights with regard to control attached to purchase its own shares and to fund such purchases from its securities: no agreements between holders of securities accumulated realised capital profits.
At the AGM in April 2018 a regarding their transfer which are known to the Company: and no special resolution was passed giving the Company authority, agreements to which the Company is party that might affect its until the conclusion of the AGM in 2019, to make market purchases control following a successful takeover bid.
to be held in treasury of the Companys ordinary shares up to a maximum of 26,717,240 shares being 14.99% of the issued ordinary INDEPENDENT AUDITOR share capital as at 2 May 2018.
The Company has bought back 787,993 shares since the date of the last AGM.
Resolutions to reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as the Companys auditor and to authorise the Audit Committee todetermine their The Board is seeking to renew its powers at the forthcoming AGM remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Further to buy shares into treasury, for possible reissuance when the details are included in the Report ofthe Audit Committee on shares trade at a premium.
The Company makes use of share pages 40 and 41. buybacks, purchasing shares to be held in treasury with the objective of achieving a sustainable low discount or a premium DIRECTORS STATEMENT AS TO THE DISCLOSURE OF to net asset value.
Shares are not bought back unless the result is INFORMATION TO THE AUDITOR an increase in the net asset value per ordinary share.
Shares will Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report only be re-sold from treasury at, orat a premium to, the net asset confirms that: value per ordinary share.
1 so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and The Company is also seeking to renew shareholder approval to 2 the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have issue shares, up to 10% of the starting total, provided that such taken as a director to make himself herself aware ofany shares are issued at or at a premium to net asset value.
relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
In order to improve the liquidity of the Companys shares and to assist monthly savers, the Directors propose to subdivide each This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in of the existing ordinary shares of 25 pence each into five new accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies ordinary shares of 5 pence each.
A resolution will be put to Act 2006. shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
The New Ordinary Shares will carry the same rights and be subject to the same restrictions LISTING RULE 9.8.
4 as the existing ordinary shares.
Further details are given in the Listing Rule 9.8.
4 requires the Company to include certain notice of AGM.
information in a single identifiable section of the annual report.
Details of Mr Bells Long-Term Bonus are included in the Directors b 2.7% preference shares of 1 nominal value each Remuneration Report on page 44.
The directors confirm that 2.7%preference shares there are no other disclosures to be made in respect of Rule 9.8.
The 2.7% preference shareholders have no rights to attend and vote at general meetings.
At 31 December 2018 there were 500,000 2.7% preference shares in issue.
Further details on the preference shares are given in note 17 on page 86. c 3.4% preference shares of 1 nominal value each 3.4%preference shares The 3.4% preference shareholders have no rights to attend andvote at general meetings.
At 31 December 2018 there were 2,055,000 3.4% preference shares in issue.
Further details on the preference shares are given in note 17 on page 86.
Witan Investment Trust plc 55 Annual report 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors Report continued GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION POLICY The Board has adopted a zero-tolerance approach to instances The Company has a staff of seven employees, operating from of bribery and corruption.
Accordingly, it expressly prohibits any small serviced office premises.
Accordingly, it does not have any Director or associated persons when acting on behalf of the significant greenhouse gas emissions to report from its own Company, from accepting, soliciting, paying, offering or operations, nor does it have responsibility for any other emission promising to pay or authorise any payment, public or private in producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 strategic the UK or abroad to secure any improper benefit for themselves report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013, including those or for the Company.
The Board applies the same standards to its within its underlying investment portfolio.
service providers in their activities for the Company.
A copy of the Companys Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy can be found on its ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING website at www.
The policy is reviewed regularly by the The AGM will be held at 2.30 pm on Wednesday 1 May 2019 at Audit Committee.
Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London EC2R 8JB.
The formal notice of the AGM is set out in the accompanying PREVENTION OF THE FACILITATION OF TAX EVASION circular to shareholders, together with explanations of the During the year and in response to the implementation of the resolutions.
Criminal Finances Act 2017, the Board has adopted a zerotolerance approach to the criminal facilitation of tax evasion.
A By order of the Board copy of the Companys policy on preventing the facilitation of Frostrow Capital LLP tax evasion can be found on the Companys website www.
The policy is reviewed annually by the AuditCommittee.
11 March 2019 COMMON REPORTING STANDARD CRS CRS is a global standard for the automatic exchange of information commissioned by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and incorporated into UK law by the International Tax Compliance Regulations 2015.
CRS requires the Company to provide certain additional details to HMRC in relation to certain shareholders.
The reporting obligation began in 2016 and is an annual requirement.
The Companys registrar, Computershare, has been engaged to collate such information and file the reports with HMRC on behalf of the Company.
MODERN SLAVERY ACT 2015 As an investment vehicle, the Company does not provide goods or services in the normal course of business and does not have customers.
Accordingly, the directors consider that the Company is not required to make any anti-slavery or human trafficking statement under the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
SECURITIES FINANCING TRANSACTIONS As the Company undertakes securities lending, it is required to report on Securities Financing Transactions as defined in Article 3 of Regulation EU 2015 2365, securities financing transactions include repurchase transactions, securities or commodities lending and securities or commodities borrowing, buy-sell back transactions or sell-buy back transactions and margin lending transactions.
In accordance with Article 13 of the Regulation, the Companys involvement in and exposures related to securities lending as at 31 December 2018 are detailed on pages 89 and 90.
56 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual report 2018
