STRATEGIC REPORT Business model Our purpose London listing Our purpose is to achieve Witan is an investment trust, with a Premium Listing on the significant growth in our London Stock Exchange and is a member of the FTSE 350 Index.
investors wealth by investing Witan invests across a wide range of global equity markets.
Its in global equity markets, portfolio has been managed with a multi-manager approach using a multi-manager since 2004. approach.
Our approach WITAN We select exceptional third party managers who are THE BOARDS RESPONSIBILITIES expected to outperform their assigned benchmarks.
Governance Manager Most of the managers are not open for investment by selection UK individuals, or not on the same terms.
They manage approximately 90% of Witans The Company is directed by Third party managers assets.
The remaining assets the Board, which consists are chosen after a formal are invested directly by primarily of non-executive selection process, making Witans Executive team, which directors, selected to bring use of the Boards substantial is also responsible for the the balance of skills required experience in investment management of gearing, to manage an investment management.
The process under delegated guidelines company.
Witan Investment entails using a variety of from the Board.
Services WIS, a subsidiary networks and databases to of Witan, acts as the identify a list of organisations Alternative Investment Fund with evidence of success Manager under the AIFM in the relevant investment Directive which regulates the area.
Further due diligence management of investment is conducted on an initial companies.
long list, with the Board interviewing a final short list and making the decision to appoint.
Investment managers UK Artemis, Heronbridge, Lindsell Train Global Lansdowne, Pzena, Veritas Europe CRUX, SW Mitchell Asia Emerging Matthews, GQG 08 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Shareholders The majority of our shareholders are personal investors, investing directly or via portfolios managed on their behalf by discretionary managers.
We welcome all shareholders but believe that our one-stop active equity management is well attuned to the needs of individual investors.
Advantages of our business model Selecting managers in theirareas of greatest Risk Assessing competence should improve returns management performance The use of multiple managers helps to As AIFM, WIS is responsible The Companys benchmark smoothreturns for operating the Companys offers an appropriate A focus on high-conviction portfolio and risk management reference point for comparing managers avoids overprocesses and delegates overall performance.
The diversification certain portfolio management benchmark is a combination responsibilities to third party of global equity markets.
All Private investors can gain portfolio managers.
The managers are also expected access to high-conviction Company outsources other to outperform a benchmark managers not generally corporate functions.
appropriate to their specific available mandate.
The Executive team has flexibility in adjusting manager allocations andportfolio exposure Exposure to higher growthareas and value opportunities via the DirectHoldings portfolio Investment portfolio Attributes we seek Talented and accountable Clear and simple Each manager has a different approach, whether leadership processes applied with based on geographical specialism, investment style discipline or sector expertise.
A common factor is focusing on High standards of corporate governance Stock picking independent company fundamentals, with returns being driven by ofindex considerations the growth of corporate cash flows.
A tangible sign of Long-term outlook, this is the growth in portfolio dividends and, in turn, generally low turnover Potential for material outperformance Witans own dividends to shareholders.
Concentrated portfolios Reasonable fees Witan Investment Trust plc 09 Annual report 2018
