GOVERNANCE MANAGEMENT OF THE COMPANY The Board of Directors Effective oversight of Wizz Airs business is the key function of the Board.
Key to this oversight is the approval of the Companys long-term strategy and commercial objectives and these matters are reserved to the Board, along with the approval of annual operating and capital expenditure budgets and any changes thereto.
Other key areas also reserved to the Board include financial reporting and controls, internal controls, the review and approval of key contracts, Board membership, the remuneration of Directors and senior executive employees, corporate governance and the review of safety issues.
Board membership Wizz Airs Board currently comprises one Executive and eight Non-Executive Directors, following the resignation of Wioletta Rosoowska during F18.
While the Directors consider the current structure to be an appropriate Board structure, the Board is actively searching for a further Non-Executive Director, which will restore the Board to ten Directors in total.
The current Directors bring a wealth of experience from both the worldwide aviation industry as well as other international industries and so together bring to the Company an appropriate breadth, depth and balance of skills, knowledge, experience and expertise.
The Directors who have served during the 2018 financial year are: Name Position Committee membership as at 31 March 2018 Executive Director Jzsef Vradi Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Directors William A. Franke Chairman Nomination Committee Thierry fide Preux Non-Executive Director Remuneration Committee Guido Demuynck Non-Executive Director Remuneration Committee Simon Duffy Non-Executive Director Audit Committee, Nomination Committee Susan Hooper Non-Executive Director Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee Stephen L. Johnson Non-Executive Director John McMahon Non-Executive Director, Audit Committee, Nomination Committee Senior Independent Director Wioletta Rosoowska Non-Executive Director John R. Wilson Non-Executive Director Resigned effective as of 9 February 2018.
William A. Franke, Chairman Mr Franke has been Chairman of Wizz Air since 2004.
The Chairmans role is to lead the Board and ensure that it operates effectively.
Mr Franke is the founder and managing partner of Indigo, a private equity fund focused on air transportation.
He is currently chairman of Frontier Airlines, Inc and JetSMART SpA.. From 1998 to 2001, Mr Franke was a managing partner of Newbridge Latin America, a private equity fund focused on Latin America.
Mr Franke was the chairman and chief executive officer of America West Airlines from 1993 to 2001 and currently serves on the board of directors of Concesionaria Vuela Compaa fide Aviacin, S. A. fide C. V. a Mexican airline that does business as Volaris.
He served as chairman of Spirit Airlines Inc. a United States airline, from 2006 to 2013 and Tiger Aviation Pte.
Ltd, a Singapore-based airline, from 2004 to 2009, and held directorships in Alpargatas S. A. I. C. an Argentina-based footwear and textiles manufacturer, from 1996 to 2007, and Phelps Dodge Corporation, a mining company, where he served as the lead outside director for several years, from 1980 to 2007.
He has in the past served on a number of publicly listed company boards of directors including ON Semiconductor, Valley National Corporation, Southwest Forest Industries and the Circle K Corporation.
Mr Franke has both undergraduate and law degrees from Stanford University and an honorary PhD from Northern Arizona University.
Jzsef Vradi, Chief Executive Officer Mr Vradi was one of the founders of Wizz Air in 2003.
Mr Vradi worked at Procter & Gamble for ten years between 1991 and 2001, and became sales director for global customers where he was responsible for major clients throughout eleven EU countries.
He then joined Malv Hungarian Airlines, the Hungarian state airline, as chief commercial officer in 2001, before serving as its chief executive officer from 2001 to 2003.
He is currently a non-executive director of JetSMART SpA and he has also held board memberships with companies such as Lufthansa Technik Budapest supervisory board, 20012003 and Mandala Airlines board of commissioners, 20072011.
Mr Vradi won the Ernst & Young Hungary Brave Innovator award in 2007 and the Enterpreneur Of The Year award in 2017.
Mr Vradi holds a masters degree in economics from the Budapest University of Economic Sciences and a masters degree in law from the University of London.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 35 GOVERNANCE MANAGEMENT OF THE COMPANY CONTINUED The Board of Directors continued Board membership continued Thierry fide Preux, Non-Executive Director Mr fide Preux was a founding Shareholder of Wizz Air in 2003 and joined the Board in 2012.
A qualified chemical engineer, Mr fide Preux completed his master of business administration at Harvard Business School and went on to become a general manager at the Nestl Group.
He subsequently spent 17 years as the head of the Swiss division of Korn Ferry International, where he specialised in board consulting and recruitment.
In 2008, Mr fide Preux founded the Swiss Board Members Forum, an association including board members of the 20 largest companies on the Swiss Market Index.
Guido Demuynck, Non-Executive Director Mr Demuynck joined the Board in February 2014.
Mr Demuynck spent more than 25 years with Koninklijke Philips N. V. holding various roles including general manager, portable audio business line, general manager, audio business group and Marantz, and chief executive, consumer electronics as a member of the group management committee of Royal Philips Electronics and senior vice president.
He then held the positions of board member, responsible for the mobile division, at KPN Koninklijke N. V. and chief executive of Kroymans Corporation B. V. and Liquavista B. V.. Mr Demuynck was a member of the supervisory board and chairman of the remuneration committee of TomTom N. V. and of Divitel Holding B. V..
He is a member of the board of directors, member of the remuneration committee and chairman of the audit committee of Proximus N. V. previously Belgacom, a member of the supervisory board of Teleplan International N. V. and Aito B. V.. Mr Demuynck has a masters degree in applied economics magna cum laude from the University of Antwerp and a masters degree in marketing and distribution magna cum laude from the University of Ghent.
Simon Duffy, Non-Executive Director Mr Duffy joined the Board in January 2014.
Mr Duffy started his career at NM Rothschild & Sons Ltd and has held positions at Shell International Petroleum Co, Bain & Co, Consolidated Gold Fields Plc, Guinness Plc, Thorn EMI Plc where he held the position of deputy chairman and group finance director, World Online International B. V. where he held the position of deputy chairman and chief executive, End2End AS where he held the position of chief executive, Orange SA where he held the position of chief financial officer, NTL:Telewest Inc. where he held the position of executive vice chairman and Tradus Plc where he held the position of executive chairman.
Mr Duffy has extensive London Stock Exchange non-executive director experience.
He has sat on the board of, amongst others, Gartmore Plc, HMV Group Plc, GWR Group Plc and Imperial Tobacco Plc.
He is currently chairman of You View TV Ltd. which is a joint venture between British Telecom, TalkTalk and all the leading broadcasters in the United Kingdom.
He is a non-executive director of Modern Times Group AB, one of Europes largest broadcasting companies listed on the Stockholm Exchange, and of Telit Communications Plc, a leading company in the IoT internet of things sector listed in London.
He is chairman of the audit committee at both companies.
Mr Duffy has a BA in philosophy, politics and economics from Oxford University and an MBA from Harvard Business School.
Susan Hooper, Non-Executive Director Ms Hooper was appointed to the Board of Directors as a Non-Executive Director in March 2016 and serves on Wizz Air's Audit and Remuneration Committees.
A UK national, Ms Hooper was managing director of British Gas Services, leading the service and repair, central heating installations, electrical services and Dyno-Rod business units until November 2014.
She joined British Gas from the Acromas Group, where she was chief executive of the travel division, responsible for Saga holidays and hotels, Saga cruises, Spirit of Adventure cruises, Titan Travel and the travel division of the AA.
Previously, Ms Hooper held senior roles at Royal Caribbean International, Avis Europe, PepsiCo International, McKinsey & Company and Saatchi & Saatchi.
During her time with PepsiCo International, Ms Hooper spent over five years based in Central and Eastern European countries.
She is currently a non-executive director of Affinity Water Ltd. and The Rank Group plc, as well as being an advisory board member of LUISS Business School in Rome.
Ms Hooper recently became non-executive board member of the Department for Exiting the European Union DExEU of the UK.
From 2011 to 2014 she was a non-executive director of Whitbread PLC and has held several other non-executive directorships, including at First Choice plc, Transcom SA, Royal and Sun Alliance Group plc and Courtaulds Textiles Plc.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 36 GOVERNANCE MANAGEMENT OF THE COMPANY CONTINUED The Board of Directors continued Board membership continued Stephen L. Johnson, Non-Executive Director Mr Johnson joined the Board in 2004, left the Board in 2009 and was re-appointed as a Non-Executive Director in 2011.
Mr Johnson is executive vice president, corporate affairs for American Airlines Group Inc. and its principal subsidiary, American Airlines, Inc.
Previously, Mr Johnson served as executive vice president, corporate and government affairs for US Airways.
Prior to joining US Airways in 2009, Mr Johnson was a partner at Indigo from 2003 to 2009.
Between 1995 and 2003, Mr Johnson held a variety of positions with America West Holdings Corporation prior to its merger with US Airways Group, including executive vice president, corporate.
Prior to joining America West, Mr Johnson served as senior vice president and general counsel at GPA Group plc, an aircraft leasing company, and as an attorney at Seattle-based law firm Bogle & Gates, where he specialised in corporate and aircraft finance and taxation.
Mr Johnson earned his MBA and Juris Doctor from the University of California, Berkeley, and a bachelor of arts in economics from California State University, Sacramento.
John McMahon, Non-Executive Director Mr McMahon has been a member of the Board since 2012.
He has more than 30 years of experience in commercial aviation, initially with Aer Lingus, GPA Group and GE Capital Aviation Services, before later holding senior management positions at debis AirFinance now AerCap and Lloyds TSB Bank.
In 2006, he led the initial public offering and New York Stock Exchange listing of Genesis Lease Limited, an aircraft leasing company, where he served as chairman and chief executive officer until its merger with AerCap in 2010.
Since then, he has served as a consultant, director and lecturer.
His non-executive directorships include Airspeed Limited, BNP Paribas Ireland, Investec Aircraft Syndicate Limited, Turbine Engines Securitization Limited and Waypoint Leasing Limited.
Mr McMahon holds a bachelor of engineering degree from the National University of Ireland, Galway, and post-graduate diplomas in accounting and finance Association of Chartered Certified Accountants and computer modelling and simulation Trinity College Dublin.
He completed the Advanced Management Program at Harvard Business School and is a Chartered Director of the Institute of Directors.
John R. Wilson, Non-Executive Director Mr Wilson has been a member of the Board since 2005 and a principal of Indigo since 2004.
Mr Wilson is a member of the board of directors of Frontier Airlines, Inc. together with its holding companies, Frontier Airlines Holdings, Inc. and Frontier Group Holdings, Inc. Mr. Wilson is also a member of the board of directors of JetSMART SpA..
Prior to joining Indigo he served at America West Airlines from 1997 to 2004 as the vice president of financial planning and analysis, vice president of operations finance and in other senior finance positions.
From 1991 to 1997 he was employed by Northwest Airlines where he last served as director of finance for Asian operations based in Tokyo, Japan.
Mr Wilson served on the board of Spirit Airlines Inc. from 2009 to 2013 and served on the board of Vuela Compaa fide Aviacin, S. A. P. I. fide C. V. from 2010 to 2012.
Mr Wilson has an MBA from the Darden School of Business at the University of Virginia and an undergraduate degree in finance from Texas Tech University.
Independence The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that at least half the members excluding the chairman of the board of directors of a company with a premium listing should be non-executive directors, determined by the board to be independent in character and judgment and free from relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgment.
The Board has considered the independence of the Companys Non-Executive Directors and has concluded that: a William A. Franke, the Chairman, does not meet the independence criteria set out in the Corporate Governance Code, given that he is the managing partner of Indigo a significant Shareholder.
However, given the benefits to the Company of his recognised experience in the airline industry, the Board believes that it is in the Companys best interest that Mr Franke should continue as Chairman of Wizz Air.
b Stephen L. Johnson is not considered to be an independent Non-Executive Director given his past position with Indigo.
c John R. Wilson is not considered to be an independent Non-Executive Director as he is a principal of Indigo.
Other than William A. Franke, John R. Wilson and Stephen L. Johnson, the Company regards all of its Non-Executive Directors, namely, Guido Demuynck, Simon Duffy, Thierry fide Preux, Susan Hooper and John McMahon, as independent Non-Executive Directors within the meaning of independent as defined in the Corporate Governance Code and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgment.
Accordingly, as an absolute majority of the Directors are independent Non-Executive Directors, the Company complies with the requirement of the Corporate Governance Code that at least half of the board excluding the chairman of a company with a premium listing should comprise independent non-executive directors.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 37 GOVERNANCE MANAGEMENT OF THE COMPANY CONTINUED The Board of Directors continued Senior Independent Non-Executive Director The Corporate Governance Code recommends that the Board should appoint one of its independent Non-Executive Directors as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director should be available to Shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of the Chairman or Chief Executive Officer has failed to resolve or where such contact is inappropriate.
John McMahon has been appointed as the Companys Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Senior management team The Chief Executive Officer and the senior management team are responsible for the management of the Groups business and implementation of the Groups strategy on a day-to-day basis.
As at 23 May 2018, the Groups senior management team, in addition to the Chief Executive Officer, is: Name Position Stephen Jones Executive Vice President and Deputy Chief Executive Officer Diederik Pen Executive Vice President and Chief Operations Officer Iain Wetherall Chief Financial Officer Johan Eidhagen Chief Marketing Officer Heiko Holm Chief Technical Officer Owain Jones Chief Corporate Officer George Michalopoulos Chief Commercial Officer Bela Szegedi Chief Flight Operations Officer Stephen Jones, Executive Vice President and Deputy Chief Executive Officer Mr. Jones joined Wizz Air in October 2017 as Deputy Chief Executive Officer and Executive Vice President.
Mr. Jones is responsible for Wizz Air's commercial, marketing and information technology organizations with the Company's Chief Commercial Officer, Chief Marketing Officer and Head of Information Technology as direct reports.
Mr Jones, who is a national of both New Zealand and the United Kingdom, has been the Chief Strategy, Network and Alliances Officer at Air New Zealand since 2013 during which time he was responsible for the airline's overall corporate strategy, network development, alliances and sustainability.
He oversaw the airline's tightly cost-managed response to significant domestic competition from low cost carriers as well as the turnaround of the airline's international business in the face of severe competition from many Asian, Middle Eastern and low cost carriers in the trans-Tasman market, one of the most competitive markets in the world.
Prior to this role, Mr Jones held a number of other roles in Air New Zealand since he joined the airline in 2001, including general manager of their low cost carrier Freedom Air, general manager of the airline's domestic business unit and Tasman and Pacific Islands business unit as well as general manager of investor relations and financial planning, following the airline's recapitalization in 2003.
He also served as Chairman of the Star Alliance Management Board and the Star Alliance Strategy Committee.
Diederik Pen, Executive Vice President and Chief Operations Officer Mr Pen joined Wizz Air in January 2013 as Chief Operations Officer, becoming Accountable Manager in September 2013.
He was promoted to Executive Vice President and Chief Operations Officer in April 2017.
Pen is responsible for Wizz Air's ground operations, flight operations, technical services, operations control organizations with the Chief Flight Operations Officer, Chief Technical Officer, Head of Operations Control Centre and Head of Ground Operations as direct reports.
He was formerly the chief executive officer and chief operating officer of Martinair Holland.
Prior to joining Martinair Holland in 2006, Mr Pen worked for Virgin Blue Airlines in Australia from 2002 to 2006 as head of ground operations, for Brisbane Airport Corporation in Australia as general manager of commercial services and for Amsterdam Airport Schiphol as manager of commercial services.
Mr Pen has a master of business administration in business economics from the University of Amsterdam.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 38 GOVERNANCE MANAGEMENT OF THE COMPANY CONTINUED Senior management team continued Iain Wetherall, Chief Financial Officer Iain Wetherall joined Wizz Air in July 2011 as Head of Corporate Finance and, following the Company's initial public offering in 2015, he also led the Company's investor relations function before taking on the Head of Financial Planning & Control and Investor Relations in September 2016.
Mr. Wetherall was promoted to Chief Financial Officer with effect from August 2017 responsible for the accounting and tax, financial planning and controlling, fleet acquisition and corporate finance and purchasing organizations.
He is a chartered accountant, holds an Advanced Treasury Diploma from the Association of Corporate Treasurers, a Securities and Investment Diploma from the Chartered Institute for Securities and Investments and was a Securities Representative authorized by the Securities and Futures Authority now Financial Conduct Authority.
Prior to Wizz Air, Mr. Wetherall gained experience in tax & treasury, corporate finance, mergers & acquisitions, accounting, audit, corporate governance, internal control and consulting in various finance roles for Royal Ahold, , KPMG and Singer & Friedlander Bank Limited.
Johan Eidhagen, Chief Marketing Officer Mr Eidhagen joined Wizz Air in January 2015 as Head of Brand and Marketing and was appointed Chief Marketing Officer effective 1 February 2016.
Before joining Wizz Air Mr Eidhagen built an extensive sales and marketing career at Nokia, holding several senior global and regional marketing positions.
He joined Nokia in 1998 from a background in retail and was head of marketing for the Nordic region until 2004, when he moved to Nokia HQ in Finland to run global marketing services for the entertainment category.
Between 2005 and 2007 he was based in New York as the director of marketing for Nokia Multimedia in North America before returning to Finland where he was director and head of marketing for the Nokia Nseries Category.
In 2009 he became country manager for Nokia in Sweden and was appointed as managing director for the Scandinavian region in 2011.
Mr Eidhagen is a native of Stockholm and is a DIHM marketing graduate from the IHM Business School in Stockholm.
Heiko Holm, Chief Technical Officer Mr. Holm joined Wizz Air in 2015 as Head of Technical Services.
Mr. Holm graduated from the University of Applied Sciences in Hamburg, Germany as an Engineer specialized in Aircraft Construction and Design and went on to build a successful career with Lufthansa Technik, ultimately becoming the Director of Operations for Lufthansa Technik in Shenzhen, China, from where he joined Wizz Air.
Owain Jones, Chief Corporate Officer Mr Jones joined Wizz Air as General Counsel in 2010 and was promoted to Chief Corporate Officer in June 2014.
Mr Jones is a solicitor of the Supreme Court of England and Wales.
Having trained at Nicholson Graham & Jones 1994 to 1996, Mr Jones joined Wilde Sapte now Dentons LLP in 1996 as a solicitor in its aviation group, specialising in finance and regulatory matters.
He spent time in the firms Paris and Hong Kong offices before being appointed a partner in 2006, following which he spent three years in the firms Abu Dhabi office, becoming acting managing partner of the office.
He left the firm in 2009 to spend 18 months training for a frozen air transport pilots licence with CTC Aviation Training.
Mr Jones holds a bachelor of laws degree from University College London.
George Michalopoulos, Chief Commercial Officer Mr. Michalopoulos joined Wizz Air in 2010 as Head of Pricing and Revenue Management and was then promoted to Head of Network Development, Scheduling and Sales in May 2015.
Prior to Wizz Air, Mr Michalopoulos built an extensive commercial and revenue career at Flybaboo and Blu-Express.
Mr Michalopoulos holds both Bachelor and Master of Science degrees in Management Science and Engineering from Stanford University.
Bela Szegedi, Chief Flight Operations Officer Mr. Szegedi has been with Wizz Air since the start of the operations he joined as a Direct Entry Captain from MALEV Hungarian Airlines in 2004.
He has been involved in Flight Crew Training as Type Rating Instructor since 2005 and as Standardization Instructor since 2013.
Mr. Szegedi was promoted to Head of Crew Training in 2015 and Chief Flight Operations Officer in October 2017.
Mr. Szegedi holds an engineering degree from the Technical College of Nyiregyhaza in Hungary.
He is an active commercial pilot by having built his experience through operations in Africa, Middle East and Europe.
Mr. Szegedi is a Senior Examiner for the Airbus 320 fleet and has a total flight time of 16,500 hours.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 39 GOVERNANCE MANAGEMENT OF THE COMPANY CONTINUED Board Committees The Directors have established an Audit Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a Nomination Committee.
The terms of reference of the Committees have been drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the Corporate Governance Code.
A summary of the terms of reference of the Committees is set out below.
Each Committee and each Director has the authority to seek independent professional advice where necessary to discharge their respective duties, in each case at the Companys expense.
Audit Committee The Audit Committees duties, as set out in its terms of reference, include: a monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, including its annual and semi-annual reports, interim management statements, preliminary results announcements and any other formal announcement relating to its financial performance: b reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgments which they contain having regard to matters communicated to it by the auditors: c where requested by the Board, reviewing the content of the annual report and accounts and advising the Board on whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy: d keeping under review the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys internal financial controls and internal control and risk management systems: e reviewing the adequacy and security of the Companys arrangements for its employees and contractors to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
The Audit Committee shall ensure that these arrangements allow proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and appropriate follow-up action: f monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys Internal Audit function in the context of the Companys overall risk management system: g considering and approving the remit of the Internal Audit function and ensuring it has adequate resources and appropriate access to information to enable it to perform its function effectively and in accordance with the relevant professional standards.
The Audit Committee shall also ensure the Internal Audit function has adequate standing and is free from management or other restrictions: h meeting the Companys head of the Internal Audit function at least once a year, without management being present, to discuss its remit and any issues arising from the internal audits carried out.
In addition, the Audit Committee shall ensure that the Companys head of the Internal Audit function has the right of direct access to the Chairman, the Audit Committee Chairman and the rest of the Audit Committee, and is accountable to the Audit Committee: i considering and making recommendations to the Board, to be put to Shareholders for approval at the annual general meeting, in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the Companys external auditors.
The Audit Committee shall oversee the selection process for new auditors and if auditors resign the Audit Committee shall investigate the issues leading to this and decide whether any action is required: j overseeing the relationship with the external auditors including but not limited to : I. assessing annually their independence and objectivity taking into account relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements and the relationship with the external auditors as a whole, including the provision of any non-audit services: and II.
satisfying itself that there are no relationships such as family, employment, investment, financial or business between the external auditors and the Company other than in the ordinary course of business which could adversely affect the auditors independence and objectivity: Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 40 GOVERNANCE MANAGEMENT OF THE COMPANY CONTINUED Board Committees continued Audit Committee continued k meeting regularly with the external auditors, including once at the planning stage before the audit and once after the audit at the reporting stage.
The Audit Committee shall meet the external auditors at least once a year, without management being present, to discuss their remit and any issues arising from the audit: l reviewing and approving the annual audit plan and ensuring that it is consistent with the scope of the audit engagement having regard to the seniority, expertise and experience of the audit team: and m reviewing the findings of the audit with the external auditors.
This shall include but not be limited to the following: I. a discussion of any major issues which arose during the audit: II.
any accounting and audit judgments: III.
levels of errors identified during the audit: and IV.
the effectiveness of the audit process.
The Corporate Governance Code recommends that the Audit Committee should comprise at least three members, who should all be independent Non-Executive Directors, and that at least one member should have recent and relevant financial experience.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2018, the membership of the Companys Audit Committee comprised three members, namely Simon Duffy, Susan Hooper and John McMahon, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors.
No members of the Audit Committee have links with the Companys external auditors.
Mr Duffy is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Company therefore considers that it complies with the Corporate Governance Code recommendation regarding the composition of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee formally meets at least three times per year and otherwise as required.
The Chief Executive Officer, other Directors and representatives from the Finance function of the Company may attend and speak at meetings of the Audit Committee.
The Companys external auditors and the Chief Financial Officer are invited to attend meetings of the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
The Companys Head of Internal Audit, along with the retained external firm of internal auditors, also attend the Audit Committees meetings to report on internal audit matters.
Following each meeting, the Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board on the significant items discussed during the Audit Committees meeting.
The Audit Committee met on 11 occasions during the 2018 financial year including telephonic meetings.
In addition to the formal meetings, the Audit Committee is in regular contact with relevant management in connection with, for example, the implementation of the Groups hedging strategy.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the Remuneration Policy for all Executive Directors and the Chairman, including pension rights and any compensation payments, and recommending and monitoring the remuneration of the senior managers.
Non-Executive Directors fees are determined by the full Board.
The objective of the Companys Remuneration Policy is to attract, retain and motivate executive management of the quality required to run the Company successfully without paying more than is necessary, having regard to the views of Shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Remuneration Committee is also responsible for making recommendations for the grants of awards under the Companys share option schemes.
In accordance with the Remuneration Committees terms of reference, no Director may participate in discussions relating to his own terms and conditions of remuneration.
The Corporate Governance Code provides that the Remuneration Committee should comprise at least three members, all of whom should be independent Non-Executive Directors.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2018, the membership of the Companys Remuneration Committee comprised three members, namely Guido Demuynck, Susan Hooper and Thierry fide Preux, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee is Mr Demuynck.
The Company therefore considers that it complies with the Corporate Governance Code recommendations regarding the composition of the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee meets formally at least twice each year and otherwise as required.
There were seven meetings of the Remuneration Committee during the 2018 financial year.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 41 GOVERNANCE MANAGEMENT OF THE COMPANY CONTINUED Board Committees continued Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities relating to the composition of the Board.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, the size, structure and composition of the Board, and retirements and appointments of additional and replacement Directors, and will make appropriate recommendations to the Board on such matters.
While a number of Directors were initially appointed to the Board under investor appointment rights, the most recent appointments of Simon Duffy, Guido Demuynck, Susan Hooper and Wioletta Rosoowska were conducted through Korn Ferry, which has no other connections with the Company.
The Corporate Governance Code provides that a majority of the members of the Nomination Committee should be independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Companys Nomination Committee is comprised of three members, namely William A. Franke, John McMahon and Simon Duffy.
The Chairman of the Nomination Committee is Mr Franke.
The Company therefore considers that it complies with the Corporate Governance Codes recommendations regarding the composition of the Nomination Committee.
The Company recognises the importance to the Company of diversity, including gender equality.
The Companys Code of Ethics is unequivocal that discriminatory practices will not be tolerated and that people will be judged on the basis of their performance and ability to do their jobs and not on any other basis.
The Nomination Committee will work further to ensure that, when the opportunity presents itself, diversity is properly reflected in the Board and in the Companys senior management.
The Company believes that this commitment is demonstrated by recent appointments at both Director and senior management level.
The Nomination Committee is scheduled to meet formally at least twice a year and otherwise as required.
There were six meetings of the Nomination Committee during the 2018 financial year and, in between these meetings, members of the Nomination Committee advised senior management on the appointment of an additional Non-Executive Director and on various senior management appointments, including the Groups Chief Financial Officer.
Interviews of candidates for each of these positions were also conducted by the members of the Nomination Committee.
Candidates for the Groups Chief Financial Officer position as well as the additional Non-Executive Director were interviewed by the members of the Nomination Committee.
Attendance at Board meetings The following table sets out the attendance by Director at the Board and Committee meetings held during the 2018 financial year.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination attended total attended total attended total attended total Executive Director Jzsef Vradi 9 9 9 11 7 7 6 6 Non-Executive Directors William A. Franke 9 9 - - 6 6 Guido Demuynck 9 9 - 7 7 - Simon Duffy 9 9 11 11 - 6 6 Thierry fide Preux 9 9 - 7 7 - Susan Hooper 9 9 11 11 7 7 - Stephen L. Johnson 9 9 - - - John McMahon 8 9 11 11 - 6 6 John R. Wilson 9 9 - - - Wioletta Rosolowska 6 9 - - - The Executive Director was invited to attend these various Committee meetings in order to discuss certain matters but did not have a vote.
Occasionally also Non-Executive Directors attend meetings of Committees that they are not a member of these cases are not reflected in this table.
Wioletta Rosolowska resigned from the Board with effect from 9 February 2018.
There were also special Board committees set up in relation to the final approval of the two Class1 transactions incurred by the Group during the year.
The Class1 transactions were related to the ordering by the Group of 10 ceo and 146 neo Airbus A320-family aircraft.
The members of the board committees in both cases were Simon Duffy, John R. Wilson and Jzsef Vradi, all attending the two meetings.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 42 GOVERNANCE MANAGEMENT OF THE COMPANY CONTINUED Board procedures At least six Board meetings are scheduled during each financial year.
At these meetings, the Directors meet with Senior Executives to receive detailed updates on Wizz Airs business and operations and to discuss the Companys strategy.
Prior to these meetings, each Director receives an information pack containing a comprehensive review of the Companys business as well as detailed proposals for approval of transactions and developments falling within the Boards remit.
The Company believes that this enables each Director properly to discharge his or her responsibilities.
At each Board meeting, Directors who have a conflict of interest in any agenda item declare that interest and are not entitled to vote on that agenda item.
A number of key strategic and commercial decisions require Board approval and, as and when any such decision is needed outside the scheduled meeting cycle, an ad hoc telephone Board meeting may be arranged.
In general, therefore, it is anticipated that there will be around ten Board meetings in total during each financial year.
Newly appointed Non-Executive Directors meet with the Companys senior management and visit Wizz Airs operational headquarters to ensure that they have a thorough understanding of the Companys business.
Wizz Air maintains directors and officers liability insurance.
This insurance covers any claim that may be brought against the Directors in the exercise of their duties.
The Company has adopted a Share Dealing Policy that reflects and incorporates the provisions of the UK Listing Authoritys Model Code.
As a consequence, the Directors as well as certain designated employees must obtain clearance from the Companys Chairman before dealing in the Companys shares and are prohibited from dealing at all during certain periods as set out in the Model Code.
The Share Dealing Policy was updated to reflect the requirements of the EU Market Abuse Regulation which came into effect on 3 July 2016.
Finally, it is proposed that, in accordance with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will offer themselves for re-election at the 2018 annual general meeting.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 43
