STRATEGIC REPORT Meet the managers We choose managers who are experts in their particular field.
We aim to identify individuals or teams who have a high degree of intellectual rigour Selected and sound judgment to enable them to select good companies.
This should be supported by a sufficient level of confidence to combine these investments into concentrated portfolios which are for their differentiated from the benchmark they are aiming to outperform.
These characteristics should enable Witan to benefit from each managers successful investment decisions.
expertise and The Board selects managers and adjusts allocations to create a combined portfolio which is expected to deliver long-term outperformance, while the multimanager structure helps reduce overall experience risk.
Our managers tend to have a longterm outlook with low portfolio turnover and a focus on company fundamentals rather than short-term trends.
Whilst there is no typical Witan manager, a common factor tends to be a focus on growth in corporate cash flow over the long term.
Performance of each manager since appointment is shown on page 16.
THE UK Name: Derek Stuart Style: Recovery special situations Benchmark: FTSE All-Share Inception date: 06 05 2008 ARTEMIS help themselves rather than relying on a change in the business climate aims Derek Stuart, manager of Artemiss Annual performance to avoid value traps and other risks UK Special Situations strategy, aims associated with a special situations to achieve superior long-term Artemis -13.0% strategy.
The Artemis team places growth by looking for unrecognised great emphasis on personal knowledge growth potential in companies, FTSE All-Share -9.5% of management teams and meets often those that are unloved or out with them regularly.
This helps them of favour.
The strategy, which often understand what can be achieved favours smaller and medium-sized and how aligned management companies, identifies hidden value are with shareholders.
The portfolio within problem investments which typically has fewer than 50 holdings.
are often companies in need of new management or refinancing or are 7.5% suffering from investor indifference.
The Witan Assets focus on those companies which can 2017: 8.3% 24 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THE UK Name: Bevis Comer Style: Intrinsic value growth Benchmark: FTSE All-Share Inception date: 17 06 2013 HERONBRIDGE owners of businesses and focus on growing the portfolios underlying Heronbridge is, by design, a small Annual performance earnings power, book value and investment boutique based in South dividends, in the expectation that stock West England investing exclusively in UK Heronbridge -10.1% prices will, over time, reflect that growth.
Its two lead managers, Benoit This disciplined and repeatable process Bouchaud and Bevis Comer, describe FTSE All-Share -9.5% aims to produce returns which their process as high-conviction, outperform the FTSE All-Share and unconstrained, contrarian stock picking, inflation over the longterm.
with a value bias: Good companies at fair prices, and fair companies at good prices.
Their portfolio is constructed with reference to their investment merits, 6.1% not a stocks size in a particular market Witan Assets index.
The concept of Owner Earnings 2017: 6.2% Yield allows the managers to think as THE UK Name: Nick Train Style: Long-term growth from undervalued brands Benchmark: FTSE All-Share Inception date: 01 09 2010 LINDSELL TRAIN aportfolio turnover rate of less than 10% per annum.
Lindsell Train Limited is a Nick Train, in partnership with Michael Annual performance small company, with fewer than 20 staff Lindsell, is guided by four investment looking after over 15bn of client assets.
beliefs: investors undervalue durable, Lindsell Train 0.0% This small size allows the two founders cash-generative business franchises: and their team the freedom to concentration can reduce risk: FTSE All-Share -9.5% concentrate on investment issues.
The transaction costs are a tax on returns: ownership structure allows the partners and dividends matter even more than to focus on long-term performance you think.
These tenets have led to the rather than short-term market noise.
creation of a high-conviction portfolio of This clear sense of purpose and circa 15 stocks which they describe as single-minded pursuit of investment rare and beautiful assets.
It is focused excellence is a key distinguishing feature on three key themes: Consumer Brands, 8.7% of Lindsell Trains approach.
Media & Digital Technology and Witan Assets Financial Services and typically enjoys 2017: 7.9% Witan Investment Trust plc 25 Annual report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Meet the managers continued GLOBAL Name: Peter Davies Style: Concentrated, benchmarkindependent investment in developed markets Benchmark: FTSE All-World LANSDOWNE Inception date: 14 12 2012 Founded in 1998, Lansdowne Partners Annual performance has evolved to become one of the UKs pre-eminent investment management Lansdowne Partners -5.4% high-conviction portfolio, consisting of boutiques.
Whilst Lansdowne is perhaps circa 20 stocks, is the result of detailed better known among investors as a FTSE All-World -3.4% company-specific research, allied with hedge fund manager, its Long Only an appreciation of global thematic Developed Markets Strategy, managed developments.
The team is willing by Peter Davies and Jonathon Regis, to make significant adjustments to has garnered over 5bn in assets since the portfolio to reflect its view of the launch in 2012.
The two lead managers changing investment landscape.
benefit from the support provided by 15.0% a team of experienced and insightful Witan Assets analysts who tend to focus on key 2017: 14.9% sectors of interest to the team.
The GLOBAL Name: John Goetz Style: Systematic value Benchmark: FTSE All-World Inception date: 02 12 2013 PZENA disruption.
Value investing entails exposure to companies before the Annual performance Pzena characterises its investment stock price reflects signs of business style as an unwavering commitment improvement, sometimes requiring to deep value investing.
Its clear and Pzena -9.0% significant amounts of patience.
consistent investment approach aims Those who last the course, such as to identify good-quality companies at FTSE All-World -3.4% Richard Pzena and his team, have low valuations, focusing exclusively on been rewarded by superior long-term companies that are underperforming returns despite the recent headwinds their demonstrated historical earnings faced by the value style.
This strategy relies on the belief Value portfolio contains circa 65 that most investors avoid businesses stocks in 14 countries across the that are experiencing problems or are developed and emerging markets.
13.7% otherwise out of favour, for example, Witan Assets due to a misunderstood or insufficiently 2017: 14.2% analysed threat of technological 26 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GLOBAL Name: Andy Headley Style: Fundamental value, real return objective Benchmark: FTSE All-World Inception date: 11 11 2010 VERITAS approach to valuation in quality mid to large capitalisation companies.
It Annual performance Andy Headley, Head of Global typically contains fewer than 30 stocks, Strategies at Veritas, uses a number chosen with a highly selective and of research methods to help identify Veritas 1.2% rigorous approach, and is focused industries and companies that are well on a handful of investment themes.
FTSE All-World -3.4% positioned to benefit from mediumterm growth, regardless of where they are located.
The aim is to generate excellent real returns and minimise the risk of permanent capital loss.
Potential investments are analysed from an absolute basis rather than 14.6% relative to any benchmark or index.
This Witan Assets equity portfolio follows a Global Focus 2017: 14.0% strategy, investing with a disciplined EUROPE Name: Richard Pease EX-UK Style: Sound businesses with quality management at attractive valuations Benchmark: FTSE Europe ex-UK Inception date: 26 10 2017 CRUX CRUX is a UK-based fund management management, which are sensibly Annual performance company established in 2014 by Richard capitalised and trading at a discount to Pease, who has been a fund manager CRUXs assessment of intrinsic value.
CRUX -13.0% investing in European equities for 30 Whilst the 4050-stock portfolio years.
Richard and his long-term contains some large and small-cap FTSE Europe Ex-UK -9.5% colleague James Milne specialise in businesses, CRUX tends to concentrate European equities and run a portfolio for on opportunities in the medium-sized Witan, which is a concentrated version range.
of their highly successful European Special Situations fund.
The investment philosophy is one of active, bottom-up 4.6% stock picking centred on the search for Witan Assets companies with four characteristics: 2017: 4.4% high-quality businesses, with proven Witan Investment Trust plc 27 Annual report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Meet the managers continued EUROPE Name: Stuart Mitchell EX-UK Style: High-conviction portfolio of companies which offer unrecognised value Benchmark: FTSE Europe ex-UK S. W. MITCHELL Inception date: 26 10 2017 Founded in 2005, S. W. Mitchell Capital Annual performance is a specialist European equities benchmark agnostic, being built from investment boutique based in London.
S. W. Mitchell Capital -19.9% the bottom up with high conviction.
Stuart Mitchell sees himself as a value The 25-stock portfolio is the result of investor but not in the classic sense, FTSE Europe ex-UK -9.5% a culture which promotes freedom as his definition includes investing in of thought, detailed research misunderstood and hence undervalued and insulation from the market quality growth franchises.
The process distractions which can be present relies heavily on insights provided in some larger investment firms.
by management engagement and the depth of research undertaken by 4.2% Stuart and his intellectually curious Witan Assets and enthusiastic team.
The portfolio 2017: 4.5% is completely unconstrained and ASIA Name: Yu Zhang Style: Quality companies with dividend growth Benchmark: MSCI Asia Pacific Free Inception date: 20 02 2013 MATTHEWS management at reasonable valuations.
The Asia Dividend strategy relies on the Matthews is the largest Asia-only Annual performance principle that the payment of dividends investment specialist in the USA.
Its can be an important signal regarding a 46-person investment team, based Matthews Asia -5.6% companys capital allocation, business in San Francisco, travels extensively quality and corporate governance.
across Asia to unearth investment MSCI Asia Pacific Free -7.9% This disciplined investment process opportunities in markets as diverse focuses on a companys ability as Japan, China, Vietnam and India.
and willingness to pay and, more Matthews long-term investment importantly, grow dividends over time.
philosophy is based on the view that only active management can identify companies whose potential is yet to 11.8% be fully recognised and that bottomWitan Assets up, stock-specific research is required 2017: 11.7% to build a portfolio of companies with strong business models and quality 28 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EMERGING Name: Rajiv Jain MARKETS Style: High-quality companies with attractively priced growth prospects Benchmark: MSCI Emerging Markets Inception date: 16 02 2017 GQG GQG Partners Emerging Markets Equity cycle.
The current portfolio of 67 stocks Annual performance strategy seeks to invest in high-quality is diversified across 13 markets and companies with attractively priced four continents.
GQGs portfolio aims to GQG -8.8% future growth prospects.
Portfolio participate in the growth that emerging manager Rajiv Jain focuses primarily economies promise to deliver over MSCI Emerging Markets -8.9% on high-quality, large-cap companies the long term, while avoiding some in emerging market economies and of the risks that are often associated employs a fundamental investment with individual countries and stocks process to evaluate each business.
The within their investment universe.
resulting portfolio, which is constructed without reference to benchmark country 4.8% weights, seeks to limit downside risk Witan Assets while providing attractive returns to 2017: 4.2% long-term investors over a full market Witan Investment Trust plc 29 Annual report 2018
