STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Viability statement facility, this financing will remain in Based on the results of its review, and In accordance with the UK Corporate place until at least 2025.
Details of the taking into account the long-term nature Governance Code, the Boardhas Companys current and non-current of the Company and its financing, the assessed the prospects of the Company liabilities are set out in note 13 to the Board has a reasonable expectation that over a longer period thanthe12 months accounts.
the Company will be able to continue its required by the goingconcern provision.
operations and meet its expenses and The expenses of the Company liabilities as they fall due for the The Companys current position and arepredictable and modest in foreseeable future, taken to mean at least prospects are set out in the Chairmans comparison with the assets and the next five years.
The Board has chosen and Chief Executive Officers reports and thereare no capital commitments this period because, whilst it has no the strategic report.
The principal risks are currently foreseen which would information to suggest this judgement will set out on pages 21 and 22.
The Board has alterthat position.
need to change in the coming five years, considered the Companys financial forecasting over longer periods is position and its ability to liquidate its As well as considering the principal risks imprecise.
The Boards long-term view of portfolio and meet its expenses as they on pages 21 and 22 and the financial viability will, of course, be updated each fall due and notes thefollowing: position of the Company, theBoard has year in the annual report.
The portfolio consists of investments made the following assumptions in traded on major international stock considering the Companys longer-term GOING CONCERN exchanges and there is a spread of viability: In light of the conclusions drawn in investments.
In normal conditions, the The Companys remit of investing the foregoing Liquidity and Viability current portfolio could be liquidated inthe securities of global listed Statements, the Company has adequate to the extent of more than 87% within companies will continue to be an financial resources to continue in fivetrading days and there is no activity to which investors will wish operational existence for at least the expectation that the nature of the tohave exposure.
Therefore, the directors investments held will be materially believe that it is appropriate tocontinue different in future.
Investors will continue to want to to adopt the going concern basis in invest in closed-ended investment The closed-ended nature of the preparing the financial statements.
Company means that, unlike an reviewing the position as at the date of open-ended fund, it does not The performance of the Company will this report, the Board has considered needtorealise investments when continue to be satisfactory.
The Board the guidance on this matter issued shareholders wish to sell their shares.
is able to replace any of the current by the Financial Reporting Council.
investment managers when it The Board has considered the viability considers it appropriate todo so.
APPROVAL of the Company under various This report was approved by the Board of scenarios and concluded that it The Company will continue to have directors on 11 March 2019 and is signed on would usually be able to take access to adequate capital when its behalf by: appropriate action to protect the required.
value of the Companys assets.
As set The Company will continue to be out in note 14 to the accounts, the ableto fund share buybacks when Board has considered price risk H M Henderson A L C Bell required.
The Company bought back sensitivity the sensitivity of the profit Chairman Chief Executive Officer 0.24m ordinary shares in 2018 at a after taxation for the year and the cost of 2.5m and experienced no value of the shareholders funds to 11 March 2019 problem with liquidity in doing so.
It changes in the fair value of the had shareholders funds in excess Groups investments and foreign of1.7bn at the end of 2018. currency sensitivity the sensitivity to changes in the exchange rates for the US dollar, Euro and Japanese yen.
In addition to its cash balances, which were 72m at 31 December 2018 2017:76m, the Company has a short-term bank facility which can beused to meet its liabilities, and fixed-rate financing in the form of secured bonds, secured notes and cumulative preference shares.
With the exception of the short-term Witan Investment Trust plc 23 Annual report 2018
