Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 18 Case studies A YEAR OF PROGRESS IN OUR STRATEGY TO FIX, REBUILD AND GROW We have continued to make progress in our turnaround.
These case studies illustrate the progress this year in building a broader, stronger Morrisons and delivering against our six priorities.
1 To be more competitive To serve customers better 2 Manufacturing 3 Find local solutions During the year, we invested in our supply chain for British Develop popular and 4 potatoes.
We acquired a potato useful services facility in Angus, Scotland, as well asinvesting in increasing capability Simplify and speed up 5 inexisting manufacturing sites.
Make core supermarkets Wholesale Owning more of the supply chain 6 strong again means we can work closely with We are open for business as a wholesaler, and are making good progress.
During farmers and growers to improve the year, we announced a major new wholesale supply agreement with McColls.
product quality and consistency, As part of this agreement we are reviving the Safeway brand which we have been lower the cost of production developing since the end of 2016.
Many products will be made by our own skilled and provide our customers the food maker colleagues in one of our 18 manufacturing sites.
Morrisons at lowest possible prices.
Amazon continues to grow and expand into new areas, and a further 32 Rontec owned and operated Morrisons Daily convenience stores were opened, taking 1 5 6 the total to 40.
We also recently announced a new wholesale agreement with Sandpiper in the Channel Islands.
1 4 Fresh Look Through Fresh Look we are improving our stores each day, one by one, by resetting and introducing new ranges, and providing the tools and environment our team of food makers and shopkeepers need to deliver great customer service.
It is important we take the time to listen to customers, both before and after, the Fresh Look is completed, and that we keep disruption to a minimum.
So far we have improved around half of our stores, and will complete the rest in a phased programme over the next few years.
1 2 3 4 5 6 10 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information Morrisons ordering Mastercraft We have introduced a new automated ordering system Mastercraft is our national competition to find our best food makers and into all stores, which has given greater visibility of stock and shopkeepers from across our stores and sites.
Our colleagues demonstrate helped to improve availability and lower costs.
The system their expertise, knowledge and passion for their craft in our biggest annual celebration did not require a large capital investment and utilises cloud of how we make and provide food we are all proud of.
There were 12 categories this technology, and store-specific sales data to accurately year including Butchery, Bakery, Fishmongers, Fruit & Veg, Deli, Floristry, Cake Shop, forecast stock requirements.
We have identified further Wine & Spirits, three apprentice categories and an innovation category which was efficiency opportunities upstream within our depots, new for 2017.
The event was a huge success and truly showcased the breadth of skills manufacturing sites and with suppliers.
and the talented colleagues we have at Morrisons.
2 5 6 1 2 6 Local solutions Customers tell us that local is important to them.
They value local products and want to support their community, so we listened and launched a search for the next generation of local food makers nationwide through The Nations Local Foodmakers.
Throughout the year, we hosted 16 different events where we met hundreds of local farmers, growers, fishermen and other food makers.
Local solutions enable us to tailor our offer in each store andwe take pride in working with smaller, local suppliers to create a range that is locally relevant for our customers and reflects our individual stores demographic.
Locally grown fruit and vegetables are now seasonally available in 350 stores, and locally sourced meat is now available in all Scottish, Welsh, Yorkshire, Lincolnshire and, most recently, South Weststores.
Our Skipton store in Yorkshire features over 500local products across categories such as crisps, yogurts, cereals and pies.
The store has specific local point of sale, feature bays and regular tasting sessions.
We are proud that 100% of the beef and pork on the Butchery counter in Skipton is sourced from Yorkshire.
